Annual Report 2020 Fiscal 2019 (Year ended March 2020) The Words of Our Founders 2 The ANA Group DNA: A Legacy from Our Founders 2 Strengths Cultivated from the Spirit of Our Founders: Innovation and Comprehensive Capabilities 4 Strengths Accumulated over a 68-Year History: Scale and Quality 6 Expansion of ANA Group Businesses 8 Corporate Philosophy / ANA’s Way 10 Management Message 18 The ANA Group Value Creation Process 18 Cycle of Expanding Strengths— Driven by the Spirit of Our Founders 20 Value Creation Process “Trust and love are the threads 22 Timeline for Simultaneous Creation of Economic that weave a beautiful world” Value and Social Value Let us create a world of beauty by spreading mutual trust and greater 24 Business Progress 26 Current Economic Conditions and harmony, woven by trust and love. ANA Group Responses 32 Overview by Business 38 ANA Group Response to COVID-19 39 Special Feature: Establishing avatarin Inc. 42 Sustainability Initiatives 44 ANA Group ESG Management “Wakyo” (Close Cooperation) 46 Further Promotion of ESG Management We act with strength, in harmony, 50 Dialogue with Experts on ESG but not necessarily in agreement, through patient, careful discussions 54 Material Issues to reach positive outcomes, striving “Hardship Now, Yet Hope for the Future” as one to achieve goals once the No matter the difficulty we face, if we continue to 66 decision is made. Business Foundations Supporting persevere to a brighter tomorrow, the time will come when we thrive and prosper. Corporate Value The Spirit of Our Founders 68 Safety 72 Human Resources 76 Unique ANA Group Initiatives 78 Corporate Governance 92 Risk Management 94 Compliance 96 Responsible Dialogue with Stakeholders 98 Financial / Data Section Contents of This Report The ANA Group (ANA HOLDINGS INC. and consolidated subsidiaries) strives to create social value and economic value, leveraging the strengths we have cultivated based on the spirit of our founders. In so doing, we expect to generate sustainable corporate value growth. This report presents the ANA Group philosophies that have been handed down through our history. We also address value creation, our actions in response to changes in the recent business environment, and the foundation that supports our corporate activities. A Business with Integrity Editorial Policy A Resolute and Independent Business The ANA Group emphasizes proactive communication with stakeholders in all of our business A Self-Reliant Business activities. In Annual Report 2020, we aim to encourage a deeper comprehensive understanding of the We must always remember that we are a company offering social value and economic value created by the ANA Group through our management strategies, our highly public services. We must contribute to society without business, and our economical, social, and governance (ESG) activities. We have published informabias to profit or authority. tion on the activities we selected as being of particular importance to the ANA Group and society in general. For more details, please visit the ANA Group corporate website in conjunction with this report. Scope of This Report • This report covers business activities undertaken from April 1, 2019 to March 31, 2020 (including some activities in and after April 2020). • In this report, “the ANA Group” and “the Group” refer to ANA HOLDINGS INC., and its consolidated subsidiaries. • “The Company” in the text refers to ANA HOLDINGS INC. • Any use of “ANA” alone in the text refers to ALL NIPPON AIRWAYS CO., LTD. 1 Strengths Cultivated from the Spirit of Our Founders: Innovation and The First to Implement the State-of-the-Art 2011 Comprehensive Capabilities Boeing 787 Our business began in 1952 with only two helicopters. Our founders’ desire was for our company Dreamliner Aircraft to serve as a highly public company that not only pursues profits but also contributes to nations The Boeing 787 is a next-generation aircraft that introduced and communities. We continue to make sincere and dedicated efforts, even in the most challengmany new technologies and materials to achieve longer-dising of environments. The ANA Group DNA is firmly rooted in the spirit of transcending accepted tance flights and significantly reduced operating costs. In wisdom, customs, and organizations. Rising to challenges and pulling together to overcome 2004, the ANA Group was the first in the world to order the Boeing 787. As the launch customer, we supported the develissues by taking advantage of diversity are also rooted in our DNA. 1999 opment of this aircraft. 1952 Our order of this globally anticipated, state-of-the-art aircraft made headlines, boosting the ANA Group’s global presence. We placed the Boeing 787 into service in 2011, and by Two Helicopters ANA Joined the January 2016 we became the first company in the world to fly over 100,000 flights with this aircraft. This was equivalent to and Big Dreams Star Alliance one-quarter of all Boeing 787 flights worldwide. The exceptionally increased fuel efficiency of this model enables long-distance At the end of World War II, the Allied Powers fully banned any private to Expand Our Overseas Network flights by medium-body aircraft. companies in Japan from operating aircraft. That ban was lifted in ANA became the ninth member of the Star Alliance, the 1950. Two years later, in 1952, Japan Helicopter and Aerospace world’s first and largest global airline alliance, in 1999. Utilizing Transport Co., Ltd. (ANA’s predecessor) became the first privately code share flights, we continued to expand our network and run air transport company in Japan with only two helicopters in An industry policy in 1972, called the 45-47 System, regulated accelerate the growth of our International Business. At the its “fleet.” Starting from zero was a challenge, as the world at the domestic airline companies. Under this policy, ANA was same time, we faced a variety of risks arising from global time was dominated by government-directed airlines manageallowed only to operate domestic flights, restricted from interpolitical and economic circumstances, as well as social ment. Under the spirit of our founders that stressed integrity and national operations. However, in 1971, we began operating an phenomena. independence, the company’s employees embraced a great international charter flight to Hong Kong. Due to unforeseen events such as the September 11 dream. Ten years later, in 1962, we became the launch customer In the following year, the efforts of our second president ­terrorist attacks in the United States in 2001, the Iraq War in for the YS-11, the first domestically produced aircraft in the postand CEO, Kaheita Okazaki, led to international charter services 2003, and the spread of the SARS virus, passenger demand war era. This development expanded our business to lead the to Shanghai, in the aftermath of the normalization of national decreased dramatically. However, by implementing emergency Japanese airline industry. In 1964, we used this aircraft to fulfill the relations with China. The ANA dream of scheduled internacost reductions, we achieved profitability in our International important mission of transporting the Olympic torch for the Games 2014 tional flight operations remained alive. The 1980s saw increasBusiness for the first time in fiscal 2004 (the fiscal year ended of the XVIII Olympiad in Tokyo. In this manner, ANA continued to Expansion of ing calls for a review of the 45-47 System, as it did not March 2005). Despite facing numerous adversities, we have grow alongside postwar Japan. international slots accommodate expanding and diversifying demand for air strengthened our comprehensive capabilities as a group, at Haneda Airport travel. The system was finally abolished in 1985. In 1986, ANA moving forward in our growth strategies and expanding our began operating scheduled international flights between Narita network. 2013 and Guam, fulfilling a ten-year dream. Shift to a holding 2003 Outbreak company structure of SARS Achieving a 10-Year Dream to 1994 2001 September 11 2008 Global 2011 Great East Operate International terrorist attacks in Japan Opening of financial the United States Earthquake crisis Kansai Flights 1986 International Airport Revenue Passenger-Kilometers (RPK) Peach Aviation ANA International Services 1978 ANA Domestic Services Opening of Narita International Airport Foundation 1952 1960 1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 2019 (FY) 2 3 Strengths Accumulated over a 68-Year History: Scale and Quality In 2020, we celebrated the 68th anniversary of our founding. Today, we have grown into a top-tier global airline group in terms of both scale and quality. To continue to be a company loved by our customers and society, as well as one that connects the world, we are committed to overcoming the challenges of COVID-19 and reach the highest levels of value. Scale Quality FY2019 results Total ANA Group Passengers (FY2019) ANA Domestic Total ANA Domestic In-Service Rate On-Time ­ On-Time 59.62 million Passengers*1 (2019) and International Departure Rate Arrival Rate 97.4% 88.7% 87.5% Passengers*1 (2019) Global Global No. 17 No. 22 Number of Customer Feedback Reports  Airports Served by ANA (as of the end of FY2019) Share of Domestic Passengers*2 (FY2019) 101 airports 48 international airports 53 domestic airports 16.9% FY2015 35.8% 20.1% FY2019 Complaint No. 1 (46%) Compliment 73,688 16.6% 117,628 42.3% Comment / Request 26.1% Other 21.2% 21.1% Number of Aircraft (as of the end of FY2019) Airports and Routes Served by Peach Aviation 307 aircraft total (as of the end of FY2019) 22 airports 39 routes External Recognition  Quality On-Time Performance Wide-Body: 59 Medium-Body: 107 SKYTRAX (ANA, 2020) Cirium (ANA, 2019) 5-STAR AIRLINE Narrow-Body: 117* Asia-Pacific Major Airlines Regional: 24 * Includes aircraft operated by Peach Aviation for an 8th Network Category: No. 1 consecutive year Mainline Category: No. 1 ANA Mileage Club Members By Category: (as of the end of FY2019) • World’s Best Airport Services (2019) Worldwide Major Airlines Cargo Volume (FY2019) 36.65 million • Best Business Class Onboard Catering (2019) No. 2 1,239 thousand tons JCSI (Japan Customer Satisfaction Index) Survey (ANA, FY2019) • International Aviation Division, Customer Satisfaction Network Category: Mainline Category: No. 2 Sources: *1 International Air Transport Association (IATA), 2020 *2 Number of passengers (industry-wide): Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (FY2019) No. 2 4 5 Expansion of ANA Group Consolidated Group Data Businesses  (¥ Billions) Operating Revenues Operating Operating Revenues Income (Loss) The ANA Group consists of our core Air Transportation Business and a variety of related businesses. ¥ 1,974.2 billion Composition of Operating Revenues Air Transportation Airline Related 1,737.7 299.4 49.5 18.1 143.9 1.3 Each company is managed autonomously, and we establish strong relationships and synergies to by Segment Travel Services further refine our unique strengths and continuously increase corporate value throughout the Group. Number of Employees (Fiscal 2019) Trade and Retail 144.7 2.9 44.2 3.5 45,849 * Calculated before Others eliminations Adjustments (395.9) (14.7) Total (Consolidated) 1,974.2 60.8 Air Transportation Airline Related Composition of Operating Revenues Composition of Operating Revenues 73.3% 12.6% Travel Services Composition of Operating Revenues Trade and Retail Composition of Operating Revenues 6.1% 6.1% Full Service Carriers (FSCs) ANA AIRPORT SERVICES Co., Ltd. ALL NIPPON AIRWAYS CO., LTD. ANA Base Maintenance Technics Co., Ltd. ANA WINGS CO., LTD. ANA MOTOR SERVICE CO., LTD. Air Japan Co., Ltd. ANA Cargo Inc. ANA Systems Co., Ltd. ANA Sales Co., Ltd. ALL NIPPON AIRWAYS TRADING Co., Ltd., and more Low Cost Carriers (LCCs) ANA Catering Service Co., Ltd. ANA Business Jet Inc., and more Peach Aviation Limited ANA TELEMART CO., LTD. ANA X Inc., and more The core of the ANA Group is our ownership and operation of In the Airline Related Business, ANA Group companies mainly As the sales and marketing division of the ANA Group, ANA ALL NIPPON AIRWAYS TRADING Co., Ltd., and Group compathe full service carrier (FSC) ANA brand and the low cost carsupport the Air Transportation Business with services that Sales Co., Ltd. provides airline sales services, including sales nies perform aircraft parts procurement, conduct aircraft tradrier (LCC) brand Peach Aviation. We leverage the strengths of include airport ground support, aircraft maintenance, vehicle of air tickets and travel services. The company also engages in ing (import, export, leasing, sales), operate airport shops (ANA each entity to drive growth in our airline business domains. maintenance, cargo and logistics, catering (in-flight meals), the planning and sales of travel products. DUTY FREE SHOP and ANA FESTA) across Japan, and We will continue to contribute to greater corporate value for and contact center services. To meet the needs of our customers who value their time, we manage other businesses related to air transportation. The the entire Group by building an optimal business portfolio This business seeks to grow and deepen Group businesses are expanding the scope of our travel services, which includes Group also trades in non-airline products (paper, pulp, food within the Air Transportation Business and pursuing a more through contract services for overseas airlines, new value creation the launch of ANA Business Jet Inc. in 2018. ANA Business Jet import and sales; semiconductor and electronic component resilient business structure. through the effective use of customer data, and other means. arranges charter flights for business jets. import / export), provides advertising agency services, and operates the ANA online shopping site. Aircraft Vehicle Human resources / ­maintenance m ­ aintenance business support Human Air transportation resource Flight catering development Research institute / Sales and think tank Cargo / logistics m ­ arketing General trading Airport ground IT companies support Contact center Real estate / building maintenance Charter arrangements 6 7 Mission Statement Built on a foundation of security and trust, “the wings within ourselves” The beliefs of our founders have transcended the ages, help to fulfill the hopes and passed on with great care as the dreams of an interconnected world. DNA of the ANA Group. ANA Group Safety Principles Safety is our promise to the public and is the foundation of our business. Safety is assured by an integrated management system and mutual respect. Safety is enhanced through individual performance and dedication. Ambition in Our DNA Management Vision It is our goal to be the world’s leading airline group in customer satisfaction and value creation. ANA’s Way Group Synergies To live up to our motto of “Anshin, Attaka, Akaruku-genki!” (Trustworthy, Heartwarming, Energetic!), we work with: Our Mission 1. S afety We always hold safety as our utmost priority, because it is in Society the foundation of our business. 2. Customer Orientation We create the highest possible value for our customers by viewing our actions from their perspective. 3. Social Responsibility We are committed to contributing to a better, more sustainable society with honesty and integrity. 4. Team Spirit We respect the diversity of our colleagues and come together as one team by engaging in direct, sincere and honest dialogue. 5. E  ndeavor We endeavor to take on any challenge in the global market through bold initiative and innovative spirit. 8 9 Management Message  Returning to the spirit of our founders, coming together as a group to overcome the COVID-19 pandemic and create a strong, resilient Group business structure. Shinya Katanozaka President & Chief Executive Officer 10 11 Management Message  However, the spread of infection around the world led to stronger immigration restrictions in every country beginning in March. The Impact of COVID-19 on Naturally, we were forced to cancel or reduce flights on international routes. In Japan, the national government declared a Our Businesses state of emergency on April 7 and local governments requested voluntary restraints on unnecessary travel outside the home. These developments led to a sharp decrease of passengers First, I want to express my sincere gratitude for your continued flying on domestic routes. As a result, the ANA Group posted support. an operating loss of ¥58.8 billion for the stand-alone fourth I also want to express my deepest sympathies to the people quarter, which was the largest loss we have ever recorded on a around the world who have been affected by COVID-19. quarterly basis. Although we secured net operating income of The ANA Group has been pursuing growth strategies, mainly ¥60.8 billion for the full year, we truly regret that we canceled through the International Business, in line with our FY2018–2022 dividends for fiscal 2019 in light of the business environment ANA Group Corporate Strategy, which we formulated in February and our inability to predict when the COVID-19 pandemic 2018. During fiscal 2019, All Nippon Airways Co., Ltd. (ANA) will end. introduced new routes from Narita to Perth, Chennai, and Strict immigration regulations continue in force around the Vladivostok. The Company also put ultra-wide body aircraft into world, and international flights have been restricted heavily. service as part of a Hawaii Strategy. The Cargo Business In Japan, we saw a second rise in the number of COVID-19 adopted wide-body freighters for Shanghai and Chicago routes infections beginning in July. Some prefectures are pushing for to strengthen our ability to capture demand for not only special another call for citizens to refrain from travel. Given this envi­ do away with internal concerns and foster a sense of security. items including oversize cargo but also trilateral cargo. The ronment, we have seen a rise in new work styles and lifestyles, We are a business that ensures the safety of the skies. merger of Peach Aviation Limited and Vanilla Air Inc. in our LCC including online conferences, telework, and demand for nonOur Initiatives since the Therefore, we absolutely had to avoid situations in which Business has resulted in a more efficient business structure contact services. We expect consumers to shy away from air employees were forced to engage in their work while worrying to confront tough global competition in the future. To further travel for the time being. It is extremely difficult for us to imagine Outbreak of COVID-19 about infection, unemployment, or other concerns. I shared my enhance basic quality for greater competitiveness, we have been the type of continued demand we incorporated when we formuthoughts candidly about our commitment to ongoing training persistent in addressing the engine component issues related to lated our corporate strategy. and education looking ahead to a recovery in operating scale. the Boeing 787, while at the same time, we made up-front investLooking at our past, we know that the Group’s businesses When COVID-19 first emerged, we set about on our financial I discussed how we would move forward in work-style diversity ments in safety, quality and services as well as human resources, have not always been smooth sailing. Since the start of the 21st response immediately. We began discussions with financial while complying with laws and regulations. I also addressed including the active recruitment of employees who will lead us century, we have encountered numerous challenges, including institutions to secure cash on hand. Supported by the financial how we planned to engage in labor–management negotiations into the future. As a result of these activities, we continued to the September 11 terrorist attacks, SARS, the Lehman Shock, foundation we accumulated through the past several years of to revise compensation in a way to protect both our employees generate record-high operating revenues on a consolidated the Great East Japan Earthquake, and U.S.–China trade fricresults, we were able to establish a plan during April to secure and the Company. basis through the third quarter of fiscal 2019. tions. With every challenge, our officers and employees have the funds needed for ongoing business operations for the time We experienced the lowest point of passenger demand for However, once we entered the fourth quarter, we began put their minds together to overcome the circumstances, even being. By the end of June, we executed loans and expanded our Domestic Business in May. At the same time, we needed seeing the impact of the spread of COVID-19 during the second when such policies have included difficult consequences. It may our commitment line, securing access to the level of ¥1 trillion. to introduce new procedures to prevent COVID-19 infections. half of January. Passenger numbers began to decrease gradunot be an overstatement to say that we now face the greatest In parallel with securing cash on hand, we implemented As a group, we pursued exhaustive measures to create an ally on routes to China and Asia. As a company that plays a role challenge since our founding, which will be 70 years in just effective business measures that included reducing the number environment in which customers and employees could feel in social and transportation infrastructure, we have continued to two years from now. Even so, we are willing to overcome these of flights in line with the decrease in passenger demand, safe and secure. President Hirako of ANA was proactive in his operate at the highest level possible, monitoring route trends in challenges and put our businesses back on a growth vector. adjusting personnel operations, and optimizing services. At the response to provide peace of mind to our customers as quickly detail, including the needs for Japanese citizens overseas to To this end, I wish to explain my thoughts on how we plan to same time, I instructed the presidents of all Group companies as possible, and he unveiled the ANA Care Promise on June 1 return home. In so doing, we remained focused on the safety deal with the challenges at hand. to engage in emergency cost-reduction measures. We have as the ANA policy to prevent infections. The new standard of air of our customers, our employees, and other stakeholders. asked the Scheduled Airlines Association of JAPAN to provide travel proposed by ANA is the same comfort and enjoyment as support in approaching the government and related agencies ever, now with even greater peace of mind. Peach also pursued to obtain deferments and exemptions related to taxes and necessary measures, including the publishing of a special public fees for the airlines industry. In this and other ways, we page on the company’s website to communicate aircraft proceare working together with other airlines to respond to the crisis. dures in response to the new normal of the with-COVID-19 era. However, the COVID-19 pandemic has showed no signs of As a group, we will continue to provide clean and hygienic waning, and the outlook for our business had become even environments, striving to relieve passenger anxiety and inspire more uncertain. As this difficult situation continued, in March, confidence in boarding our aircraft as we leverage these poliI issued a message to the 45,000 ANA Group employees, cies into new brand power. declaring my intention to protect their jobs. I believed that the P.38 ANA Group Response to COVID-19 Group would come together to respond to the crisis if we could 12 13 Management Message  see a gradual recovery on Domestic Business that will reflect a As a short-term initiative, we plan to change our Air change in quantity with respect to passenger numbers. Over the Transportation Business structure toward balanced profitability. Business Structure Reform medium term, we believe the emergence of vaccines and other We will pursue a two-pronged portfolio strategy through ANA What Will Never Change: factors will lead to a moderate pace of recovery in demand on and Peach, bringing to bear the brand strengths of each in a in Anticipation of the International Business, while continued globalization will spur a post-COVID-19 world. At the same time, the ANA Group will Our Pursuit of ESG return to air travel. On the other hand, even as the impact of reduce fixed costs in terms of fleet and human resources. Over Post-COVID-19 Era COVID-19 continues, we expect leisure demand to recover first, the medium term, deepen our portfolio strategy toward building Management growing steadily over the medium term, reflecting a change in a strong Group business structure that creates consistent, mixture based on passenger class. We also expect to see a steady value. While doing so, we will also establish our Non-Air Our corporate strategy to date has called for growth through recovery in inbound travelers visiting Japan. We must also Business as a second pillar of revenue to stand alongside our Travel restrictions were tightened around the world in conjuncnetwork expansion in the ANA and Peach brands to generate consider how changes in work styles affect business travel Air Transportation Business. The ANA Group aims to be a cortion with the spread of COVID-19. The Japanese government operating revenues and profits on par with the global top-tier demand, as more companies report weaker earnings, conduct porate group capable of withstanding the return of a pandemic, declared a state of emergency in April 2020. During that time, airlines. We are faced now, however, with the urgent need to business through online meetings, and make other changes. returning to stable and continuous dividends through improved I experienced for myself just how keen people were to go outmodify our business policies flexibly in response to changes Our plans for reform are measures responding to changes corporate value. side. I think that latent needs for air travel will never change in in behavior of people caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. in passenger numbers and class. Our first approach to pushing Our aim is to not only reduce the scope of our business the future. People will still want to return to their hometowns, The following topics are urgent issues for the ANA Group past COVID-19 is to reduce the scope of our operations in through restructuring but also achieve growth in the posttravel overseas, and use aircraft for other travel needs. The under the current situation: conjunction with the change in passenger numbers. At the stage COVID-19 era, becoming an airline group essential to the spread of remote work and other factors could increase the we see a recovery in demand over the medium term, we will people of the world. Now that the external business environpotential for weak business travel demand temporarily. On the re-expand the scope of our business toward a growth trajectory. ment has changed so significantly, we must be proactive in other hand, new location-independent work styles could give 1) Reduce costs and control investment To respond to changes in passenger class, we plan to change adapting to the new normal. The ANA Group will pursue reform rise to new demand for workations and other travel. 2) Pursue business structure reform how we capture demand throughout the Group by offering with a sense of urgency, securing a path to sustainable growth Others have pointed out that travel restrictions could have products and services tailored to the needs of new markets. that we will be able to hand over to the next generation. an impact on the nature of the airline business. Now is the time With respect to 1) reducing costs and controlling investment, The following matters represent specific actions for us to that we must communicate the meaning and significance of the P.24– Business Progress we reduced capacity significantly in line with demand trends, achieve these plans. ANA Group to society. The road to recovery will by no means trimmed personnel expenses based on negotiations with the be smooth. When travel by air begins to increase with the union, and engaged in other cost-reduction measures in terms Basic Policies on Business Structure Reform: development and distribution of a vaccine, the ANA Group will of both variable and fixed costs. We reduced costs by a total Business Model Changes* play an important role in social infrastructure. We will help revi¥162.5 billion during the first quarter of fiscal 2020. And we will 1) S hort Term: Change business structure toward talize economies, trade, and other social activities, as we aid continue to expand into other areas for reduction and delve surplus in profit in Air Transportation Business the movement of people, goods, and cultural interactions. deeper into reduction impacts. With respect to investment, a. Optimize Air Transportation Business portfolio strategy This aligns with our Group Mission Statement: The wings within b. Engage in resource-related tactics to reduce fixed costs we continue to negotiate with aircraft manufacturers and other ourselves help to fulfill the hopes and dreams of an interconparties, reflecting our intent to significantly curb capital expen2) Medium Term: Establish a resilient Group business * Disclosures as of July 29, 2020 nected world. The ANA Group will continue to value personal ditures by postponing the timing of aircraft delivery. structure that creates consistent, steady value For the most up-to-date information, relationships and empathy, connecting the world to bring about a. Strengthen Air Transportation Business portfolio strategy We also plan to 2) pursue business structure reform in bold please visit our corporate website: a brighter, more abundant future. b. E stablish a second pillar of earnings with our Non-Air measures for the future. The current demand structure in the Business Financial Results Presentation Materials: To grow sustainably with society, companies must pursue airline industry is about to change in major ways. We expect to https://www.ana.co.jp/group/en/investors/irdata/supplement/ not only economic value, such as operating revenues and profits, but also social value, which includes a response to social issues facing modern society on a global scale. As a member of society, the ANA Group desires to share value for the sustainable development of our stakeholders, including our customers, shareholders and investors, employees, business partners, and local communities. We have pursued environmental, social, and governance (ESG) management, which has become even more important in the face of the COVID-19 pandemic. We are determined to approach mediumand longterm issues seriously and from a global perspective. P.44–45 ANA Group ESG Management 14 15 Management Message  Environmental issues are issues that truly impact our stakeholders, and the environment has become an even greater topic of concern across the world. Climate change is a Entrusting Our Future to common global challenge. Addressing climate change has become a responsibility for companies entrusted with the New Generations future, and the airline industry has become subject to stricter regulations to reduce CO2 emissions from aircraft operations. Recently, airline industry CO2 emissions are down due to canBeginning in January, Wuhan, China, experienced a dramatic cellations and flight reductions stemming from COVID-19. increase in COVID-19 infections. At that time, ANA organized a However, as our Air Transportation Business recovers in the total of five charter flights to ensure Japanese citizens in the near future, we must take appropriate measures to ensure area could travel back to Japan. While the threat of COVID-19 CO2 emissions do not return to the same level as in the past. was still not recognized fully in Japan, many of our employees Therefore, we have created new long-term targets for the year worked side-by-side with the risk of infection. Despite the chal2050. We intend to strengthen our efforts to address climate lenges, we helped a total of 828 Japanese citizens return change, reducing CO2 emissions from aircraft operations by home, as each employee fulfilled their role with dedicated 50% compared to 2005. action. Later, some employees remarked that they became even more aware than usual of our mission as a public transP.46–49 Further Promotion of ESG Management portation provider. Others stated how completely focused they The new goals we created will not be easy to achieve. We must became in helping return passengers safely to their homes in respond in tangible ways through our aircraft, jet fuel technolJapan. We fulfilled our responsibilities as an airline with the ogy innovations, and more. We must also respond in intangible support of the Japanese government and many others. On ways through steady efforts that involve human intervention. June 23, we received a letter of appreciation from the Japanese Social issues other than those related to the environment that Minister of Foreign Affairs. require ongoing efforts include business activities and supply As part of our social contribution activities, we asked for chain management that respect human rights. Stakeholder employee volunteers in April to support medical gown sewing. engagement is an essential part of gaining an appropriate The response of Group employees was far beyond our expecunderstanding of and responding to these trends. In addition tations. After hearing from employees of their desire to serve to using dialogue to understand potential opportunities and society and do whatever they could to help, I was again risks surrounding the Group, we also plan to engage in manimpressed that human resources are the true treasure of our agement that incorporates the environment, society, and Group. While we cannot see when the COVID-19 pandemic will ­governance. Here, we will do even more to gain an accurate end, I want to express how truly proud I am of our employees understanding of social awareness and behavioral changes, who even now work in airports, on-board aircraft, and in a reflecting this understanding in our corporate strategy. In the variety of other locations to fulfill our responsibilities as social have cultivated over our 68 years of history will be the driving I intend to steer firmly ahead to ensure we become an inspiring future, the ANA Group will make the process for achieving our and transportation infrastructure. force behind overcoming the current crisis. airline group. goals more visible and provide appropriate disclosures of our Hardship now, yet hope for the future were the famous I ask for your continued support of the ANA Group. P.76–77 Unique ANA Group Initiatives results through annual reports, websites, and other communiwords of Masuichi Midoro, our founder. Using these words, cation channels. Our true capabilities come to the fore when times are tough, successive generations of management have continued workrequiring calm thinking, passionate action, and self-awareness ing together single-mindedly with employees to serve society in achieving responsibilities together with colleagues. One of through a foundation of safety. ANA’s predecessor, Japan September 2020 the spirit of our founders is to be a Business with Integrity. This Helicopter and Aeroplane Transports Co., Ltd. began with only reflects an emphasis on the public interest rather than on profits. Our employees united in their sense of mission to fulfill their two helicopters, 28 employees, and big dreams. Since that time, we have continued to grow with effort and a spirit of Shinya Katanozaka roles properly and without fanfare when they supported the taking on new challenges. We have faced many difficulties due President & Chief Executive Officer Wuhan charter flights and the medical gown sewing project. to changes in our business environment. But we have always Every employee demonstrated their sense of responsibility to come through such crises reborn and stronger than ever. We take a personal role in this mission. The ANA Group possesses will overcome COVID-19 through the comprehensive capabiliwings within ourselves that help us overcome difficulties ties of the Group. My dream is for us to build even stronger together. Our DNA is rooted in values handed down to us from wings that spread out to connect the people of world and take those who came before, and this DNA will never change at any us forward. Dreams come true, if one makes the effort. With time in the future. I am convinced that the corporate culture we this in mind, and as the top manager of ANA HOLDINGS INC., 16 17 The ANA Group Value Creation Process  Cycle of Expanding Strengths Driven by the Spirit of Our Founders We have remained committed to our founding spirit, improving on our unique strengths over the course of our history. Each element of our philosophy amplifies others, leading to a cycle of expanded strengths. This, in turn, serves as the driving force behind the values unique to the ANA Group. Each ANA Group company relies on its own expertise to Ongoing Aspirations toward Strengths Comprehensive contribute to our overall strategy. Commitment Innovation Cultivated Capabilities These companies develop to Our innovative businesses, products, Philosophies • Early adoption of state-of-the-art from the Spirit of Our Founders to Meet Our Goals and services, raising our organiaircraft zation to higher levels of quality Ambition in Our DNA •L  eading-edge products and Always expanding through • Multifaceted business portfolio and services decision-making independence for and creating more revenue Group Synergies a focus on innovation Group companies opportunities. Our Mission in Society multiplied by Group diversity • Network of nearly 45,000 Group employees Create Both Economic Value and Social Value We seek new challenges by embodying the essence of team Improve Expand spirit, embracing the support of Strengths our stakeholders around the world, who have responded to Quality Created Business Scope our obsessive focus on quality • History and culture of safety through Our Businesses • Expand international route and our extensive network. • Commitment to on-time network operations Create both quality and • Solid domestic network • Respond to diverse needs based volume in pursuit of • Customer segment coverage by on degree of customer full service carrier and LCC satisfaction social infrastructure value 18 19 The ANA Group Value Creation Process  Sustainable Corporate Value Enhancement Value Creation Process We will invest appropriate management resources based on the environment surrounding the ANA Group. In so doing, we will accelerate the cycle of our four strengths, which serve as the engine driving value creation. By executing our strategy, we will create social value and economic value simultaneously. As we do so, we aim for improved corporate value while we contribute to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) adopted by the United Nations. Achieving Our Management Vision Our Environment (Medium and Long Term) ANA Group Management Resources Economic Growth in Asia-Pacific Power of people who are willing to endeavor and challenge Changing Social Structures in Japan and Overseas Fleet and network connecting the world Advancing Technology Trust of our customers and society Limited natural resources shared with humankind Climate Change and Resource Shortages Financial foundation allowing us to spread our wings Simultaneous Economic Social te Value Creation of Economic Value Value c r ea e va l ue we and Social Value x pand th E Expanding top-line Strengthen our Providing smart, Improving cost competitive ability comfortable travel Ongoing competitiveness Commitment Aspirations Comprehensive Cultivate Capabilities to Our toward Strengths to Meet Creating more business Philosophies Innovation opportunities Promoting Japan Our Goals Revitalize our regional as a tourism nation, Ambition in Developing demand in new tourism business encouraging inbound tourism Our DNA customer segments Group Synergies Our Mission Improving employee Promoting diversity Execute our productivity Foster and utilize a diverse in Society Helping create a society that strategy employee base Improve Create Expand Improving quality and service respects human rights Quality Strengths Business Scope Providing personalized Pursuing both improved Generate efficiencies and services convenience and efficiency innovation through DX Raising employee Generating new business job satisfaction Leverage our strengths to move forward and achieve sustainable Controlling cost increases Pursue energy efficiencies Reducing environmental (primarily fuel expenses) impact expansion in our businesses Management Corporate Human Resources / Mission Statement Safety Hygiene Foundation Governance ANA’s Way 20 21 The ANA Group Value Creation Process  Timeline for Simultaneous Creation of Economic Value and Social Value Understanding the mediumand long-term To continue creating social value and economic value through our corporate activities, it is important that environment we set appropriate targets and timelines, having an accurate awareness of the prevailing business envi• Economic growth in Asia-Pacific ronment. We must respond with flexibility to the dizzying changes in our business environment, including •C  hanging social structures increased competition and the emergence of geopolitical risks. We must also set our sights on mediumin Japan and overseas and long-term initiatives in response to environmental regulations and human rights issues. As we incor•A  dvancing technology porate both values into our corporate strategy, we will generate even greater improvements in the value •C  limate change and resource we create moving forward. shortages Understanding of the short-term environment 2020 • New normal • Change in airline market 2050 demand structure The ANA Group ESG Commitments P.42 Sustainability Initiatives Executing the Next ANA Group Corporate Strategy E Short-Term Achieving Mediumand Long-Term Goals Economic value • Reduce CO2 emissions Current ANA Group Corporate Strategy Initiatives • Reduce resource waste • Reduce food waste P.24 Business Progress Materiality (P.44) • Biodiversity conservation Environment Simultaneous Airline Industry Creation of Human Rights Overview • Responsibility to respect human rights Economic Value S Diversity and • Promote responsible procurement and and Inclusion Business Measures supply-chain management Social Value Regional • Human resource development to support Revitalization sustainable growth Financial Measures • Responding to the diversity of our customers • Promote regional revitalization Social value Cost Reductions • Utilizing innovation to solve social issues G • Employ stronger governance structure 22 23 Business Progress The impact of COVID-19 has resulted in major changes to the environment surrounding the ANA Group. We must take swift action both in our businesses and finances What Does the to overcome one of the greatest challenges in our history. At the ANA Group DNA Mean to You? same time, we must also transform our business structure to accommodate new-normal lifestyles, pursuing sustainable growth. Uncompromising commitment to quality through everyday effort, striving for change, and an unwavering commitment to safety on the front lines. Teruyuki Kominami ANA Line Maintenance Technics Co., Ltd. Maintenance Crew 24 25 Business Progress  Please visit our corporate website for the latest information. Financial results briefing materials: https://www.ana.co.jp/group/en/investors/irdata/supplement/ ANA Group Corporate Strategy Progress Progress in Response Measures In January 2019, we published the ANA Group Corporate Strategy Update for fiscal 2019 and 2020. As we subsequently finalized our From the initial stages of the impact of COVID-19, the ANA Group has taken a proactive response in both plans to expand our international network, mainly from Haneda Airport, in January 2020 we planned to announce a rolling update to business and financial aspects. the ANA Group Corporate Strategy by March. Business Measures However, the impact of COVID-19 on our business became apparent in February. With the spread of the virus both in Japan and overseas, we assumed that the drastic decline in passenger demand would extend over a longer period of time. Accordingly, we made our response to this urgent issue a top priority. We implemented measures for the following four major areas of our businesses. 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 (FY) Results for the 1Q of FY2020 Match Capacity to Business 1 Demand Trends Reduced operation and sales-linked expenses significantly Staged Growth in • Slot expansion at Tokyo metropolitan area airports Environment Surrounding Inbound Travel • Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Games the ANA Group 1) Adopted a temporary leave program Expanded targeting to 36 Group companies Optimize Employee Corporate and Business Strategy 2 Utilization and Services and 43,500 employees 2) Revised airport operation structure, etc. Temporary closures of some facilities along with capacity 1. ANA Group FY2018 to FY2022 Corporate Strategy Reduced fixed costs across various categories (published February 2018) 1) Reduced officer remuneration, personnel expenses Emergency Response 2. ANA Group Corporate FY2019 to FY2020 3 Measures 2) Shrank aircraft-related expenses 3) Cut down outsourcing business Strategy Update 4) Made significant reductions in controllable costs, etc. (published January 2019) 3. Flight Schedule Plan for FY2020 FY2020 Establish Social (announced in January 2020) 4 Credibility Launched ANA Care Promise (June 1) 4. Formulation of Further Strategy February 2020– Priority to Rising Negative Match Capacity to Demand Trends Emergency Response Measures Action Plans for Impact on Measures In response to the decline in passenger demand, we matched We implemented a number of measures quickly to reduce Major Areas Demand by Addressing capacity to demand by suspending and reducing flights. We personnel expenses and other costs. These measures included Urgent Issues COVID-19 also downsized the aircraft in operations, reducing variable reducing officer remuneration, management salaries, and 1) ESG Management costs such as fuel expenses and landing and navigation fees. summer bonuses, which improved our profit balance. 2) Productivity Improvement 3) Customer Data Utilization Optimize Employee Utilization and Services Establish Social Credibility 4) Pursuit of Innovation Along with controlling capacity, we adopted a temporary leave We are pursuing efforts to establish our social trust so customprogram and other measures to optimize employee utilization. ers use our aircraft with peace of mind. We also optimized our service systems and operation structure, In June 2020, ANA launched the ANA Care Promise. Peach including the temporary closure of certain airport facilities. also implemented a variety of measures, providing a clean and hygienic environment, striving to eliminate customer anxiety. 26 27 Business Progress  Please visit our corporate website for the latest information. Financial results briefing materials: https://www.ana.co.jp/group/en/investors/irdata/supplement/ Progress in Response Measures Cost Reduction Initiatives Financial Measures By taking appropriate measures in our businesses, we achieved total cost reductions of ¥162.5 billion The ANA Group implemented financial measures in the following two major areas. At the same time, during the first quarter of fiscal 2020, reflecting a combination of cuts in variable costs, such as fuel we issued a request to the government for support of the airline industry. expenses, and fixed costs, such as personnel expenses. Cost Reduction Impact (Consolidated) Results for the 1Q of FY2020 Results [Apr.–Jun.] Key Programs Cost Reduction Secured cash amount for the time being, throughout Forecast for the Total ¥ –162.5 Bn total ¥1 trillion or more the 1Q of FY2020 Current Fiscal Year 1 Ensure Liquidity on Hand 1) Secured bank loans 2) Established additional Approx. ¥535 Bn commitment line Expand to ¥500 Bn 1) Control capacity flexibly Reduced capital expenditures Variable Operation & Sales-Linked ¥ –130.0 Bn Capacity by Business Apr.–Jun. (YoY) Continue to control capacity in response 2 Limit Capital Expenditures significantly 1) Postponed planned aircraft delivery schedule Costs Expenses • International Passenger –86% to demand trends 2) Deferred in-flight product changes, etc. •D  omestic Passenger –73% • International Cargo –62% •P  each Aviation –81% We secured liquidity on hand as early as possible in anticipation of the prolonged impact of COVID-19. Working with financial institutions, we secured access to approximately ¥1 trillion in total funding, consisting of bank loans of ¥535.0 billion in the first quarter and an expanded commitment line to a maximum of ¥500.0 billion. We also postponed planned aircraft deliveries for this year and deferred in-flight product changes, limiting capital expenditures. We reviewed Group investment plans, deferring some projects and significantly reducing investment amounts. 2) Reduce officer remuneration and manager salaries Group Personnel Expenses ¥ –24.5 Bn 3) Reduce summer bonuses Results for the 1Q of FY2020 Fixed 4) Adopt a temporary leave Approx. Costs program ¥ –75Bn* Request for Government 5) Limit capital expenditures Assistance to the Airline Obtained deferments of landing and Others ¥ –8.0 Bn Others 6) Reduce controllable costs, etc. Industry ­navigation fees, etc. * Response as a Scheduled Airlines Association of JAPAN We will continue to strive to minimize variable costs by matching capacity to demand trends carefully. We plan to reduce fixed costs by ¥75.0 billion* over the full year. As we expect the recovery in passenger demand to take time, we In the meantime, we submitted a request to the government for industry support through the Scheduled Airlines Association of JAPAN. will pursue further cost reductions by expanding areas to target and digging for deeper cuts. As a result, many airports in Japan have deferred landing and navigation fees. Leasing costs and facilities usage fees have also been * Forecast as of July 29, 2020 reduced. Going forward, our industry will continue to ask for further support, including extended deferments and exemptions of taxes and public fees. 28 29 Business Progress  Please visit our corporate website for the latest information. Financial results briefing materials: https://www.ana.co.jp/group/en/investors/irdata/supplement/ Future Management Policies Business Environment and the Basic Policy for Reform of ANA Group Response Business Structure The impact of COVID-19 has forced changes in social structures and value systems around the world. As The ANA Group will carry out business structure reform to respond work-styles and lifestyles change, the acceptance of a new normal is about to cause changes in demand steadily to changes in the market environment. structures, even in the airline industry. The ANA Group will respond to this situation as described below. Sustainable Growth Environment A new normal in work styles and lifestyles Medium Term: Establish a resilient Group business structure that creates consistent, steady value Enhance corporate value Airline Industry Significant changes in the demand structure of the airline market 1) Strengthen Air Transportation Business portfolio strategy (Stable & Continuous 2) Establish a second pillar of earnings on Non-Air Business Dividends) Short Term (under COVID-19) Medium Term (post-COVID-19) Passenger 1) Rise in non-air travel 3) Recovery at a moderate pace on Numbers international routes Short Term: Change business structure toward surplus in Air Transportation Business (Change in 2) Gradual recovery in domestic routes Volume) 4) Active resumption of air travel 1) Optimize Air Transportation Business portfolio strategy Reduce business scale to Re-expand business scope ANA : Reduce the scale of our business for the time being; ANA Group Concentrate management resources on high-profit routes; get over COVID-19 toward a growth trajectory Reevaluate products and services to meet a new normal Peach : Capture wider demand in outlying regions of the major cities near Narita and Kansai airports 1) Variation in recovery speed on each 2) Different class mix compared to Passenger passenger segment pre-COVID-19 Class 2) Implement resource-related tactics to reduce fixed costs (Change in • Leisure : Decrease to gradual recovery • Leisure : Increase including inbound Fleet : Reduce the number of aircraft; Leverage smaller aircraft and pursue higher capacity rates Mixture) •B usiness : Decrease travelers Human Resources: Revise staffing assignments by enhancing productivity through new work styles, etc. • Business : Ongoing weakness ANA Group Provide products and services that meet the new market needs Management Mission Statement / Safety / Hygiene / ESG Management / Foundation Human Resources / DX / ANA’s Way As a short-term initiative, we will change our business structure toward balanced profitability in our Air Transportation Business. Responding to Passenger Numbers Responding to Passenger Class (Change in Volume) (Change in Mixture) 1) Optimize Air Transportation Business portfolio strategy ANA will reduce the scope of its business for the time being, concentrating management resources on high-profit routes. At the We are currently seeing strong movement toward non-air travel. Even as the impact of COVID-19 continues, we expect leisure same time, ANA will reevaluate current products and services in anticipation of market needs in the post-COVID-19 era. Even so, we expect to see a gradual recovery in passenger demand to recover first, growing steadily over the medium However, Peach, which has established an efficient business structure through merger, will strive to capture wider demand demand on domestic operations. Over the medium term, we term. We also expect to see a recovery in inbound travelers. in outlying regions of the major cities near Narita and Kansai airports. believe the emergence of vaccines and other factors will lead However, we forecast demand for business travel to continue to a moderate pace of recovery in international operations, to experience weakness as corporate earnings deteriorate and 2) Implement resource-related tactics to reduce fixed costs We intend to reduce the total number of owned aircraft in our fleet, as well as leverage smaller and more efficient aircraft. while continued globalization will spur a return to air travel. online conferencing becomes more widespread. Therefore, We also plan to review our staffing assignments, enhancing productivity through new work styles based on The Group will reduce the scale of our businesses tempowe expect to see significant changes in passenger class digital transformation (DX), etc. rarily to weather the declining phase of demand. When we see mixture. a recovery in demand over the medium term, we will re-expand The Group will provide products and services that meet Over the medium term, we will pursue a deeper portfolio strategy for the purpose of strengthening our Air Transportation Business, the scale of our businesses toward a growth trajectory. new market needs, changing our approach to capturing covering a wide range of diversifying demand. demand across the entire Group. Also, we will seek to establish a resilient Group business structure that creates consistent, steady value by establishing our Non-Air Business as a second earnings pillar. This will improve corporate value, returning the ANA Group to stable and continuous dividends as we pursue sustainable growth. 30 31 Business Progress  Air Transportation Business During fiscal 2019, we conducted a comprehensive review of safety, quality and services that form the solid foundation of our business. At the same time, we executed up-front investments in human resources and our fleet to take advantage of the international slot expansion at Haneda Airport. While results were firm through the third quarter, the impact of COVID-19 in the fourth quarter resulted in Air Transportation Business operating revenues amounting to ¥1,737.7 billion, a decrease of 4.2% year on year. Operating income amounted to ¥49.5 billion, a decrease of 69.1%. In fiscal 2020, we will maintain flexibility in controlling capacity during periods of weak demand. We will also work to maximize revenues during periods of recovery. We will survive the trials of COVID-19, continuing International Passenger Business to grow on into the future. Phased recovery of ASK while assessing the status of global travel and immigration restrictions Fiscal 2019 in Review Performance of the International Passenger Business In May, we began introducing the Airbus A380 FLYING HONU Revenues ASK RPK on our Narita–Honolulu route as part of our Hawaii Strategy. We (Index) Fiscal 2015 = 100 Yuji Hirako also introduced Narita–Perth service in September, Narita– 130 126 Chennai service in October, and Narita–Vladivostok service in 124 Member of the Board of Directors, March 2020. 119 120 ANA HOLDINGS INC. For the first time in 10 years, ANA unveiled new seats for President & Chief Executive Officer, First Class and Business Class on Boeing 777-300ER aircraft. 110 ALL NIPPON AIRWAYS CO., LTD. We introduced the upgraded aircraft on the Haneda–London route in August, the Haneda–New York and Narita–New York 100 routes in November, and the Haneda–Frankfurt route in February 2020. We introduced our first private wide-seat with a 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) closable door, called THE Room, in Business Class. These new seats offer the world’s first personal 4K-compatible monitor and other amenities, achieving the highest levels of passenger comfort. Meanwhile, the decline in demand due to COVID-19 on Chinese routes became apparent at the end of January. Slowing demand spread subsequently to routes in Asia, North America, Europe, and Hawaii. In response, we began adjusting supply and demand in February, and by the end of March, we The year 2020 was expected to be a year of great progress, among the best airlines in the world. At the same time, COVID-19 canceled or reduced a total of 2,814 flights across 71 routes. with the expansion of international flight slots at Haneda Airport has had a major impact on our lifestyles and behavior. On June As a result, international route passengers amounted to and Japan hosting the Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Paralympic 1, ANA launched the ANA Care Promise as a new standard for 9.41 million, a decrease of 6.7% year on year. Operating revNew Business Class Seat, THE Room Games. Unfortunately, the airline industry now faces major air travel. Under this promise, we have strengthened our enues were 5.8% lower at ¥613.9 billion. challenges stemming from the COVID-19 pandemic. Since I hygiene initiatives even further. We will pursue the complete was named president in 2017, I have worked to build a resilient confidence of our passengers through appropriate measures Fiscal 2020 Business Policies organization that can deliver results in any environment. in the with-COVID-19 era and based on the service quality we As long as travel and immigration restrictions continue in place Currently, we have been forced to cut flights on both internahave built over our history. around the world, we will continue to reduce the scale of our tional and domestic routes on an unprecedented scale. It is at To overcome this unprecedented crisis, we must reform our operations to the greatest extent possible. In the meantime, we times like these that we must demonstrate resilience to survive. Air Transportation Business cost structure, particularly in fixed will restore capacity in phases if Japan and other countries we Our air transportation services have enjoyed an outstanding costs. In addition, we are reviewing employee work styles and service begin to ease restrictions. reputation in the world. In 2019, ANA was ranked first in the plan to increase employee productivity significantly. By engaging Asia-Pacific region for on-time arrivals by Cirium of the U.S. In diligently and quickly in these areas, we will introduce bold addition, we received the prestigious 5-Star designation from reforms that place ANA back on a growth trajectory in the SKYTRAX of the U.K. for an eighth consecutive year, rating ­post-COVID-19 era. 32 33 Business Progress  Air Transportation Business Domestic Passenger Business Cargo and Mail Business Increasing capacity as economic activity and movement of people resume, helping to revitalize the local Maximize transport capacity to grow earnings in a tight cargo market economy while restoring profitability Fiscal 2019 in Review Performance of the Domestic Passenger Business Fiscal 2019 in Review Performance of the International Cargo Business Passenger numbers through the third quarter were solid, mainly Our International Cargo Business experienced weak demand Revenues ASK RPK Revenues ATK RTK due to strong business demand and travel within Japan. We (Index) Fiscal 2015 = 100 for cargo originating both in Japan and overseas due to the (Index) Fiscal 2015 = 100 also captured the strong demand over the 10-day Golden global economic slowdown stemming from U.S.–China trade 110 150 Week holidays. We introduced discounted tickets available for friction and other factors. In addition, we were forced to cancel 122 purchase up to 355 days prior to boarding as one means to a large number of flights beginning in February due to the 120 103 capture demand as early as possible. These and other meaimpact of COVID-19. As a result, both transport volume and 100 91 sures, as well as our new fare structure adopted in the previous 100 99 revenues underperformed year on year. year, succeeded in generating sales. 99 In our route network, we introduced the Boeing 777F wide50 In our route network, we increased the number of flights for body cargo freighter for the Narita–Shanghai (Pudong) route Narita–Nagoya (Chubu) in May and Nagoya (Chubu)– (July) and Narita–Chicago route (October). In addition to new Kumamoto in October. We also adjusted aircraft type flexibly 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) products such as oversize cargo and special cargo (e.g., semi0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) and optimized the number of flight, optimized supply to demand conductor manufacturing equipment), we also captured transthrough aircraft type and scheduling. portation demand for emergency supplies and hygiene-related In November, we introduced new seats on Boeing 777-200 supplies, which surged in demand due to the spread of aircraft, offering improved comfort and functionality with power COVID-19. reclining in Premium Class. We also introduced seats equipped As a result, international cargo volume for fiscal 2019 with touch panel personal monitors in Economy Class. At the amounted to 866 thousand tons (down 5.2% year on year) and Naha Airport, we altered the layout of the departure counter operating revenue amounted to ¥102.6 billion (down 17.9%). and implemented the ANA Baggage Drop automated baggage drop machine, making Naha the fourth airport in Japan to be Fiscal 2020 Business Policies so equipped. We also renovated the ANA LOUNGE. These and Global passenger flight cancellations and reductions have other efforts were made to further improve service quality. resulted in a shortage of capacity for international cargo transBoeing 777F Aircraft However, the spread of COVID-19 in Japan prompted the portation. To respond flexibly to the tight supply and demand in central and local governments to ask citizens to refrain from New Premium Class Seats for the Boeing 777-200 the market, we plan to operate extra flights and charters, mainly unessential go-out or attendance at events. These policies using freighters. In April, we became the first Japanese airline resulted in a significant decline in passenger demand beginto begin transporting cargo in the passenger cabin on passenning at the end of February. While we endeavored to maintain ger aircraft. We will continue to pursue revenue growth, while our network as a public transportation provider, we began maximizing our transport capacity. adjusting the number of flights in March. In total, 2,674 flights across 42 routes were suspended or reduced. As a result, domestic passengers amounted to 42.91 million, a decrease of 3.2% year on year. Operating revenues were 2.4% lower, at ¥679.9 billion. Transporting Cargo in the Passenger Cabin Fiscal 2020 Business Policies Refurbished Naha Airport Departure Counter We will continue to reduce operation-linked expenses by controlling the number of flights in operation as long as demand ANA Signed a Strategic Partnership Agreement with Singapore Airlines remains weak due to COVID-19. At the same time, we will On January 31, 2020, ANA signed a joint venture framework agreement with Singapore resume capacity flexibly when we confirm increased demand Airlines to strengthen our network and increase our presence in the Asia / Oceania region. as a result of increased economic activity and the resumption While expanding existing code share flights, ANA is preparing to apply for Antitrust Immunity of travel. We plan to strengthen our ability to capture leisure (ATI) under the Civil Aeronautics Act. Our goal is to start joint operations beginning with our travel demand by taking advantage of the Japanese govern2021 winter schedule. After approval, this agreement will mark the third such arrangement ment’s Go To campaign and other measures to encourage after United Airlines (Asia–North, Central, and South America) and Lufthansa (Japan– tourism. We will leverage these measures to restore profitability Europe). These stronger alliances help us offer greater passenger convenience and and contribute to the revitalization of local economies. strengthen our competitiveness in the Asia / Oceania region. 34 35 Business Progress  Air Transportation Business Non-Air Business Strengthening efforts to establish a new revenue pillar to stand next to our Air Transportation Business LCC Business Airline Related LCC merger strengthens our business foundation and allows us to allocate management resources on Fiscal 2019 operating revenues amounted to ¥299.4 billion Airline Related Business: Operating Revenues domestic routes for the time being (2.9% increase year on year) and operating income amounted (¥ Billions) to ¥18.1 billion (37.7% increase). This result was mainly due to Fiscal 2019 in Review increased ground handling services at Kansai and Chubu We moved forward with the transfer of aircraft and human Takeaki Mori 291.0 299.4 284.3 airports and the new consolidation of subsidiary MRO Japan 264.4 resources in stages as we prepared for the Peach Aviation Representative Director & Co., Ltd., an aircraft maintenance company launching full 231.9 Limited and Vanilla Air Inc. merger. By the end of October, we CEO ­operations in Okinawa. completed the integration of operations. While we curtailed the Peach Aviation Limited Fiscal 2020 contracts for ground handling services are use of resources temporarily due to aircraft conversions and After serving many passengers in Japan and overseas, likely to decrease due to fewer flights by overseas airlines flight crew transition training, we transferred 10 routes previVanilla Air ceased operations at the end of October 2019 owing to the impact of COVID-19. When global operations ously operated by Vanilla Air to Peach. and completed a merger with Peach Aviation. Many who resume in the future, we will pursue initiatives to restore and At the same time, geopolitical risks in Hong Kong and transferred from Vanilla Air, including pilots, cabin atten2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) strengthen profitability. South Korea had a negative impact on performance, as did the dants, maintenance crew, and other employees, are now spread of COVID-19 beginning in February. In response, we serving as the mainstay of Peach operations. canceled or reduced 2,088 flights across 23 international and This merger has combined the strengths of each domestic routes. company, including Peach’s innovative initiatives out of the Kansai International Airport and Vanilla Air’s creation of Travel Services As a result, passengers numbers amounted to 7.28 million, a decrease of 10.6% year on year. Operating revenues were new Tokyo metropolitan area demand at the Narita Airport. 12.5% lower, at ¥81.9 billion. The shared management resources provide economies of During fiscal 2019, sales of online products attracted strong Travel Services: Operating Revenues scale that have strengthened our business foundation. demand for both domestic and international travel. In addition, (¥ Billions) In addition to the routes taken over from Vanilla Air, we took an aggressive stance to capture demand for travel Fiscal 2020 Business Policies Peach introduced service between Narita and during the 10-day Golden Week holiday in Japan. The spread We introduced Narita–Kagoshima and Narita–Nagasaki service Kagoshima, Nagasaki, Miyazaki, and Kushiro, establish167.3 160.6 on our domestic routes at the end of March. In mid-June we of COVID-19 beginning in late January impacted operating 159.2 150.7 ing a firm presence in the Tokyo metropolitan area. 143.9 resumed service for all routes, and in late July, we resumed revenues and operating income, which amounted to ¥143.9 At present, travel remains restricted significantly due service for all flights, strengthening our efforts to capture leisure billion (4.5% decrease year on year) and ¥1.3 billion (129.9% to the impact of COVID-19. At the same time, acceleratravel demand. On August 1, we launched the Narita–Miyazaki increase), respectively. tion of telework and other work-style reforms have led to and Narita–Kushiro routes, building on the strengths estabmore leisure time and even the potential for working from In fiscal 2020, we plan to capture domestic travel demand, lished by the Peach brand over the years and expanding routes resorts or family homes in rural areas. Seeing these which is expected to recover early. We will also pursue efforts to offered from our LCC base in Narita, taking over from Vanilla Air. trends, we believe the importance of travel to meet strengthen our competitive posture, taking advantage of the Go 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) others and enjoying the novelty of visiting new places To campaign, while expanding direct sales and leveraging our will only continue to increase. The concept of travel has dynamic Tabisaku packaged product. changed and will continue to expand in the future. LCC Business: Operating Revenues By communicating the good qualities and new charms (¥ Billions) of Japan to the rest of the world, we believe we can develop even more demand in inbound tourist travel. Trade and Retail 93.6 And Peach was one of the first to increase domestic 87.5 81.9 route flights, with the theme of Bridging Your Sky. We will 75.6 In fiscal 2019, while transaction volume for aircraft parts Trade and Retail: Operating Revenues 69.8 expand our domestic network to function fully in our role as a bridge, contributing to the revitalization of econoincreased in our aerospace and electronics business, volume (¥ Billions) mies in Japan’s outlying regions and of Japan as a decreased for nuts and other food business products. Further, whole. In addition, we expect the tabinoco website (uservolume in our Retail business declined at our airport ANA DUTY 150.6 generated travel content platform) to generate new FREE SHOP retail locations and ANA FESTA airport shops due 144.7 143.0 demand, serving as a bridge connecting passengers to the impact of COVID-19. As a result, operating revenues 140.2 136.7 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) with other passengers and Japan’s rural areas. amounted to ¥144.7 billion (3.9% decrease year on year) and Governments will begin lifting travel restrictions in operating income amounted to ¥2.9 billion (21.5% decrease). * The above graph represents the combined total of Peach and Vanilla Air results phases in the near future. Over the medium to long term, During fiscal 2020, we will exercise selection and concen(fiscal 2015–2016 includes Peach results before consolidation). we plan to once again expand our international business, tration to strengthen existing businesses, while also creating taking advantage of our substantial domestic network to new businesses that contribute to greater revenue growth. encourage inbound travelers to see even more of what 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Japan has to offer. Peach will secure a position as the leading LCC in Asia, both in customer satisfaction and in market share. 36 37 Business Progress  ANA Group Response to COVID-19 Creating a New Standard for Air Travel The global spread of COVID-19 has led to the start of a new lifestyle standard in many aspects of our daily lives. In June 2020, ANA launched the ANA Care Promise as a shared commitment to our customers to protect the health of our passengers and staff, creating a carefully detailed environment emphasizing measures to prevent disease infection. Peach Aviation has also committed to creating a new standard in the skies through similar measures and the concerted efforts of all employees. We will continue to place the highest priority on safety, providing clean, hygienic environments and services to offer even greater peace of mind to our customers in every travel situation. Overview of Disease-Prevention Measures 1 Create a hygienic and clean environment 2 Implement preventive measures for staff at all times who interact with customers • Disinfect and sterilize equipment, etc. • Wear masks, face shields, etc. (airport and lounge staff) • Package food and drinks in the lounge, etc. • Wear masks, gloves, and goggles, etc. (cabin attendants) Special Feature Establishing 3 Disinfect all aircraft on a regular basis 4 Thorough ventilation inside the aircraft avatar-in is a futuristic platform that allows anyone to connect • International route aircraft (every flight) • Ventilate all air in the cabin in three minutes by drawing in • Domestic route aircraft (every night) clean outside air • Equip all aircraft with high-performance filters* to filter and circulate air inside the cabin beyond geographical distances or physical restrictions. Ceiling air conditioning ducts By launching a new venture for this platform, we will accelerate business speed and contribute to the society of the future in next-generation social infrastructure. Lower cargo compartment Draw in air Vent air out of the aircraft from the engine In April 2020, ANA Holdings established avatarin Inc. as our first-ever start-up. * Type used in hospital operating room air conditioners An avatar is a remote-controlled alter ego robot that enables interactive telepresence. ANA Holdings launched the ANA AVATAR project in 2018, developing robots and researching mobility that does not We are asking passengers to cooperate with initiatives to prevent the spread of disease; thereby reducing anxiety among all passenrequire physical movement. We see great potential yet to be unlocked in use cases for these avatars. gers. These measures include mandatory wearing of masks or facial coverings in the airport and inside the aircraft, modified proceFor instance, avatars can contribute to resolving a myriad of social issues in areas like education and dures within the airport, at security checkpoints, at the boarding gate, social distancing, and other measures. healthcare, as well as generate new travel demand. To achieve the wings within ourselves to fulfill the hopes and dreams of an interconnected world as * Passengers who do not wear masks or who are not feeling well (fever, etc.) may be denied boarding. defined in our Mission Statement, avatarin Inc. will address business domains beyond the airline For more detailed information: framework, creating new value unique to the ANA Group. About the ANA Care Promise About Peach Disease-Prevention Measures https://www.ana.co.jp/en/jp/topics/coronavirus-travel-information/ https://www.flypeach.com/information/en/infection_control/ 38 39 Business Progress  Major Businesses Avatar Use Cases MISSION • Develop and offer services using To expand humanity’s avatar remote-controlled alter ego robots and the avatar-in platform potential by offering • Offer proposals to resolve social new abilities through issues through avatars avatars. Participate in office meetings from home Shop while receiving store staff advice View popular new releases at the bookstore newme, newme, a wider general-use avatar model avatar-in, avatar platform Creating a future society in which anyone can participate, freely connecting via the internet to Participate in online graduation Students living on a remote island visit Well-known basketball coach provides avatars placed in many different ceremonies the Tokyo National Museum remotely direct instruction remotely locations Healthcare / Nursing care (Remote visits / Remote care) Remote medical care Conferences Shopping / Sightseeing Remote work Playing with children living far away Remote hospital visits Office / Meetings Education / Information centers / Seminars Museums / Multilingual support Entertainment create an environment in which anyone can freely and instantly serendipity (chance events and experiences), more difficulty in gain acceptance for the avatar platform as social infrastructure, Akira Fukabori project their presence to any location. Our aim is to make a team building, and greater challenges in developing new ideas. we will proceed in the joint development of robots and services Founder & CEO, avatarin Inc. world in which all people can easily participate in society. newme With avatars, users can move around the office, conference via collaboration and equity partnerships with a wide range of is a wider general-use avatar designed for maximum market halls, and other locations freely from their own home. This companies. penetration, installed in locations that include medical facilities, system creates a realistic environment in which users can visit Air travel passengers make up only 6% of the world’s poputourism sites, and schools. By transferring consciousness and and talk to someone without constraints, take a casual stroll, lation. We are transitioning from the era of physical travel to an presence to newme, users can travel beyond geographical and have chance encounters, glean hints of potential ideas from era of teleported consciousness. The ANA Group, which began Our mission is to expand humanity’s potential by offering new physical limitations. For example, hospital patients can enjoy accidental meetings or discoveries, and so on. with only two helicopters, will supplement the movement of abilities through avatars. We believe that it is our mission to shopping and sightseeing, teachers can conduct classes at By advancing the greater fusion of real and virtual, avatars aircraft and offer instant mobility in the form of avatars. As we harness technology that eliminates distance, time, and physical schools on remote islands, etc. offer new abilities for all people. We are firm in our belief leverage ideas unique to us as an airline group, we will continue constraints on movement, providing a new method of travel Today, the impact of COVID-19 has caused rapid growth that we can contribute to resolving various social issues by to evolve avatarin Inc. and contribute to the creation of the that transcends aircraft or other existing methods. in social needs for contactless and remote technologies. The connecting people without concern to distance, time, and society of the future. Currently, avatarin Inc. uses the remote-controlled alter ego spread of online work and teleconferencing has resulted in physical restrictions, as well as by proposing new, mutually robot avatar and the world’s first avatar platform avatar-in to issues including fewer opportunities for small talk and supportive lifestyles. To promote the spread of avatars and 40 41 Sustainability Initiatives The ANA Group strives to resolve social issues through our ­business activities to keep growing together with society. We establish a long-term vision for ourselves, executing our ­strategies steadily to improve corporate value sustainably. What Does the ANA Group DNA Mean to You? Always remembering to be thankful to our customers and colleagues, and engaging in strong teamwork to deliver safety and security. Yoko Kobayashi ANA Cabin Attendant 42 43 Sustainability Initiatives  ANA GROUP ESG MANAGEMENT ANA Group ESG Management Promotion Cycle Evaluate the Evaluate theimpacts Impactson onbusiThe Social Environment Surrounding Business ness and Society and society the ANA Group Various social issues exist around the world, including Dialogue Dialogue global warming and climate change, energy resource shortExternal Stakeholder Dialogue ages, increasing ocean plastic waste and microplastics, Stakeholder Dialogue Dialogue poverty, and child labor. More voices are calling for a Initiatives response from not only national and local governments Internal Alignment With Alignment with Corporate Dialogue Strategy Corporate Strategy but also from private-sector companies. Examples include • Reduce CO2 emissions the CO2 emissions reduction goals set under the Paris • Reduce resource waste Agreement and the SDGs, which are global common Environment • Reduce food waste E goals to be achieved by 2030. • Biodiversity conservation Especially over the past several years, the issue of Material Issues ­climate change has attracted global attention, and CO2 is Mission Statement Human • Responsibility to respect human rights Rights • Promote responsible procurement and Create Both Social considered to be one of the causes of global warming. supply-chain management The central business of the ANA Group is air transportation. Built on a foundation of Value and Economic • Human resource development to support Value, aiming to Therefore, we must address the impact of our business security and trust, “the Diversity and sustainable growth of security and trust, Inclusion S develop a sustainable activities on the environment and society, including reducwings within ourselves” • Responding to the diversity of our customers society and increase tion of CO2 emissions from flight operations. In addition, help to fulfillwithin “the wings the hopes corporate value • Promote regional revitalization through the Air Transportation Business is susceptible to external and dreams of an interRegional ­tourism and social contribution activities ourselves” help to connected world. Revitalization factors, such as natural disasters, terrorism, and the spread • Utilizing innovation to solve social issues Dialogue Based on of i­nfectious disease. Creating stability in our global environfulfill the hopes and Dialogue Based on Information Disclosed • Maintain commitment of top management ment and social circumstances is critical for our business Information Disclosed dreams of an interGovernance • Pursue board of director diversity G operations. • Ensure transparency connected world. Information The ESG Management Promotion Cycle Disclosure for Sustainable Growth Having gained an understanding of the surrounding envi­ • Integrated • Integrated ReportReport • Human Rights Report ronment, the ANA Group pursues ESG management to • Human Rights Report • Websites become an indispensable part of society in the future, • W … and ebsites other channels Disclose Initiatives StatusofofInitiatives Disclose Status to grow continually as a company, and to create value. … and other channels. We identify social demands through dialogue with stakeholders, and then align our corporate strategy with these requirements, evaluating the impact on business and ­society. Finally, we incorporate these requirements into ANA Group Material Issues Materiality Matrix Rationale for Identification as Material Issues corporate initiatives. We disclose the status of our initiatives on our corporate website and through other channels as in ESG Management Extremely important For the ANA Group For Society • Controlling fuel costs We aligned the social demands identified through dianecessary. At the same time, we engage in regular dialogue Human Rights • Controlling the costs of future •R  educing logue with stakeholders with our corporate strategy. After •Human rights violations Environment P54 emission trading schemes environmental with stakeholders based on information we disclose. We across the supply chain evaluating the impact on business and society, we identi• Maintaining / improving evaluations footprint also report our progress and confirm the appropriateness Environment fied four material issues, and we have been engaged in Diversity and Inclusion •Climate change by avoiding environmental risk of our initiatives in those dialogues. •Diversity of customers and employees •Environmental • Realizing a addressing these issues through our business activities. Society pollution We pursue ESG management through a cycle of Axis Human Rights P58 • Maintaining / improving evaluations world that In fiscal 2015, we identified three material issues: the through avoiding human rights risk respects ­dialogue, initiatives, and information disclosure. Here, our human rights environment, diversity and inclusion (D&I), and regional aim is to develop a sustainable society and to increase Consideration for • Improving profitability revitalization. In fiscal 2016, we added human rights as corporate value. stakeholders / by generating new demand • Realizing an a fourth material issue. In fiscal 2019, we established the Impact on society Diversity and Regional Revitalization P60 • Providing an issue resolution inclusive and the •Decline of Japanese regions Inclusion ANA Group ESG Commitments. At that time, we held system to strengthen capacity to society environment •Income / education disparity in respond to customers dialogues with experts and conducted management-level emerging countries • Improving profitability by generat• Revitalize discussions to confirm that these four material issues ing new inbound tourism demand regional would continue to be material issues for the ANA Group. Extremely Regional P64 • Maintaining / improving profitability economies Management Axis important Revitalization of domestic airline business • Promoting Impact on the operations of the ANA Group • Improving profits of international international (Mission Statement, Management Vision, direction of corporate strategy, airline business exchange business opportunities and risks) 44 45 Sustainability Initiatives  FURTHER PROMOTION OF ESG MANAGEMENT Please visit our corporate website for more details on ANA Group ESG Commitments https://www.ana.co.jp/group/en/csr/commitment/ Developing ANA Group ESG Commitments  To become an indispensable part of society in the future and to grow continually, the ANA Group must address environmental and Eliminate CO2 emissions from all non-aircraft flight operations by 2050 Environment social issues through our business activities from a long-term perspective. We strive to solve material issues related to the environment, human rights, D&I, and regional revitalization. To further promote ESG management from a long-term perspective, we developed ANA Group ESG Commitments based on the following three viewpoints. We Reduced Delve deeper into energy conservation meathrough will continue to address these issues in achieving our commitments. energy sures and pursue a shift to renewable energy conservation sources. At the same time, plan to introduce hybrid vehicles (HVs), electric vehicles (EVs), Commitments to and fuel cell vehicles (FCVs) for use in airMatters for Which We Eliminate CO2 Pursue on an Ongoing Emissions ports, while upgrading existing equipment in Commitments to Be Provide Disclosure 1 Achieved by 2050 2 Basis through 2030, 3 and Report Results our facilities and buildings to more energyefficient models over time. the Final Target Year Shift to on a Continued Basis renewable for the SDGs energy 2019 2050 Reduce our resource waste ratio to zero and reduce food waste, including in-flight meals, by 50% Environment 1 Commitments to Be Achieved by 2050 Promote the 3Rs (reduce, reuse, and recycle resources, such as plastic and paper). Reduce food waste throughout the product life cycle (food material procurement, preparation, delivery, and disposal). Reduce CO2 emissions from aircraft flight operations by 50% (compared to 2005) Environment Address the environment from the following four viewpoints. 2 Commitments to Pursue on an Ongoing Basis through 2030, the Final Target Year for the SDGs (1) Adopt new technologies Promote responsible Responsibility to Human Environment / Utilizing innovation to Regional (Million ton) Move forward in introducing fuel-efficient aircraft and procurement and supply12 respect human rights Rights Human Rights solve social issues Revitalization chain management Domestic improved engines, including the Boeing 787 and Airbus International A320neo / A321neo models, developed through new Based on the United Nations Guiding Manage and promote environment-conProvide new value through avatars, 10 technology. Principles on Business and Human scious procurement with respect to human drones, MaaS*, etc., and cooperate Rights, make every effort to promote rights and build a fair and transparent with different industries. (2) Improve flight operations the respect of human rights. supply chain. * Mobility as a Service (MaaS): Integration of various Reduce fuel consumption by improvements in aircraft flight forms of transport services into a single mobility 8 operation, regularly cleaning the inside of the engine, and service on demand. reducing the weight of equipment installed. 50% reduction (3) Introduction of sustainable aviation fuel (SAF) 6 compared to Continue to introduce SAF produced from sustainable 3 Matters for Which We Provide Disclosure and Report Results on a Continued Basis 2005 sources, such as vegetable oil, animal fat, and waste 4 biomass. Human resources development to Diversity and Responding to the diversity of Diversity and support sustainable growth Inclusion our customers Inclusion (4) Utilize emission trading schemes 2 (purchase CO2 emissions credit) Develop human resources and a sustainable work environRespect the needs and diversity of each customer, and proReduce CO2 emissions globally by purchasing CO2 emission ment in which employees raise their productivity and contribmote universal services in both products and services. credit generated by lower CO2 emissions in businesses other ute to sustainable corporate growth. 0 than aviation. To prevent a further increase of CO2 emissions 2005 2019 2050 in and after 2021, plan to use market mechanisms in addition Regional Biodiversity conservation Environment Regional revitalization to initiatives described in (1) to (3) above. Revitalization Contribute to biodiversity conservation by promoting and Contribute to regional revitalization through social contribution enhancing measures to prevent illegal wildlife trade. activities and by solving social issues. 46 47 Sustainability Initiatives  FURTHER PROMOTION OF ESG MANAGEMENT Process to Establish ANA Group ESG Commitments  We developed the ANA Group ESG Commitments in three steps: (1) Identify social demands; (2) Categorize and prioritize social demands to develop commitments; and (3) Verify appropriateness and finalize commitments. The first step is to identify social demands through regular dialogue with stakeholders (Step 1). The second step is to identify ESG issues related to our businesses and develop ANA Group ESG Commitments (Step 2). The third step is to verify the appropriateness of the commitments through dialogue with ESG investors and to finalize commitments in the Group Management Committee (Step 3). Step Step Step 1 2 3 Categorize and Verify Prioritize Social Appropriateness Identify Social Demands Demands to Develop and Finalize Commitments Commitments Identify Social Demands through Dialogue with Stakeholders Management Level Discussions Verifying Targets with Our Stakeholders When developing the ANA Group ESG We discussed and developed the ANA Group ESG To objectively verify the appropriateness of the ANA Group More details are available on our corporate website. Commitments, we engage in dialogue with ESG Commitments in our Group Management Committee. This ESG Commitments developed within the Group Management https://www.ana.co.jp/group/en/csr/communications/discussion/ experts to understand the social expectations and committee operates under the chairmanship of the president Committee, we held more dialogues with the ESG investors https://www.ana.co.jp/group/en/csr/communications/dialogue/ requirements of the ANA Group. and consists of full-time directors and full-time Audit & who helped us first identify social demands. We received Supervisory Board members. opinions on the appropriateness of commitments and future The Group Management Committee discussed the social information disclosure. Dialogue Regarding the SDGs Dialogue with ESG Investors demands identified through dialogue and the ESG issues Participating Organizations related to our businesses as identified by our corporate susESG Investors Participating in Dialogues • Hermes Equity Ownership Services (Hermes EOS) tainability and other relevant operation departments in accor• Hermes EOS (Hermes Equity Ownership Services) dance with our Mission Statement and in consideration of the • CHRB (Corporate Human Rights Benchmark) • Corporate Human Rights Benchmark (CHRB) impact on our business and society. Finalizing the ANA Group ANA Group Management Committee Deliberations ESG Commitments The Group Management Committee again discussed and July • Identifying the latest social trends then finalized the ANA Group ESG Commitments after conShinya Katanozaka Norichika Kanie and investor trends firming the appropriateness of commitments with ESG invesANA HOLDINGS INC. Keio University Graduate School of President & Chief Executive Officer Media and Governance Professor tors. The final ANA Group ESG Commitments were reported to the board of directors. © Caux Round Table Japan August • Understanding social demands and requirements of the ANA Group • Suggesting ESG issues related to Opinions at the Board of Directors’ Meeting 2019 Dialogue Regarding the Environment Dialogue Regarding Business and Human Rights our businesses • The board recommended that per-unit reduction should For more, see P.59 Participating Organizations  also be addressed in tandem with social trends for total • WWF Japan Participating Organizations CO2 reduction. November • Suggesting ANA Group ESG • Conservation International Japan • The Danish Center for Human Rights Commitments for the ANA Group •T  he board noted that ESG management is being driven by • IATA JAPAN • Institute for Human Rights and Business based on social demands Europe. The Group should not simply adopt European-style • World Benchmarking Alliance (WBA) ESG, but rather strike a balance on a case-by-case basis February • Revisiting commitments and and in reflection of Japanese values. 2020 suggesting implementation structure © Caux Round Table Japan © Caux Round Table Japan 48 49 Sustainability Initiatives  DIALOGUE WITH EXPERTS ON ESG The COVID-19 pandemic has changed social values and behavior. We conducted an interview with ESG experts to better understand It is appreciated that ANA Group is committed to the UN Guiding Principles (UNGPs) through social trends and respond appropriately. its Human Rights policy, training and Human Rights Due Diligence (HRDD). With social disThese interviews consisted of questionnaire responses, rather than face-to-face meetings, considering safety. We will continue to tancing here to stay for coming month HRDD process will be tested, due to tough business engage in dialogue with stakeholders to understand and identify social demands. environment and limited in-person engagement (with employees, suppliers and rights holders) in the value chain. Particularly, impacts on travellers will be due to with travel restrictions, increased sanitisation, social distancing at airports as well as inside the aircrafts. Some Expectations and concerns required of the ANA Group due to changes in consciousness after the spread rights holders* will be more impacted than the others, thus it will be important to keep reTopics of COVID-19 evaluating needs and Human Rights risks in ANA’s value chain. Implementation * Rights-holders: People impacted directly by corporate activities, etc. Period June to July 2020 © Caux Round Table Japan Rishi Sher Singh Specialist in Global Value Chains Summary In order to achieve the medium and long-term goals set by the ANA Group, ANA Group will continue to focus on medium to long-term trends and follow the ESG-related efforts which include the respect for human rights, environmental considerations, etc. In addition, we The world today is a different place: are we still a global society? expect that it will be possible to build a resilience business model by absorbing the change I believe our ‘new normal’ will be different because—perhaps for the first time in our in social value due to the impact of COVID-19 in the long-term trend. lives—we will try not to lose what we have found. How ANA Group copes with the shift to a Under the COVID-19, it is important for the ANA Group to pursue transparency in the smaller global travel and hospitality sector will be a case study for how to keep sight of what process of identifying new ESG issues and to develop a “Quality Relationship” with the aim matters. Those parts of the business that were in the shadows will now fall into the light. The of improving reliability with ESG-related investors. decisions on what to cut and what to keep will require close examination of what was wasteful and what was valuable. Hiroshi Ishida Executive Director, Caux Round Table Japan Puvan Selvanathan Chair, Bluenumber Foundation and Former Member of the UN Working Group on Business and Human Rights In the context of the COVID-19 crisis, companies are expected to put adequate measures in place to make sure that they manage human rights risks connected to the pandemic. This should include at a minimum a commitment from the company to respect human rights in this crisis and a clear allocation of responsibility inside the company to ensure that this is achieved in practice. It is crucial for companies to take necessary steps to identify, assess The COVID-19 pandemic provided an unexpected temporary reduction in CO2 emissions and manage the human rights risks connected to the COVID-19 crisis through a robust and other environmental impacts. Companies that return to their old ways of doing business human rights due diligence process. For a company with a large supply chain like ANA and cannot transform may be disqualified by society in the post-COVID-19 world. As such, Group, adopting responsible purchasing practices to protect suppliers should be a priority. 37 companies and 28 industry groups in Europe have joined the Green Recovery Alliance*. Companies are also expected to provide effective remedy, including the availability of grievThe ANA Group post-COVID-19 recovery shall pursue the concept of Do No Harm to avoid ance mechanisms through which complaints related to COVID-19 concerns can be made returning to the pre-COVID-19 CO2 emission level, and to further efforts towards Net Zero of without the fear of retaliation. all negative environmental and social impacts, not just carbon emissions. ANA Group shall Camille Le Pors More than ever, the COVID-19 crisis shows the need for sustainable, inclusive developtake advantage of this window of opportunity to become a leader in green recovery and Lead, Corporate Human Rights Benchmark, ment and provides the opportunity to ‘build back better’: making society and the economy sustainability, and to commit as early as possible to the stakeholders, especially the future World Benchmarking Alliance more resilient by protecting fundamental human rights, aligning short-term economic intergenerations. ests with long-term needs, and ensuring continued momentum on the SDGs. * Green Recovery Alliance: An informal alliance of political leaders, civil society groups and NGOs, CEO and business associations, Yasushi Hibi and the European trade union confederation. This alliance promotes the EU post-pandemic recovery plan, accelerating the transition toward climate neutrality and healthy ecosystems. Vice President, Conservation International 50 51 Sustainability Initiatives  DIALOGUE WITH EXPERTS ON ESG More and more governments around the world are adopting the Green Recovery policies, Using External Evaluations Related to ESG  looking ahead to the post-COVID-19 world. More than ever, businesses are being asked to Results of the four following external evaluations have provided us with an objective and multifaceted understanding of ANA Group ESG improve sustainability. management. We intend to reflect these results in officer remuneration. WWF has raised Green and Just Recovery, Wildlife Exploitation, and Land Use and Food Systems as important social issues, suggesting the need to review approaches in these FY2019 Evaluation FY2022 Targets Remarks areas. The ANA Group is expected to show a long-term post-COVID-19 airline business plan that is consistent with the requirements by the Science Based Targets Initiative* so as to DJSI World Index reframe its efforts to reduce greenhouse gases and realize a zero-carbon society. Also, the Stock index developed jointly by U.S.-based S&P Asia Pacific Index Maintained status as and Switzerland-based RobecoSAM. Evaluates ANA group is expected to expand measures against illegal trade as a means to prevent noted (left) corporate sustainability from the perspectives infections from animals. Further, it should use resources wisely by reducing and reusing Selected as a of economy, environment, and society. component member  ©WWF Japan plastics, as well as by sourcing palm oil, timber, paper, and other resources through sustainable means. TOBAI Sadayosi FTSE Chief Executive Officer * Science Based Targets Initiative: Science Based Targets is a collaborative initiative among the WWF, CDP, World Resources Institute (WRI) and the UN Global Compact. The initiative encourages companies to adopt emissions reduction targets in line Selected as a Stock index managed by U.K.-based FTSE. Evaluates WWF Japan Maintained status as with what the latest climate science says is necessary to limit global warming to well below 2˚C above pre-industrial levels. component member the initiatives and results of ESG management based noted (left) of FTSE4Good Index on benchmarks. MSCI Selected as a Selected as a compoStock index managed by U.S.-based MSCI. * component member of nent member of the An index based on the performance of stocks around One of the issues investors are currently focusing on is how companies support, diversify the Japan Empowering Japan ESG Select the world from various perspectives. Examines and and maintain a sustainable supply chain. It highlights the importance of employment, health, Women Index (WIN) Leaders Index evaluates corporate commitment to ESG. safety, work styles, and satisfaction of employees of the group and supply chain companies are also crucial issues. Besides, investors are paying attention not only to data security CDP External evaluation for institutional investors managed but also to data governance, because AI-based analysis and utilization of customer and by a U.K.-based NPO. Analyzes the corporate impact employee data requires a partnership with the external parties. B A– of CO2 on the environment and climate change, As the global aviation industry is expected to remain in a tough situation for a while, evaluating the company’s responses. I hope the ANA Group will re-question what it can do and find new growth opportunities as a resilient company in the Post-COVID-19 era. * THE INCLUSION OF ANA HOLDINGS INC. IN ANY MSCI INDEX, AND THE USE OF MSCI LOGOS, TRADEMARKS, SERVICE MARKS OR INDEX NAMES HEREIN, DO NOT CONSTITUTE A SPONSORSHIP, ENDORSEMENT OR PROMOTION OF ANA HOLDINGS INC. BY MSCI OR ANY OF ITS AFFILIATES. THE MSCI INDEXES ARE THE EXCLUSIVE PROPERTY OF MSCI. MSCI AND THE MSCI INDEX NAMES AND LOGOS ARE TRADEMARKS OR SERVICE MARKS OF MSCI OR ITS AFFILIATES. Masaru Arai Chair, Japan Sustainable Investment Forum ESG Implementation Structure  (JSIF) We established the Group ESG Management Promotion Committee ESG Implementation Structure (which was renamed from the Group CSR / Risk Management / Board of Directors, Other Management Committees, etc. Compliance Committee in April. 2020) in accordance with Group ESG Management Promotion Committee Regulations. This committee, which Group ESG Management Promotion Committee operates under the guidance of the president and under the chairmanship ANA HOLDINGS President & Chief Executive Officer Being a Company Indispensable to Society in the Post-COVID-19 World of the director in charge of corporate sustainability, consists of ANA Chief ESG Promotion Officer (CEPO) HOLDINGS and Group company directors, executive officers, and the * Director in charge of ANA HOLDINGS Corporate Sustainability The ANA Group is being affected by the COVID-19 pandemic in significant ways. full-time Audit & Supervisory Board members of ANA HOLDINGS. The committee establishes core policies, formulates proposals, and deliberGroup companies However, the direction in which we promote ESG management from a long-term perESG Promotion Officer (EPO) spective will remain unchanged after we overcome this crisis. We aim to become a ates matters related to ESG management. After deliberations, important * Selected by Group company directors resilient company by listening to and accurately understanding the social demands of issues are elevated to the board of directors, the Audit & Supervisory Management Committee Related to ESG Promotion the post-COVID-19 world. Board, and the Group Management Committee. We will reflect the input of experts in our strategic initiatives. We also continue to Each Group company has an appointed ESG promotion officer (EPO) ESG Promotion Leader (EPL) aim to create a sustainable society (contribute to the SDGs) and increase corporate to oversee ESG and ESG promotion leader (EPL) to lead the ESG activivalue by identifying social demands through ongoing dialogue with stakeholders and ties of their respective organization. by implementing measures appropriately. Chikako Miyata Senior Vice President, Director of Corporate Sustainability ANA HOLDINGS INC. 52 53 Sustainability Initiatives  MATERIAL ISSUES Please visit our corporate website for more: https://www.ana.co.jp/group/en/csr/environment/ Environment Progress Report: ANA FLY ECO 2020 Mediumto Long-Term Environmental Plan for FY2012–2020 ANA Group ESG Commitments Reduce CO2 emissions from aircraft flight operations by 50% (compared to 2005) Reduction of 20% Limit total domestic route CO2 emissions to Reduce ground operations energy consumption by Eliminate CO2 emissions from all non-aircraft flight operations by 2050 in CO2 emissions under 4.4 million tons / 1% annually (vs. Fiscal 2005 levels) Reduce our resource waste ratio to zero and reduce food waste, including in-flight per revenue ton-kilometers on international and domestic routes year on average on an intensity basis meals, by 50% (compliance with the Act on the Rational Use of Energy) Continue initiatives toward conservation of biodiversity Fiscal 2005 Fiscal 2019 Fiscal 2019 Fiscal 2019 1.25 kgCO /RTK 2 1.01kgCO /RTK 2 Limited to 4.0 million tons 9.1% reduction vs. previous fiscal year Basic Approach Complete implementation of noise control Complete implementation of air pollution measures for international and domestic control measures for international and The ANA Group has introduced the ANA Group Environmental Principles and the ANA Group Environmental Policies. These principles flight aircraft domestic flight aircraft and policies build on the ANA FLY ECO 2020 mediumto long-term environmental plan from fiscal 2012 to fiscal 2020 and include initiatives for reducing environmental impact. We recognize that global environmental issues, including climate change and biodiversity Fiscal 2019 Fiscal 2019 100% 100% conservation, are quintessential management tasks, and we will continue striving to reduce our environmental impact. Compliance with ICAO Chapter 4 Noise Standard Compliance with ICAO Emission Standards for all In fiscal 2020, the final year of ANA FLY ECO 2020, we have formulated long-term targets looking ahead to the year 2050. We are for all aircraft (including leased aircraft) aircraft (including leased aircraft) proceeding with the formulation of a medium-term environmental plan leading to the year 2030 to help us achieve these long-term targets. Initiatives to Curb CO2 Emissions Global Trends The aviation industry is heavily dependent on fossil fuels, with 2016 ICAO Assembly of the Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Adopt New Technologies  approximately 2% of all CO2 emitted around the world said to Scheme, which is a scheme for achieving the CNG2020 goal. Introduction of Fuel-Efficient Aircraft Introduction of Lightweight Cabin Seats be generated from the aviation field. The ANA Group is actively introducing state-of-the-art aircraft to We adopted aircraft seats develIn recent years, there has been a growing sense of crisis CO2 Emissions Forecast and Reduction Targets reduce CO2 emissions from aircraft. These aircraft include the oped jointly with Toyota Boshoku about climate change issues, and the aviation industry is accelCO2 Boeing 787 and Airbus A320neo / A321neo, which feature Corporation on domestic routes.  missions based on current, E Improve flight erating its efforts to reduce CO2. Emissions unchanged trajectory operations excellent fuel efficiency. As of the end of March 2020, fuelThese seats allow us to reduce Carbon Neutral Growth 2020 The Paris Agreement was adopted at the 2015 United Adopt new efficient aircraft accounted for 70.3% of the Group fleet. The weight in-cabin by 195kg across Change in total emissions Nations Climate Change Conference (COP21). technologies ANA Group is also a launch customer for the Boeing 787. all aircraft versus traditional Prior to this, Carbon Neutral Growth 2020 (CNG2020) had Consisting of 73 aircraft, our Boeing 787 fleet is the largest specifications. In turn, this been adopted in the aviation sector following a resolution of the Introduction among the world’s airlines. weight reduction has led to a of SAF 2010 ICAO (International Civil Aviation Organization) Assembly. reduction of approximately 15kl CNG2020 The target of CNG2020 is to keep the global net carbon emis100 in annual fuel consumption per aircraft. Utilize emission sions from international aviation from 2021 at the same level. trading schemes (purchase CO2 Additionally, the International Air Transport Association (IATA) has set the ambitious goal of reducing CO2 net carbon 50 emissions credits) 50% reduction by 2050 Improve Flight Operations  emissions by 50% by the year 2050 compared to 2005. (Left axis) Index: 2005 results = 100 Use single-engine taxiing and reduce usage of thrust Other initiatives have advanced across the industry to curb 1 Save fuel through flight crew initiatives reversers 2005 2010 2020 2030 2040 2050 CO2 emissions. These initiatives include the adoption in the While still ensuring safety, we can reduce the use of thrust Drafted based on the IATA Vision • Reduce climbing resistance by raising flaps reversers during landing, limiting engine output, and taxiing on earlier after takeoff the ground with a single engine after landing. These measures • Maintain engine RPMs at only the necessary will lead to reduced CO2 emissions. Information Disclosure on Response to Climate Change levels during thrust reverser use after landing • Shut down one engine during post-landing taxi Engine cleaning CDP TCFD Science Based Targets (SBT) • Adopt / implement continuous descent approach We can restore engine performance Greenhouse gas reduction targets based and expand the number of eligible airports through regular cleaning of inside on scientific evidence consistent with the Paris Agreement. The ANA Group declared 2 Save fuel by optimizing flight routes components using water. This mainour commitment to the SBTs in May 2020. tenance has been proved to lower Disclosure of information on corporate Disclosure of information analyzing the risks We are participating in a technical subcomstrategies for CO2 emissions and climate and opportunities posed by climate change mittee creating reduction targets and rules 3 Save fuel in airport, equipment operations the combustion temperature of the change. to our business. for the aviation sector. engine, improve fuel efficiency, and reduce CO2 emissions by approximately 1%. 54 55 Sustainability Initiatives  ENVIRONMENT Introduction of Sustainable Aviation Fuel (SAF)  Initiatives to Reduce Environmental Impact To prevent increasing CO2 emissions for 2021 and beyond, the ICAO Assembly adopted the use of renewable aviation fuels other Carbon Offset Program Reduce Food Waste than the conventional fossil fuels. This development requires the In response to customer feedback, the ANA Group now offers We have expanded in-flight meal reservations in First Class and use of SAF, jet fuel made from sustainable sources such as vegthe ANA Carbon Offset Program by class on domestic and Business Class sections of our international flights. This service etable oil, animal fat, and waste biomass. Considering the SAF life international routes. This program is a mechanism to offset the helps us meet passenger requests for in-flight meals and elimicycle, it is preferable that SAF be locally produced for local conamount of CO2 emitted by aircraft. We have chosen projects to nate the need to load extra meals. This service improves cussumption. Therefore, we are pursuing efforts toward the adoption support via this program that meet certain certification stantomer satisfaction, while reducing food waste. of SAF together with relevant institutions and businesses inside dards (J-VER, VCS, Gold Standard CER). ALL NIPPON AIRWAYS TRADING Co., Ltd. contributes and outside Japan for stable production both domestically and to the reduction of food waste by donating surplus food and overseas. Initiatives as an Eco-First Certified Company beverage inventories resulting from the replacement of in-flight In October 2019, ANA received delivery at Haneda Airport of In 2008, ANA became the first in the products for sale on domestic routes. Donations are made to a new Boeing 777-300ER from the manufacturer’s Everett plant transportation industry and the first Second Harvest Japan*, a certified NPO. (Washington State, U.S.A.). This aircraft uses exhaust gas-derived airline to become a certified Eco-First * Japan’s first food bank, collecting foods that would otherwise become food loss and delivering it to people in need SAF manufactured by U.S.-based LanzaTech. For this flight, ANA Company. We received this honor in not only purchased and used SAF but also took the lead in transrecognition of our environmental initiatives and corporate stance that emphasizes social Exchanging Disposable Plastics for Eco-Friendly porting SAF from the factory, mixing the fuel, inspecting quality, and responsibility. Materials refueling. In this way, we acted as the main player throughout the One specific initiative recognized was our work to reduce By the end of fiscal 2020, approximately 70% of the total weight supply chain. environmental impact by recycling resources. Our efforts here of all disposable plastic products used in-flight and in airport include waste separation (glass bottles, PET bottles, and cans) lounges will be eco-friendly materials, such as paper and biogenerated on all international flights arriving in Japan. plastics. In addition, ANA supports the Plastics Smart campaign sponsored by the Ministry of the Environment, and we are IATA-Hosted SAF Symposium Lecture engaged in further initiatives in this area. (New Orleans, U.S.A.) The IATA hosted the SAF Symposium in New Orleans in November 2019. As a panelist, ANA stated that we would work with governments, related institutions, and businesses to ensure the stable production of SAF in Japan as well. Utilize Emission Trading Schemes (Purchase CO2 Emissions Credits)  Taking Action for Biodiversity We are exploring the potential for using ICAO-approved programs to trade emission credits (purchase CO2 credits), since it will become mandatory to offset increased CO2 emissions on and after 2021. We recognize that these credits are also an effective method for offset Initiatives for Environmental and Ecosystem year, in collaboration with TRAFFIC*1, ANA created an educareduction. Conservation tional program in partnership with ROUTES*2, and we offer The ANA Group continues to be engaged in environmental education programs both inside and outside the Company. In conservation activities. Group employees participate in activiDecember 2019, we held a workshop for airport staff in collaboInitiatives in Non-Aircraft Operations  ties that include the ANA Forest of the Heart project in Minami ration with NARITA INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT CORPORATION. Sanriku, Miyagi Prefecture, as well as invasive plant control Based on energy management standards established uniquely for and by the ANA Group, we reduced CO2 generated outside of aircraft activities at Yambaru National Park in Okinawa Prefecture, the Support for the Keidanren Declaration of Biodiversity operations by 4.4% compared with the previous fiscal year. We achieved this result by upgrading Group-owned and leased facilities Team Chura Sango coral reef conservation project in Onnason In June 2020, we announced our support for the Revision to with energy-saving equipment and by using renewable energy, including solar power generated in-house. In fiscal 2020, we began Village, and more. Declaration of Biodiversity by Keidanren and Action Guidelines purchasing and expanding our use of electricity from renewable sources. In 2018, ANA signed the Buckingham Palace Declaration, a toward the realization of a sustainable society through the ANA, ANA Catering Service Co., Ltd., and ANA Foods Co., Ltd. received the Excellence in Energy Efficiency Award (S Class) certifistatement aimed at eradicating illegal wildlife trade. That same construction of a world that coexists with nature (a society in cation under the Act on the Rational Use of Energy of the Ministry of Trade, Economy and Industry for a fifth consecutive year. harmony with nature). *1 TRAFFIC: An NGO that surveys and monitors wildlife trade. A joint venture between the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) and the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN). TRAFFIC sponsors activities through a global network, mainly through bases in ten countries. https://www.traffic.org/ *2 ROUTES: Abbreviation of Reducing Opportunities for Unlawful Transport of Endangered Species. ROUTES is an international collaborative platform for dealing with criminal activities involving the illegal trade of wild animals. The organization implements a variety of programs, mainly in countries / regions where illegal transactions occur frequently. Education program Workshop on eradication of illegal wildlife trade 56 booklet 57 Sustainability Initiatives  MATERIAL ISSUES Please visit our corporate website for more: https://www.ana.co.jp/group/en/csr/human_rights/ Human Rights Prevent the Use of Airplanes in Human Trafficking Eradicate Corruption After conducting training for all ANA cabin attendants, we We emphasize preventive measures in regions considered ANA Group ESG Commitments began a program in April 2019 to report potential cases of relatively high-risk among the countries served by the ANA Responsibility to respect human rights: Based on the United Nations Guiding human trafficking found in-flight to ground facilities. Group. Principles on Business and Human Rights, make every effort to promote the In 2020, we conducted another human trafficking prevention Following Southeast Asia in 2018, we held seminars on respect of human rights. program to raise awareness among all ANA cabin attendants. competition and anti-bribery laws in China in 2019 for ANA Promote responsible procurement and supply-chain management: Manage and The program covered international protocols, notification proGroup employees and employees on overseas assignments. promote environment-conscious procurement with respect to human rights and cedures from within the aircraft, and other response measures. build a fair and transparent supply chain. Stakeholder Engagement Basic Approach Communication with Our Employees Local Dialogue Overseas (Thailand) To deepen an understanding of respect for human rights, we We recognize that the fisheries industry in Thailand presents The ANA Group has been working to ensure human rights in accordance with the global standards provided in the United Nations conduct education and awareness activities through in-house potential human rights risks in the ANA Group supply chain. Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. In April 2016, we established the ANA Group Policy on Human Rights. We based training for new employees and newly appointed managers. In June 2019, we visited Thailand for the purpose of underthis policy on the International Bill of Human Rights (the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the two International Covenants), In addition, we have been conducting annual e-learning standing the state of migrant workers and learning about the the International Labour Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the Ten Principles of the United courses for all Group employees as of fiscal 2015. The topic of response to issues in the fishing industry. We performed local Nations Global Compact, and the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. We also encourage our contracthe fiscal 2019 e-learning course was to leave no one behind. on-site visits and exchanged views with international institutors and suppliers to adopt similar policies. The course was available to approximately 44,000 employees, tions, local NGOs, and others. We will continue human rights initiatives, recognizing that respect for human rights lies at the very foundations of the philosophy of of which 92% participated. In October, we visited a company involved in the production the SDGs. of in-flight meals for ANA flights departing from Thailand. There, Involving Business Partners we conducted interviews about initiatives related to traceability We inform all contractors and suppliers of the ANA Group and exchanged views with local NGOs and others. Issuing the Human Rights Report Purchasing Guidelines. We work together to ensure their workplace environments uphold respect for human rights. The ANA Group issued our first Human Rights Report in Japan in 2018, aiming to promote communication with Note that we are preparing to revise the ANA Group stakeholders through active dissemination of our initiatives to respect human rights. The Group has continued 人権報告書 2019 Purchasing Guidelines with the cooperation of third-party instito issue these reports annually since then. tutions to ensure even more responsible procurement. Exchange of views with local NGOs in October @Caux Round Table Japan Major Initiatives In 2016, we conducted a review to identify potential risks to human rights related to business activities across the ANA Group and at all Regular Reviews from Human Rights Experts locations where we serve. Our evaluation identified the following four key issues for risk prevention. Note that though we conducted a re-assessment to identify risks in 2019 based on advice from outside experts, we confirmed that there are no changes at present to the The ANA Group holds advisory meetings with human rights experts on a regular four existing key issues, as follows. basis. In October 2019, we invited four human rights experts from the Danish Center for Human Rights*3, the Institute for Human Rights and Business*4, and the World Survey on Employment Conditions of Foreign Strengthen Supply Chain Management of Benchmarking Alliance*5 to evaluate the progress of the ANA Group’s initiatives given Workers in Japan In-Flight Meals the advice received the previous year. In 2019, we summarized precautions to take when hiring nonWe used our participation in the Bluenumber Initiative* (in 2 The experts provided advice for stronger information disclosure, new human rights Japanese nationals and shared these with the entire Group. 2017, ANA HOLDINGS was the first Japanese company to join) issues requiring caution, places to improve our management systems, and more. @Caux Round Table Japan Further, we secured the cooperation of an independent thirdto register more than 200 partners and producers connected to party institution (Caux Round Table Japan*1) to conduct interthe ingredients in our in-flight meals. We also conducted a test *1 Caux Round Table Japan: The Caux Round Table is a global network of business leaders working to realize a fair, free, and transparent society through business. *2 Bluenumber Initiative: The Bluenumber Initiative is a global program to establish food supply chain platforms by Bluenumber Foundation. views with contractor-employed foreign workers involved in registration of more than 2,000 articles. *3 Danish Center for Human Rights: The Danish Center for Human Rights was established by the Danish Parliament to gather information and develop tools related to human rights and business. ground handling services at airports. We seek to build a highly transparent food supply chain that *4 Institute for Human Rights and Business: Founded in 2009, the Institute for Human Rights and Business is an international think tank active in the field of business and human rights. In 2020, we will begin to identify employment conditions for includes respect for human rights and environmental conservaThis Institute is a leading driver of initiatives in this field. *5 World Benchmarking Alliance (WBA): A benchmarking organization established primarily by the United Nations Foundation, Index Initiative, and British insurance company Aviva. foreign workers in the supply chain, leveraging technology tion in the production process. This organization develops benchmark indicators to evaluate company contribution levels to a sustainable society. systems in the process. 58 59 Sustainability Initiatives  MATERIAL ISSUES Diversity and Inclusion Creating an Environment for Customer Comfort (Facility Legacy of Diversity)  ANA Group ESG Commitments We will continue to create services, facilities, and equipment offering even greater comfort and convenience in any scenes, from Human resources development to support sustainable growth: Develop human pre-departure through arrival. resources and a sustainable work environment in which employees raise their productivity. Websites Airports (Information) Responding to the Diversity of Our Customers: Respect the needs and diversity of each customer, and promote universal services in both products and services Basic Approach Population demographics are changing in Japan and our customers continue to diversify globally. In this environment, continuing to be Create accessible website environments for all to use, Remote sign-language services at counters / regardless of disabilities Morph resin wheelchairs chosen and trusted by customers will be crucial for the future of ANA Group growth. We will accelerate initiatives aimed at providing world-class inclusive and universal services in an effort to fulfill our responsibility as Airports (Facilities) Aircraft a public transportation entity and build an inclusive society in which everyone can live together. Implementation Structure One pillar of our corporate strategy is the FY2018–2022 Universal Service Strategy, which calls for us to respect the diversity of each customer and provide ANA Group services that every customer can enjoy comfortably and with peace of mind. We carry out initiatives to improve our facilities and services, while at the same time, we identify issues in any scenes, from pre-departure through arrival, and implement action plans to improve convenience in every scenario. Installation of low counters at 50 airports in Japan / ANA-original in-flight wheelchairs (available in all aircraft) / Wider boarding gates Wheelchair-accessible restrooms on selected narrow-body aircraft Facility strategy Service strategy Creating a Society with Accessibility for All  Comply with laws and regulations, as well as Encourage the barrier-free mindsets through implement accessible websites, airports, and stronger education, training, and systems and Beyond air transportation, ANA plans to leverage MaaS* as a necessary assistance information with and among relevant aircraft on-board facilities and equipment benefits for all employees mechanism to improve accessibility and convenience for all organizations. customers. Universal MaaS is a service that enables customers In June 2019, ANA started an industry–academic– who are hesitant to travel, due to disability, age, or other reason government joint project with Keikyu Corporation, Yokosuka to enjoy travel without stress. The service facilitates seamless City, and Yokohama National University. Here, we began prooftransportation by providing information on public transportation of-concept tests for customers traveling in wheelchairs. We will fares, barrier-free connection routes, and so on. The system continue to work together with our stakeholders, aiming to Pre-departure Airport In-flight Arrival also shares and links customer location information and launch social implementation by the end of fiscal 2020. Major Initiatives For Customers to Experience Air Travel Comfortably and with Peace of Mind  In July 2019, we launched the “Assistance Information Information Stored Registration Service” to receive and store information for cus• Walking ability tomers in our ANA Mileage Club member database who need • Information on wheelchair to be checked in (manual, electric, foldable or non-foldable, size, spare battery) special assistance. The system saves customers the time and • Whether or not you have a visual / hearing impairment effort of providing the details of the assistance required every • Medical equipment to be used on board the aircraft time they make a reservation. In turn, this facilitates smooth • Assistive equipment to be loaned requiring special arrangement Joint Press Conference Proof-of-Concept Test • Assistance required at the airport or on board, etc. reservation procedures. * Mobility as a Service (MaaS): Integration of various forms of transport services into a single mobility service on demand. 60 61 Sustainability Initiatives  DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION Human Resource Development to Drive Barrier-Free Mindset Practices  (Service Legacy of Diversity) Promoting Universal Services through Group Businesses We have implemented a range of initiatives to ensure that every employee embraces a barrier-free mindset in society and that allows us to offer world-class inclusive and universal services. ANA Wing Fellows Vie Oji: Diverse Human Resources Shine and Excel We are creating skies that value and welcome all people through programs that eliminate fear of air travel for special needs school ANA Wing Fellows Vie Oji was established in June 1993 and was accredited as a special subsidiary under the Act on students, as well as through ongoing education for employees. Employment Promotion, etc. of Persons with Disabilities in December 1993. Since then, the company has operated businesses in diverse locations, business types, and with diverse human resources. At the same time, we have pursued diverse Hands-On Open Seminar for Universal Services Universal Service Refresher Training work styles in the ANA Group, serving as a leader of diversity and inclusion. Guided by the vision that all employees are Participants interact with the elderly and persons with disabiliWe provide e-learning education four times every year to raise valuable, this company contributes to increasing the corporate value of the ANA Group. ties to learn about issues from the perspectives of those the level of the universal services pursed by the Group. concerned. Manufacturing and External Sales Business Airline-Related Business The company provides hospitality and The ANA Aoshima Factory produces This business supports the Group high-quality customer service through and sells hand made paper and through various services, including a bakery division, convenience store woodwork products under its own management of ANA uniforms, ANA’s Sora-Pass Classes operations center, and the ANA brand name, using raw materials ­mileage-related services, and digital We provide a Sora-Pass* class for children who are not used to traveling on aircraft. Here, children learn the boarding process from the Wonderful Day Café. from the Miyazaki area to introduce management of aircraft maintenance airport to the cabin of the aircraft. In 2019, we launched an ANA Sora-Pass class (boarding support class) for students using wheelAoshima to the world. records. chairs and students with developmental disabilities. ANA Group employees visit schools and teach classes to students who use ANA flights for school travel to alleviate the anxieties about air travel. * Sora-Pass: Air Travel Passport Universal Standard Consulting: Leveraging Strengths for New Value We established the Universal Standard Consulting business unit in August 2016. The unit provides consulting services to 1 2 3 spread the adoption of universal environments inside and outside the ANA Group. The unit suggests high-quality universal standards based on the perspectives and sensibilities of people with disabilities and our own ANA’s heartfelt service. Point Point Point Specifically, the unit verifies equipment at airports and on aircraft, as well as organizes workplace environment seminars for ANA instructors teach classes Experience-based curriculum Instructors are current ANA Group employees. The unit also inspects hotels and accommodation facilities, in addition to promoting the employappropriate to the characteristics allowing students to easily ANA employees ment of visually impaired persons. of the children’s disabilities understand boarding an aircraft One class is a 60or 70-minute session. Students experience sitting in on-board ANA Group employees who have experiANA instructors visit schools and teach wheelchairs, security checkpoint proceence as cabin attendants or ground staff classes in which students learn the produres, and more. serve as instructors (instructor job expericess from boarding to disembarking in the ence depends on program content). classroom, after which they experience the process for themselves. 62 63 Sustainability Initiatives  MATERIAL ISSUES Please visit our corporate website for more: https://www.ana.co.jp/group/en/csr/regional_creation/ Regional Revitalization Expand Directly Related Populations through Cross-Industry Collaboration  ANA Group ESG Commitments Proof-of-Concept Test for Air Ticket Subscription an air ticket subscription service utilizing vacant seats in and Utilizing innovation to solve social issues: Provide new value through avatars, Service Utilizing Vacant Seats between regional routes. Our concept here is to support the drones, MaaS, etc., and cooperate with different industries We are implementing initiatives to expand reach to directly expanding work styles and lifestyles for people who have Regional revitalization: Contribute to regional revitalization related populations, including promoting lifestyles rooted in established multiple bases while traveling between the Tokyo multiple bases, promoting workcations, and creating second metropolitan area and rural areas, or from one rural area to hometowns. Our intent here is to solve population declines in another. We are working with ADDress Co., Ltd., a company outlying regions, population density in the Tokyo metropolitan that offers unlimited flat-rate residence services across Japan area, and other social issues. We hope to support lifestyles that using vacant homes in rural areas. take advantage of ever-expanding work styles and lifestyles due to the shift to remote work caused by COVID-19. Creating New Travel Value through Journey+ In January 2020, we launched a proof-of-concept test for We have established and Basic Approach operate the Journey+ platJapan is famous for its traditional culture and tourism attractions. On the other hand, Japan faces concerns about falling populations form to connect users and in rural areas and the gradual decline of traditional industries. The ANA Group works together with corporations, NGOs, NPOs, local local communities. Journey+ governments, and others in order to develop long-term demand for the Air Transportation Business, as well as to expand the ANA builds communities based economic sphere (including Non-Air Business). on the keywords of business succession issues, resolution Group Photo: Journey+ in Southern Kyushu In addition, we will contribute to regional revitalization through tourism promotion in this era of the new normal by providing information about tourist area safety and security. of regional social issues, regional revitalization, and taking on new challenges. Under this platform, we visit innovators and leaders active in a given region to consider the real social Implementation Structure Materials about the ANA collaboration with ADDress Co., Ltd. issues facing that area. The ANA Group Regional Revitalization Meeting, under the Tourism Development section of ANA Marketing and Sales, organically integrates initiatives across Group companies to maximize impact. This meeting is responsible for advancing strategies that promote Promoting Domestic and International Tourism via ANA Group-Operated Flights  tourism for regional revitalization. In April 2018, we launched Japan Travel Planner, a travel inforTo encourage inbound tourist (mainly longer-term travelers mation website for visitors to Japan. This website is a part of from Europe and the U.S.) to visit other areas within Japan, we our efforts to attract travelers to visit Japan and revitalize local are collaborating with online travel agents* to offer activities Actions economies. As of fiscal 2019, Japan Travel Planner has grown and sharing economy services passengers can enjoy during Local Government, DMOs, etc. ANA Strategic Research Institute Secondments, consulting, surveys, etc. Government Agencies into an important communication platform for passengers their stay. ALL NIPPON AIRWAYS TRADING ANA Group advertising media, hometown tax, merchandising, etc. arriving from overseas, offering information on more than 800 We are also pursuing cooperation with various areas overANA Tourism ANA Sales Travel package planning, promotion, and sales Development tourist spots in 11 languages. The website hosts more than seas, and we will continue to contribute to the revitalization of ANA Business Solutions Provide ANA Group expertise ANA Sales Tourism ANA Group 600,000 site visitors on average monthly. We encourage tourlocal economies by stimulating inbound tourist demand. Domestic Promotion ANA Cargo Expansion of export regional / local products Regional ists to visit many different parts of Japan through a seamless Offices * Travel agencies doing business solely online Tourism Revitalization ANA department overseas HQs, Offices Marketing and promotions for inbound tourism Strategies connection with the ANA flight booking website. Meeting Group companies Cross-organizational initiatives ANA HOLDINGS INC. Utilizing Innovation to Solve Social Issues  Using Avatars to Build New Regional situations where cross-prefecture travel is made difficult due Communication Infrastructure to COVID-19, these avatars enable shopping from anywhere Major Initiatives avatarin Inc., the first-ever start-up launched by ANA in the country, contributing to greater local sales. Regional Revitalization through Tourism Promotion Social Contribution HOLDINGS, is engaged in the avatar business. This • Offer consulting services leveraging ANA Group human resources • Participation in reconstruction activities ­business contributes to regional revitalization by offering • Discover and market tourism resources throughout Japan (Supporting regional recovery after large-scale disasters) communications that bridges physical distances and new • Develop, distribute, and sell local products • Support environmental and biodiversity conservation programs infrastructure. During the 2020 Golden Week holidays and • Establish systems to host foreign visitors to Japan (Project to conserve coral reefs in Okinawa, etc.) in cooperation with Oita Prefecture, avatarin Inc. installed • Stage promotional campaigns involving air transportation services • Develop next-generation education programs a newme remote-controlled robot at three locations in the • Promote domestic / international tourism via ANA flights (Aviation Class, career training, etc.) Oita Funai Gobangai Shopping Street. This robot offers • Develop training programs incorporating ANA Group expertise • Social contribution programs in overseas areas we serve the opportunity to experience remote shopping. Even in • Expand directly related populations through cross-industry collaboration (Educational support, tourism resource conservation, etc.) Shopping with the newme avatar • Leverage innovation to resolve social issues 64 65 Business Foundations Supporting Corporate Value What Does the ANA Group DNA Mean to You? To share our values with all stakeholders, the ANA Group has established a foundation for appropriate management resource allocation and rapid management decision-making. The DNA of experience to overcome difficulties and take on challenges, moving forward into the future and growing as a strong Group through relentless effort. Yuichi Nishiyama B777 Pilot 66 67 Business Foundations Supporting Corporate Value  Safety Strengthening Safety as a Business Foundation, Four Axes of Safety Risk Management  Passing Down Safety as a Culture The ANA Group has adopted a PDCA cycle for safety management for (1) aircraft operations, (2) passengers, (3) employees (front line), and (4) security. Safety is the unequivocal mission of every business in the ANA Group. We have set numerical targets for unsafe events with respect to these four axes. At monthly Group Safety Promotion Committee meetings, which holds the final decision-making authority within our safety implementation structure, attendees report on high-risk Solid Approach to Safety  events and issues, discuss countermeasures and risk reduction, and review safety targets and achievement rates. Safety is the absolute value underlying every ANA Group corThe corporate culture based on mutual understanding and Four Axes of Safety Risk Management porate activity. Safety is the foundation of everything we do. Our trust form relationships among employees across various job dedication to safety extends to every part of our group busidescriptions to support all aspects of the ANA Group business. Operations Passengers Employees Security nesses, including food services, cargo, and information. Our In every workplace, we post the ANA Group Safety Principles (front line) everyday efforts to improve safety and conscientious response and Course of ANA Group Safety Action, which are pledges Advance risk identification Preventing accidents / Preventing harm to the Preventing dangers to to customer expectations build confidence and trust with socishared by all ANA Group employees. and prevention for illegal acts, major incidents bodies and lives of passengers ANA Group employees ety. Faced with the new threat of COVID-19, we are implementsuch as terrorism and hijacking from departure to arrival and others ing all possible measures, providing a sanitary environment incidents and ensuring safety against the risk of infection. The Changing Environment and the Unchanging Mindset toward Safety Awareness  ANA Group Safety Principles Course of ANA Group Safety Action The ANA Group also faces significant changes in the business environment due to COVID-19. In an environment where the number of Strictly observe rules & regulations, and all actions will be grounded on safety. flights are significantly reduced or suspended, employees face three different task categories that can result in human error. Safety is our promise to the public A  s a professional, place safety as the #1 priority while keeping your health and is the foundation of our business. in mind. Three Task Categories (First Time, Procedure Changes, and Task after Extended Time Gap) Safety is assured by an integrated management Address any questions and sincerely accept the opinions of others. system and mutual respect. Information will be accurately reported and shared in a timely manner. Task after Extended Safety is enhanced through individual Procedure Changes Continuous self-improvement for prevention and avoiding reoccurrence. Time Gap First Time Task New or different performance and dedication. Lessons learned from experiences and increased skills for risk awareness. Performing a task an Uncommon tasks procedures and extended time away / away environments from the process ANA Group Medium-Term Safety Promotion Plan  Every ANA Group employee uses foresight to anticipate risks, sharing information and using the assertion* method with coworkers to Based on the FY2018–2022 ANA Group Medium-Term Safety Promotion Plan, we have improved the safety risk management process, respond appropriately to these three task categories, leveraging organization management to prevent unsafe situations. focusing on prevention as a key component. In fiscal 2020, we began the following measures in pursuit of our vision to become a leading airline with a world-class “Safety system and Culture” and create a sense of safety for customers. * Assertion: Employees respect each other and express their opinions in a constructive and cooperative manner, which is important behavior for a team to ensure safety. Every employee strives to create an atmosphere in which everyone feels free to express themselves and voice their concerns to prevent unsafe events. 1. Offering a Sense of Safety for Our Customers Customer questionnaires and interview results help us identify the points at which customers feel a sense of safety when using ANA Passing on Lessons Learned from Air Accidents—Forest Dew Park Communication Group services. We offer peace of mind for customers through Safety Sense of On July 30, 1971, an ANA aircraft and a Japan Self-Defense Force aircraft on a individual Group employee performance and dedication to safety. Safety training flight collided and crashed over the city of Shizukuishi, Iwate Prefecture, Implementation of resulting in 162 causalities. The Irei no Mori monument has been well kept and Safety Measures 2. Strengthening Safety Structures maintained by the local community in Fuji City, Shizuoka Prefecture. Every year, We improve our safety risk management process (see the following more than 500 ANA Group employees visit to clean the forest and for safety section) through safety structures that conform to global standards Safety enlightenment. Customer and other measures. Structures In 2020, which coincides with the 50th anniversary of the accident, the monuWe strengthen our safety systems by visualizing risks and meaEducation / ment was rebuilt and the location renamed to Forest Dew Park. The name was Awareness sures, analyzing flight data, and using indicators to identify the changed to meet the wishes of those concerned to make the monument more signs of unsafe events. At the same time, we work together with familiar and more casually accessible to those who are unfamiliar with the acciother airline companies to improve safety across the airline industry. Safety dent. We will continue to maintain the new Forest Dew Park together with the Culture Monument for Aviation Safety foundation for the Irei no Mori and stakeholders in the local community, etc., as 3. Putting Safety Actions into Practice we strive to preserve the memories of ANA’s last casualty involved aircraft accident and maintain the location as a place reflectWe analyze the safety actions and reflect the results in our training ANA Group ing an oath for safe aviation operations. and practice to strengthen our safety structures. 68 69 Business Foundations Supporting Corporate Value  Safety ANA Group Safety Education Center (ASEC)  We established ASEC in 2007 in Shimomaruko, Ota-ku, Tokyo. This activity was our response to a proposal from an employee who said that ANA should create a location to preserve the memories of past accidents. In October 2019, we relocated the ASEC to the newly Toward Ensuring Safety built ANA Group Training Center (ANA Blue Base). Strengthening the Safety Management System to Address Alcohol Issues On May 1, 2020, ANA received a business improvement order height of efforts by the entire airline industry to prevent the Configuration of ASEC from the Minister of Land, Infrastructure, Transport, and Tourism recurrence of alcohol issues. We apologize once again for The facility is located on the second and third floors of the ANA Blue Base (ABB) and consists of three spaces. to ensure the safety of air transportation in relation to a drinking the concern and trouble we caused our customers and incident by our flight crew that occurred at Fukuoka Airport in stakeholders. 1 The Way Theater 2 The Sky of the Pledges 3 Active Lounge November of the previous year. The incident recurred at the Future Measures  The ANA Group will solve alcohol issues through the following key measures. 1. Ensure Alcohol Testing 2. A Personal Transformation in Each Employee (Set Up a Strict Testing Procedures) (Develop Responsible Drinking Behavior) • In addition to the legally mandated alcohol testing, conduct a • We implemented an initiative to develop responsible drinking The theater is a space where visitors come This is a space where ANA Group employThe lounge is a space to learn how to pre-test and report from home or hotel before work habits among our employees, called the TEKKIN INITIATIVE. face-to-face with the accidents through the ees engage with the memories of their notice human errors through experience use of videos and the exhibition of parts of senior employees who experienced an and discussion with colleagues. • Strengthen management systems by creating an alcohol test • We are improving the educational system and developing workthe crashed aircraft. accident and converse with them in spirit. management system in conjunction with a facial recognition place leaders to ensure that all employees are aware of the alcosystem, etc. hol issue and they must exercise self-control. Overview of the Education Programs Plan ZERO! ONE! TWO! Pre-test Legal test Firsthand Experience of Firsthand Experience of Putting Safety Actions approval OK OK the Tragedy of Accidents Real Situations that Cause into Practice Do not drink before The right amount of The right amount of Human Errors work and if you are in drinking for those who drinking per day is two poor health. Do not are intolerant to alcohol drinks. Do not drink on encourage drinking for is one drink. at least two days a This program allows participants to This program allows participants to The purpose of this program is to Alcohol Test Management System non-drinkers. week. come face-to-face with the accilearn the mechanism where human allow participants to conduct safety * One drink = 0.5 units (10 grams of alcohol) dents through the use of videos and errors occur through discussions. activities in their workplaces followrecords from the past. ing their declaration of safety activities. 3. Organizational Support 4. Strengthening the Safety Management • Strengthen mutual support by developing and placing workplace System for Alcohol Consumption The new ASEC offers programs that allow participants We raise awareness of safety through three concepts that support leaders and collaborating with, for example, medical (Constant Optimization by Management, to engage actively and create safety together with other reflect the ideas under which we created the center: Look institutions on a Workplace Level, and by Experts) participants through education, as well as to experience the truthfully at accidents, look truthfully inside, and look truthfully • Collaborate with relevant institutions and consider building a • Internal auditing, consultation, and monitoring implemented to support program compliant with the airline industry standard identify and improve underlying issues creation of peace of mind for customers. The ASEC also uses at our colleagues. Under these concepts, the ASEC strives • Strengthen corporate-level management by introducing commitexpertise from inside and outside the Group, introducing the to raise safety awareness through safety education and tees formed by outside experts; form a cooperative council latest information equipment to transform the center into a strengthen the culture of pursuing safety without compromise, together with the labor union learning facility that allows employees to conduct safety which forms the foundation for our management. activities in their workplaces. Corporate Management Outside Cooperative Experts Council with the Mutual Support (Committee) Actual Situation Labor Union Workplace peer consultant / supporter Referral and consultation from internal and external Constant optimization using the PDCA cycle expert organizations as necessary 70 71 Business Foundations Supporting Corporate Value  Human Resources Sustainable Growth Focused on and Inspired by Our People Promoting Diversity and Inclusion  Employee diversity is what enables us to bring the Group’s power to bear. Under our Diversity and Inclusion Declaration (“D&I Declaration”), the ANA Group seeks to become a corporate group that allows every employee to exercise their strengths fully and to expand those strengths to their maximum potential. Basic Approach to Human Resources  Diversity & Inclusion Declaration Diversity Inclusion Human resources are the greatest asset of the ANA Group. Our people are the source of our ability to respond flexibly, to overcome challenges, and to grow sustainably, even in an environment that changes significantly. We are building stronger mechanisms to create We will: new value, leveraging our people as the source of our capabilities to achieve our vision of becoming the world’s leading airline group in • Consider Diversity & Inclusion as the source of innovation and customer satisfaction and corporate value improvement. value the diversity of our employees. • Endeavor to create a workplace where each person can fully Innovation Establishing a Mechanism for Sustainable Growth Focused on and Inspired by Our People demonstrate his or her strengths. • Create an ANA Group where each person can work with spirit and Human Resources Enhanced purpose, to generate unwavering trust and constant innovation. Improved Basic Quality Customer Diversity and Ease of Work Inclusion (D&I) Fulfillment of Work Satisfaction Enhanced Sustainable Digital Growth ANA’s Way Productivity Improved Establishing a Group D&I Promotion Department Generating Corporate In conjunction with our D&I Declaration in April 2015, we estabInnovation Value Improved Engagement lished a dedicated organization within the Human Resources Department to promote the active participation of diverse human resources. This organization promotes environmental improvement, fosters culture, and encourages changes in Promoting ANA’s Way  paradigms. In April 2020, we established the new Group D&I We strive to instill an understanding of our Mission Statement In 2019, we reorganized the ANA’s Day Training for all group Promotion Department, aiming to strengthen our D&I promoand Management Vision, developing and evolving ANA’s Way employees, returning to our founding philosophy of hardship tion function. as an ingrained part of our corporate culture. We also encournow, yet hope for the future and wakyo (close cooperation). In addition to the diversity of attributes such as age, nationage organizational and human development on an ongoing We also hold discussions for the sustainable growth of the ality, gender, and disability, we respect diversity of viewpoints basis to manifest the ANA Group identity. ANA Group. and beliefs arising from values and experiences not physically observable. We continue to strengthen our mechanism for Major Measures promoting D&I throughout the Group and in our culture to leverage diversity as a strength that drives greater reform. ANA’s Day Training: Good Job Program: We will accelerate new value creation by helping employees Group D&I Promotion Department Members Passing Down the ANA Group Identity Fostering a Culture of Gratitude and Respect work with greater enthusiasm and fulfillment, generating innoThis training program for all Group We promote the Good Job Program in which we share good practices vation and improving productivity. employees aims to make employees from each workplace companywide. familiar with our founding philosophy The program also communicates Major Measures and the words of our founders. Here, mutual gratitude over the Group we pass on our shared, important intranet and via Good Job Cards, an values, and help put ANA’s Way into initiative that goes beyond company Building a Foundation for Ikuboss Initiative: Work–Life Balance: practice. and department borders. D&I Promotion: Internal Communication Supporting a Balance Between Work A total of 600,000 cards were The 5th D&I Forum from Top Management and Childcare / Nursing Care issued in fiscal 2019. This annual one-day event brings together Top management provides examples We hold seminars, provide e-learning around 200 key players in D&I promotion through messages to Ikubosses and by courses, distribute handbooks, and take across all group companies to further issuing their own internal Ikuboss other actions to support balance between ANA TIMES: ANA’s Way Survey: promote understanding and encourage Declarations. work and childcare / nursing care. action. A Group Newsletter Fostering Unity あ ん し ん 、 あ っ た か 、 あ か る く 元 気！ A Regular Diagnosis of Employee Satisfaction This monthly newsletter is published online for ANA GROUP MAGAZINE This survey is conducted yearly to increase employee satisfaction all employees. and, in turn, customer satisfaction and corporate value. A total of 2019 特集 る！ 来 4 ープの未 戦略を知 中期経営 ANAグル VOL.8 The newsletter promotes action through 39,286 people across the 46 ANA Group companies responded to the 持ち帰りOK! に向けて important management topics, the current fiscal 2019 survey, representing a state of the ANA Group, and employeeresponse rate of 96.1%. focused articles. 表紙の MONTHLY TOPICS HELLO 2020 PROJECT 通信 ひとたちは誰！？ NEWS PICK UP! アスリート対決 My ANA Bookをつくろう！ 表紙のひとたち 詳しくは裏表紙へ！ 72 73 Business Foundations Supporting Corporate Value  Human Resources Health Management  Encouraging Work-Style Reforms and Kaizen  The ANA Group announced the ANA Group Health Management We encourage Quality of Life (QOL) and improved corporate To promote D&I and health management, as well as to build an environment in which people can work with enthusiasm, it is essential Declaration in April 2016. We believe that our employees are value through employees who engage in their work in physical that we transform the awareness and work styles of all employees. the engine that drives sustainable growth together with society, health, mental health, and passion. The ANA Group strives to improve productivity, driven by the commitment of management. We use the time saved to transform and that our employees are who embody the motto, Trustworthy, In fiscal 2020, ANA HOLDINGS INC. was selected as a operations with new ideas and promote the work–life balance of every employee. Heartwarming, Energetic!. Certified Health & Productivity Management Organization The ANA Group has appointed a Chief Wellness Officer who Recognition Program (White 500) Company for the fourth conEncouraging Telework is a director responsible for Group health management. We secutive year. ANA AIRPORT SERVICES Co., Ltd. was selected We are creating a culture in which every employee can play an also appoint Wellness Leaders at each Group company. for the second consecutive year, and ANA Osaka Airport Co., Ltd. active role, and in which organizations and individuals maxiThrough this leadership, the ANA Group ensures that Group was selected for the first time. Seven other Group companies mize results. We are working to evolve toward flexible, diverse employees, companies, and health insurance associations were selected as Certified Health & Productivity Management ways of working that are not limited to specific times or places. work in unison for health management. Organization Recognition Program companies, reflecting how We implemented a telework system for office work in 2010, the Group presses forward together in pursuit of initiatives. introducing virtual desktop environments. In January 2017, we expanded the scope of places, eligible employees, and Four Perspectives on ANA Group Health Management: number of work days related to telework. We continue to introDeveloping an Environment Encouraging a Long Career in the ANA Group duce a variety of measures encouraging telework, including a The ANA Group is focused on the following four priority measures. We maintain and improve the physical and mental health of our special hometown telework program we adopted in fiscal 2019. employees through regular situational monitoring and by analyzing / responding to positive impact and challenges. As a result, we were able to transition smoothly to telework, even during the COVID-19 pandemic. The situation has led to a Remote conferencing using the latest newme communication avatar review of work styles and details from new perspectives. 1 Health Management Initiatives 2 Disease Prevention Initiatives • Create an environment for health management throughout • Enhance measures for each target employee the group Encouraging Kaizen Implementation We are working to establish kaizen as a style of work within Structure Promoter (Office / Establish health management Department Manager) Standardize health checkup offices at each branch and Strengthen cancer prevention Adopt policies regarding the ANA Group. This process of continuous improvement is measures for all Group list and determination criteria construct a health women-specific diseases designed to find and resolve problems in daily work, creating employees management system room to breathe mentally and increase time for customers and Dedicated Bottom-Up Kaizen Chief Support •C  reate a post-checkup follow-up cycle conducted by industrial • Establish and monitor health management indicators across all employees. physicians Group companies We have implemented kaizen in ANA operations departments, our head office, and the Marketing & Sales Department. We have also expanded these activities to overseas branches. Workplace Members 3 Mental Health Initiatives 4 Safety and Health Initiatives Nearly 3,000 initiatives were conducted to eliminate waste, •D  eploy mental health-related measures to all Group companies • Develop safe, secure workplace environments inconsistency, and overburden (muri, mura, muda) in our operations. Our employees are taking bold, voluntary steps to We established an implementation structure for each group Educate employees at Provide care Provide care Establish a strong safety create a comfortable office environment and an efficient work company and department to eliminate waste, inconsistency, Implement through through external Deploy measures to prevent stress checks the workplace occupational consultation and health management structure. and overburden (muri, mura, muda) hidden in work and workand management occupational accidents health staff desks system level We will continue to integrate kaizen and innovation strategiplaces, as well as to promote kaizen activities. In addition to •C  onduct follow-ups by occupational health staff and activate • Deploy cross-organizational educational activities driven by the cally to create new customer value and evolve toward smart continuing an action-based approach of trying new methods workplace communication to encourage prevention activities of health and safety committees ways of working. and improving old methods, we will continue to pursue human resources education. The Kaizen Award: A Forum for Lateral Deployment Mental Health Initiatives Care through External Consultation Desks Consultations through external specialists of Good Practices As the social environment changes and causes rapid changes in the working Care through Occupational Health consultations though industrial The Kaizen Award aims to provide a summary of kaizen activities for the year, environment, healthy minds become an Health Staff physicians / nurses commend good practices, and deploy these practices laterally to the entire Group. even more important factor in the quality Care by Line In fiscal 2019, overseas branch activities received commendations for superior of life and work. The ANA Group has Supervisors Managers address mental health problems, introduced measures in line with the four including workplace environment and active practices, which have been expanded as global activities. Superior practices were types of mental health care described communication improvements shared from not only the front lines but also from administrative departments. in the Ministry of Health, Labour and Self-Care These ideas have also resulted in work-style reform. Welfare’s Guidelines for Maintaining and Self-awareness through stress checks, Improving Workers’ Mental Health. voluntary consultations 74 75 Business Foundations Supporting Corporate Value  Unique ANA Group Initiatives Wuhan to Haneda Charter Flight On January 29, 2020, ANA operated a charter flight between Wuhan and Haneda for persons wishing to return to Japan from Built on a foundation of security and trust, “the wings within ourselves” Wuhan, China, which had been on lockdown due to the outbreak of COVID-19. In a short period of time, we prepared for the flight and operated a total of five charter flights to help people without a means to return to Japan. Every Japanese person residhelp to fulfill the hopes and dreams of an interconnected world. ing in China’s Hubei Province and wishing to return to Japan were able to return. In total, 828 Japanese citizens and their family members were brought home safely on ANA flights. On June 23, 2020, we became the first airline to receive a letter of appreciation from Foreign Minister Motegi for this initiative The phrase, the wings within ourselves, from our Mission Statement represents the strong desire of each to safeguard the lives and health of many people, including Japanese persons living abroad. employee to become wings, connecting people, goods, and emotions. Even during the COVID-19 pandemic, we carry on, uplifted by the wings within ourselves and fulfilling our mission as a public transportation provider. We move forward, creating unique and new actions based on our Group code of conduct, ANA’s Way. Support for Sewing Medical Gowns A Boeing 767-300ER that transported returnees from Wuhan Letter of appreciation presentation ceremony at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs The spread of COVID-19 has led to an increasing need for medical gowns and resulting inventory shortages in Japan. In April 2020, in response to a request from the government and the ANA Group’s desire to play a role in the safety of healthcare #ANAGroupWingsWithinOurselves workers, we recruited employee volunteers to help sew portions Project of medical gowns, cut sleeve fabrics, and inspect end products. Under the direction of Valley LLC, volunteers worked in a Beginning in May 2020, the ANA Group reduced or suspended hygiene-conscious environment at ANA Blue Base, the ANA numerous flights. At the same time, we implemented telework Group’s general training center. A total of 380 employees from and adopted a temporary leave program. Amid these circumthe Group contributed to producing gowns over 32 days. stances, we launched the #ANAGroupWingsWithinOurselves project in response to a question posed by an employee. The At-Home Aviation Class video In April 2020, we launched our gown project with participation by craftspersons question was what we could do for children and customers content, the At-Home Aviation Class, featured ANA pilots across Japan. From the moment we held our first online meeting, I could feel the unable to travel by air and how could we help make time at who presented interesting facts about our aircraft. This wellpassion of each participant, and I was convinced this would be a successful home more meaningful? received class offered fun, educational content in a quiz project. The cohesion among our members grew day by day, and on July 16, we The ANA Group uploaded videos and other content to our format, other information about the work done by ANA pilots, delivered our initial target of 100,000 gowns on time. website and social media to offer greater familiarity with our and answers to questions asked to our pilots. I always thought that working behind the scenes, no one on the front lines of aircraft and the ANA Group employees. Our first published In addition, we have uploaded musical telework performedical care would think about our efforts. However, I remember feeling an indemance videos performed by energetic volunteer employees, scribable happiness from the support we received from so many people. I was videos expressing appreciation and encouragement for also greatly pleased when we received a note of appreciation for our gown prohealthcare workers, and more. duction efforts from a medical professional onboard an ANA flight. Even in the post-COVID-19 world, we will continue to offer Though there are many tough days still ahead, I will remember the lessons a variety of content to foster trust and emotional connections Hideki Tani with our airlines and the ANA Group in the daily lives of our I learned from the ANA Group about what it means to be a professional. Valley LLC customers. President Please visit the page linked to the right for more #ANAGroupWingsWithinOurselves information about this initiative. https://www.anahd.co.jp/ana_news/en/2020/05/28/20200528-1.html Special Website (In Japanese Only) https://www.ana.co.jp/group/kokoro-no-tsubasa/ Production of a video supporting medical professionals and other heroes 76 77 Business Foundations Supporting Corporate Value  Corporate Governance System ANA HOLDINGS Corporate Governance System  The ANA Group aims to practice management that contributes to value Mission Statement creation for our various stakeholders in accordance with our Mission Holding Company Structure Company with Audit & Corporate Executive Statement and to promote sustainable growth and enhance corporate Supervisory Board Members Officer System value over the long term. To accomplish this goal, ANA HOLDINGS The ANA Group has adopted a holding The board of directors and members of The Group has adopted a corporate Built on a foundation of company structure to remain competitive the Audit & Supervisory Board oversee executive officer system under which INC. plays the lead role in Group management for overall policies and in any challenging business environment. and audit the execution of duties by management and executive functions are security and trust, “the wings goal-setting, pursuing transparent, fair, prompt, and effective decisionEach Group company is guided by directors. The Group strengthens the separated to promote efficient decisionwithin ourselves” help to fulfill experienced and specialized personnel supervisory function of the board of making and to clarify responsibilities and making. For this purpose, we have built a corporate governance who are delegated authority to operate directors by appointing outside directors. authority in the execution of duties. Under the hopes and dreams of system and work continuously to enhance governance within the their respective businesses. We also strengthen the audit function this system, directors supervise managean interconnected world. of members of the Audit & Supervisory ment decision-making and the execution ANA Group. Board by appointing full-time outside of duties, while corporate executive members. officers conduct day-to-day business. Corporate Governance System Board of Directors Group Management Committee Number of Board General Meeting of Shareholders Members Term of Office Number of Meetings* Number of Meetings* Appointment / Dismissal Appointment / Dismissal Appointment / Dismissal Directors 10 1 Year 13 54 (including 3 independent (also applies to outside outside directors and 1 directors) female director) Accounting Personnel Board of Directors Audit & Supervisory Auditors Advisory Advice Board members Account auditing Committee Appointment / Dismissal 5 Proposal / Report Proposal / Report Remuneration Supervision The board of directors of ANA HOLDINGS INC. sets groupwide manChaired by the president and CEO, the Group Management Committee Advisory agement policies and goals, while also overseeing the management consists of full-time directors, full-time Audit & Supervisory Board memCommittee President & Chief Group Management and business execution of each Group company. The board of directors bers, and others, and functions as an organization that complements Reporting Executive Officer Committee is chaired by the chairman of the board. All directors, including outside the board of directors. The role of the committee is to provide more directors, and all members of the Audit & Supervisory Board, including timely and detailed discussions of management matters. Reporting Overall management outside members, participate in board meetings. Auditing Group ESG Management Promotion Committee Advisory Committees Audit & Supervisory Board Internal Audit Division Instruction / Supervision Personnel Advisory Committee Remuneration Advisory Committee Reporting Chairman Number of Members Number of Meetings* Chairman Number of Members Number of Meetings* Chief ESG Promotion Officer Director in charge of Corporate Sustainability Ado Yamamoto 4 5 Ado Yamamoto 6 3 Audit & Supervisory The Personnel Advisory Committee discusses the selection of director The Remuneration Advisory Committee consists of a majority of outside Board Members candidates and the dismissal of directors, and reports to the board of directors, outside Audit & Supervisory Board members, and outside Office Internal auditing directors. The Personnel Advisory Committee, chaired by an outside experts to ensure fair and transparent process of decision-making director, consists of three outside directors and one inside director to related to director remuneration. The committee develops the director Secretariat ensure transparency and fairness in the selection process of directors. remuneration system and director remuneration standards based on Corporate Sustainability surveys of director remuneration at other companies provided by outInstruction / Supervision General Administration side experts and reports to the board of directors. Legal & Insurance Audit & Supervisory Board Number of Members Term of Office Number of Meetings* To ensure healthy development and to earn greater levels of trust from society through audits, we appoint five individuals to serve as Audit & Group Companies 4 13 ESG Promotion Officers / Leaders Audit & Supervisory Supervisory Board members who possess extensive experience and and Divisions Responsible for ESG promotion in each company / department Board members Years the advanced expertise required to conduct audits. 5 (also applies to outside Audit & Supervisory board members) The Audit & Supervisory Board strengthens the collaboration with the accounting auditors and the Internal Audit Division. The board also (including 3 independent outside Audit & Supervisory exchanges opinions with outside directors on a regular basis. Board members) * The number of meetings held in fiscal 2019. 78 79 Business Foundations Supporting Corporate Value  Management Members: Directors As of July 31, 2020 1 Shinichiro Ito 2 Shinya Katanozaka 4 Yuji Hirako 8 Ado Yamamoto* Chairman of the Board 2004: Executive Vice President President & Chief Executive Officer, 2011: Executive Vice President Member of the Board of Directors 2015: Member of the Board of Outside Director 2013: Outside Director (present) Chairman of the Board of Directors 2006: Senior Executive Representative Director 2012: Senior Executive Vice President & Chief Executive Officer, Directors (present) Vice President Chairman of the ANA Group Management Committee President ALL NIPPON AIRWAYS CO., LTD. Major concurrent positions Major concurrent position 2007: Senior Executive Head of Group ESG Management 2013: Senior Executive Chairman and Representative Director, Outside Director, Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. Vice President, Promotion Committee Vice President, Major concurrent position Nagoya Railroad Co., Ltd. Representative Director In charge of the Internal Audit Division Representative Director Chairman of All Japan Air Transport and Service Outside Director, Yahagi Construction Co., Ltd. Chairman of ALL NIPPON AIRWAYS CO., LTD. Association Co., Ltd. Chairman, Nagoya Chamber of Commerce & Industry 2009: President & Chief 2015: President & Chief Executive Officer, Executive Officer, Major concurrent positions Representative Director Representative Director Vice Chair, Keidanren (Japan Business Federation) 2015: Chairman of the Director (Outside Director) of Tokio Marine Holdings, inc. (present) 5 Naoto Takada Board of Directors, Representative Director Executive Vice President 2017: Member of the Board of 9 Izumi Kobayashi* 2017: Chairman of the Board In charge of Corporate Communications and Branding, Directors (present) (present) Executive Secretariat, Human Resources Strategy 3 Yutaka Ito Outside Director 2013: Outside Director (present) Major concurrent positions Senior Executive Vice President, 2019: Member of the Outside Director, Mitsui & Co., Ltd. Representative Director Board of Directors Outside Director, Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. Chairman of Group ESG Management Promotion Committee 2020: Senior Executive Vice President, Representative 6 Ichiro Fukuzawa Outside Director, OMRON Corporation In charge of Legal & Insurance, Director (present) General Administration, Group Procurement and Executive Vice President, 2019: Member of the Board of Corporate Sustainability Chief Financial Officer Directors (present) 7 6 5 8 9 10 10 Eijiro Katsu* 3 1 2 4 Outside Director 2020: Outside Director (present) 7 Koji Shibata Major concurrent position Executive Vice President 2020: Member of the Board of President and Representative Director and COO of In charge of Corporate Strategy, Directors (present) Internet Initiative Japan Inc. Group IT Management, Facilities Planning, Digital Design Lab, Group D&I Promotion, Okinawa Region  * Independent directors 80 81 Business Foundations Supporting Corporate Value  Appointment of Directors Approach to Selection of Director Candidates  Yuji Hirako Yuji Hirako has extensive experience in sales, finance, and other disciplines. In April 2012, he was appointed representative for businesses across the United States. In June 2015, he was appointed director, overseeing The Company selects directors from among candidates who have impeccable character, extensive experience, Member of the financial strategies to enhance corporate value. In April 2017, he was appointed president & CEO of ALL broad insight, and advanced expertise. Ideal candidates have the potential to contribute to improved policy-making, Board of Directors NIPPON AIRWAYS CO., LTD., a core subsidiary of the ANA Group. Since that time, he has guided the company Internal (President & Chief decision-making, and oversight befitting a global airline group with widespread businesses centered on the Air with an uncompromising stance on safety and a focus on global business by leveraging his extensive knowledge Directors Executive Officer of Transportation Business. Our selection is made without regard to gender, nationality, or other such factors, and of the International Business, leading the company toward becoming the world’s leading airline. ALL NIPPON AIRWAYS falls within the scope of the Civil Aeronautics Act and other relevant laws. CO., LTD.) Professional Overseas Experience: the United States Naoto Takada Naoto Takada has extensive experience in labor relations, industrial policy, public relations, and other disciplines. The Group selects a multiple number of outside directors who possess practical viewpoints based on extensive Since being appointed director in June 2017, he has focused on Group public relations, CSR activities, risk experience in corporate management, or who possess unique global or regional viewpoints. These individuals Executive Vice Outside management, and active communications with individual investors. Through these duties, he has endeavored President, must be independent from the Company, and able to offer objective and expert opinions based on a sophisticated to create a wider brand awareness of the ANA Group. Since April 2019, he has been in charge of ANA Group Directors Internal Directors Member of the Board knowledge of social and economic trends. human resources development. Ichiro Fukuzawa Ichiro Fukuzawa has extensive experience in finance and investor relations. Since April 2017, he has served as an executive officer, and since June 2019, as director and chief financial officer for ANA HOLDINGS INC. Reasons for Appointment of Directors  Executive Vice He has implemented financial strategies, including efficient capital restructuring and securing a stable financial President, base for the Group. In addition to active engagement with institutional investors in Japan and overseas, • The following director candidates were selected based on the judgment that their abundant experience, performance, and insight Member of the Board he assists the president appropriately and is actively engaged in ESG. This includes playing a central role would be crucial to overcoming the management crisis caused by the current COVID-19 pandemic and for achieving sustainable in the Group being the first airline in the world to issue Green and Social Bonds. increases in Group corporate value. • These director candidates assumed their positions after being appointed at the 75th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders. Koji Shibata Koji Shibata has extensive experience in sales, international alliances, and other disciplines. Since April 2012, he has served as an executive officer and representative for ANA European operations. Since April 2013, he Executive Vice has been engaged in forming equity alliances with foreign carriers in Asia. Since April 2017, he has been in President, Reasons for Appointment charge of planning and implementation of Group management strategies to promote Group management. Member of the Board Shinichiro Ito Shinichiro Ito has extensive experience in sales, human resources, and other disciplines. Mr. Ito was appointed Professional Overseas Experience: Europe director of ALL NIPPON AIRWAYS CO., LTD. in June 2003 and was instrumental in overcoming the management Chairman of the Board, crisis caused by the SARS outbreak and the Iraq war. After being appointed president & CEO in April 2009, he Chairman of the Board guided the ANA Group through the challenging business environment left in the wake of the Lehman Shock, of Directors introducing management reforms and expanding the Group’s revenue base to support a successful perforAdo Yamamoto Ado Yamamoto has a wealth of experience and expertise in transportation industry management. At meetings mance recovery. Since April 2015, he has served as chairman of the board of directors, working to strengthen the of the board of directors, he offers the benefit of his background to provide opinions and advice about Group functions of the board by promoting proceedings that encourage free, open-minded, and constructive discusIndependent Outside management strategy, risk management, organizational management, investment management, and the sions and exchange of opinions. Director promotion of safety measures. He was appointed member of the Remuneration Advisory Committee and the Personnel Advisory Committee Shinya Katanozaka Shinya Katanozaka has extensive experience in sales, human resources, corporate planning, and other in June 2016. He was subsequently named chairman of the Remuneration Advisory Committee and the Personnel disciplines. He was appointed representative director and president & CEO of ANA HOLDINGS INC. in April Advisory Committee in July 2020. President & Chief Internal Directors 2015. Under his uncompromising stance on safety, he has established a stronger foundation for Group busiExecutive Officer, ness management. At the same time, the Group has implemented a growth strategy, achieving a profit growth Izumi Kobayashi Izumi Kobayashi has a wealth of experience and expertise as a representative for private financial institutions Outside Directors Representative Director for four consecutive years. At board meetings, he strives to bolster decision-making and supervisory functions. and international development and finance institutions, as well as an outside director for other operating comHe was also instrumental in overcoming a series of large-scale management crises caused by the SARS outbreak, Independent Outside panies. At meetings of the board of directors, she offers the benefit of her background to provide opinions and the Lehman Shock, and other factors. Mr. Katanozaka is spearheading efforts to implement emergency Director advice from a global perspective on Group management strategy, risk management, investment management, measures against the COVID-19 pandemic. corporate governance, and organizational management. She was appointed member of the Remuneration Advisory Committee in July 2013 and member of the Yutaka Ito Yutaka Ito has extensive experience in legal, finance, and other disciplines. Mr. Ito studied and has been Personnel Advisory Committee in June 2016. stationed in Europe and the United States for many years throughout his career. Since April 2013, he has Senior Executive served as representative of the European operations of ALL NIPPON AIRWAYS CO., LTD. In April 2016, he was Eijiro Katsu Eijiro Katsu served as administrative vice minister and in other major positions in the Ministry of Finance. He Vice President, appointed director and has endeavored to improve ANA competitiveness by raising customer satisfaction. After has a wealth of experience and expertise as an administrative officer. In June 2013, he was appointed president Representative Director Independent Outside being appointed director of ANA HOLDINGS INC. in June 2019, he has been engaged in CSR activities and and representative director of Internet Initiative Japan Inc. He has a wealth of experience in corporate management risk management, striving to promote a greater understanding of our businesses and promote ESG management Director and extensive knowledge of innovation, including digital transformation. by actively communicating with investors. After being appointed senior executive vice president in April 2020, Since April 2014, he has served as a member of our Management Advisory Council and has a wealth of he has contributed to bolstering decision-making and supervisory functions of the board. knowledge regarding business conditions in the airline industry and the ANA Group businesses. Professional Overseas Experience: Europe and the United States 82 83 Business Foundations Supporting Corporate Value  Management Members: Fiscal 2019 Initiatives Audit & Supervisory Board Members As of July 31, 2020 Major Agenda Items for the Board of Directors (Fiscal 2019)  1. Items Related to General Meetings of Shareholders 8. Items Related to Disposal and Receipt of Important • Proposals to be submitted to General Meetings of Assets Shareholders for approval • Aircraft procurement, sales, and leases 2. Items Related to Directors, Corporate Executive Officers, 9. Investment-Related Matters the Board of Directors, etc. 10. Items Related to Major Debts • Selection of director candidates and corporate • Financing plans executive officers • Bond issuances • Results of the evaluation of the effectiveness of the 11. Items Related to Corporate Governance Board of Directors • Internal audit plans and results reports • Policies for officer remuneration • Overview of the proceedings of the Group CSR / 3. Items Related to Financial Results Risk management / Compliance Committee* • Financial results and earnings forecasts • Valuation of cross-shareholdings • Reports from operating companies 12. Other Items • Evaluations in the capital markets • Avatar business 4. Items Related to General Meetings of Shareholders • Customer satisfaction survey results • Capital stock, etc. • ANA’s Way Survey (Employee awareness survey) Toyoyuki Nagamine Kiyoshi Tonomoto Nozomu Kano* Shingo Matsuo* Eiji Ogawa* 5. Items Related to Organizational Restructuring results Audit & Supervisory Board Member Audit & Supervisory Board Member Outside Audit & Supervisory Outside Audit & Supervisory Outside Audit & Supervisory 6. Items Related to Personnel and Organizations • Personnel Advisory Committee report Board Member Board Member Board Member 7. Items Related to the Company and Important • Remuneration Advisory Committee report  * Independent Audit & Supervisory Board members Subsidiaries • Impact of the COVID-19 pandemic * The Group CSR / Risk Management / Compliance Committee was renamed the Group ESG Management Promotion Committee in fiscal 2020. Approach to Selection of Candidates for Audit & Supervisory Board Member  • ANA Group Corporate Strategy update • ANA Group ESG Commitments To ensure healthy development and to earn greater levels of trust from society through audits, the Company • ANA brand business plan appoints individuals to Audit & Supervisory Board members from both inside and outside the Company who pos• ANA digital transformation initiatives sess extensive experience and the advanced expertise required to conduct audits. Our selections do not consider Audit & gender, nationality, or other factors. The Company appoints at least one individual who possesses appropriate levels Supervisory of knowledge related to finance and accounting. Board Members Outside Audit & Supervisory Board members are selected from among candidates who have advanced levels of Changes in Board Meeting Length Discussion by Agenda Topic (Fiscal 2019) knowledge in a variety of areas and who are independent of the ANA Group. These individuals include candidates (Annual Transition) We encourage active discussions of corporate strategy at who are well-versed in corporate management, candidates who have sophisticated knowledge of social and ecoSince we began encouraging more substantial discussions in board meetings, selecting major related topics about which to nomic trends, and candidates who have advanced knowledge in finance, accounting, or legal matters. board meetings, the annual total time devoted to board meetexchange opinions from mediumto long-term perspectives. ings has increased over the last several years. Reasons for Appointment of Audit & Supervisory Board Members  Matters Related to General Meetings of Mr. Toyoyuki Nagamine and Mr. Shingo Matuo ware elected at the 75th General Meeting of Shareholders. Shareholders, Board of Directors, etc. Other 27.7 Hours Reasons for Appointment 26.4 6.2% 2.3% Toyoyuki Nagamine Toyoyuki Nagamine has extensive experience in flight operations, labor relations, corporate planning, and other 22.8 21.4 disciplines. He has a wealth of knowledge and experience of Group management, including growth in the Matters Related to Audit & Supervisory Board Members Audit & Supervisory Group’s revenue domains and in implementing Group management strategies. Aiming for sustainable growth Financial Results Board Member in the group corporate value, we have nominated Mr. Nagamine as an Audit & Supervisory Board member. This nomination is based on his wealth of experience and expertise in the airline industry, as well as our confidence 15.5% Important Matters, in his ability to strengthen the audit function within the Group. 53.8% Including Corporate Shingo Matsuo Shingo Matsuo has abundant experience and deep insight developed as a corporate manager in highly public 22.3% Strategy and Outside businesses, which is why he has been appointed outside Audit & Supervisory Board member. At meetings of Business Plans the Audit & Supervisory Board and the board of directors, he provides the benefit of his background to offer Audit & Supervisory advice and opinions concerning Group operation focused on safety as a top priority. He also provides insight Matters Related to Board Member into management strategies to encourage discussion of management issues. Aiming for sustainable growth in Fleet Plan, 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Investments, Group corporate value, we have again nominated Mr. Matsuo as outside Audit & Supervisory Board member to reinforce the supervisory function of the board of directors. Asset Sales, etc. Mr. Kiyoshi Tonomoto was elected at the 72nd General Meeting of Shareholders. Mr. Eiji Ogawa was elected at the 73rd General Meeting of Shareholders. Mr. Nozomu Kano was elected at the 74th General Meeting of Shareholders. 84 85 Business Foundations Supporting Corporate Value  Effectiveness of the Board of Directors The ANA Group continues initiatives to improve the functions of the board of directors. We conduct a questionnaire survey for all directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members, and we individually interview the chairman of the board, president & CEO, senior executive vice presidents, outside directors, and outside Audit & Supervisory Board members. We provide a detailed analysis of the survey and interview results and present a report to the board of directors. We strive to enhance further effectiveness of the board of directors by improving the PDCA cycle through operational changes toward new solutions. Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 Fiscal 2020 Act / Plan Do Check Act / Plan Do Define Issues Improvement Initiatives Evaluate Identify Issues Improvement Initiatives Board meeting length is appropriate in Make operational changes to provide Extended board meeting time from two hours Time sufficient time for discussion to three general. Written reports, etc., resulted Continue three-hour board meetings as a rule in more effective use of time Information Insufficient understanding at times due Included a summary of internal meeting Meetings continue to improve with More information has been provided regarding internal discussions; Provide more detailed notes summarizing internal discussions in to lack of information sharing related discussions (pro and con opinions) in board greater numbers of reports regarding board meeting materials; strengthen coordination with internal Sharing still room for improvement to deliberations of internal meetings meeting documents internal meeting discussions committees Although deeper explanations of Provide more time to discuss the mediumto long-term Held separate meetings to discuss the ANA Group Corporate Strategy management issues at board meetings, and hold a special meeting ANA Group Corporate Strategy were provided, more time to discuss for reports and Q&A separately from board meetings More time is required to discuss mediumto long-term issues, industry Deeper discussions are required for explanations of mediumand important management issues, Improvement Example (1) trends, and overseas airlines would long-term management issues and Group companies Provide an additional meeting where the respective officers in charge including the ANA Group Corporate be better explain the management issues of ANA and a regular meeting Discussion Details Strategy, separately from board where major Group companies present the management issues meetings of their companies More opportunities to discuss Held meetings for outside directors to explain correlations with the Air Transportation other management issues Business separate from board meetings Establish a new format of meeting where the financial statement Improvement Example (2) would help to gain a deeper Hold meetings solely for outside director discussions auditor and outside directors hold discussions understanding Investment project reviews should be stronger to ensure more appropriate Conducted reviews of investment projects Reviews of investment projects should management resource allocation for since the ANA Group transitioned to a holding continue to allow more visibility of Continue conducting reviews greater effectiveness company structure investment cost effectiveness Made changes to management of town Town meetings with FOC members Additional meetings with Flight Operation Center (FOC) More efforts are required in town meetwere very informative. Continue town Visits to frontline office and town meetings with employees have Continue to conduct hearings with outside directors about their members to enhance the effectiveness Activities ing* operation for greater effectiveness meetings with frontline employees in been well-received; continue to improve meeting quality interests and aspirations and conduct visits to frontline offices  88–89 Town Meetings with Frontline P various businesses Employees * Dialogue between officers and employees Improvement Example (1) Improvement Example (2) Major Topics Covered by the Board Opinions Discussed Held meetings for outside directors to Held meetings for outside directors to discuss the Effectiveness Survey • Time spent on business in Europe provides a real sense that climate change is discuss the ANA Group Corporate Strategy a very hot topic there. We must also take environmental issues more seriously. avatar business (1) The performance of board functions (decision-making, supervision of business execution) Outside directors are not provided with sufficient time to • What is the ideal business model for ANA, which operates in a small country such We established avatarin Inc. in April 2020 to create new businesses (2) Response to issues identified in the prior year’s survey discuss the ANA Group Corporate Strategy at board as Japan, compared to airlines in the United States and China operating over a and resolve social issues. We held a meeting separately from board (3) Management of board meetings meetings alone. We held meetings separately from vast land area? What measures should ANA take toward this ideal? meetings for outside directors to provide deeper explanations of our i. Discuss board deliberations, including dissenting opinions, board meetings in which the ANA HOLDINGS represen• The cargo business is greatly impacted by economic trends. Can we grow it into avatar business and solicit opinions from various perspectives. At the at other internal meetings tative director, the ANA president & CEO, officers in a core business of our portfolio with our current understanding that cargo is an meeting, outside directors learned the details of the avatar business ii. Provide balance among agenda item explanations, charge of corporate planning, and outside directors accessory to the passenger service? and received a demonstration of the remote-controlled robot newme. questions and answers, and time for discussions discussed the ANA Group Corporate Strategy. Outside directors discussed the avatar business after the presentation iii. Content (time, quality) for explanations to outside directors • Global risks are likely to increase in the future. We must prepare for the continued and demonstration. prior to meetings rise of populism and nationalism, leading to gradual restrictions on the movement of people and goods. iv. Materials (quantity, quality) handed out during board meetings 86 87 Business Foundations Supporting Corporate Value  Effectiveness of the Board of Directors Town Meetings with Frontline Employees 2. Measures to Address Alcohol Use by Flight Crew Q ANA has experienced a series of problems involving Background alcohol use by flight crew. Why couldn’t the Company prevent these issues? Following the principles of Japan’s Corporate Governance Code, we conduct a twice-yearly survey (ANA’s Way Survey) to determine What do you think about measures to eliminate alcohol-related issues? whether ANA Group employees understand and comply with ANA’s Way, our Group code of conduct. The survey results revealed the need to encourage further communications between management and employees. Also, outside directors have requested to meet and talk with frontline employees to deepen an understanding of the Group’s business and corporate culture as a whole. Based on these We must improve communications between We must strive to improve human relations and requests, we have held town meetings between outside directors and frontline employees since fiscal 2018. captains and first officers. a sense of belonging to ANA. Town meetings were held with section managers at the ANA Engineering & Maintenance Center and maintenance departments within The captain concentrates on safety during a flight. The The younger generation does not seem to like close human relations. Group companies during fiscal 2018. In 2019, we conducted similar interactions with members of the Flight Operation Center (FOC). captain does not have much time to provide detailed However, we are proud that we have grown together, exchanging frank instructions or discuss their experiences with the first offiopinions with each other, regardless of the relationship between senior cer. The response to alcohol issues is becoming stricter. and junior ranks. A lack of dialogue with others will result in less rejecSenior members have passed on their experience and tion and possibly greater personal comfort. However, it is also true that skills to junior members in their spare time after flight serreceiving honest feedback can lead to personal growth. We expect vice. However, such a culture is on the decline recently. management to take the lead in systematically reducing the sense of isolation and communication gaps. 2019 Town meetings with members of the Flight Operation Center (FOC) Q Process Do you think irregular work patterns and different crew composition for every flight might hamper organizational functionality? Could it be that an organizational structure that leaves each person their Documents related to the Outside directors selected Six outside directors and six FOC own decisions has something to do with alcohol issues? selected topics were profrom several topics to discuss employees were divided into two vided to the outside direcwith the FOC groups for active discussions. tors beforehand The FOC maintains an atmoWe must strengthen personal Given the nature of our work, 1. Consistent Training Programs for Flight Crew Members sphere in which everyone can communications. providing certain discretion to Q express their opinions freely. We send information regarding alcohol each individual serves to benefit Given the nature of the work, not everyone issues via email quite frequently. We also organizational operations. What are the issues in providing consistent training for skilled flight crew members? receives instructions from their superiors conducted at least one interview with every We admit that we had issues in managing every day. Each person is responsible for pilot, performed by a superior. However, such an extremely limited number of their own duties on each flight. An organithis approach has not been completely individuals effectively. We must consider zation that supports this culture should not sufficient, and we believe we must engage an organizational approach that be afraid to encourage frank discussions in deeper communications. A strong mentality to express their own How do we conduct our business to develop addresses the issue fully. with superiors or senior officers. opinions is a must. pilots over the long term? Young people tend to try to judge other people’s feelings and Approximately 100 pilots were hired when our generation worry about what other people think. Worrying too much about joined the Company (class of 1992–1993). However, every what other people think becomes a hindrance in making time the economy stalled, we reduced recruitment and postdecisions when decisiveness is required. poned captain promotion training. Fluctuations in recruitment Board Meeting Comments may be unavoidable over the short term. However, this variOutside Director Comments Captains serving as managers have opportunities ance certainly impacts the consistency of flight crew training We were glad to hear the opinions of captains and other flight crew to communicate with ANA management. However, A captain must always exercise appropriate over the medium and long term. members with whom we do not have direct contact. Hopefully, these other captains do not have sufficient opportunities. judgment. kinds of opportunities will be provided again in the future. We recognize that we have various issues to overAdvanced technological innovation of aircraft allows the capcome in the consistent training of flight crew members. tain to concentrate more on management and communication Flight crew members over 65 years should be A captain is independent and has the ultimate authority on in the cockpit, rather than solely on aircraft operations. The allowed to continue to work if they are willing Organization a flight. He or she is not so much a member of an organization issue is how to improve judgment through everyday operations. and able. per se. Future Direction The ANA retirement age is 60 years (which can be extended to A captain works in a lonely environment. From an organizational We have received opinions from our outside directors 65 years). However, flight crew members are allowed to conoperations perspective, it is important that captains create based on their broad perspectives. Meanwhile, Communications tinue to work until 68 years based on Japanese government opportunities to talk with junior officers and establish an town meetings have provided outside directors with environment to provide sufficient guidance. a detailed understanding of Group businesses, regulations. The qualification of flight crew members can be confirmed by a health check and skills assessment. We have We must create a system to enhance communication. which has further reenergized our board meetings. seen flight crew members over 65 years who have left to work Skills This includes an environment that encourages the improvement We will continue to provide opportunities for town at other airlines. of skills among flight crew members. meetings with frontline employees across a broader range of our businesses. Flight crew members are allowed to work until 68 years of Retirement Age age, as long as they have the and ability. ANA should take a close look at extending retirement age. Town Meeting (November 2019) 88 89 Business Foundations Supporting Corporate Value  Director and Audit & Supervisory Board Member Remuneration 1. Basic Policies for Director Remuneration remuneration ranges from 0.0 to 1.0 times according to the Major Indicator Targets and Results in FY2019 (Reference) The basic policies for director remuneration are as follows. degree of achievement for annual performance targets. Original Fiscal Year Results Targets (Consolidated) • Ensure the transparency, fairness, and objectivity of remua. Bonuses neration and establish a remuneration level worthy of his / her We use net income, safety, and customer satisfaction as Net Income ¥108.0 billion ¥27.6 billion roles and responsibilities indicators that reflect the performance and substance for a • Create a system that can reflect the contributions of individual single fiscal year. The Remuneration Advisory Committee and Return on Equity (ROE) 9.5% 2.6% directors by introducing performance-linked remuneration the board of directors have previously determined the target We set internal targets for Safety and combining a diverse range of indicators to clarify roles and values for each indicator and a table for corresponding payReturn on Assets (ROA) 6.2% 2.4% Customer Satisfaction , in addition responsibilities for company results. ment levels. This table determines payment amounts based to those indicated at the left. The results • Establish a remuneration system that achieves our social on the performance on each indicator. b. Stock options Operating Income Margin 7.7% 3.1% based on these targets are reflected in responsibilities as a company, while allowing the Company to share profits with shareholders through raising mediumto We use return on equity (ROE), return on assets (ROA), and the evaluation. long-term corporate value. operating income margin, etc., as indicators for improved corporate value over the medium to long term and sustainable FY2019 Director and Audit & Supervisory Board Member Remuneration 2. Procedures for Determining Remuneration growth. The amount of payment is determined through a Total amount of Total amount by type (remuneration, etc.) (¥ millions) Number of The board of directors decides director remuneration, taking into combination of payment levels, determined by the Remuneration Segment remuneration, etc. persons eligible (¥ millions) Basic remuneration Bonuses Stock options account reports by the Remuneration Advisory Committee. The Advisory Committee and the board of directors, and the total amount of director remuneration shall be within the scope respective indicators. Directors 10 323 313 — 10 of the amount approved at the Ordinary General Meeting of (2) Outside directors (Outside directors) (3) (44) (44) (—) (—) Shareholders. Remuneration for outside directors consists of fixed compensation Audit & Supervisory 6 137 137 — — (monthly compensation) without a performance-linked portion. Board members 3. Remuneration Advisory Committee  ee P.79 S This compensation encourages outside directors to exercise (Outside Audit & Supervisory (4) (65) (65) — (—) their supervisory functions from an independent standpoint. Board members) 4. Remuneration System (3) Audit & Supervisory Board members Total 16 460 450 — 10 (1) Internal directors Remuneration for both inside and outside Audit & Supervisory Notes: 1. The table above includes one outside director who resigned as of the end of the 74th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders, held June 21, 2019. In addition to a fixed basic remuneration, remuneration for directors Board members consists of fixed compensation (monthly com2. The amounts listed above are rounded down to the nearest million yen. includes an annual variable performance-linked bonus and longpensation) without a performance-linked portion. This compenterm incentive stock option plan as a means of providing healthy sation encourages those members to exercise their supervisory incentives for pursuing sustainable growth for the Company. functions from an independent standpoint. The ratio of fixed basic remuneration and bonus / stock options Remuneration levels for members of the Audit & Supervisory for total remuneration is 1:0.67 fixed to variable if annual perforBoard are determined in line with remuneration at other compamance targets have been accomplished. The ratio of variable nies and in consultation with outside experts. Cross-Shareholdings Conceptual Diagram for the Officer Remuneration System We believe that it is essential to maintain and strengthen between the effectiveness of an investment in a stock versus Fixed Variable collaborative relationships with our business partners for the capital costs of the Group. If, as a result of these evaluaRatio 1 0.67* 1 Remuneration limits further growth and development of Group businesses. The tions, we determine that the price of a stock will continue to ANA Group, consisting mainly of our Air Transportation be low for a certain period of time and further will not contribute (2) Bonus (3) Stock options Remuneration (1) Basic remuneration (short-term performance-linked) (long-term incentive) Business, engages in cross-shareholdings when we deem to sustainable growth over the medium to long term, we will Measure for fiscal year Evaluate contributions to such holdings to contribute to improved corporate value over reduce our holdings in said stock. results according to corporate value over the various criteria medium to long term Annual total for the medium to long term from the viewpoint of continuing As a result of a comprehensive review of the cross-share(1) and (2) is smooth business, maintaining business alliances, and growholdings owned by the Group, we have determined that we Internal directors Payment according to title, etc. Net Income Return on Equity (ROE) limited to a maximum ing profits through strengthening business relationships. do not own cross-shareholdings that should be subject to Payment criteria Safety Return on Assets (ROA) ¥960 million*2 Per resolution at the 66th Ordinary Customer Satisfaction Operating Income Margin Every year, the board of directors conducts a comprehenreduction. General Meeting of Shareholders, held June 20, 2011 sive review of individual cross-shareholdings. The board In addition, the exercise of voting rights associated with Outside directors Uniform payment for all members — — evaluates the significance of holdings and the benefits and cross-shareholdings will be judged based on the results of Annual maximum risks associated. To verify the economic rationality of crossdialogue with the company in question after examining the Audit & of ¥180 million Payment according to status as shareholdings, we conduct a quantitative and multifaceted mediumto long-term improvement of the corporate value Supervisory — — Per resolution at the 74th Ordinary full-time or part-time Board members General Meeting of Shareholders, evaluation, which includes checking the TSR (total shareand the impact on the Group’s business. held June 21, 2019 holder return) for each stock or conducting a comparison Payment method Monthly (cash) Annually (cash) Annually *1 Range from 0.0 to 1.0 times according to the degree of achievement for annual performance targets. *2 Stock options referenced in (3) is paid according to the stock option plan adopted per resolution of the 70th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders, held June 29, 2015. This amount is separate from the remuneration limit amount. 90 91 Business Foundations Supporting Corporate Value  Risk Management Preserve Corporate Value through Safe and Cybersecurity Measures Reliable Business Operations The ANA Group is designated as a critical infrastructure provider in Japan by the National Center of Incident Readiness and The ANA Group takes steps to identify, analyze, and appropriately address risks with the potential to Strategy for Cybersecurity (NISC). We implement security measures at entrance and exit control, and we have adopted antivirus severely impact management. In addition, we have developed groupwide frameworks to minimize the measures in accordance with the guidelines formulated by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI). We monitor our security system 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. The ANA Group trains security personnel, and we have established the Computer impact of risks and prevent reoccurrence in case risks materialize. Security Incident Response Team (CSIRT) to ensure swift action in response to any incidents. Cybersecurity intelligence is most effective when providing early alerts to counter cyberattacks. Therefore, we participate in Risk Management Promotion System  information sharing organizations, such as the Aviation Information Sharing and Analysis Center (A-ISAC), which consists of airline, aircraft manufacturer, and other members. We also participate in the Surface Transportation Information Sharing and Analysis The ANA Group Total Risk Management Regulations provides the basic terms of the Group’s risk management system. Under these Center (ST-ISAC). In these ways, we acquire information from internal and external industry sources as early as possible for use in regulations, the Group ESG Management Promotion Committee develops and implements basic policies. These policies are executed taking preventive measures. in line with the basic policies determined by the board of directors. Each Group company / department has established a risk manageThe Keidanren (Japan Business Federation) published the Cyber Risk Handbook for Directors in autumn 2019. We develop ment system. Here, the ESG Promotion Officer and the ESG Promotion Leader are responsible for promoting and leading risk managemeasures assuming that incidents are inevitable. Since the utilization of digital technology is an important means for corporate ment operations, respectively. The ESG Promotion Leader assumes a role to conduct risk management operations according to plans growth, we understand that we must take a balanced approach. The ANA Group sees cybersecurity as a risk management issue and take swift action while working with the secretariat in the event of a crisis. to be addressed by the entire group, including our board of directors. Risk Management Principles  Responses to Typhoons and Their Aftermath Risk Prevention Crisis Management in Response to a Risk Natural disasters such as large typhoons and torrential rains have occurred frequently over the past few years. As a public transportaEach Group company implements independent risk manageWe collect accurate information and implement measures to tion provider, we see a growing importance to make preparations and conduct drills related to these disasters on a regular basis. ment activities (identifying risks, analyzing and evaluating minimize damage and prevent reoccurrence by investigating Typhoon No. 21(Jebi) touched down in September 2018 and caused flights to be suspended for an extended period of time these risks, planning and implementing countermeasures, and identifying the causes of crises. at the Kansai International Airport. We conducted a review in fiscal 2019 of our disaster responses at the time, including a second and monitoring the results). The Crisis Management Manual provides responses to crises look at practice drills. As a result, we enhanced the disaster response capacity of the front lines of our business. We also reviewed The Group companies monitor and evaluate progress, in general, and the Emergency Response Manual provides our facilities at airports across Japan, developing facility enhancement plans to prepare for flooding and power outages. effectiveness, and level of achievement of the measures taken responses to incidents with a direct impact on the operation ANA actively participates in the development of guidelines for Advanced Airport-Business with respect to significant risks identified in each organization. of ANA Group aircraft, including accidents or hijack. Continuity Plan (A2-BCP) led by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (MLIT). The Company implements measures to address issues faced These guidelines address building airports resistant to natural disasters and participation is part by the Group, and the Group ESG Management Promotion of our efforts to strengthen cooperation with airport administrators and other stakeholders. Committee monitors progress. The ANA Group strives to update our BCP measures in the event of a crisis, and we continue to improve our capacity to respond on the front lines of our business and to train our people. Drill at the Kansai International Airport Major Initiatives  Business Continuity Plan (BCP) Union in 2018, and the China Cybersecurity Law (CCSL) and the Responses to COVID-19 (Employee Infection Prevention Measures) Our BCP details policies and procedures for responding to California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA), established in 2020. The ANA Group created a response system based on the Crisis Management Manual and Emergency Response Manual in late large-scale disasters to ensure the safety of customers and all We require every employee to receive e-learning training on January 2020, when the COVID-19 infection spread in Wuhan, China, and the authorities suspended public transportation services. ANA Group directors and employees, minimize the impact on the importance of information assets and proper handling, etc. We have endeavored to prevent the spread of infection. For example, when a physician identifies an employee who is suspected of management and on society as a whole, and resume normal In so doing we ensure compliance with these laws, regulations, infection, we notify the relevant employee and employees who are likely to have been in contact, directing them to stay home and business operations as quickly as possible. and rules for using our information systems. In this way and wait for instructions from the public health center. others, we strive to raise employee awareness of the signifiIn addition, we implemented the following measures to prevent infection among our employees. Information Security cance of information security in the workplace. The ANA Group updates the Group’s information security • Implement consistent infection prevention measures, such as hand washing regulations and implements the information security manageSecurity Export Control* • Instruct employees to wear masks and gloves according to the degree of infection spread ment system. Through this system, we strive every day to The ANA Group exports the parts, chemicals, apparatuses, and • Check employee health on a consistent basis improve information systems functions and implement security other articles necessary for aircraft maintenance to overseas • Communicate information and distribute materials based on the latest knowledge airports and aircraft maintenance centers. Certain articles have • Ensure employees are aware of government declaration of emergency policies (we imposed some policies that are stricter than those measures in line with the policies. of the government) Personal information is essential for us to provide services the potential to be adapted to create weapons. Accordingly, we in ANA Group businesses. We view personal information as practice rigorous security export control of exported articles. Based on the experience acquired through measures to prevent the spread of the infection since January, we will implement the important assets we receive from our customers. In recent A stringent security export control structure is maintained following measures. years, various laws and regulations related to personal informathrough once-annual audits and trainings. These activities target divisions that are considered exporters for being directly involved • Strive to acquire the latest information and share with employees tion and privacy have been established in Japan and overseas. • Implement new business and work styles based on the new normal published by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare and the We have therefore revised our privacy policy and relevant interin exporting as well as divisions that are involved due to handling guidelines of the Keidanren and the Scheduled Airlines Association of JAPAN, understanding that infections spread in waves nal regulations to ensure compliance with the General Data customs clearance and other transportation-related processes. Protection Regulation (GDPR), established in the European * Security export control is a term that refers to all regulations placed on exports from Japan by the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Act. 92 93 Business Foundations Supporting Corporate Value  Compliance Preserve Corporate Value by Enhancing Internal Systems and Internal Reporting System Based on the ANA Group Rules for Handling Internal Reporting, Further Entrench Mission Statement we have set up a point of contact (ANA Alert) both inside and outside the Company (via a law firm) to collect and resolve any The ANA Group is taking steps to minimize exposure to legal risks and prevent incidents that could diminish issues. These reporting systems are available to all Group corporate value. executives, employees, and temporary personnel involved in operations. ANA Group retirees and officers and employees of Compliance Implementation System  our business partners may also use these reporting systems. We protect the privacy of the whistleblower and other relevant The ANA Group has developed a compliance system based on the ANA Group Compliance Regulations to promote compliance with parties, and assures that no punitive measures will be taken laws, regulations, and other standards related to business activities. Under the direction of the Group ESG Management Promotion against those that seek consultation or cooperate in confirming Committee, which is an advisory body to the board of directors, each company and department appoints an ESG Promotion Officer facts. This helps us obtain internal risk-related information that is responsible for promotion and an ESG Promotion Leader as a key driver of ESG initiatives. These officers and leaders strive to promptly and aids in self-resolution. We are also engaged in raise awareness of compliance across the ANA Group. initiatives overseas to improve awareness of our internal reporting system and focus on minimizing legal risks on a global level. Major Initiatives  Legal Compliance Education Information Poster for the Internal Reporting System We conduct a variety of educational programs for every Group executive and employee to acquire correct knowledge of and Group Companies Compliance Survey Strengthening Cooperation with Group exercise appropriate judgment related to various laws and Surveys on compliance at Group companies are conducted Companies and Overseas Branches regulations. We hold regular seminars on contract practices, once each year. These surveys consist of self-checks on the To strengthen the compliance system across the entire Group, labor practices, and laws and regulations related to air transdegree to which compliance was practiced with regard to relwe have clarified the points of contact between our Legal & portation, improving our familiarity with business-essential evant laws and regulations as well as examinations of issues Insurance Department, Group companies, and ANA overseas knowledge. The Company also seeks to foster a mindset pertaining to each Group company and to the entire Group. We branches, building and operating a system facilitating two-way focused on legal compliance among Group executives and conduct follow-ups with each company based on survey communication. employees working overseas. To this end, we hold seminars results as necessary in the interest of resolving issues. on competition and anti-bribery laws at overseas branches. We also sponsor seminars tailored to topics and content that Seminar conducted during fiscal 2019 reflect the needs of each Group company and / or department. Information Dissemination ANA Group Tax Policy To spread awareness of compliance throughout the ANA Group, In February 2020, we formulated the ANA Group Tax Policy to strengthen we distribute e-mail and other newsletters on topics related to corporate tax governance and respond to growing global interest in taxes. Six Courses of Action for revisions to laws and regulations, as well as points of caution The core principles of this policy state that the ANA Group considers the Our Tax Policy regarding labor and contract practices. We have also posted proper reporting and fulfillment of tax obligations related to our business Compliance with Laws and manuals and guidelines for various laws, regulations, and rules activities is a social responsibility. Reporting and paying tax obligations 1 Regulations on the compliance website on our intranet. In this way and enables the Group to preserve our corporate value and contribute to the others, we create an environment in which Group executives development of communities in each relevant country. By implementing tax 2 Fair Business Practices and employees have access to this information at any time. governance that is groupwide and cross-functional, we comply with the relevant laws, regulations, and other rules, clearly indicating the ideal state 3 Talent Development whereby we report and fulfill tax obligations in an appropriate manner. Initiatives to Prevent Harassment We present courses of action for employees related to (1) compliance 4 Tax Management We are working now, more than ever, to strengthen initiatives with laws and regulations, (2) fair business practices, (3) talent developfor workplaces free from harassment. Specifically, we estabNewsletter 5 Utilization of External Knowledge ment, (4) tax management, (5) utilization of external knowledge, and (6) lished the new Rules on Harassment Prevention and conduct relationship with relevant tax authorities. We strive to raise awareness Relationship with Relevant Tax e-learning harassment education for all Group executives and 6 Authorities among Group employees on an ongoing basis through internal training employees. In this way, we are striving to create workplace and other methods. environments across the entire ANA Group in which people can By sharing this policy with each of our stakeholders and ensuring that  etails are available on our corporate D work without hindrance and that never tolerate harassment. Group employees are in compliance, we aim to reduce tax risk and report website. and fulfill tax obligations in an appropriate manner. https://www.ana.co.jp/group/en/csr/basic_ approach/tax-policy/  Harassment Education Materials 94 95 Business Foundations Supporting Corporate Value  Responsible Dialogue with Stakeholders The ANA Group conducts business activities through our relationships with stakeholders. We engage in ongoing dialogue with stakeholders to build trust and offer peace of mind. As we do so, we increase the effectiveness of our strategies by incorporating the opinions and requests of stakeholders into External Recognition our businesses. Inclusion in ESG Indexes • Dow Jones Sustainability World Index IR large meetings / small meetings The 75th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders (for institutional investors / analysts) • Dow Jones Sustainability Asia Pacific Index Number of attendees Voting rights exercise ratio • Sustainability Award Gold Class 2019 585 people 62.8% 6 times • FTSE4Good Index Dialogue with • FTSE Blossom Japan Index Shareholders Dialogue with institutional investors / Aircraft maintenance center tours for • MSCI Japan Empowering Women Index (WIN)* and Investors analysts Presentations for private investors* private shareholders* 225 times 10 times / 10 times / Quality On-Time Performance Total: 575 people Total: 614 people (in Japan : 127 times; overseas : 98 times) (including IR fairs) • SKYTRAX (ANA) • Cirium (ANA) * Suspended January–March 2020 due to COVID-19. Awarded 5-STAR status for Asia-Pacific Major Airlines an eighth consecutive year Network Category : No. 1 Mainline Category : No. 1 Worldwide Major Airlines ANA Officer Town Meetings Network Category : No. 2 Communication with Our Number of meetings 949 times Mainline Category : No. 2 Topic examples • Commitment to safety Employees Participants Total: 12,612 people • SDGs • Work-style reform, etc. Management Strategy • Japan Health Conference, Ministry of Economy, •C  abinet Office Dialogue with human Participation in Trade and Industry Cool Japan Matching Award 2019 Participation in an international Dialogue with overseas rights organizations international conferences Certified Health and Productivity Management Organization Kabuki-themed in-flight safety video Dialogue with conference on the environment ESG investors overseas on human rights Recognition Program –White 500– Grand Prix Award (ANA) International 7 times 6 times 2 times 5 times (ANA HOLDINGS INC., ANA AIRPORT SERVICES Co., Ltd., ANA OSAKA AIRPORT CO., LTD.) •G  ood Design Award 2019 Society (United States, Canada, (UK) (Thailand) (United States, Switzerland, (New domestic route economy-class seats developed between Switzerland, Malaysia) Thailand, Japan) • Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare ANA and Toyota Boshoku Corporation; P.55) IKUMEN AWARD 2019 • IAUD International Design Award 2019 Balance Support Category Special Encouragement Award (ANA) Gold Award, UX Design Category (ANA) • Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare Next-generation support •2  019 ORICON Customer Satisfaction Survey certification Company Platinum Kurumin Certified No. 1 in category of Instructor, Corporate Training, Exchange of opinions with companies involved in the (ANA, ANA AIRPORT SERVICES CO., LTD.) Extension Seminar for Young, Mid-Level Employees Dialogue with manufacture of in-flight meals • DBJ Health Management Ranking Highest Rank (ANA Business Solutions) Business 1 time (ANA HOLDINGS INC., ANA) Partners (Thailand) • J-Win Diversity Award 2020 Advanced Achievement Award (ANA) Participation in reconstruction activities, volunteer activities Participation in conferences for the revitalization of (sponsored by ANA Holdings Corporate Sustainability) communities surrounding Narita Airport Dialogue with Communities Number of meetings 17 times Number of meetings 62 times * THE INCLUSION OF ANA HOLDINGS INC. IN ANY MSCI INDEX, AND THE USE OF MSCI LOGOS, TRADEMARKS, SERVICE MARKS OR INDEX NAMES HEREIN, DO NOT CONSTITUTE A Group employee participants SPONSORSHIP, ENDORSEMENT OR PROMOTION OF ANA HOLDINGS INC. BY MSCI OR ANY OF ITS AFFILIATES. Total: 423 people THE MSCI INDEXES ARE THE EXCLUSIVE PROPERTY OF MSCI. MSCI AND THE MSCI INDEX NAMES AND LOGOS ARE TRADEMARKS OR SERVICE MARKS OF MSCI OR ITS AFFILIATES. 96 97 Financial / Data Section  Consolidated 11-Year Summary ANA HOLDINGS INC. and its consolidated subsidiaries (Note 1) U.S. dollars (Thousands) Yen (Millions) (Note 3) (FY) (Note 2) 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2019 For the Year Operating revenues (Note 4) 1,974,216 2,058,312 1,971,799 1,765,259 1,791,187 1,713,457 1,601,013 1,483,581 1,411,504 1,357,653 1,228,353 18,140,365 Operating expenses 1,913,410 1,893,293 1,807,283 1,619,720 1,654,724 1,621,916 1,535,027 1,379,754 1,314,482 1,289,845 1,282,600 17,581,641 Operating income (loss) 60,806 165,019 164,516 145,539 136,463 91,541 65,986 103,827 97,022 67,808 (54,247) 558,724 Income (loss) before income taxes 51,501 154,023 196,641 139,462 131,064 77,983 36,391 70,876 63,431 35,058 (95,593) 473,224 Net income (loss) attributable to owners of the parent 27,655 110,777 143,887 98,827 78,169 39,239 18,886 43,140 28,178 23,305 (57,387) 254,111 Cash flows from operating activities 130,169 296,148 316,014 237,084 263,878 206,879 200,124 173,196 214,406 203,889 82,991 1,196,076 Cash flows from investing activities (230,218) (308,671) (324,494) (194,651) (74,443) (210,749) (64,915) (333,744) (166,323) (139,619) (251,893) (2,115,390) Cash flows from financing activities 23,869 (46,480) (29,989) 3,349 (133,257) (30,424) (85,569) 84,549 16,171 (10,596) 173,791 219,323 Free cash flow (100,049) (12,523) (8,480) 42,433 189,435 (3,870) 135,209 (160,548) 48,083 64,270 (168,902) (919,314) Substantial free cash flow (Note 5) (79,149) (18,028) 61,410 39,655 88,035 (22,350) 38,929 54,256 52,043 27,870 (123,902) (727,271) Depreciation and amortization 175,739 159,541 150,408 140,354 138,830 131,329 136,180 123,916 119,268 118,440 113,806 1,614,802 EBITDA (Note 6) 236,545 324,560 314,924 285,893 275,293 222,870 202,166 227,743 216,290 186,248 59,559 2,173,527 Capital expenditures 351,361 375,864 304,707 254,425 281,416 274,702 183,739 162,752 196,881 211,698 209,937 3,228,530 At Year-End Total assets 2,560,153 2,687,122 2,562,462 2,314,410 2,228,808 2,302,437 2,173,607 2,137,242 2,002,570 1,928,021 1,859,085 23,524,331 Interest-bearing debt 842,862 788,649 798,393 729,877 703,886 819,831 834,768 897,134 963,657 938,819 941,691 7,744,757 Shareholders’ equity (Note 7) 1,061,028 1,099,413 988,661 919,157 789,896 798,280 746,070 766,737 549,014 520,254 473,552 9,749,407 Per Share Data (Yen, U.S. dollars) (Note 8) Earnings per share 82.66 331.04 417.82 28.23 22.36 11.24 5.41 13.51 11.22 9.29 (24.67) 0.75 Book value per share 3,171.80 3,285.46 2,954.47 262.44 225.87 228.45 213.82 218.41 218.24 207.35 188.93 29.14 Cash dividends — 75.00 60.00 6.00 5.00 4.00 3.00 4.00 4.00 2.00 — — Average number of shares during the year (Thousand shares) 334,559 334,632 344,372 3,500,205 3,496,561 3,492,380 3,493,860 3,192,482 2,511,841 2,507,572 2,326,547 Management Indexes Operating income margin (%) 3.1 8.0 8.3 8.2 7.6 5.3 4.1 7.0 6.9 5.0 (4.4) Net income margin (%) 1.4 5.4 7.3 5.6 4.4 2.3 1.2 2.9 2.0 1.7 (4.7) ROA (%) (Note 9) 2.4 6.4 6.8 6.5 6.1 4.2 3.2 5.1 5.1 3.7 (2.8) ROE (%) (Note 10) 2.6 10.6 15.1 11.6 9.8 5.1 2.5 6.6 5.3 4.7 (14.4) Shareholders’ equity ratio (%) 41.4 40.9 38.6 39.7 35.4 34.7 34.3 35.9 27.4 27.0 25.5 Debt/equity ratio (Times) (Note 11) 0.8 0.7 0.8 0.8 0.9 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.8 1.8 2.0 Asset turnover (Times) (Note 12) 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 Payout ratio (%) — 22.7 14.4 21.3 22.4 35.6 55.5 29.6 35.7 21.5 — Number of employees 45,849 43,466 41,930 39,243 36,273 34,919 33,719 32,634 32,884 32,731 32,578 Operating Data International Passenger Operations Passenger revenues 613,908 651,587 597,446 516,789 515,696 468,321 395,340 348,319 320,066 280,637 214,124 5,640,981 Available seat-km (Millions) 68,885 65,976 64,376 60,148 54,710 49,487 41,451 37,947 34,406 29,768 26,723 Revenue passenger-km (Millions) 50,219 50,776 49,132 45,602 40,635 35,639 30,613 28,545 25,351 22,430 20,220 Number of passengers (Thousands) 9,416 10,093 9,740 9,119 8,167 7,208 6,336 6,276 5,883 5,168 4,666 Load factor (%) 72.9 77.0 76.3 75.8 74.3 72.0 73.9 75.2 73.7 75.3 75.7 Unit revenues (¥) 8.9 9.9 9.3 8.6 9.4 9.5 9.5 9.2 9.3 9.4 8.0 Yield (¥) 12.2 12.8 12.2 11.3 12.7 13.1 12.9 12.2 12.6 12.5 10.6 Domestic Passenger Operations Passenger revenues 679,962 696,617 689,760 678,326 685,638 683,369 675,153 665,968 651,556 652,611 630,976 6,247,927 Available seat-km (Millions) 58,552 58,475 58,426 59,080 59,421 60,213 61,046 58,508 56,756 56,796 57,104 Revenue passenger-km (Millions) 39,502 40,704 40,271 38,990 38,470 38,582 37,861 36,333 34,589 35,983 35,397 Number of passengers (Thousands) 42,916 44,325 44,150 42,967 42,664 43,203 42,668 41,089 39,020 40,574 39,894 Load factor (%) 67.5 69.6 68.9 66.0 64.7 64.1 62.0 62.1 60.9 63.4 62.0 Unit revenues (¥) 11.6 11.9 11.8 11.5 11.5 11.3 11.1 11.4 11.5 11.5 11.0 Yield (¥) 17.2 17.1 17.1 17.4 17.8 17.7 17.8 18.3 18.8 18.1 17.8 LCC Passenger Operations (Note 13) Revenues 81,953 93,611 87,555 — — — — — — — — 753,036 Available seat-km (Millions) 11,076 12,052 11,832 — — — — — — — — Revenue passenger-km (Millions) 9,202 10,394 10,212 — — — — — — — — Number of passengers (Thousands) 7,288 8,153 7,797 — — — — — — — — Load factor (%) 83.1 86.2 86.3 — — — — — — — — Unit revenues (¥) 7.4 7.8 7.4 — — — — — — — — Yield (¥) 8.9 9.0 8.6 — — — — — — — — International Cargo Operations Cargo revenues 102,697 125,015 118,002 93,301 113,309 124,772 104,736 86,589 87,978 86,057 55,750 943,646 Cargo volume (Tons) 866,821 913,915 994,593 954,027 810,628 841,765 710,610 621,487 570,684 557,445 422,449 Domestic Cargo Operations Cargo revenues 25,533 27,454 30,710 30,860 31,740 32,584 32,116 32,231 33,248 32,413 31,829 234,613 Cargo volume (Tons) 373,176 393,773 436,790 451,266 466,979 475,462 477,081 463,473 467,348 453,606 458,732 Notes: 1. As of March 31, 2020, there were 62 consolidated subsidiaries and 16 equity-method subsidiaries and affiliates. 8. The Group conducted a 1-for-10 reverse stock split effective October 1, 2017. Calculations have been made assuming a reverse stock split at the beginning of the fiscal year ended 2. From April 1 to March 31 of the next year March 2018. 3. U.S. dollar amounts in this report are translated, for convenience only, at the rate of ¥108.83 = US$1, the approximate exchange rate as of March 31, 2020. 9. ROA = (Operating income + Interest and dividend income) / Simple average of total assets 4. Effective from the fiscal year ended March 2015, revenue of jet fuel which is resold to airlines outside the Group is offset by its purchasing cost and the net amount is recorded in 10. ROE = Net income attributable to owners of the parent / Simple average of shareholders’ equity operating revenues. 11. Debt/equity ratio = Interest-bearing debt / Shareholders’ equity 5. Substantial free cash flow is excluding purchase and redemption of marketable securities (time deposits and negotiable deposits of more than three months). 12. Asset turnover = Operating revenues / Simple average of total assets 6. EBITDA = Operating income + Depreciation and amortization 13. Revenues of LCC Operations include ancillary income. 7. Total shareholders’ equity = Shareholders’ equity + Accumulated other comprehensive income * Yen amounts are rounded down to the nearest million yen and percentages are rounded to the nearest one decimal place. U.S. dollar amounts are truncated. 98 99 Financial / Data Section  Management’s Discussion and Analysis Monthly Prices for Dubai Crude Oil and Singapore Kerosene Consolidated Operating Revenues, Operating Expenses, Economic Conditions Performance for Fiscal 2019 and Operating Income General Economic Overview (U.S. dollars per barrel) Overview of the ANA Group Fiscal 2019 consolidated operating revenues amounted to ¥1,974.2 100 billion, a ¥84.0 billion (4.1%) decrease year on year. This decrease The Japanese economy recovered moderately during fiscal 2019 As of March 31, 2020, the ANA Group (“the Group”), led by holding (April 1, 2019 to March 31, 2020) as corporate earnings remained at 80 company ANA HOLDINGS INC., consisted of 128 subsidiaries was mainly due to reduced revenues in our mainstay Air a high level and consumer spending rallied. Toward the end of the (including ALL NIPPON AIRWAYS CO., LTD.) and 45 affiliates. A total Transportation Business. fiscal year, however, the economy deteriorated rapidly due to the 60 of 62 companies are treated as consolidated subsidiaries, with Although we reduced costs by controlling the volume of operaeffects of COVID-19, leading to an extremely severe situation. 40 another 16 treated as equity-method subsidiaries and affiliates. The tions in response to the sharp decline in passenger demand, operatLooking ahead, we must pay close attention to risks that could Group had 45,849 employees, up 2,383 employees year on year. ing income amounted to ¥60.8 billion, a ¥104.2 billion (63.2%) degrade the global economy further as a result of the spread of the 20 During fiscal 2019, we executed various measures set forth in the decrease year on year due to a significant decrease in operating 19/4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 20/1 2 3 (Year/ virus. Potential effects include worsening employment and personal Month) FY2018–22 ANA Group Corporate Strategy (published February 1, revenues. Dubai Crude Oil Singapore Kerosene income environments due to falling corporate profits, slowing con2018). We made progress in human resources and capital expendisumer spending, and more. Source: Bloomberg tures in advance of the 2020 slot expansions at the Tokyo metropoliReview by Segment tan area airports, while also pursuing safety, quality and services. The Group operates four reportable segments: Air Transportation, Monthly Yen-Dollar Exchange Rate Airline Related, Travel Services, and Trade and Retail. Fuel Price Trends However, in the fourth quarter, impact from the spread of COVID-19 The average price for Dubai crude oil was $60.5 per barrel during led to a sharp decline in demand for air transport. (Yen/U.S. dollars) fiscal 2019. During the first half of the year, Dubai crude ranged 120 around $60 per barrel as OPEC, Russia, and other major non-OPEC oil-producing countries deferred production increases. However, Segment Information toward the end of the fiscal year, fears of global recession due to 110 (¥ Millions) impact of the spread of COVID-19 led to a sudden decline in market Operating Revenues Operating Income EBITDA conditions. As a result, the price of Dubai crude oil ended at $33.7 (Fiscal Year) 2019 2018 Change 2019 2018 Change 2019 2018 Change per barrel on March 31, 2020. 100 The market price of Singapore kerosene tracked the price of 19/4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 20/1 2 3 (Year/ Air Transportation ¥1,737,737 ¥1,814,417 ¥(76,680) ¥ 49,550 ¥160,556 ¥(111,006) ¥217,846 ¥313,504 ¥(95,658) Month) crude oil. The average price for the fiscal year was $72.4 per barrel, Source: Bloomberg Airline Related 299,433 291,051 8,382 18,144 13,178 4,966 23,467 17,674 5,793 ending at $31.1 per barrel on March 31, 2020. Global Air Transportation Passenger Volume by Region Travel Services 143,996 150,746 (6,750) 1,393 606 787 1,946 1,113 833 Foreign Exchange Market The Japanese yen averaged ¥108.7 to the U.S. dollar for fiscal 2019, RPK (Billions) Trade and Retail 144,750 150,679 (5,929) 2,909 3,706 (797) 4,214 5,060 (846) ending the year at ¥108.8 per U.S. dollar. The value of the yen rose 3,011 9,000 3,000 Others 44,223 40,958 3,265 3,526 2,275 1,251 3,788 2,511 1,277 during the first half of the year due to concerns about the impact of 8,679 intensifying trade frictions on the world economy. Toward the end of Adjustments (395,923) (389,539) (6,384) (14,716) (15,302) 586 (14,716) (15,302) 586 the fiscal year, risk aversion grew with the spread of the virus, and the 2,320 value of the yen continued to appreciate. 6,000 2,000 Total (Consolidated) ¥1,974,216 ¥2,058,312 ¥(84,096) ¥ 60,806 ¥165,019 ¥(104,213) ¥236,545 ¥324,560 ¥(88,015) 1,932 Air Transport Traffic Trends Notes: 1. “Others” represents all operating segments that are not included in reportable segments, including facility management, business support, and other operations. 2. Adjustments of segment profit represent the elimination of intersegment transactions, Group management expenses of ANA HOLDINGS INC., and other certain items. International Air Transport Association (IATA) member airlines 3. Segment operating income is reconciled with operating income in the consolidated financial statements. 3,000 1,000 reported 1,890 million passengers on scheduled international flights 4. EBITDA = Operating income + Depreciation and amortization 786 in 2019 (4.4% increase year on year). Passengers on scheduled 442 domestic flights numbered 2,650 million (3.4% increase). At the same 185 time, scheduled global air cargo volume decreased 2.4%. (Source: 0 0 IATA World Air Transport Statistics, 2020) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (CY) In Japan, passengers on trunk routes* decreased 2.2% to 42.49 (Left) Total (Right)  Asia-Pacific Europe North America Middle East Latin America million for fiscal 2019. The number of passengers on local routes* Africa decreased 1.8% to 59.38 million. In total, Japanese air transport Source: International Air Transport Association (IATA), 2020 passengers numbered 101.87 million, a decrease of 2.0%. Domestic cargo volume decreased 5.6% to 0.77 million tons. The number of passengers carried by Japanese airlines on international services decreased 8.4% to 21.43 million, while the volume of international cargo handled by Japanese airlines increased 0.9% to 1.45 million tons. (Source: Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism Statistical Report on Air Transport) * Trunk routes refer to routes connecting Sapporo (New Chitose), Tokyo (Haneda), Tokyo (Narita), Osaka (Itami), Kansai, Fukuoka, and Okinawa (Naha) airports with one another. Local routes refer to all other routes. 100 101 Financial / Data Section  Management’s Discussion and Analysis Air Transportation Business ANA International Passenger Business Results (¥ Billions) Changes in Operating Income (FY2019 vs FY2018) 800 200 (Fiscal Year) 2019 2018 YoY (%) (¥ Billions) ASK (Millions) 68,885 65,976 +4.4 600 150 ANA Decrease in Revenues –76.6 Decrease in Profit –111.0 RPK (Millions) 50,219 50,776 –1.1 International Passenger Number of passengers (Thousands) 9,416 10,093 –6.7 400 100 Depreciation and Load factor (%) 72.9 77.0 –4.1* –37.6 ANA Revenues from contracted amortization 200 50 Domestic maintenance and handling, except aircraft, Passenger revenues (¥ Billions) 613.9 651.5 –5.8 18/4 Passenger Mileage and Card, etc. maintenance, etc. Unit revenues (¥) 8.9 9.9 –9.8 0 0 ANA Commissions, 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) –16.6 Cargo & Mail ANA advertising, Yield (¥) 12.2 12.8 –4.7 Other LCC In-flight services, Landing and (Left) Passenger Revenues (Right) ASK RPK Yield Revenues Other Ground services, etc. navigation fees, Aircraft –24.6 depreciation, Personnel, Unit price (¥) 65,196 64,556 +1.0 +13.9 –11.6 Expenses Outsourcing contracts, etc. * Figures for ASK, RPK, and Yield are indexed using the figures for fiscal 2015 as 100. * Difference 160.5 Sales-Linked +26.7 Operation–0.2 Linked ANA Domestic Passenger Business +27.0 In addition to robust business demand and domestic travel of maintain our network as a public transportation provider. In total, –19.2 Increase in Expenses +34.3 passengers visiting Japan, we captured strong demand over the 2,674 flights across 42 routes were suspended or reduced. Fuel & 49.5 ten-day Golden Week holidays. We also offered various discount We have offered discount fares that can be purchased as early Fuel Tax fares according to demand. These measures led to a positive trend as 355 days before boarding, aiming to capture demand at an early (Fiscal Year) 2019 2018 Change YoY (%) through the third quarter; however, demand declined sharply due to stage for periods such as the Golden Week holidays and summer FY2018 FY2019 Operating Income Operating revenues 1,737.7 1,814.4 –76.6 –4.2 impact of COVID-19 beginning at the end of February. As a result, vacations. In November, we introduced new seats on Boeing 777-200 Operating Income Operating expenses 1,688.1 1,653.8 +34.3 +2.1 revenues and passenger numbers decreased year on year. ASK grew aircraft, offering improved comfort and functionality with power Operating income 49.5 160.5 –111.0 –69.1 0.1% year on year, while RPK fell 3.0%. Load factor was 67.5%, a reclining in Premium Class. We also introduced seats equipped with decrease of 2.1 points. Passenger numbers declined 3.2% to 42.91 touch panel personal monitors in Economy Class. In addition, we million and unit price rose 0.8% to ¥15,844. Operating revenues were renovated the ANA LOUNGE at Naha Airport in September under down 2.4% to ¥679.9 billion. the supervision of Kengo Kuma, one of Japan’s leading architects. Air Transportation Business operating revenues amounted to decrease of ¥111.0 billion (69.1%). This result was due to an increase ANA increased flights in our route network, introducing the Narita– In November at Naha, we also altered the layout of the departure ¥1,737.7 billion, a year-on-year decrease of ¥76.6 billion (4.2%). in aircraft expenses, maintenance expenses, and other costs due to Chubu route in May and the Chubu–Kumamoto route in October. ANA counter, and implemented the ANA Baggage Drop automated Operating revenues through the third quarter trended firmly up owing further improvements in safety, quality, and services and measures sought to improve efficiency further by optimizing the number of route baggage drop machine, making it the fourth airport in Japan to be to factors such as strong domestic passenger demand and expanpreparing for slot expansions at the Tokyo metropolitan area airports. flights and adjusting aircraft types flexibly based on demand predicso equipped. These and other efforts were made to further improve sion of international route networks, despite sluggish demand for On the other hand, performance was impacted negatively by flight tions. During the phase of declining demand caused by COVID-19, service quality. international cargo business due to a cooling of the world economy cancellations and reductions on both international and domestic we began adjusting the number of flights in March, while striving to caused by U.S.–China trade frictions. In the fourth quarter, demand routes, despite controlled fuel expenses, landing and navigation fees, ANA Domestic Passenger Business Results (¥ Billions) for domestic and overseas travel declined sharply due to immigration and other costs in response to decreasing demand for air travel. restrictions in various countries around the world due to the spread of Results by business were as follows. (Fiscal Year) 2019 2018 YoY (%) 800 120 COVID-19, as well as voluntary limits on non-essential travel domestiASK (Millions) 58,552 58,475 +0.1 600 110 cally. Operating income amounted to ¥49.5 billion, a year-on-year RPK (Millions) 39,502 40,704 –3.0 Number of passengers (Thousands) 42,916 44,325 –3.2 400 100 ANA International Passenger Business A total of 9.41 million passengers used the ANA network in fiscal suspended and reduced flights along 71 routes, affecting 2,814 Load factor (%) 67.5 69.6 –2.1* 200 90 2019 (6.7% decrease), while unit price rose 1.0% to ¥65,196. flights by the end of March 2020 in response to the decrease in Passenger revenues (¥ Billions) 679.9 696.6 –2.4 Operating revenues fell 5.8% year on year to ¥613.9 billion. We demand caused by the impact of COVID-19. Unit revenues (¥) 11.6 11.9 –2.5 0 0 recorded a 4.4% increase in available seat-kilometers (ASK) and For the first time in 10 years, ANA unveiled new seats for First 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Yield (¥) 17.2 17.1 +0.6 saw a 1.1% decrease in revenue passenger-kilometers (RPK). Class and Business Class on Boeing 777-300ER aircraft. We intro(Left) Passenger Revenues (Right) ASK RPK Yield Load factor decreased 4.1 points to 72.9%. duced the upgraded aircraft on the Haneda–London route in August, Unit price (¥) 15,844 15,716 +0.8 * Figures for ASK, RPK, and Yield are indexed using the figures for fiscal 2015 as 100. Although we captured demand by opening new routes and the Haneda–New York and Narita–New York routes in November, and * Difference deploying ultra-wide body aircraft on Hawaii routes, the decline in the Haneda–Frankfurt route in February 2020. We introduced our first demand due to COVID-19 that became apparent on China routes private wide-seat with a closable door, called THE Room, in Business from the end of January spread to routes servicing Asia, North Class. These new seats offer the world’s first personal 4K-compatible America, Europe, and Hawaii. As a result, both revenues and passenmonitor and other amenities, achieving the highest levels of passenger numbers decreased to levels underperforming previous fiscal ger comfort. year. ANA actively promoted services to new cities in our route At the end of January, we signed a joint venture framework network, launching the Narita–Perth route (western Australia) in agreement with Singapore Airlines with the aim of strengthening our September, the Narita–Chennai route (southern India) in October, and network and increasing our presence in the rapidly growing Asia / the Narita–Vladivostok route (eastern Russia) in March 2020. In May, Oceania region. Going forward, we will deepen our partnership ANA introduced the Airbus A380 FLYING HONU, the world’s largest relations and work to improve competitiveness and customer convepassenger aircraft, on the Narita–Honolulu route. However, we nience in the Asia / Oceania region. 102 103 Financial / Data Section  Management’s Discussion and Analysis ANA Cargo and Mail Business Others <Landing and Navigation Fees> The ANA Cargo and Mail Business recorded fiscal 2019 operating manufacturing equipment, which enjoys steady demand. Our efforts Other operating revenues in the Air Transportation Business Landing and navigation fees amounted to ¥120.1 billion, down ¥1.4 revenues of ¥136.1 billion, a year-on-year decrease of 15.3%. in the fourth quarter to respond to emergency supply transportation amounted to ¥225.7 billion, a 6.6% increase year on year. Results billion (1.2%) year on year. Passenger aircraft flights (excluding Peach The International Cargo Business recorded operating revenues of due to the outbreak of COVID-19 also made a positive contribution. include incidental revenues from mileage memberships, in-flight Aviation and Vanilla Air flights) on ANA domestic operations ¥102.6 billion, down 17.9% compared to the previous fiscal year. Domestic Cargo Business operating revenues decreased 7.0% to sales, contracted maintenance, etc. increased 0.7%, while ANA international flights decreased 1.7% and Cargo volume decreased 5.2% to 860,000 tons. This was the result of ¥25.5 billion, reflecting a 5.2% decline in cargo volume to 370,000 freighter flights decreased 13.3%. These results were partly due to consistently low cargo demand for to and from Japan stemming from tons. While we endeavored to grow revenues through non-scheduled Operating Expenses impact from suspended and reduced flights as a result of the spread the global economic slowdown caused by U.S.–China trade frictions. extra cargo flights on the Okinawa–Haneda route during peak Air Transportation Business operating expenses increased ¥34.3 of COVID-19. The significant reduction of flights due to the spread of COVID-19 in demand for flowers, air cargo demand overall was weak throughout billion (2.1%) year on year to ¥1,688.1 billion. Specific expense February and thereafter also had a negative effect on performance. the year. At the same time, the spread of COVID-19 caused flight amounts and reasons for year-on-year changes are described below. <Aircraft Leasing Fees> Available ton-kilometers (ATK) rose 3.2% while revenue ton-kilometers suspensions and reductions. Aircraft leasing fees increased ¥7.1 billion (5.8%) year on year to (RTK) decreased 2.2%. We introduced the Boeing 777F wide-body International Mail Business operating revenues decreased 6.6% to Breakdown of Operating Revenues and Expenses ¥130.6 billion due to factors such as greater use of airline charters cargo freighter to our route network on the Narita–Shanghai (Pudong) ¥4.7 billion, while Domestic Mail Business operating revenues were  (¥ Millions) in the International Cargo Business. route in July and on the Narita–Chicago route in October. We also 2.9% lower at ¥3.1 billion. (Fiscal Year) 2019 2018 Change captured demand for oversize special cargo, such as semiconductor Segment operating revenues ¥1,737,737 ¥1,814,417 ¥ (76,680) <Depreciation and Amortization> International Passenger 613,908 651,587 (37,679) Depreciation and amortization expenses increased ¥15.3 billion ANA Cargo and Mail Business Results International Cargo Business Results Cargo 102,697 125,015 (22,318) (10.0%) to ¥168.2 billion. This increase was mainly due to introducing Mail 4,764 5,100 (336) Boeing 777F and Airbus A380 aircraft in service during this fiscal year (Fiscal Year) 2019 2018 YoY (%) as we continue to update the ANA-owned fleet. (¥ Billions) Domestic Passenger 679,962 696,617 (16,655) Cargo and mail services revenues (¥ Billions) 136.1 160.7 –15.3 150 1,600 150 200 Cargo 25,533 27,454 (1,921) International ATK (Millions) 7,354 7,122 +3.2 Mail 3,136 3,230 (94) <Aircraft Maintenance> cargo 1,200 150 LCC revenues 81,953 93,611 (11,658) Aircraft maintenance expenses increased ¥20.2 billion (12.9%) year RTK (Millions) 4,222 4,318 –2.2 100 100 Other revenues 225,784 211,803 13,981 on year to ¥177.3 billion. This increase was due to several factors, Cargo volume (Thousand tons) 866 913 –5.2 800 100 Segment operating expenses 1,688,187 1,653,861 34,326 including increased maintenance frequency caused by Rolls-Royce Cargo revenues (¥ Billions) 102.6 125.0 –17.9 engine inspection and maintenance. 50 50 Fuel and fuel tax 314,486 333,709 (19,223) Unit price (¥/kg) 118 137 –13.4 400 50 18/4 Landing and navigation fees 120,173 121,606 (1,433) Mail revenues (¥ Billions) 4.7 5.1 –6.6 <Personnel> 0 0 Aircraft leasing fees 130,614 123,419 7,195 0 0 Personnel expenses decreased ¥6.1 billion (3.0%) year on year to Domestic ATK (Millions) 1,705 1,720 –0.9 2015 2013 2016 2014 2017 2015 2018 2016 2019 2017 (FY) Depreciation and amortization 168,296 152,948 15,348 cargo ¥201.6 billion. This decrease reflected the impact of decreases in (Left) International Cargo Revenues Aircraft maintenance 177,330 157,058 20,272 RTK (Millions) 387 408 –5.2 performance-linked lump-sum payments. (Right)  ATK RTK Unit Price 373 393 –5.2 Personnel 201,651 207,801 (6,150) Cargo volume (Thousand tons) * Figures for ATK, RTK, and Yield are indexed using the figures for fiscal 2015 as 100. Sales commissions and promotion 105,192 107,810 (2,618) Cargo revenues (¥ Billions) 25.5 27.4 –7.0 <Sales Commissions and Promotion> Contracts 256,618 239,630 16,988 Sales commissions and promotion expenses decreased ¥2.6 billion Unit price (¥/kg) 68 70 –1.9 Others 213,827 209,880 3,947 (2.4%) year on year to ¥105.1 billion. This decrease was mainly due Mail revenues (¥ Billions) 3.1 3.2 –2.9 Segment operating income ¥ 49,550 ¥ 160,556 ¥(111,006) to the decrease in passenger demand as a result of the spread of COVID-19. LCC Business Results <Fuel and Fuel Tax> The LCC Business recorded ¥81.9 billion in operating revenues, a To promote sales, we conducted Flying Train Peach Sale on all 40 <Contracts> Fuel and aircraft fuel tax expenses amounted to ¥314.4 billion, a 12.5% decrease year on year. This result was mainly due to a 10.6% routes to celebrate the merger of the two LCCs. Contract expenses increased ¥16.9 billion (7.1%) year on year to ¥19.2 billion (5.8%) decrease year on year. This expense accounted decrease in passenger numbers to 7.28 million and a 2.1% decrease ¥256.6 billion. This increase was mainly due to increases in outfor 18.6% of Air Transportation Business operating expenses, comin unit price to ¥11,244. ASK and RPK declined 8.1% and 11.5%, LCC Business Performance sourced operations associated with advance preparations for slot pared with 20.2% in the previous fiscal year. This ¥19.2 billion respectively. Load factor was 83.1%, which was a decrease of 3.2 (Peach Aviation Limited, Vanilla Air Inc.) decrease was mainly due to decreases in ANA price factors (includexpansions at Tokyo metropolitan area airports in 2020. points compared to the previous fiscal year. (Fiscal Year) 2019 2018 YoY (%) ing hedging effectiveness) of approximately ¥19.0 billion, an increase Performance was inhibited by the impact of geopolitical risks in <Others> ASK (Millions) 11,076 12,052 –8.1 in ANA consumption volume factors of approximately ¥3 billion, and Hong Kong and South Korea, as well as a significant decline in Other expenses increased ¥3.9 billion (1.9%) year on year to ¥213.8 RPK (Millions) 9,202 10,394 –11.5 a decrease in LCC Business of approximately ¥3 billion. demand due to the spread of COVID-19 toward the end of the fiscal billion. This result was mainly due to increased expenses related to Fuel consumption volume increased due to the expansion of year. Operations of Vanilla Air were terminated in October of this fiscal Number of passengers (Thousands) 7,288 8,153 –10.6 in-flight services. capacity in international services. The ANA Group is working to year, and we successfully completed the merger with Peach Aviation. Load factor (%) 83.1 86.2 –3.2*1 control fuel consumption volume by introducing fuel-efficient aircraft In the route network, in addition to transferring 10 routes to Peach Passenger revenues (¥ Billions)* 2 81.9 93.6 –12.5 and other measures, including the adoption of efficient flight operaAviation, we launched the Narita-Kagoshima and Narita-Nagasaki Unit revenues (¥) 7.4 7.8 –4.7 tions. During fiscal 2019, we engaged in the same measures of fuel routes in March 2020. However, due to impact from the spread of tax reduction as we followed in the previous fiscal year. Yield (¥) 8.9 9.0 –1.1 COVID-19, we suspended and reduced flights on 23 routes beginUnit price (¥) 11,244 11,482 –2.1 ning in February, which affected a total of 2,088 international and domestic flights. *1 Difference *2 Operating revenues include incidental revenues. 104 105 Financial / Data Section  Management’s Discussion and Analysis Airline Related Business Trade and Retail Non-Operating Income / Expenses Fiscal 2019 segment operating revenues increased ¥8.3 billion Fiscal 2019 operating revenues in our Trade and Retail business Net non-operating expenses amounted to ¥9.3 billion for fiscal 2019. Cash Flows (2.9%) year on year to ¥299.4 billion. Operating income increased decreased ¥5.9 billion (3.9%) year on year to ¥144.7 billion. This result was due to impairment loss on goodwill related to Peach Fundamental Approach ¥4.9 billion (37.7%) to ¥18.1 billion. These increases were mainly due Operating income decreased ¥0.7 billion (21.5%) to ¥2.9 billion. Aviation Limited, which was offset in part by posting compensation The ANA Group’s fundamental approach to cash management is to to increased contracts for airport ground support work (check-in Transaction volume for aircraft parts and other items rose, while related to delays of aircraft delivery and engine malfunctions. conduct continuous investments strategically to strengthen competiprocedures, baggage handling, etc.) at Kansai International Airport sales decreased for nuts and other items in our food business. Retail tiveness over the medium and long term, while maintaining financial and Chubu International Airport. We also added MRO Japan Co., Ltd. business transaction volume decreased year on year at our airport Non-Operating Income / Expenses soundness.  (¥ Millions) as a newly consolidated subsidiary this year. MRO Japan has ANA DUTY FREE SHOP retail locations and ANA FESTA airport shops, Capital expenditures are ordinarily kept within the scope of cash (Fiscal Year) 2019 2018 Change launched full-scale business development in Okinawa. which also contributed to lower performance. flows from operating activities, including repayment of lease obligaInterest and dividend income ¥ 3,031 ¥ 2,926 ¥ 105 tions, to generate free cash flow, which enables us to maintain a Performance in the Airline Related Segment Performance in the Trade and Retail Segment Interest expenses (6,291) (6,995) 704 balance between total interest-bearing debt and shareholders’ equity.  (¥ Millions)  (¥ Millions) Foreign exchange gain 473 — 473 (Fiscal Year) 2019 2018 Change (Fiscal Year) 2019 2018 Change The Group’s primary means of raising funds are borrowings from Foreign exchange loss — (1,761) 1,761 banks and bond issuances. The Group has also concluded commitSegment operating revenues ¥299,433 ¥291,051 ¥8,382 Segment operating revenues ¥144,750 ¥150,679 ¥(5,929) Gain on sales of assets 6,746 2,554 4,192 ment lines totaling ¥153.6 billion (as of March 31, 2020) with major Segment operating expenses 281,289 277,873 3,416 Segment operating expenses 141,841 146,973 (5,132) Loss on sales / disposal of assets (7,435) (11,758) 4,323 domestic financial institutions to ensure reliable access to working Segment operating income ¥ 18,144 ¥ 13,178 ¥4,966 Segment operating income ¥ 2,909 ¥ 3,706 ¥ (797) Impairment loss (25,159) (1,997) (23,162) capital in case of emergency. Commitment lines were unused as of Equity in earnings of unconsolidated the end of fiscal 2019. 1,210 1,559 (349) subsidiaries and affiliates Travel Services Others The Group has access to the Japan Bank for International Gain on sales of investment securities 1,122 — 1,122 Fiscal 2019 segment operating revenues amounted to ¥143.9 billion, Fiscal 2019 operating revenues in the Others segment increased Cooperation (JBIC)’s guarantee system for investments in aircraft, a ¥6.7 billion (4.5%) decrease year on year. Operating income ¥3.2 billion (8.0%) year on year to ¥44.2 billion. Meanwhile, operating Valuation loss on investments in our primary assets. (853) — (853) securities increased ¥0.7 billion (129.9%) to ¥1.3 billion. Performance trended income increased ¥1.2 billion (55.0%) to ¥3.5 billion. Subleasing Compensation payments received 17,897 6,810 11,087 upward through the third quarter due to success in attracting customtransaction volume grew and we sold properties in our real estateOverview of Fiscal 2019 Litigation settlement fees related to ers for products sold on the internet (both for domestic and overseas related business, while construction and facility management-related — (6,423) 6,423 Free cash flow resulted in expenditures of ¥100.0 billion (sum of cash anti-trust law claims travel). We were also successful in capturing demand for travel business revenues stemming from facility renovations at Haneda flows from operating activities and investing activities). Net cash Loss on sales of shares of subsidiaries during the ten-day Golden Week holidays. However, the impact of Airport terminals and construction-related revenues grew. (7) (343) 336 provided by financing activities totaled ¥23.8 billion. As a result, cash and affiliates COVID-19 beginning at the end of January resulted in operating Gain on donation of non-current assets 3,553 2,512 1,041 and cash equivalents decreased ¥75.9 billion from the beginning of revenues that underperformed the previous fiscal year. Performance in the Others Segment the fiscal year, amounting to ¥135.9 billion at the end of the fiscal year.  (¥ Millions) Other, net (3,592) 1,920 (5,512) Meanwhile, operating income rose year on year, mainly due to a (Fiscal Year) 2019 2018 Change Total ¥ (9,305) ¥(10,996) ¥ 1,691 decrease in system expenses. Cash Flows from Operating Activities Segment operating revenues ¥44,223 ¥40,958 ¥3,265 After adjusting the ¥51.5 billion in income before income taxes for Performance in the Travel Services Segment Segment operating expenses 40,697 38,683 2,014 Net Income Attributable to Owners of the Parent depreciation and amortization and other non-cash items, net cash  (¥ Millions) Segment operating income ¥ 3,526 ¥ 2,275 ¥1,251 The preceding factors combined to decrease income before income provided by operating activities amounted to ¥130.1 billion, ¥165.9 (Fiscal Year) 2019 2018 Change taxes by ¥102.5 billion (66.6%) year on year to ¥51.5 billion. After billion lower year on year. Segment operating revenues ¥143,996 ¥150,746 ¥(6,750) income taxes, municipal taxes, business taxes, and other adjustDomestic package products 112,711 119,362 (6,651) ments, net income attributable to owners of the parent decreased Interest Coverage Ratio* International package products 20,925 20,979 (54) ¥83.1 billion (75.0%) to ¥27.6 billion. Earnings per share were ¥82.66 (Times) Other revenues 10,360 10,405 (45) (Fiscal Year) 2019 2018 compared with ¥331.04 for the previous fiscal year. Segment operating expenses 142,603 150,140 (7,537) Comprehensive income decreased ¥156.3 billion to a loss of Interest coverage ratio 20.4 41.3 Segment operating income ¥ 1,393 ¥ 606 ¥ 787 ¥14.7 billion, mainly due to the decrease in net income attributable to * Interest coverage ratio = Cash flows from operating activities / Interest expenses owners of the parent. 106 107 Financial / Data Section  Management’s Discussion and Analysis Cash Flows from Investing Activities Aircraft Procured in Fiscal 2019 777-300s, two Boeing 777Fs, one Boeing 787-10, five Boeing 787-9s, Net cash used in investing activities totaled ¥230.2 billion, ¥78.4 Capital Expenditures and Based on our fleet strategy mentioned above, aircraft totaled 307 as two Airbus A320neos, and four Airbus A320-200s. Meanwhile, the billion lower year on year. This result was mainly due to payments for Aircraft Procurement of the end of fiscal 2019, an increase of 3 compared to the end of the Group sold or returned leased aircraft, consisting of five Boeing purchases of property and equipment related to payments upon Capital Expenditures previous fiscal year. 767-300s, two Boeing 767-300Fs, seven Airbus A320-200s, and four delivery of aircraft, purchases of spare parts, and advance payments ANA Group capital expenditures are based on an approach of During the fiscal year, the ANA Group added 21 new aircraft. Boeing 737-500s (18 aircraft total). for aircraft to be put into service in the future. Payments were also selection and concentration. We invest to strengthen safety, increase These additional aircraft consisted of one Airbus A380, six Boeing The table below shows changes in the number of aircraft. made for intangible assets, including investments in software. Net our competitiveness, and improve profitability. These expenditures cash used in investing activities amounted to ¥209.3 billion when primarily reflect aircraft-related investments, including the acquisition Changes in the Number of Aircraft in Fiscal 2019 excluding cash movements that resulted in net outlays of ¥20.9 billion of aircraft, spare parts, and prepayment for aircraft, as well as  ( ) changes related to the acquisition and sale of time deposits and negotiable information systems expenditures. As a result, capital expenditures Number of Aircraft as of deposits of more than three months. Aircraft Owned Leased for fiscal 2019 amounted to ¥351.3 billion, a decrease of 6.5% March 31, 2020 compared to the previous fiscal year. Airbus A380 2 (+1) 2 (+1) 0 Free Cash Flow By segment, Air Transportation Business capital expenditures Boeing 777-300 35 (+6) 26 9 (+6) As mentioned above, net cash provided by operating activities decreased 7.4% year on year to ¥343.4 billion. Airline Related expentotaled ¥130.1 billion. Since net cash used in investing activities ditures increased 237.3% to ¥6.2 billion, while Travel Services expenBoeing 777-200 20 16 4 was ¥230.2 billion, free cash flow for fiscal 2019 amounted to a net ditures increased 7.1% to ¥0.2 billion. Trade and Retail capital Boeing 777F (Freighter) 2 (+2) 2 (+2) 0 expenditure of ¥100.0 billion, an increase of ¥87.5 billion compared expenditures increased 94.6% to ¥2.2 billion, and Others decreased Boeing 787-10 2 (+1) 2 (+1) 0 to the previous fiscal year. Substantial free cash flow decreased 47.6% to ¥0.1 billion. ¥61.1 billion year on year to an outlay of ¥79.1 billion when excluding Boeing 787-9 35 (+5) 29 (+3) 6 (+2) cash movements associated with the acquisition and sale of time Capital Expenditures* / Depreciation and Amortization Boeing 787-8 36 31 5 deposits and negotiable deposits of more than three months. Boeing 767-300 24 (–5) 23 (+3) 1 (–8) (¥ Billions) Boeing 767-300F (Freighter) 10 (–2) 7 (–2) 3 Cash Flows from Financing Activities 400 375.8 Net cash provided by investing activities totaled ¥23.8 billion, up 351.3 Airbus A321-200neo 11 0 11 304.7 ¥70.3 billion year on year. This result was mainly due to dividend 300 281.4 Airbus A321-200 4 0 4 254.4 payments and loan repayments, offset in part by proceeds from Airbus A320-200neo 11 (+2) 11 (+2) 0 issuance of bonds, etc. 200 175.7 150.4 159.5 138.8 140.3 Airbus A320-200 41 (–3) 0 (–5) 41 (+2) 100 Boeing 737-800 39 (–1) 24 (–1) 15 18/4 Boeing 737-700 8 (+1) 8 (+1) 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Boeing 737-500 3 (–4) 3 (–4) 0 Capital Expenditures Depreciation and Amortization Bombardier DHC-8-400 24 24 0 * Capital expenditures contains only fixed assets. Total 307 (+3) 208 (+1) 99 (+2) Figures for Airbus A320-200s included 38 aircraft (all leased) operated by Peach Aviation Limited. Fundamental Approach to Aircraft Procurement Separate from the figures above, as of March 31, 2020, 19 aircraft were leased outside the Group (19 as of March 31, 2019). Aircraft are major investments used over the long term (10-plus years). Decisions regarding the selection of aircraft types suited to Aircraft Procurement Plan for Fiscal 2020 routes and networks and the pursuit of the best fleet composition The ANA Group plans to add a total of 13 aircraft during fiscal 2020. nine aircraft, consisting of one Boeing 777-200, one Boeing 767-300, are among the most important issues for airline management. Our plans call for purchasing one Airbus A380, five Boeing 787-9s, one Boeing 767-300F, three Boeing 737-700s, and three Boeing The ANA Group fleet strategy is based on three basic policies: and seven Airbus A321neos. Meanwhile, the Group plans to retire 737-500s. (1) Strengthening cost competitiveness by introducing fuel-efficient aircraft; (2) Optimizing supply to demand by increasing the ratios of narrowand medium-body aircraft; and (3) Enhancing productivity by integrating aircraft types. Fundamentally, the Group purchases and owns strategic aircraft we intend to use over the medium to long term. We employ operating leases to procure aircraft for use over the short term or for capacity adjustment. The Group may also utilize sale-leaseback transactions as a means to diversify corporate financing methods. In these and other ways, the Group selects the most economical aircraft procurement method. 108 109 Financial / Data Section  Management’s Discussion and Analysis Interest-Bearing Debt Financial Position  (¥ Millions) Retirement Benefit Obligations Allocation of Profits (End of Fiscal Year) 2019 2018 Change Assets The ANA Group’s defined benefit plans consist of defined benefit Basic Policy on Allocation of Profits Short-term debt: ¥108,307 ¥112,987 ¥ (4,680) Total assets as of March 31, 2020 amounted to ¥2,560.1 billion, a corporate pension plans and lump-sum retirement benefit plans. In Shareholder returns are an important management priority for Short-term loans 429 336 93 decrease of ¥126.9 billion compared to March 31, 2019. addition, the Group has adopted a defined contribution pension plan. the Group. Current portion of long-term loans 84,057 77,883 6,174 Total current assets amounted to ¥571.1 billion as of March 31, Certain employees are entitled to additional benefits upon retirement. The Group strives to bolster shareholder returns while maintaining 2020, a decrease of ¥129.0 billion from one year earlier. Cash and Current portion of bonds 20,000 30,000 (10,000) Certain consolidated subsidiaries adopting defined-benefit financial soundness. This goal will be accomplished as we secure deposits amounted to ¥109.4 billion, an increase of ¥41.1 billion Finance lease obligations 3,821 4,768 (947) corporate pension plans and lump-sum retirement benefit plans use the funds needed to conduct growth investments (aircraft, etc.) to compared to the end of the previous fiscal year. Marketable securities Long-term debt*: ¥734,555 ¥675,662 ¥ 58,893 a simplified method for calculating retirement benefit expenses and support future business development. We examine the possibility of decreased ¥96.1 billion to ¥129.2 billion. As a result, liquidity on hand Bonds 165,000 115,000 50,000 liabilities. further shareholder returns through dividend increases and share amounted to ¥238.6 billion, down ¥55.0 billion year on year. Convertible bonds with stock buybacks on an ongoing basis, while considering the appropriate 140,000 140,000 — Total non-current assets at the end of the fiscal year stood at ­acquisition rights Retirement Benefit Obligation and Related Expenses level for free cash flow. ¥1,988.1 billion, up ¥1.7 billion from one year earlier. This increase Long-term loans 416,900 406,830 10,070  (¥ Millions) was mainly due to an increase in aircraft and buildings and strucFinance lease obligations 12,655 13,832 (1,177) (Fiscal Year / End of Fiscal Year) 2019 2018 Dividends for Fiscal 2019 tures, despite a decrease in intangible assets as a result of recording Total interest-bearing debt ¥842,862 ¥788,649 ¥ 54,213 Retirement benefit obligation ¥(225,286) ¥(223,723) The impact of COVID-19 on Group performance has been significant. an impairment loss related to goodwill. * Excluding current portion of long-term loans and current portion of bonds Plan assets at fair value 62,717 65,990 At present, we cannot forecast when the pandemic will slow. Given Unfunded retirement benefit obligation (162,569) (157,733) such unprecedented and severe economic conditions, securing Liabilities Net Assets Liability for retirement benefits (163,384) (158,209) liquidity on hand has become an urgent issue. Therefore, we deeply Total liabilities as of March 31, 2020 amounted to ¥1,491.2 billion, Net assets as of March 31, 2020 amounted to ¥1,068.8 billion, Asset for retirement benefits 815 476 regret to announce that we will not be providing dividends for this a decrease of ¥86.5 billion compared to the end of the previous a decrease of ¥40.4 billion compared to the end of the previous fiscal year. Net liability arising from defined benefit obligation in fiscal year. (162,569) (157,733) fiscal year. the consolidated balance sheet Current liabilities totaled ¥530.5 billion at the end of the fiscal year, As a result of recording net income attributable to owners of the Net periodic benefit costs 15,537 15,474 a decrease of ¥155.3 billion. This result was primarily due to a parents, shareholders’ equity amounted to ¥1,068.6 billion, ¥2.0 Main basis for actuarial calculations decrease in advance ticket sales. billion higher year on year. Discount rates 0.1–1.2% 0.1–1.2% Long-term liabilities amounted to ¥960.7 billion as of March 31, Total accumulated other comprehensive loss amounted to ¥7.6 Expected rates of return on plan assets 1.0–2.5% 1.0–2.5% 2020, an increase of ¥68.8 billion compared to the end of the previbillion, a decrease of ¥40.4 billion compared with the end of the Contribution to defined contribution pension plans ¥ 4,381 ¥ 4,423 ous fiscal year. previous fiscal year. This result was mainly due to decreases in Interest-bearing debt, including finance lease obligations, unrealized gains on securities and deferred loss on derivatives under increased ¥54.2 billion year on year to ¥842.8 billion. This change hedge accounting. was the result of the issuance of ¥70.0 billion in bonds and borrowAs a result, total shareholders’ equity decreased ¥38.3 billion ings that exceeded amounts in the previous fiscal year. These compared with the previous fiscal year-end, standing at ¥1,061.0 Fuel and Exchange Rate Hedging increases were offset in part by loan repayments. Debt/equity ratio billion. Shareholders’ equity ratio increased 0.5 point to 41.4%. The ANA Group pursues and conducts optimal hedge transactions amounted to 0.8 times, an increase of 0.1 point compared with the Book value per share (BPS) at the end of the fiscal year was that reduce the impact of volatility in fuel prices and foreign exchange end of the previous fiscal year. ¥3,171.80, compared to ¥3,285.46 as of the end of the previous rates to control the risk of fluctuations in earnings. The objective of fiscal year. this hedging is to both stabilize profitability and equalize expenses Interest-Bearing Debt / Debt/Equity Ratio* in response to rising fuel surcharges and foreign currency revenues associated with growth in ANA international business. (¥ Billions) (Times) The Group conducts fuel hedging (for ANA brands) three years in 1,000 1.2 Bond Ratings advance of the applicable period after considering fuel surcharge 798.3 842.8 788.6 The Company has obtained credit ratings on its various long-term revenues. 729.8 750 703.8 1.0 bonds from the Japan Credit Rating Agency, Ltd. (JCR) and Rating The Group hedges (for ANA HOLDINGS and ANA brands) U.S. 0.9 0.8 0.8 0.8 and Investment Information, Inc. (R&I). dollar payments for fuel expenses three years in advance and U.S. 500 0.8 0.7 Bond ratings as of March 31, 2020 were as follows: dollar payments associated with capital expenditures for aircraft and 250 0.6 other items five years in advance of the payment periods. Based on 18/4 Bond Ratings a balance of foreign currency revenues, revenues linked to foreign JCR R&I exchange market fluctuations, and foreign currency expenses with 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FYE) Issuer rating A A– respect to U.S. dollar payments, the Group uses forward exchange (Left) Interest-Bearing Debt (Right) Debt/Equity Ratio Outlook Stable Stable agreements to hedge any portion of foreign currency expenses in excess of foreign currency revenues. * Excluding off-balanced lease obligations 110 111 Financial / Data Section  Operating Risks The following describes major risks related to business and accounting conditions, etc., recognized by management as having a potentially The following describes matters in addition to the risks noted (4) Risks Related to Environmental Regulations material impact on the consolidated Group financial condition, earnings, and cash flows. above that could have a material impact on investor decisions. In recent years, numerous Japanese and overseas statutory Further, the forward-looking statements that follow are based on Group judgments as of March 31, 2020. environmental protection regulations have been introduced or (1) Important Factors strengthened with regard to such issues as noise, aircraft emissions The ANA Group has experienced a significant impact due to the of CO2 and other greenhouse gases, use of environmentally pollutspread of COVID-19. We expect that future business conditions will ing substances and their disposal, and energy use at major offices. Category Risk Factors Description Response Measures continue to be extremely challenging. The ANA Group incurs significant costs to comply with these laws • Decline in demand for international routes to North •S  cale back operations in a flexible manner in response to Given these unprecedented circumstances, we have limited the and regulations. In addition to the emissions trading and reduction International Situation America, Europe, China, and Asia due to political sharp decline in demand scale of Air Transportation Business operations and reduced fuel schemes to be adopted in 2021 related to controlling greenhouse instability, international conflicts, large-scale terrorist •B  uild a business portfolio that does not depend expenses and other operations-related costs. We have reduced gases generated by international aviation, if a globally shared attacks, deterioration in diplomatic relations, etc. excessively on international business •C  onduct ongoing cost structure reform to reduce costs personnel expenses by cutting officer remuneration and manageenvironmental tax is adopted, business activities could be restricted • Decline in demand for air transportation due to and add liquidity to fixed costs ment salaries, as well as by adopting a temporary leave program. or significant additional costs may be incurred. Economic Recession economic stagnation in Japan and overseas •E  nsure liquidity on hand In addition, the Group is reviewing and controlling capital expendi• Slots at congested airports in the Tokyo metropolitan ture in aircraft and other areas, while also revising the timing of (5) Risks Related to the Business Environment of the area (Haneda, Narita) allocated to the advantage of Government •C  onsult with the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport investments. Over the three months between April and June of this Airline Industry other carriers Air Transportation • Contraction or elimination of reduction measures related and Tourism (MLIT) and make requests on an equal footing year, we borrowed total of ¥535 billion from private financial instituThere could be material changes in the current competitive and Policies with overseas airlines tions and the Development Bank of Japan. Further, we expanded to jet fuel taxes, landing fees, and air navigation service business environment within Japan, such as changes in aviation charges our existing commitment line of ¥150 billion by another ¥350 billion. policy or regional policy, as well as changes in the standing of External • Quick, sharp rises in crude oil prices outpacing hedges, •S  ystematic and continuous hedging transactions of crude In the future, we will raise more funds as necessary to secure competitors due to mergers or capital tie-ups stemming from other self-directed efforts to compensate, and ability to oil commodity derivatives liquidity on hand for every Group company. Accordingly, it is our Environment Fluctuations in bankruptcies and other factors. These changes could affect the pass on costs in airfares •U  se foreign currency generated for foreign currency Crude Oil Prices and • Sharp declines in the yen in foreign exchange markets expenditures to the extent possible judgment that there are no material uncertainties regarding the Group’s performance. Exchange Rates going concern assumption for the ANA Group. driving aircraft and fuel procurement costs outpacing •U  se forward exchange agreements and currency options self-directed efforts to compensate for a portion of foreign currencies 1. Risks Related to Airport Slots •S  cale back operations in a flexible manner in response to (2) Risks Related to the International Situation Differences in the number of slots allocated at congested Tokyo • Outbreak of serious infectious disease resulting in sharp decline in demand The Group currently operates international routes, primarily to North metropolitan area airports (Haneda, Narita) or the timing of allocasharply lower air transportation demand due to decreased •C  onduct ongoing cost structure reform to reduce costs America, Europe, China, and other parts of Asia. Going forward, tions from ANA Group projections could affect the achievement of demand in areas affected and voluntary restraints on and add liquidity to fixed costs Infectious Diseases domestic and international travel •E  nsure liquidity on hand incidents including political instability, international conflicts, largethe targets of the Group corporate strategy. and Disasters • Significant reduction in air transportation demand • Implement measures for facilities and equipment to prevent scale terrorist attacks, or deterioration in diplomatic relations with stemming from disasters or events that restrict airport loss of airport administrative functions countries where the Group operates and has offices and other operations or flight paths for an extended time; disaster•C  oordinate with airport operating companies to strengthen 2. Risks Related to Public-Sector Fees related damage to ANA Group facilities affecting flights overall airport disaster-response measures based on the bases could affect the Group’s performance due to the accompaPublic-sector fees include jet fuel taxes, landing fees, and air fiscal 2019 Guidelines (A2-BCP) of the MLIT nying decrease in demand for travel on these international routes. navigation service charges. The Japanese government is currently •R  eview business models and cost structures focused on implementing temporary measures to reduce jet fuel taxes and • Obsolescence of current business models due to Corporate Strategy intensified competition or changes in consumer behavior the Air Transportation Business in anticipation of future (3) Risks Related to Statutory Regulations landing fees but could scale back or terminate these measures demand trends and changes in consumer behavior As an airline operator, the Group undertakes operations based on (Business Structure) • Dependence on revenues and profits from specific in the future, which could affect the Group’s performance. •D  ifferentiation strategy to build a business portfolio and businesses the stipulations of statutory regulations relating to airline operations. secure competitive advantage in each business •B  uild and implement organizational measures, including The Group is required to conduct passenger and cargo operations (6) Risk of Economic Recession safety risk management systems, safety audits by on international routes in accordance with the stipulations of The airline industry is susceptible to the effects of economic trends, specialty organizations, and collecting and disseminating international agreements, including treaties, bilateral agreements, and if the domestic or global economy is sluggish, this may cause the latest information related to safety internally and the decisions of the International Air Transport Association • Aircraft accidents causing loss of customer confidence a decline of demand for air travel due to deterioration in personal Aviation Safety •C  onduct ongoing training and education, including training and public reputation having a significant impact on (IATA) and the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO). The consumption and corporate earnings. International operations (Aircraft Accidents, etc.) for Group employees engaged directly in flight operations, Group management hands-on training for all Group employees, etc. Group’s fares, airspace, operating schedule, and safety manage(passenger and cargo) depend on overseas markets, especially •L  everage air transportation insurance to cover damage ment are subject to a variety of constraints due to these regulations. China, other parts of Asia, and North America, and economic reparations, and restoration / replacements of operating Further, the Group’s operations are constrained by the Japanese conditions in these regions could lead to a decline in the passenger equipment Antitrust Law and similar laws and regulations in other countries and cargo volume or a fall in the unit price. International • Significant impact of systems failures or cyber terrorism •2  4/7/365 monitoring of defense in depth (access restricon operations maintenance and services due to high tions, antivirus measures) and other defense measures with regard to the pricing of fares and charges. Environment IT Systems and degree of dependence on systems • Implementation of systems and operational measures to Information Leakage • Leakage of personal information that leads to payment prevent information leakage of significant sanctions based on violations of the law, • Implementation of security literacy education for as well as decline in customer base due to loss of trust employees • Major impact of significant demand decreases on profits • O  ptimize supply to demand by placing appropriate aircraft due to inflexible fixed and operating costs into service depending on demand and reservation trends Profit Structure • Particularly large impact on revenues if summer demand • C  onduct ongoing cost structure reform to reduce costs declines significantly and add liquidity to fixed costs • Deterioration in the profitability of each segment or a decision to sell assets forcing the Group to recognize asset impairment losses or loss on sales of property and • P  lan and execute ANA Group Corporate Strategy and Finances equipment profit plans • Write-downs of deferred income taxes due to declining •M  onitor the progress of profit plans business profits that result in lower future taxable income than estimates used in current tax planning 112 113 Financial / Data Section  Operating Risks (7) Risks Related to Crude Oil Price Fluctuations (9) Risks Related to Competition (12) Risks Related to the Group’s Management 3. Risks Related to Investments Jet fuel is a crude oil derivative and its price tracks the price of The possibility of future increases in costs related to the Group’s Strategy The Group may enter new businesses and invest in or acquire other crude oil. Variance that exceeds the Group estimates for factors operations due to such factors as jet fuel expenses, financing cost, 1. Risks Related to the Group’s Fleet Strategy companies to further expand its business in growth areas. These that affect the price of crude oil, including political instability in the and responses to environmental regulations cannot be ruled out. In the Air Transportation Business, the Group is pursuing a fleet investments and other initiatives may not produce the intended oil-producing nations of the Middle East, the shale oil production If such costs increase, in order to secure income, it will be necesstrategy centered on introducing highly economical aircraft, inteeffects. Moreover, if the interests of equity investors do not align, the structure in the U.S., increased demand for crude oil due to rapid sary for the Group to cut costs through such means as reducing grating aircraft types, and better optimizing supply to demand. joint venture may not operate in the manner the Group considers economic growth in emerging countries, reductions in oil stockpiles indirect fixed costs, and to pass on costs through higher fares and This strategy involves ordering aircraft from The Boeing Company, appropriate. If joint venture operations deteriorate, the Group may or reserves, speculative investment in crude oil, and natural disasters charges. However, because the Group is in competition with other Airbus S.A.S., Bombardier Inc., and Mitsubishi Aircraft Corporation. be exposed to an economic burden. In addition, equity investors can affect the Group’s performance as follows. airlines and LCCs in Japan and overseas as well as with alternative Delays in delivery from any of those four companies for financial or other than the Group may experience poor financial results or modes of transportation, such as the Shinkansen, on certain routes, other reasons could create obstacles to Group operations. withdraw from the business. The Group may also expand into foreign 1. Risk of Increase in Crude Oil Prices passing on costs could diminish competitiveness. Further, price In addition, elements of the fleet strategy could prove ineffective countries, and enter into businesses with remote relation to the Generally, an increase in the price of crude oil causes an increase competition with competitors greatly restricts the passing on of or their expected benefits could diminish significantly due to the airline business. These initiatives may incur unforeseen detriments. in the price of jet fuel, which imposes substantial additional costs costs that could affect the Group’s performance. factors given below. on the Group. Accordingly, to mitigate the risk of fluctuations in (13) Risks Related to Ineffective Strategic Alliances the price of jet fuel and to stabilize operating income, the Group (10) Risks Related to the Outbreak and Spread of 1) Dependence on The Boeing Company The Group belongs to the Star Alliance. Based on Antitrust Immunity hedges risks using crude oil and jet fuel commodity derivatives in New Infectious Diseases In accordance with the above fleet strategy, the Group has (ATI) approval, joint venture operations are introduced in collaboraplanned, continuous hedging transactions for specific periods of All Group businesses, including but not limited to international ordered a large number of aircraft from The Boeing Company tion with United Airlines in the network between Asia and the United time. In the event that crude oil prices rise over a short period, there routes, are exposed to the risk of a decline in demand due to the (Boeing). Therefore, should financial or other issues render States, and with Lufthansa and Lufthansa group companies, Swiss are limitations to the Group’s ability to offset increases in crude oil outbreak and spread of new infectious diseases. The spread of Boeing unable to fulfill its agreements with the Group or compaInternational Air Lines, Austrian Airlines, and Lufthansa Cargo AG. prices through ongoing cost reductions as well as raising fares and disease and the harm it may cause, including reduced desire to nies such as those that maintain Boeing products, the Group in the network between Japan and Europe. The Group has also charges. For these reasons, the Group may be unable to avoid the travel by air among customers due to rumors, as well as restrictions would be unable to acquire or maintain aircraft in accordance entered into individual agreements, mainly in Asia, that go beyond influence of a sharp increase in crude oil prices completely, on entry and exit from countries and voluntary restraints on with its fleet strategy. Such eventualities could affect the Group’s the frameworks of these alliances. However, the benefits of Star depending on factors such as hedging positions. movement within Japan, such as during the global spread of operations. Alliance membership might diminish if the alliance is broken up by COVID-19, could affect Group’s performance by causing the antitrust laws in various countries; an alliance partner withdraws 2. Risk of Sudden Decrease in Crude Oil Prices number of passengers on the Group’s domestic and international 2) Delay of Aircraft Development Plans by Mitsubishi Aircraft from the Star Alliance or changes its business policies; another The Group conducts hedge transactions against changes in the routes to drop sharply. Corporation alliance group becomes more competitive; bilateral alliances price of crude oil to mitigate risk. Therefore, a sudden decrease Further, more employees and contractors than expected could The Group has decided to introduce the Mitsubishi Space Jet between member companies end; an alliance partner performs in oil prices may not directly contribute to earnings because, in fall ill due to the spread of new and highly contagious (formerly MRJ) that Mitsubishi Aircraft Corporation is developing, poorly, restructures, or becomes less creditworthy; or restrictions addition to decreases in or expiration of fuel surcharges, hedge infectious diseases, or due to increased virulence caused by with delivery scheduled after fiscal 2021. Further delivery delays on alliance activities are tightened due to external factors. Such positions and other market conditions may preclude the immediate changes in disease profile, which could affect the continuity of could create obstacles to Group’s operations. eventualities could affect Group management. reflection of a sudden drop in fuel expenses in results. Group’s business. 2. Risks to Business Structure (8) Risks Related to Foreign Exchange Rate (11) Risks Related to Disasters Our Air Transportation Business and Airline Related Business Fluctuations The extended closure or operational restriction of airports or flight account for the majority of consolidated operating revenues. In The Group’s expenditures in foreign currencies are greater than its path restrictions due to disasters including an earthquake, a addition, the Air Transportation Business is closely interconnected revenues in foreign currencies. Therefore, depreciation of the yen tsunami, a flood, a typhoon, heavy snow, a volcanic eruption, an with our Travel Services and Trade and Retail businesses. In this affects the Group’s profits. Accordingly, to the greatest extent infectious disease, a strike, or a riot could impact flight operations way, the ANA Group business structure is heavily dependent on the possible, foreign currency taken in as revenue is used to pay using affected airports and routes or result in significantly reduced Air Transportation Business. It may not be possible for other operatexpenses denominated in the same foreign currency to minimize demand for air transportation, which could affect the Group’s ing segments to compensate for an event that affects the overall Air the impact on operating income from the risk of fluctuations in performance. Transportation Business revenues, which could have a significant foreign exchange rates. In addition, the Group uses forward In particular, the Group’s data center is located in the Tokyo impact on Group performance. exchange agreements and currency options for a portion of the metropolitan area, while the operational control for all of the Group’s foreign currency needed for purchases of aircraft and jet fuel to domestic and international flights is conducted at Haneda Airport stabilize and limit payment amounts on a yen conversion basis. and most of the Group’s passengers use Tokyo metropolitan area However, there are limits to the extent to which the Group can airports. As a result, a major disaster, such as an earthquake or a reduce and offset costs by adjusting fares and charges should typhoon; a disaster at the abovementioned facilities, such as a fire; costs increase due to the rapid depreciation of the yen in the or a strike that closes the airports or limits their access could lead foreign exchange market over a short period of time. Accordingly, to a long-term shutdown of the Group’s information systems, such an occurrence could, depending on hedge positions and operational control functions, or its operations themselves that other factors, affect the Group’s profit and expenditures. could significantly affect the Group’s performance. Conversely, if the yen should appreciate rapidly in the foreign exchange market over a short period of time, depending upon hedge positions and other factors, this may preclude immediate reflection in lower fuel expenses and impact the Group’s ability to enjoy the benefits of the appreciation of the yen. 114 115 Financial / Data Section  Operating Risks (14) Risks Related to Air Safety (15) Risks Related to Unauthorized Disclosure of (19) Risks Related to Profit Structure 1. Aircraft Accidents Customer Information and Other Data Expenses that are largely unaffected by passenger load factors, An aircraft accident involving a flight operated by the Group or a The Group holds a large amount of information relating to customincluding fixed costs such as aircraft expenses, along with fuel code-share partner could cause a drop in customer confidence and ers, such as that pertaining to the approximately 36.65 million expenses and landing and navigation fees which are largely deterimpair the Group’s public reputation, creating a mediumto longmembers (as of the end of March 2020) of the ANA Mileage Club. mined by the type of aircraft, account for a significant proportion of term downturn in demand that could significantly affect the Group’s The Personal Information Protection Law of Japan and similar laws the Group’s costs, which limits the Group’s ability to immediately performance. in countries overseas require proper management of such personal change the scale of its operations in response to changes in Major accidents suffered by other airlines could similarly lead to information. The Group has established a privacy policy, apprised economic conditions. Therefore, decreases in the number of a reduction in aviation demand that could affect the Group’s customers of the Group’s stance regarding the handling of personal passengers or volume of cargo could have a large impact on the performance. An aircraft accident would give rise to significant information, and established measures to counter any foreseeable Group’s revenue and expenses. expenses including compensation for damages and the repair or contingency to ensure information security, including in its IT Moreover, a significant decrease in demand during the summer replacement of aircraft, but aviation insurance would not cover all systems. In addition, work procedures and information systems could affect the Group’s performance for that fiscal year, as passenger such direct expenses. are continuously monitored and revised to eliminate any potential service sales typically increase during summer. security gaps. Despite these precautions, the occurrence of a major 2. Violations of the Civil Aeronautics Act, etc. leak of personal information caused by unauthorized access, an (20) Financial Risks ANA Group businesses are required to comply with the Civil error in conducting business, or some other factor could carry 1. Increase in the Cost of Financing Aeronautics Act and notifications from government agencies. significant costs, in terms of both compensation and loss of The Group raises funds to acquire aircraft primarily through bank Serious violations of the Civil Aeronautics Act could result in disadpublic confidence, which could affect the Group’s performance. loans and bond issuances. However, the cost of financing could vantageous treatment (administrative penalties, administrative increase due to deteriorating conditions in the airline industry, guidance). In the past, the ANA Group has received a Business (16) Risks Related to IT Systems turmoil in capital and financial markets, changes in the tax system Improvement Order due to violations of warnings related to insuffiThe Group is highly dependent on information systems for such or government interest policy, changes to the guarantee systems cient maintenance and excessive consumption of alcohol among critical functions as customer service and operational management. at governmental financial institutions, or a downgrade of the flight crew. In addition to the negative impact on confidence in ANA A major disruption of one of those systems or of telecommunicaCompany’s credit rating that makes it difficult or impossible to Group operational safety, this kind of disadvantageous treatment tions networks caused by natural disasters, accidents, computer finance on terms advantageous to the Group. Such eventualities could lead to a suspension of operations or revocation of business viruses or unauthorized access, power supply constraints, largecould affect the Group’s performance. licenses, depending on recurrence or the severity of the violation. scale power outages, or system failures or malfunctions would Such disadvantageous treatment could have a serious impact on make it difficult to maintain customer service and operations and 2. Risks Related to Asset Impairment or Other Issues Group performance. would result in a loss of public confidence, which could affect the The Group owns extensive property and equipment as a function of Group’s performance. Further, the Group’s information systems are its businesses. If the profitability of various operations deteriorates, 3. Technical Circular Directives also used by its partner airlines so there is a possibility that the or a decision is made to sell assets, the Group may be required to If an issue arises that significantly compromises the safety of an impact of systems failure would not be limited to the Group. recognize asset impairment losses or loss on sales of property and aircraft, MLIT by law issues a technical circular directive. In some equipment in the future. cases, all aircraft of the same model might be grounded until the (17) Risks Related to Personnel and Labor measures to improve the airworthiness of the aircraft and equipMany Group employees belong to labor unions. Events including a 3. Risks Related to Deferred Income Taxes ment have been implemented as directed. collective strike by Group employees could have an effect on the If declining business profits result in lower future taxable income Even when the law does not require a directive to be issued, Group’s aircraft operation. than estimates used in current tax planning, the recoverable amount in some cases when safety cannot be confirmed from a technical of deferred income taxes could decrease, leading to a write-down perspective, operation of the same model might be voluntarily (18) Risk of Inability to Secure Required Personnel of deferred income taxes. suspended and inspections and other maintenance activities may The growth of our LCC Business and other factors have increased be performed. The occurrence of such a situation could affect the demand for flight crews and other personnel. A certain period of (21) Risks Related to Litigation Group’s safety credibility or performance. In particular, the Group is time is required to cultivate and train flight crews and other personnel. The Group could be subject to various lawsuits in connection with moving forward with fleet consolidation to new aircraft models, such Inability to secure the required number of competent flight crews its business activities, which could affect the Group’s performance. as the Boeing 787. An unanticipated design defect or technical and other personnel in a timely manner could affect the Group’s issue with these new models, which serve as mainstay aircraft, performance. In addition, a change of the supply–demand balance, (22) Risk of Inability to Secure Aircraft Fuel could have a serious impact on Group performance. in labor markets could lead to personnel shortages in airport handling The Group sees the slot expansions at Tokyo metropolitan area and other operations, as well as a sharp increase in wage levels. airports as a major business opportunity. As we plan for business growth, aircraft fuel consumption volume is expected to increase. If we are not able to secure appropriate volumes of aircraft fuel, this development could have an effect on Group aircraft operations. 116 117 Financial / Data Section  Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Balance Sheet ANA HOLDINGS INC. and its consolidated subsidiaries As of March 31, 2020 U.S. dollars U.S. dollars (Thousands) (Thousands) Yen (Millions) (Note 2) Yen (Millions) (Note 2) ASSETS 2020 2019 2020 LIABILITIES AND NET ASSETS 2020 2019 2020 Current assets: Current liabilities: Cash and deposits (Notes 15 and 20) ¥ 109,447 ¥ 68,301 $ 1,005,669 Short-term loans (Notes 7 and 15) ¥ 429 ¥ 336 $ 3,941 Marketable securities (Notes 4 and 15) 129,200 225,360 1,187,172 Current portion of long-term debt (Notes 7 and 15) 107,878 112,651 991,252 Notes and accounts receivable (Note 15) 98,944 187,529 909,161 Accounts payable (Note 15) 196,391 229,712 1,804,566 Accounts receivable from and advances to unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates 2,851 4,204 26,196 Accounts payable to unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates 4,325 4,544 39,740 Lease receivables (Note 7) 22,823 26,491 209,712 Advance ticket sales 111,827 218,950 1,027,538 Inventories (Notes 5, 7 and 22) 67,312 62,130 618,505 Accrued expenses 36,974 60,590 339,740 Prepaid expenses and other 141,123 126,672 1,296,728 Income taxes payable 8,441 21,374 77,561 Allowance for doubtful accounts (538) (457) (4,943) Other current liabilities (Note 9) 64,281 37,776 590,655 Total current assets 571,162 700,230 5,248,203 Total current liabilities 530,546 685,933 4,874,997 Long-term liabilities: Long-term debt (Notes 7 and 15) 734,555 675,662 6,749,563 Property and equipment: Liability for retirement benefits (Note 8) 163,384 158,209 1,501,277 Land (Note 7) 53,886 54,270 495,139 Deferred income taxes (Note 10) 112 110 1,029 Buildings and structures (Note 7) 306,084 268,082 2,812,496 Asset retirement obligations (Note 9) 1,224 3,371 11,246 Aircraft (Note 7) 2,120,347 1,961,881 19,483,111 Other long-term liabilities 61,462 54,524 564,752 Machinery and equipment 112,343 105,594 1,032,279 Total long-term liabilities 960,737 891,876 8,827,869 Vehicles 32,741 30,858 300,845 Furniture and fixtures 65,428 56,015 601,194 Contingent liabilities (Note 14) Lease assets (Note 12) 11,170 12,330 102,637 Construction in progress 180,005 286,635 1,654,001 Net assets (Note 13): Total 2,882,004 2,775,665 26,481,705 Common stock: Accumulated depreciation (1,301,678) (1,228,595) (11,960,654) Authorized – 510,000,000 shares; Net property and equipment 1,580,326 1,547,070 14,521,051 Issued – 348,498,361 shares in 2020 and 2019 318,789 318,789 2,929,238 Capital surplus 258,470 258,448 2,374,988 Retained earnings 550,839 548,439 5,061,462 Investments and other assets: Treasury stock – 13,978,652 shares in 2020 and 13,868,935 shares in 2019 (59,435) (59,032) (546,126) Investment securities (Notes 4 and 15) 108,156 120,619 993,806 Accumulated other comprehensive income: Investments in and advances to unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates (Note 6) 42,322 42,790 388,881 22,120 37,622 203,252 Unrealized gain on securities Lease and guaranty deposits 18,501 24,330 169,999 (14,595) 10,636 (134,108) Deferred gain (loss) on derivatives under hedge accounting Deferred income taxes (Note 10) 99,824 85,307 917,247 2,668 2,873 24,515 Foreign currency translation adjustments Goodwill 24,461 51,132 224,763 Defined retirement benefit plans (17,828) (18,362) (163,815) Intangible assets 101,062 104,048 928,622 Total 1,061,028 1,099,413 9,749,407 Other assets 14,339 11,596 131,755 Non-controlling interests 7,842 9,900 72,057 Total investments and other assets 408,665 439,822 3,755,076 Total net assets 1,068,870 1,109,313 9,821,464 TOTAL (Note 17) ¥ 2,560,153 ¥ 2,687,122 $ 23,524,331 TOTAL ¥2,560,153 ¥2,687,122 $23,524,331 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 118 119 Financial / Data Section  Consolidated Statement of Income Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income ANA HOLDINGS INC. and its consolidated subsidiaries ANA HOLDINGS INC. and its consolidated subsidiaries Year Ended March 31, 2020 Year Ended March 31, 2020 U.S. dollars U.S. dollars (Thousands) (Thousands) Yen (Millions) (Note 2) Yen (Millions) (Note 2) 2020 2019 2020 2020 2019 2020 Operating revenues (Note 17) ¥1,974,216 ¥2,058,312 $18,140,365 Net income ¥ 25,919 ¥111,837 $ 238,160 Cost of sales (Note 22) 1,583,434 1,559,876 14,549,609 Other comprehensive income (loss) (Note 11): Gross profit 390,782 498,436 3,590,756 Unrealized gain (loss) on securities (15,369) 13,115 (141,220) Selling, general and administrative expenses (Notes 8 and 18) 329,976 333,417 3,032,031 Deferred gain (loss) on derivatives under hedge accounting (25,227) 14,115 (231,801) Operating income (Note 17) 60,806 165,019 558,724 Foreign currency translation adjustments (221) (382) (2,030) Other income (expenses): Defined retirement benefit plans 539 2,930 4,952 Interest income 958 767 8,802 Share of other comprehensive income (loss) in affiliates (383) 15 (3,519) Dividend income 2,073 2,159 19,048 Total other comprehensive income (loss) (Note 11) (40,661) 29,793 (373,619) Equity in earnings of unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates 1,210 1,559 11,118 Comprehensive income (loss) ¥(14,742) ¥141,630 $(135,458) Foreign exchange gain (loss), net 473 (1,761) 4,346 Total comprehensive income (loss) attributable to: Gain on sales of assets 6,746 2,554 61,986 Owners of the parent ¥(12,749) ¥140,613 $(117,146) Gain on donation of non-current assets 3,553 2,512 32,647 Non-controlling interests (1,993) 1,017 (18,312) Interest expenses (6,291) (6,995) (57,805) See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. Loss on sales of assets (302) (641) (2,774) Loss on disposal of assets (7,133) (11,117) (65,542) Impairment loss (Note 21) (25,159) (1,997) (231,177) Other, net (Note 22) 14,567 1,964 133,850 Other income (expenses), net (9,305) (10,996) (85,500) Income before income taxes 51,501 154,023 473,224 Income taxes (Note 10): Current 24,407 47,354 224,267 Deferred 1,175 (5,168) 10,796 Total income taxes 25,582 42,186 235,063 Net income 25,919 111,837 238,160 Net income (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests (1,736) 1,060 (15,951) Net income attributable to owners of the parent ¥ 27,655 ¥ 110,777 $ 254,111 U.S. dollars Yen (Note 2) 2020 2019 2020 Per share of common stock (Notes 3, 13 and 19): Basic net income ¥82.66 ¥331.04 $0.75 Cash dividends applicable to the year – 75.00 – Net income per share assuming full dilution is not disclosed as the Company had no potentially dilutive shares outstanding during the years ended March 31, 2020 and 2019. See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 120 121 Financial / Data Section  Consolidated Statement of Changes in Net Assets Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows ANA HOLDINGS INC. and its consolidated subsidiaries ANA HOLDINGS INC. and its consolidated subsidiaries Year Ended March 31, 2020 Year Ended March 31, 2020 Thousands Yen (Millions) U.S. dollars Accumulated other comprehensive income (Thousands) Deferred Yen (Millions) (Note 2) Number of gain (loss) on Foreign 2020 2019 2020 shares of Total Unrealized derivatives currency Defined Noncommon stock Common Capital Retained Treasury shareholders’ gain on under hedge translation retirement controlling Total Cash flows from operating activities: outstanding stock surplus earnings stock equity securities accounting adjustments benefit plans Total interests net assets Income before income taxes ¥ 51,501 ¥ 154,023 $ 473,224 Balance at April 1, 2018 334,632 ¥318,789 ¥268,208 ¥457,746 ¥(59,015) ¥ 985,728 ¥ 24,467 ¥ (3,471) ¥3,201 ¥(21,264) ¥ 2,933 ¥11,891 ¥1,000,552 Adjustments for: Net income attributable to owners of the parent 110,777 110,777 110,777 Depreciation and amortization (Note 17) 175,739 159,541 1,614,802 Cash dividends ¥60.00 per Impairment loss (Note 21) 25,159 1,997 231,177 share (Note 13) (20,084) (20,084) (20,084) Amortization of goodwill (Note 17) 4,006 4,031 36,809 Purchase of treasury stock Loss on disposal and sales of property and equipment 689 9,204 6,330 (Note 13) (10) (41) (41) (41) Disposal of treasury stock Gain on sales and valuation of investment securities (269) (149) (2,471) (Note 13) 7 24 24 24 Loss on sales of shares of subsidiaries and affiliates 7 343 64 Change in the parent’s Increase in allowance for doubtful accounts 419 51 3,850 ­ownership interest due Increase in liability for retirement benefits 5,503 4,801 50,565 to transactions with ­non-controlling interests (9,760) (9,760) (9,760) Interest and dividend income (3,031) (2,926) (27,850) Net changes in the year – 13,155 14,107 (328) 2,902 29,836 (1,991) 27,845 Interest expenses 6,291 6,995 57,805 Total changes during the Foreign exchange loss (gain) 273 (534) 2,508 fiscal year – (9,760) 90,693 (17) 80,916 13,155 14,107 (328) 2,902 29,836 (1,991) 108,761 Decrease (increase) in notes and accounts receivable 82,312 (7,195) 756,335 Balance at March 31, 2019 334,629 318,789 258,448 548,439 (59,032) 1,066,644 37,622 10,636 2,873 (18,362) 32,769 9,900 1,109,313 Increase in other current assets (9,284) (20,788) (85,307) Net income attributable to Increase (decrease) in notes and accounts payable (38,045) 3,355 (349,581) owners of the parent 27,655 27,655 27,655 Cash dividends ¥75.00 per Increase (decrease) in advance ticket sales (107,123) 37,597 (984,314) share (Note 13) (25,105) (25,105) (25,105) Other, net (14,510) 12,694 (133,327) Purchase of treasury stock Subtotal 179,637 363,040 1,650,620 (Note 13) (125) (453) (453) (453) Interest and dividends received 3,831 3,447 35,201 Disposal of treasury stock (Note 13) 15 50 50 50 Interest paid (6,371) (7,175) (58,540) Change in the parent’s Income taxes paid (46,928) (63,164) (431,204) ­ownership interest due Net cash provided by operating activities 130,169 296,148 1,196,076 to transactions with ­non-controlling interests 22 22 22 Cash flows from investing activities: Changes in scope of Increase in time deposits (55,819) (45,811) (512,900) consolidation (150) (150) (150) Proceeds from withdrawal of time deposits 50,789 30,794 466,681 Net changes in the year – (15,502) (25,231) (205) 534 (40,404) (2,058) (42,462) Purchases of marketable securities (175,070) (176,060) (1,608,655) Total changes during the Proceeds from redemption of marketable securities 159,200 196,582 1,462,831 fiscal year – 22 2,400 (403) 2,019 (15,502) (25,231) (205) 534 (40,404) (2,058) (40,443) Purchases of property and equipment (317,604) (336,807) (2,918,349) Balance at March 31, 2020 334,519 ¥318,789 ¥258,470 ¥550,839 ¥(59,435) ¥1,068,663 ¥ 22,120 ¥(14,595) ¥2,668 ¥(17,828) ¥ (7,635) ¥ 7,842 ¥1,068,870 Proceeds from sales of property and equipment 151,652 84,917 1,393,476 Thousands U.S. dollars (Thousands) (Note 2) Purchases of intangible assets (33,757) (39,057) (310,181) Accumulated other comprehensive income Purchases of investment securities (8,339) (18,978) (76,624) Deferred Proceeds from sales of investment securities 1,424 153 13,084 Number of gain (loss) on Foreign shares of Total Unrealized derivatives currency Defined NonOther, net (2,694) (4,404) (24,754) common stock Common Capital Retained Treasury shareholders’ gain on under hedge translation retirement controlling Total outstanding stock surplus earnings stock equity securities accounting adjustments benefit plans Total interests net assets Net cash used in investing activities (230,218) (308,671) (2,115,390) Balance at March 31, 2019 334,629 $2,929,238 $2,374,786 $5,039,410 $(542,423) $9,801,010 $ 345,695 $ 97,730 $26,398 $(168,721) $ 301,102 $90,967 $10,193,080 Cash flows from financing activities: Net income attributable to Increase in short-term loans, net 98 156 900 owners of the parent 254,111 254,111 254,111 Proceeds from long-term loans 96,684 69,710 888,394 Cash dividends $0.68 per share (Note 13) (230,680) (230,680) (230,680) Repayment of long-term loans (82,035) (87,903) (753,790) Purchase of treasury stock Proceeds from issuance of bonds 69,586 19,876 639,400 (Note 13) (125) (4,162) (4,162) (4,162) Repayment of bonds (30,000) (10,000) (275,659) Disposal of treasury stock Repayment of finance lease obligations (4,609) (5,602) (42,350) (Note 13) 15 459 459 459 Change in the parent’s Payment for purchases of investments in subsidiaries with no changes (96) (11,326) (882) ­ownership interest due in scope of consolidation to transactions with Net increase of treasury stock (405) (17) (3,721) ­non-controlling interests 202 202 202 Payment for dividends (25,105) (20,084) (230,680) Changes in scope of consolidation (1,378) (1,378) (1,378) Other, net (249) (1,290) (2,287) Net changes in the year – (142,442) (231,838) (1,883) 4,906 (371,257) (18,910) (390,168) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 23,869 (46,480) 219,323 Total changes during the Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (274) 332 (2,517) fiscal year – 202 22,052 (3,703) 18,551 (142,442) (231,838) (1,883) 4,906 (371,257) (18,910) (371,616) Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (76,454) (58,671) (702,508) Balance at March 31, 2020 334,519 $2,929,238 $2,374,988 $5,061,462 $(546,126) $9,819,562 $ 203,252 $(134,108) $24,515 $(163,815) $ (70,155) $ 72,057 $ 9,821,464 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 211,838 270,509 1,946,503 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. Net increase resulting from changes in scope of consolidation 553 – 5,081 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year (Note 20) ¥ 135,937 ¥ 211,838 $ 1,249,076 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 122 123 Financial / Data Section  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ANA HOLDINGS INC. and its consolidated subsidiaries Year Ended March 31, 2020 (d) Allowance for doubtful accounts 1. Basis of presenting consolidated financial statements The allowance for doubtful accounts is stated in amounts considered to be appropriate based on the Group’s past credit loss experience and an evaluation of potential losses in the receivables outstanding. The accompanying consolidated financial statements of ANA HOLDINGS INC. (hereinafter referred to as the “Company”) and its consolidated subsidiaries have been prepared in accordance with the provisions set forth in the Japanese Financial Instruments and Exchange Act and its (e) Inventories related accounting regulations and in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in Japan (“Japanese GAAP”), which are different Inventories include aircraft spare parts, supplies and stock in trade of consolidated subsidiaries, and are stated at cost, principally determined by in certain respects as to the application and disclosure requirements of International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”). the moving-average method. The net book value of inventories in the consolidated balance sheet is written down when their net realizable value In preparing these consolidated financial statements, certain reclassifications and rearrangements have been made to the consolidated financial is less than book value. See Note 5 “Inventories” and Note 22 “Supplementary information for the consolidated statement of income” for addistatements issued domestically in order to present them in a form which is more familiar to readers outside Japan. In addition, certain reclassifitional information. cations have been made in the consolidated financial statements of the previous fiscal year to conform to the classifications used in the current fiscal year. (f) Property and equipment (excluding leased assets) Property and equipment, excluding leased assets, are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation of property and equipment is computed based on the estimated useful lives. Major assets are depreciated by the following method: 2. Translation of financial statements Buildings.................................... Straight-line method Aircraft....................................... Straight-line method The consolidated financial statements presented herein are expressed in Japanese yen and, solely for the convenience of readers outside of Japan, have been translated into U.S. dollars at the rate of ¥108.83 = US$1, the approximate exchange rate prevailing on the Tokyo Foreign The Company and certain subsidiaries employ principally the following useful lives for major property and equipment, based upon the Exchange Market on March 31, 2020. This translation should not be construed as a representation that the amounts shown could be converted Company’s estimate of durability: into U.S. dollars at that or any other rate. Translations of U.S. dollars are rounded down to the nearest thousand and, therefore, the totals shown in tables do not necessarily agree with the sums of the individual amounts. Buildings.................................... 3–50 years Aircraft....................................... 9–20 years 3. Summary of significant accounting policies Major additions and improvements are capitalized at cost. Maintenance and repairs, including minor remodels and improvements, are charged to income as incurred. (a) Consolidation The Group reviews its long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstance indicate the carrying amount of an asset The consolidated financial statements as of March 31, 2020 include the accounts of the Company and its 62 (62 in 2019) significant subsidiaries or asset group may not be recoverable. The assets of the Group are grouped by individual property in the case of rental real estate, assets (collectively, the “Group”). ­determined to be sold and idle assets, and by management accounting categories in the case of business assets. An impairment loss is recognized if the carrying amount of an asset or asset group exceeds the sum of the undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from Under the control and influence concepts, those companies in which the Company, directly or indirectly, is able to exercise control over the continued use and eventual disposition of the asset or asset group. The impairment loss would be measured as the amount by which the ­operations are fully consolidated, and those companies over which the Group has the ability to exercise significant influence are accounted for carrying amount of the asset exceeds its recoverable amount, which is the higher of the discounted cash flows from the continued use by the equity method. and eventual disposition of the asset or the net selling price at disposition. See Note 21 “Impairment loss” for additional information. Investments in 16 (16 in 2019) unconsolidated subsidiaries and significant affiliates are accounted for by the equity method. (g) Intangible assets and amortization (excluding leased assets) The difference between the cost and the underlying net assets at dates of acquisition of consolidated subsidiaries and companies accounted for Intangible assets are amortized principally by the straight-line method. Cost of software purchased for internal use is amortized by the straightby the equity method is amortized using the straight-line method over a period of 10 to 15 years. line method over five years, the estimated useful life of purchased software. Investments in 95 (94 in 2019) subsidiaries and affiliates which are not consolidated or accounted for by the equity method are stated at cost. (h) Retirement benefits If the equity method of accounting had been applied to the investments in these companies, the effect on the accompanying consolidated The retirement benefit plans of the Group cover substantially all employees other than directors and corporate auditors. Under the terms of this financial statements would not be material. plan, eligible employees are entitled, upon mandatory retirement or earlier voluntary severance, to lump-sum payments or annuity payments All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. All material unrealized profit included in assets based on their compensation at the time of leaving and years of service with the Company and subsidiaries. resulting from transactions within the Group is also eliminated. The Company and certain significant domestic subsidiaries have trustee employee pension funds to provide coverage for part of the lump-sum Certain subsidiaries have fiscal years ending on December 31 and February 29, and necessary adjustments for significant transactions, if any, benefits or annuity payments. are made in consolidation. The Company and certain consolidated subsidiaries sponsor defined contribution pension plans as well as defined benefit pension plans. (b) Foreign currency translation The Company accounts for the liability for retirement benefits based on the projected benefit obligations and plan assets at the balance sheet All short-term and long-term monetary receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies are translated into yen at the rates of date. The projected benefit obligations are attributed to periods on a benefit formula basis. Actuarial gains and losses and past service costs exchange in effect at the balance sheet date, except for payables and receivables hedged by qualified forward exchange contracts, and differthat are yet to be recognized in profit or loss are recognized within net assets (accumulated other comprehensive income), after adjusting for ences arising from the translation are included in the consolidated statement of income. tax effects, and are recognized in profit or loss over the average remaining service years of employees. The balance sheet accounts of consolidated foreign subsidiaries are translated into yen at the rates of exchange in effect at the balance sheet (i) Income taxes date, except for the components of net assets excluding non-controlling interests which are translated at their historical exchange rates. Revenue The provision for income taxes is computed based on the pretax income included in the consolidated statement of income. The asset and and expense accounts are translated at the average rate of exchange in effect during the year. Differences arising from the translation are liability approach is used to recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of temporary differences presented as foreign currency translation adjustments in net assets. between the carrying amounts and the tax bases of assets and liabilities. Deferred taxes are measured by applying currently enacted income tax rates to the temporary differences. See Note 10 “Income taxes” for additional information. (c) Marketable securities and investment securities Marketable securities and investment securities are classified into three categories: trading, held-to-maturity or available-for-sale. Under the (j) Leases accounting standard, trading securities are carried at fair value and held-to-maturity securities are carried at amortized cost. Marketable Leased assets arising from transactions under finance lease contracts are depreciated to a residual value of zero by the straight-line method ­securities classified as available-for-sale securities are carried at fair value with changes in unrealized holding gain or loss, net of the applicable using the term of the contract as the useful life. income taxes, included directly in net assets. Non-marketable securities classified as available-for-sale securities are carried at cost, determined by the moving-average method. See Note 4 “Marketable securities and investment securities” for additional information. 124 125 Financial / Data Section  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (k) Derivatives (2) Application date The Group uses derivatives, such as forward foreign currency exchange contracts, interest rate swaps, and commodity options and swaps are to The Company will apply the accounting standard and guidance for annual periods beginning on or after April 1, 2021, and is in the process of limit its exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity prices. The Group does not use derivatives for measuring the effects of applying the accounting standard and guidance on its consolidated financial statements in future applicable periods. trading purposes. “Accounting Standard for Fair Value Measurement” (ASBJ Statement No. 30 – July 4, 2019) Derivative financial instruments are carried at fair value with changes in unrealized gains or losses charged or credited to income, except for those which meet the criteria for deferral hedge accounting under which an unrealized gain or loss is deferred. Receivables and payables “Accounting Standard for Measurement of Inventories” (ASBJ Statement No. 9 – July 4, 2019) hedged by qualified forward exchange contracts are translated at the corresponding foreign exchange contract rates. Interest rate swaps that “Accounting Standard for Financial Instruments” (ASBJ Statement No. 10 – July 4, 2019) qualify for hedge accounting and meet specific matching criteria are not measured at fair value, but the differential paid or received under the swap agreements is recognized and included in interest expenses. “Implementation Guidance on Accounting Standard for Fair Value Measurement” (ASBJ Guidance No. 31 – July 4, 2019) (l) Revenue recognition “Implementation Guidance on Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments” (ASBJ Guidance No. 19 – March 31, 2020) Passenger revenues, cargo and other operating revenues are recorded when services are provided. (1) Overview (m) Cash equivalents The IASB and FASB established almost the same detailed implementation guidance for Fair Value Measurement (IFRS 13 and Topic 820 issued by IASB and FASB, respectively). Cash equivalents are short-term investments that are readily convertible into cash and exposed to insignificant risk of changes in value. Cash equivalents include time deposits and negotiable certificates of deposit, all of which mature or become due within three months of The ASBJ has since made efforts to align Japanese GAAP to International Accounting Standards, so as to incorporate the aforementioned the date of acquisition. See Note 20 “Supplementary cash flow information” for additional information. implementation guidance for Fair Value Measurement and Disclosures. This resulted in them issuing ASBJ Statement No. 30, “Accounting Standard for Fair Value Measurement.” (n) Per share information Basic net income per share is computed by dividing net income attributable to common shareholders by the weighted-average number of The ASBJ’s primary policy for developing its Accounting Standard for Fair Value Measurement was to include the basic principles of IFRS 13 for common shares outstanding for the period, retroactively adjusted for stock splits. the purpose of comparability, between financial statements in accordance with Japanese GAAP and those in accordance with IFRS or accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, for particular items for which industrial practice should be taken into Diluted net income per share reflects the potential dilution that could occur if securities were exercised or converted into common stock. Diluted consideration, alternative means are to be provided to the extent that comparability is maintained. net income per share of common stock assumes full conversion of the outstanding convertible notes and bonds at the beginning of the year (or at the time of issuance) with an applicable adjustment for related interest expense, net of tax, and full exercise of outstanding warrants. (2) Application date The Company will apply the accounting standard and guidance for annual periods beginning on or after April 1, 2021, and is in the process of Diluted net income per share is not presented as the effect of including potential common shares is anti-dilutive. measuring the effects of applying the accounting standard and guidance on its consolidated financial statements in future applicable periods. Cash dividends per share presented in the accompanying consolidated statement of income are dividends applicable to the respective fiscal “Accounting Standard for Disclosure of Accounting Estimates” (ASBJ Statement No. 31 – March 31, 2020) years, including dividends to be paid after the end of the year. (1) Overview (o) Share remuneration plan for directors Regarding “key sources of estimation uncertainty,” required to be disclosed in accordance with “Presentation of Financial Statements” The Company has transactions for delivery of the Company’s treasury stock through a trust as a share remuneration plan (the “Trust for Delivery (International Accounting Standards 1 (“IAS 1”), issued by the IASB in 2003, the ASBJ was requested that it should consider to require disclosure of Shares to Directors”) in order to improve its operating performance, increase its corporate value, and raise the directors’ awareness of of such note information for the purpose of enhancing usability of Financial Statements. ­shareholder-oriented management. In response to such requests, the ASBJ developed and issued ASBJ Statement No. 31. The ASBJ’s primary policy for developing its accounting (1) Transaction outline standards is not requiring the expansion of individual notes but leading a company to determine the specific content of disclosure in light of the Trust for Delivery of Shares to Directors is a system in which funds are contributed by the Company, and shares acquired are distributed to the purpose of disclosure by showing their principle and the purpose of disclosure. Company’s directors in accordance with the Company’s operating performance, etc. (2) Application date (2) The Company’s treasury stock remaining in the trust The Company will apply the accounting standard on March 31, 2021. The Company’s treasury stock remaining in the trust is recorded at book value (excluding associated expenses) of the trust and is reflected as treasury stock in net assets. The book value was ¥340 million for the previous fiscal year and ¥717 million for the current fiscal year. The number “Accounting Standard for Accounting Policy Disclosures, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections” (ASBJ Statement No. 24 – March 31, 2020) of shares was 107 thousand shares for the previous fiscal year and 209 thousand shares for the current fiscal year. (1) Overview (p) Unapplied new accounting standard The ASBJ revised and issued “Accounting Standard for Accounting Policy Disclosures, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections,” in order to “Accounting Standard for Revenue Recognition” (Accounting Standards Board of Japan (“ASBJ”) Statement No. 29 – March 31, 2020) enhance note information on accounting principles and procedures that were adopted when the provisions of relevant accounting standards are not clear. “Implementation Guidance on Accounting Standard for Revenue Recognition” (ASBJ Guidance No. 30 – March 31, 2020) Also, in consideration of affect on accounting practices, the guidance is subject to applicable No. 24 of annotations on the accounting principles. “Implementation Guidance on Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments” (ASBJ Guidance No. 19 – March 31, 2020) (2) Application date (1) Overview The Company will apply the accounting standard on March 31, 2021. The International Accounting Standards Board (“IASB”) and Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued a new revenue standard, “Revenue from Contracts with Customers” (International Financial Reporting Standard 15 (“IFRS 15”) and Accounting Standard Codification 606 (q) Additional information (“Topic 606”) issued by the IASB and FASB, respectively), on May 2014. Accounting estimates associated with the spread of COVID-19 Against the background of the fact that IFRS 15 will be effective from periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018 and Topic 606 will be effecDemand for air transportation in Japan and overseas decreased rapidly toward the end of the current fiscal year due to immigration restrictions tive from periods beginning on or after December 15, 2017, the ASBJ issued ASBJ Statement No. 29, “Accounting Standard for Revenue imposed by various countries and the impact of the voluntary restraint of staying home within Japan resulting from the spread of COVID-19. Recognition,” and ASBJ Guidance No. 30, “Implementation Guidance on Accounting Standard for Revenue Recognition.” The core principle of the standard and guidance is that an entity should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an Accounting estimates in the current fiscal year, such as the valuation of goodwill and the recoverability of deferred tax assets, are based on the amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. certain assumption that the situation will continue until the second quarter of the next fiscal year and the demand will pick up gradually afterwards. The ASBJ’s primary policy for developing its accounting standard for revenue recognition was to include the basic principles of IFRS 15 for the purpose of comparability, between financial statements in accordance with Japanese GAAP and those in accordance with IFRS or accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, for particular items for which industrial practice should be taken into consideration, alternative means are to be provided to the extent that comparability is maintained. 126 127 Financial / Data Section  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements The redemption schedule of available-for-sale securities with maturities and held-to-maturity securities at March 31, 2020 and 2019 is 4. Marketable securities and investment securities summarized as follows: Marketable and investment securities at March 31, 2020 and 2019 are summarized as follows: U.S. dollars Yen (Millions) (Thousands) 2020 2019 2020 U.S. dollars Yen (Millions) (Thousands) Bonds: 2020 2019 2020 Within 1 year ¥ – ¥ – $ – Current: Over 1 year to 5 years – – – Negotiable certificates of deposits ¥129,200 ¥225,360 $1,187,172 Over 5 years to 10 years – – – Other – – – Over 10 years – – – Total ¥129,200 ¥225,360 $1,187,172 Other securities with maturities: Non-current: Within 1 year 129,200 225,360 1,187,172 Marketable equity securities ¥ 84,141 ¥ 88,385 $ 773,141 Over 1 year to 5 years 5,299 – 48,690 Other 24,014 32,234 220,656 Over 5 years to 10 years 2,025 6,389 18,607 Total ¥108,156 ¥120,619 $ 993,806 Over 10 years – – – Total: Within 1 year ¥129,200 ¥225,360 $1,187,172 The costs and aggregate fair values of marketable and investment securities at March 31, 2020 and 2019 were as follows: Over 1 year to 5 years 5,299 – 48,690 Over 5 years to 10 years 2,025 6,389 18,607 Yen (Millions) Over 10 years – – – As of March 31, 2020 Cost Unrealized gains Unrealized losses Fair value Securities classified as: Available-for-sale: 5. Inventories Negotiable certificates of deposit ¥129,200 ¥ – ¥ – ¥129,200 Marketable equity securities 51,453 36,211 (3,523) 84,141 Held-to-maturity 938 1,632 – 2,570 Inventories at March 31, 2020 and 2019 consisted the following: Yen (Millions) U.S. dollars Yen (Millions) (Thousands) As of March 31, 2019 Cost Unrealized gains Unrealized losses Fair value 2020 2019 2020 Securities classified as: Inventories (Merchandise) ¥13,490 ¥13,707 $123,954 Available-for-sale: Inventories (Supplies) 53,822 48,423 494,551 Negotiable certificates of deposit ¥225,360 ¥ – ¥ – ¥225,360 Total ¥67,312 ¥62,130 $618,505 Marketable equity securities 35,574 52,916 (105) 88,385 Held-to-maturity – – – – U.S. dollars (Thousands) 6. Investments in and advances to unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates As of March 31, 2020 Cost Unrealized gains Unrealized losses Fair value Securities classified as: Investments in and advances to unconsolidated subsidiaries and affiliates at March 31, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: Available-for-sale: Negotiable certificates of deposit $1,187,172 $ – $ – $1,187,172 U.S. dollars Marketable equity securities 472,783 332,729 (32,371) 773,141 Yen (Millions) (Thousands) Held-to-maturity 8,618 14,995 – 23,614 2020 2019 2020 Investments in capital stock ¥37,508 ¥38,565 $344,647 Advances 4,814 4,225 44,234 The proceeds, realized gains, and realized losses on the available-for-sale securities sold during the years ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 were Total ¥42,322 ¥42,790 $388,881 as follows: U.S. dollars Yen (Millions) (Thousands) 7. Short-term loans and long-term debt 2020 2019 2020 Proceeds ¥1,309 ¥559 $12,027 Gain on sales 1,122 333 10,309 Short-term loans and current portion of long-term debt at March 31, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: Loss on sales – – – U.S. dollars Yen (Millions) (Thousands) 2020 2019 2020 The breakdown of securities for which fair value cannot be reliably determined at March 31, 2020 and 2019 is as follows: Short-term loans ¥ 429 ¥ 336 $ 3,941 Current portion of long-term loans 84,057 77,883 772,369 U.S. dollars Yen (Millions) (Thousands) Current portion of bonds 20,000 30,000 183,772 2020 2019 2020 Current portion of finance lease obligations 3,821 4,768 35,109 Available-for-sale ¥23,076 ¥32,234 $212,037 Total ¥108,307 ¥112,987 $995,194 The average interest rates on the above short-term loans were 1.43% and 2.42% per annum in 2020 and 2019, respectively. 128 129 Financial / Data Section  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Long-term debt at March 31, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: The following assets were pledged as collateral for short-term and long-term debt at March 31, 2020 and 2019: U.S. dollars U.S. dollars Yen (Millions) (Thousands) Yen (Millions) (Thousands) 2020 2019 2020 2020 2019 2020 Bonds: Assets at net book value: 1.22% notes due 2024 ¥ 30,000 ¥ 30,000 $ 275,659 Aircraft (including aircraft spare parts included in inventories) ¥510,607 ¥497,719 $4,691,785 1.20% notes due 2026 15,000 15,000 137,829 Land and buildings 2,956 2,678 27,161 0.38% notes due 2019 – 30,000 – Lease receivables 12,751 14,479 117,164 0.99% notes due 2036 20,000 20,000 183,772 Others 11,135 11,135 102,315 0.26% notes due 2020 20,000 20,000 183,772 Total ¥537,449 ¥526,012 $4,938,426 0.88% notes due 2037 10,000 10,000 91,886 Convertible bonds with stock acquisition rights due 2022 70,000 70,000 643,204 Convertible bonds with stock acquisition rights due 2024 70,000 70,000 643,204 The aggregate annual maturities of long-term debt after March 31, 2020 are as follows: 0.82% notes due 2038 10,000 10,000 91,886 0.47% notes due 2028 10,000 10,000 91,886 U.S. dollars Years ending March 31 Yen (Millions) (Thousands) 0.27% notes due 2026 5,000 – 45,943 0.84% notes due 2039 15,000 – 137,829 2021 ¥107,878 $ 991,252 0.27% notes due 2025 30,000 – 275,659 2022 73,806 678,176 0.28% notes due 2029 10,000 – 91,886 2023 132,942 1,221,556 2024 87,388 802,977 0.69% notes due 2039 10,000 – 91,886 2025 115,134 1,057,925 325,000 285,000 2,986,308 Loans, principally from banks: Thereafter 325,285 2,988,927 Secured, bearing interest from 0.07% to 2.11% in 2020 and 0.13% to 2.11% in 2019, maturing in Total ¥842,433 $7,740,815 installments through 2040 287,827 281,235 2,644,739 Unsecured, bearing interest from 0.46% to 2.23% in 2020 and 0.46% to 2.23% in 2019, maturing in installments through 2031 213,130 203,478 1,958,375 500,957 484,713 4,603,114 8. Retirement benefit plans Finance lease obligations: Finance lease agreements expiring through 2031 16,476 18,600 151,392 The Company and certain consolidated subsidiaries provide defined contribution pension plans as well as defined benefit pension plans, i.e., 842,433 788,313 7,740,815 defined benefit corporate pension plans and lump-sum payment plans for the benefit of employees. Premium severance pay may be paid at the Less current portion 107,878 112,651 991,252 time of retirement of eligible employees in certain cases. Total ¥734,555 ¥675,662 $6,749,563 Certain consolidated subsidiaries adopting defined benefit corporate pension plans and lump-sum payment plans use a simplified method for calculating retirement benefit expenses and liabilities. The details of the convertible bonds with stock acquisition rights are as follows: (a) The changes in the defined benefit obligation for the years ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 are as follows: Zero coupon convertible bonds due 2022 Class of shares to be issued Common stock U.S. dollars Yen (Millions) (Thousands) Total issue price of stock acquisition rights Zero 2020 2019 2020 Initial conversion price ¥5,180 ($47.59) per share Balance at the beginning of the fiscal year ¥223,723 ¥227,114 $2,055,710 Total issue price ¥70,000 million ($643,204 thousand) Service cost 10,216 10,036 93,871 Total issue price of shares issued upon the exercise of stock acquisition rights – Interest cost 1,687 1,711 15,501 Percentage of stock acquisition rights granted 100.0% Actuarial losses (gains) 2,119 (76) 19,470 Exercise period October 3, 2017 through September 2, 2022 Benefits paid (12,958) (12,342) (119,066) Accrued past service cost – 0 – Decrease due to transition to the defined contribution pension plans – (2,827) – If all of these outstanding warrants had been exercised at March 31, 2020, 13,513,513 shares of common stock would have been issued. Other 499 107 4,585 Zero coupon convertible bonds due 2024 Balance at the end of the fiscal year ¥225,286 ¥223,723 $2,070,072 Class of shares to be issued Common stock Total issue price of stock acquisition rights Zero Initial conversion price ¥5,100 ($46.86) per share (b) The changes in plan assets for the years ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 are as follows: Total issue price ¥70,000 million ($643,204 thousand) U.S. dollars Total issue price of shares issued upon the exercise of stock acquisition rights – Yen (Millions) (Thousands) Percentage of stock acquisition rights granted 100.0% 2020 2019 2020 Exercise period October 3, 2017 through September 5, 2024 Balance at the beginning of the fiscal year ¥65,990 ¥70,661 $606,358 Expected return on plan assets 782 834 7,185 Actuarial losses (1,510) (421) (13,874) If all of these outstanding warrants had been exercised at March 31, 2020, 13,725,490 shares of common stock would have been issued. Employer contributions 2,611 2,455 23,991 Benefits paid (5,156) (5,253) (47,376) The conversion price of the convertible bonds is subject to adjustments to reflect stock splits and certain other events. Decrease due to transition to the defined contribution pension plans – (2,827) – As is customary in Japan, short-term and long-term bank loans are made under general agreements which provide that security and guarantees Other – 541 – for future and present indebtedness will be given upon request of the bank, and that the bank shall have the right, as the obligation becomes Balance at the end of the fiscal year ¥62,717 ¥65,990 $576,284 due or in the event of default and certain other specified events, to offset cash deposits against such obligations due to the bank. 130 131 Financial / Data Section  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (c) A reconciliation between the liability recorded in the consolidated balance sheet and the balances of the defined benefit obligation and plan (2) Method of determining the expected rate of return on plan assets assets at March 31, 2020 and 2019 is as follows: The expected rate of return on plan assets has been estimated based on the anticipated allocation to each plan asset class and the expected long-term returns on plan assets held in each category. U.S. dollars Yen (Millions) (Thousands) 2020 2019 2020 Funded defined benefit obligation ¥ 74,336 ¥ 77,533 $ 683,046 (h) Assumptions used for the years ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 are set forth as follows: Plan assets at fair value (62,717) (65,990) (576,284) 11,619 11,543 106,762 2020 2019 Unfunded defined benefit obligation 150,950 146,190 1,387,025 Discount rates 0.1 – 1.2% 0.1 – 1.2% Net liability arising from defined benefit obligation in the consolidated balance sheet ¥162,569 ¥157,733 $1,493,788 Expected rates of return on plan assets 1.0 – 2.5% 1.0 – 2.5% Liability for retirement benefits ¥163,384 ¥158,209 $1,501,277 Asset for defined benefits (815) (476) (7,488) (i) Defined contribution pension plans Net liability arising from defined benefit obligation in the consolidated balance sheet ¥162,569 ¥157,733 $1,493,788 The contributions to the defined contribution pension plans of the Company and certain subsidiaries were ¥4,381 million ($40,255 thousand) and ¥4,423 million for the years ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. (d) The components of net periodic benefit costs for the years ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 are as follows: 9. Asset retirement obligations U.S. dollars Yen (Millions) (Thousands) 2020 2019 2020 (a) Asset retirement obligations recorded on the consolidated balance sheet Service cost ¥10,216 ¥10,036 $ 93,871 Interest cost 1,687 1,711 15,501 (1) Overview of asset retirement obligations Expected return on plan assets (782) (834) (7,185) The Company and its domestic subsidiaries enter into agreements with national government entities that allow for the use of Japanese Recognized actuarial losses 3,569 3,676 32,794 ­government property and have entered into real estate lease contracts with such entities for the Head Office, sales branches, airport branches, Amortization of past service cost 847 885 7,782 and certain other offices. As the Company and its domestic subsidiaries have restoration obligations for such properties at the end of each lease Net periodic benefit costs ¥15,537 ¥15,474 $142,763 period, related legal obligations required by law and the contracts are recorded on the consolidated balance sheet as asset retirement obligations. (2) Calculation of asset retirement obligations (e) Amounts recognized in other comprehensive income (before income tax effect) related to the defined retirement benefit plans for the years The Group estimates the expected period of use as 1 to 30 years and calculates the amount of asset retirement obligations with a discount rate ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 are as follows: of 0% to 2.27%. U.S. dollars The following table indicates the changes in asset retirement obligations for the years ended March 31, 2020 and 2019: Yen (Millions) (Thousands) 2020 2019 2020 U.S. dollars Past service cost ¥(847) ¥ (885) $(7,782) Yen (Millions) (Thousands) Actuarial losses 60 (3,331) 551 2020 2019 2020 Total ¥(787) ¥(4,216) $(7,231) Balance at the beginning of the fiscal year ¥ 3,853 ¥1,319 $ 35,403 Liabilities incurred due to the acquisition of property and equipment 57 67 523 Accretion expense 19 389 174 (f) Amounts recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (before income tax effect) related to the defined retirement benefit plans at Liabilities settled (513) (320) (4,713) March 31, 2020 and 2019 are as follows: Other (2,161) 2,398 (19,856) Balance at the end of the fiscal year ¥ 1,255 ¥3,853 $ 11,531 U.S. dollars Yen (Millions) (Thousands) 2020 2019 2020 Unrecognized actuarial losses ¥17,378 ¥17,277 $159,680 (b) Asset retirement obligations not recorded on the consolidated balance sheet Unrecognized past service cost 8,281 9,169 76,091 The Company and its domestic subsidiaries enter into agreements with national government entities that allow for the use of Japanese governTotal ¥25,659 ¥26,446 $235,771 ment property, and have entered into real estate lease contracts with such entities for land and office at airport facilities, including Tokyo International Airport, Narita International Airport, New Chitose Airport, Chubu Centrair International Airport, Osaka International Airport, Kansai International Airport, Fukuoka Airport, and Naha Airport. The Company and its domestic subsidiaries have restoration obligations when they (g) Plan assets vacate and clear such facilities. However, as the above airports are considered to be critical infrastructure, it is beyond the control of the (1) Components of plan assets Company alone to determine when to vacate and clear such facilities, and it is also impossible to make reasonable estimates as there are Plan assets at March 31, 2020 and 2019 consisted of the following: currently no relocation plans for the above properties. Therefore, the Company and its domestic subsidiaries do not record asset retirement obligations for the related liabilities. 2020 2019 Bonds 43% 44% General accounts 13 12 Stocks 10 11 Cash and deposits 4 2 Other 30 31 Total 100% 100% 132 133 Financial / Data Section  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 10. Income taxes 11. Other comprehensive income The Company and certain of its domestic subsidiaries are subject to Japanese national and local income taxes which, in the aggregate, resulted The following table presents reclassification and tax effects allocated to each component of other comprehensive income for the years ended in a normal effective statutory tax rate of 30.62% for the years ended March 31, 2020 and 2019. March 31, 2020 and 2019: The Group files a tax return under the consolidated corporate-tax system, which allows companies to base tax payments on the combined profits U.S. dollars Yen (Millions) (Thousands) or losses of the parent company and certain of its domestic subsidiaries. 2020 2019 2020 The tax effects of significant temporary differences and tax loss carryforwards which resulted in deferred tax assets and liabilities at March 31, Unrealized gain (loss) on securities: 2020 and 2019 are as follows: Amount arising during the fiscal year ¥(19,764) ¥19,155 $(181,604) Reclassification adjustments to profit or loss (764) (221) (7,020) U.S. dollars Amount of unrealized gain (loss) on securities before tax effect (20,528) 18,934 (188,624) Yen (Millions) (Thousands) Tax effect 5,159 (5,819) 47,404 2020 2019 2020 Total (15,369) 13,115 (141,220) Deferred tax assets: Deferred gain (loss) on derivatives under hedge accounting: Liability for retirement benefits ¥ 50,286 ¥ 48,750 $ 462,060 Amount arising during the fiscal year (41,013) 9,585 (376,853) Prepaid expenses 9,901 8,356 90,976 Reclassification adjustments to profit or loss 4,424 10,671 40,650 Deferred loss on hedging instruments 8,723 – 80,152 Amount of deferred gain (loss) on derivatives under hedge accounting before tax effect (36,589) 20,256 (336,203) Accrued bonuses to employees 6,608 13,105 60,718 Tax effect 11,362 (6,141) 104,401 Other provisions 6,537 4,898 60,066 Total (25,227) 14,115 (231,801) Loss on investment in subsidiaries 6,091 5,305 55,968 Foreign currency translation adjustments: Long-term unearned revenue 5,270 6,309 48,424 Amount arising during the fiscal year (221) (382) (2,030) Loss on valuation of inventories 4,763 3,687 43,765 Total (221) (382) (2,030) Unrealized gain on inventories and property and equipment 4,673 4,597 42,938 Defined retirement benefit plans: Other 28,827 26,173 264,881 Amount arising during the fiscal year (3,629) (345) (33,345) Total gross deferred tax assets 131,679 121,180 1,209,951 Reclassification adjustments to profit or loss 4,416 4,561 40,577 Less valuation allowance (14,268) (11,373) (131,103) Amount of defined retirement benefit plans before tax effect 787 4,216 7,231 Total net deferred tax assets 117,411 109,807 1,078,847 Tax effect (248) (1,286) (2,278) Deferred tax liabilities: Total 539 2,930 4,952 Unrealized gain on securities (10,981) (16,134) (100,900) Share of other comprehensive income (loss) in affiliates: Deferred gain on hedging instruments (2,681) (4,735) (24,634) Amount arising during the fiscal year (381) 102 (3,500) Retained earnings of subsidiaries and affiliates (2,388) (2,283) (21,942) Reclassification adjustments to profit or loss (2) (87) (18) Other (1,649) (1,458) (15,152) Total (383) 15 (3,519) Total gross deferred tax liabilities (17,699) (24,610) (162,629) Total other comprehensive income (loss) ¥(40,661) ¥29,793 $(373,619) Net deferred income taxes ¥ 99,712 ¥ 85,197 $ 916,217 12. Leases A reconciliation of the difference between the normal effective statutory tax rate and the actual effective income tax rate for the years ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 is as follows: As lessee 2020 2019 Normal effective statutory tax rate 30.62% 30.62% (a) Finance leases Reconciliation: Finance lease transactions are capitalized by recognizing lease assets and lease obligations in the consolidated balance sheet. Impairment loss 13.49 – Amortization of goodwill 2.38 0.80 Tangible fixed lease assets include mainly aircraft, flight equipment, host computers and peripheral equipment. Intangible lease assets include Expenses not deductible for income tax purposes 1.30 0.46 software. The depreciation method for leased assets is described in Note 3 (j) “Leases.” Inhabitants tax per capita levy 0.39 0.14 Loss on investment in subsidiaries – (5.57) (b) Operating leases Income taxes for prior periods (0.81) (1.78) The amount of outstanding future lease payments under non-cancelable operating leases are as follows: Changes in valuation allowance 3.54 2.81 Other, net (1.24) (0.09) U.S. dollars Actual effective income tax rate 49.67% 27.39% Yen (Millions) (Thousands) 2020 2019 2020 Current portion of operating lease obligations ¥ 62,649 ¥ 54,866 $ 575,659 Long-term operating lease obligations 318,817 265,832 2,929,495 Total ¥381,466 ¥320,698 $3,505,154 As lessor (a) Operating leases The amount of outstanding future lease receivables under non-cancelable operating leases are as follows: U.S. dollars Yen (Millions) (Thousands) 2020 2019 2020 Current portion of operating lease receivables ¥ 2,170 ¥ 949 $ 19,939 Long-term operating lease receivables 15,373 6,983 141,257 Total ¥17,543 ¥7,932 $161,196 134 135 Financial / Data Section  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 13. Supplementary information for the consolidated statement of changes in net assets 14. Contingencies Supplementary information for the consolidated statement of changes in net assets for the year ended March 31, 2020 consisted of the following: The Group was contingently liable as a guarantor of loans, principally to affiliates, totaling ¥2,080 million ($19,112 thousand) at March 31, 2020. (a) Dividends The Group was contingently liable as a guarantor for a stock transfer agreement between third parties, totaling ¥6,111 million ($56,151 thousand) at March 31, 2020. Under the Companies Act of Japan (the “Companies Act”), the appropriation of unappropriated retained earnings of the Company with respect to a financial period is made by resolution of the Company’s shareholders at a general meeting to be held subsequent to the close of the The Group was contingently liable as a guarantor of loans, principally to affiliates, totaling ¥2,685 million at March 31, 2019. financial period and the accounts for that period do not therefore reflect such appropriation. The Group was contingently liable as a guarantor for a stock transfer agreement between third parties, totaling ¥6,111 million at March 31, 2019. (1) Dividends paid to shareholders U.S. dollars 15. Financial instruments and related disclosures Yen (Millions) (Thousands) Yen U.S. dollars Resolution Type of Dividends Dividends Shareholders’ Date of approval approved by shares Amount Amount Paid from per share per share cut-off date Effective date Overview June 21, 2019 Ordinary General Common Retained Meeting of stock (*1) earnings (a) Group policy for financial instruments Shareholders ¥25,105 $230,680 ¥75.00 $0.68 March 31, 2019 June 24, 2019 The Group limits its fund management to short-term time deposits and raises funds through borrowings from financial institutions, including (*1) The total amount of dividends does not include ¥9 million ($81 thousand) in dividends to be paid to the subsidiaries and affiliates. This is because the shares held by banks. The Group uses derivatives for the purpose of reducing the risks described below and does not enter into derivatives for speculative subsidiaries and affiliates are recognized as treasury stock. or trading purposes. (2) Dividends with a shareholders’ cut-off date within the current fiscal year but an effective date within the subsequent fiscal year (b) Types of financial instruments and related risk There are no applicable items. Trade receivables (notes and accounts receivable) are exposed to credit risk in relation to customers. The Companies Act requires that an amount equal to 10% of dividends must be appropriated as a legal reserve (a component of retained Marketable securities and investment securities are exposed to the risk of market price fluctuations. Those securities are composed mainly of earnings) or as additional paid-in capital (a component of capital surplus), depending on the equity account charged upon the payment of such the shares of other companies with which the Group has business relationships. dividends, until the aggregate amount of legal reserve and additional paid-in capital equals 25% of the common stock. Under the Companies Act, the total amount of additional paid-in capital and legal reserve may be reversed without limitation. The Companies Act also provides that Substantially all trade payables have payment due dates within one year. common stock, legal reserve, additional paid-in capital, other capital surplus, and retained earnings can be transferred among the accounts within equity under certain conditions upon resolution of the shareholders. Borrowings are taken out principally for the purpose of making capital investments, and certain long-term debt with variable interest rates is exposed to interest rate fluctuation risk. However, to reduce such risk for long-term interest-bearing debt at variable rates, the Group utilizes (b) Type and number of outstanding shares interest rate swap transactions as hedging instruments. Interest rate swaps that qualify for hedge accounting and meet specific matching criteria are not measured at fair value, but the differential paid or received under the swap agreements is recognized and included in interest expenses. Number of shares (Thousands) As of March 31, 2020 Balance at Increase in shares Decrease in shares Balance at For derivatives, in order to reduce the foreign currency exchange rate risk arising from receivables and payables denominated in foreign currenType of shares beginning of year during the year during the year end of year cies, the Group enters into forward foreign exchange contracts for specific receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies, mainly Issued stock: for aircraft purchase commitments. In addition, the Group enters into commodity derivative transactions such as swaps and options to mitigate Common stock 348,498 – – 348,498 fluctuation risk of the commodity prices of fuel and to stabilize operating profit. Total 348,498 – – 348,498 Treasury stock: 1) Management of credit risks (risks such as breach of contract by customers) Common stock (*1, *2, *3) 13,868 125 15 13,978 Total 13,868 125 15 13,978 The Group manages its credit risk from receivables on the basis of internal guidelines, which include monitoring of payment term and balances of major customers by each business administration department to identify the default risk of customers at an early stage. (*1) The increase of 125 thousand shares of treasury stock is the total of 8 thousand shares that the Company purchased from holders of fractional shares; and 116 thousand shares in the Company that were purchased by the Trust for Delivery of Shares to Directors. (*2) The decrease of 15 thousand shares of treasury stock is the total of 0 thousand shares that the Company sold to the holders of fractional shares at their request; and 14 As for derivatives, the Group believes that the credit risks are extremely low, as it enters into derivative transactions only with reputable financial thousand shares in the Company that were sold by the Trust for Delivery of Shares to Directors. institutions with sound credit profiles. (*3) Treasury stock includes 209 thousand shares held by the Trust for Delivery of Shares to Directors. 2) Management of market risks (fluctuation risks of foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates) Number of shares (Thousands) In order to reduce foreign currency exchange rate risks, the Group principally utilizes forward foreign exchange contracts for receivables and As of March 31, 2019 Balance at Increase in shares Decrease in shares Balance at Type of shares beginning of year during the year during the year end of year payables denominated in foreign currencies. In order to mitigate the interest rate fluctuation risks related to debt, the Group utilizes interest rate Issued stock: swap transactions. In addition, the Group enters into commodity derivative transactions such as swaps and options to mitigate fluctuation risk Common stock 348,498 – – 348,498 related to commodity prices for fuel. Total 348,498 – – 348,498 As for marketable securities and investment securities, the Group periodically reviews the fair values and the financial conditions of the issuers to Treasury stock: identify and mitigate risks of impairment. Common stock (*1, *2, *3) 13,866 10 7 13,868 Total 13,866 10 7 13,868 There are internal management regulations for derivative transactions which set forth transaction authority and limits on transaction amounts. (*1) The increase of 10 thousand shares of treasury stock is 10 thousand shares that the Company purchased from holders of fractional shares. (*2) The decrease of 7 thousand shares of treasury stock is the total of 0 thousand shares that the Company sold to the holders of fractional shares at their request; and 6 The Group enters into derivative transactions in accordance with such policies. Moreover, the Group reports plans and results of methods and thousand shares that were sold by the Trust for Delivery of Shares to Directors. ratios for offsetting risks at the quarterly meetings of the Board of Directors. (*3) Treasury stock includes 107 thousand shares held by the Trust for Delivery of Shares to Directors. 3) Management of liquidity risks related to financing (risks that the Group cannot meet the due dates of payables) The Group manages liquidity risks by establishing a financial plan in order to procure and invest funds that are necessary for the operation of the Group over a certain period of time, in accordance with the Group’s business operating plan and budget. (c) Supplementary explanation of the estimated fair value of financial instruments The fair value of financial instruments is based on their quoted market price, if available. When there is no quoted market price available, fair value is reasonably estimated. Since various assumptions and factors are reflected in estimating the fair value, different assumptions and factors could result in different fair value estimates. In addition, the notional amounts of derivatives presented in Note 16 “Derivatives and hedging activities” are not necessarily indicative of the actual market risk involved in derivative transactions. 136 137 Financial / Data Section  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Estimated fair value of financial instruments (c) Marketable securities and investment securities The carrying values of financial instruments on the consolidated balance sheet at March 31, 2020 and 2019, and their estimated fair values, are The fair values of marketable and investment securities are measured at the quoted market price of the stock exchange for the equity instrushown in the following tables. The following tables do not include financial instruments for which fair value cannot be reliably determined (Please ments, and at the quoted price obtained from financial institutions for certain debt instruments. The information on the fair values of marketable refer to Note 2 below). and investment securities by classification is included in Note 4 “Marketable securities and investment securities” of the notes to the consolidated financial statements. Yen (Millions) As of March 31, 2020 Carrying value Fair value Differences Assets: Liabilities Cash and deposits ¥ 109,447 ¥ 109,447 ¥ – Notes and accounts receivable 98,944 98,944 – (a) Accounts payable Marketable securities and investment securities 214,279 216,849 2,570 The carrying values of accounts payable approximate fair value because of their short maturities. Total assets ¥ 422,670 ¥ 425,240 ¥2,570 (b) Short-term loans Liabilities: The carrying values of short-term loans approximate fair value because of their short maturities. Accounts payable ¥ 196,391 ¥ 196,391 ¥ – Short-term loans 429 429 – (c) Bonds Bonds 185,000 183,874 1,126 The fair value of bonds issued by the Company is measured at the present value of the total of principal and interest discounted by an interest Convertible bonds with stock acquisition rights 140,000 135,415 4,585 rate determined by taking into account the remaining period of each bond and current credit risk. Long-term loans 500,957 501,213 (256) Total liabilities ¥1,022,777 ¥1,017,322 ¥5,455 (d) Long-term loans Derivatives* ¥ (20,664) ¥ (20,664) ¥ – The fair values of long-term loans are determined by discounting the cash flows related to the debt at the Group’s assumed corporate ­borrowing rate. Yen (Millions) As of March 31, 2019 Carrying value Fair value Differences 2. Financial instruments for which it is extremely difficult to determine the fair value Assets: U.S. dollars Cash and deposits ¥ 68,301 ¥ 68,301 ¥ – Yen (Millions) (Thousands) Notes and accounts receivable 187,529 187,529 – As of March 31, 2020 2020 2019 2020 Marketable securities and investment securities 313,745 313,745 – Unlisted stocks ¥23,076 ¥32,234 $212,037 Total assets ¥ 569,575 ¥ 569,575 ¥ – Liabilities: Because no quoted market price is available and the fair value cannot be reliably determined, the above financial instruments are not included in Accounts payable ¥ 229,712 ¥ 229,712 ¥ – the fair value tables above. Short-term loans 336 336 – Bonds 145,000 148,798 (3,798) 3. The redemption schedule for receivables and available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities with maturities at March 31, 2020 and 2019 is Convertible bonds with stock acquisition rights 140,000 142,625 (2,625) summarized as follows: Long-term loans 484,713 494,238 (9,525) Yen (Millions) Total liabilities ¥ 999,761 ¥ 1,015,709 ¥ (15,948) Due in Due after one year Due after five years Due after Derivatives* ¥ 15,639 ¥ 15,639 ¥ – As of March 31, 2020 one year or less through five years through ten years ten years Deposits ¥108,572 ¥ – ¥ – ¥– U.S. dollars (Thousands) Notes and accounts receivable 98,944 – – – As of March 31, 2020 Carrying value Fair value Differences Held-to-maturity bonds – – – – Assets: Other securities with maturities 129,200 5,299 2,025 – Cash and deposits $1,005,669 $1,005,669 $ – Total ¥336,716 ¥5,299 ¥2,025 ¥– Notes and accounts receivable 909,161 909,161 – Marketable securities and investment securities 1,968,933 1,992,548 23,614 Yen (Millions) Total assets $3,383,763 $3,907,378 $23,614 Due in Due after one year Due after five years Due after Liabilities: As of March 31, 2019 one year or less through five years through ten years ten years Accounts payable $1,804,566 $1,804,566 $ – Deposits ¥ 67,546 ¥– ¥ – ¥– Short-term loans 3,941 3,941 – Notes and accounts receivable 187,529 – – – Bonds 1,699,898 1,689,552 10,346 Held-to-maturity bonds – – – – Convertible bonds with stock acquisition rights 1,286,409 1,244,280 42,129 Other securities with maturities 225,360 – 6,389 – Long-term loans 4,603,114 4,605,467 (2,352) Total ¥480,435 ¥– ¥6,389 ¥– Total liabilities $9,397,932 $9,347,808 $50,124 Derivatives* $ (189,874) $ (189,874) $ – U.S. dollars (Thousands) * The value of assets and liabilities arising from derivatives is shown as a net value, and the amount in parentheses represents a net liability position. Due in Due after one year Due after five years Due after As of March 31, 2020 one year or less through five years through ten years ten years Deposits $ 997,629 $ – $ – $– Notes: Notes and accounts receivable 909,161 – – – 1. Methods to determine the estimated fair value of financial instruments and other matters related to securities and derivative transactions Held-to-maturity bonds – – – – Other securities with maturities 1,187,172 48,690 18,607 – Assets Total $3,093,963 $48,690 $18,607 $– (a) Cash and deposits The carrying values of cash and deposits approximate fair value because of their short maturities. (b) Notes and accounts receivable The carrying values of notes and accounts receivable approximate fair value because of their short maturities. 138 139 Financial / Data Section  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 4. The redemption schedule for bonds, loans and other interest-bearing liabilities at March 31, 2020 and 2019 is summarized as follows: Yen (Millions) Notional amount Yen (Millions) As of March 31, 2019 Total Maturing after one year Fair value Due in Due after one year Due after five years Due after Forward foreign exchange contracts: As of March 31, 2020 one year or less through five years through ten years ten years Sell: USD ¥ – ¥– ¥– Short-term loans ¥ 429 ¥ – ¥ – ¥ – EUR – – – Bonds 20,000 30,000 70,000 65,000 Other 166 – 0 Convertible bonds with stock acquisition rights – 140,000 – – Buy: USD 5,540 – 2 Long-term loans 84,057 228,056 138,900 49,944 EUR – – – Total ¥104,486 ¥398,056 ¥208,900 ¥114,944 Other 355 – 0 Total ¥6,061 ¥– ¥2 Yen (Millions) Due in Due after one year Due after five years Due after U.S. dollars (Thousands) As of March 31, 2019 one year or less through five years through ten years ten years Notional amount Short-term loans ¥ 336 ¥ – ¥ – ¥ – As of March 31, 2020 Total Maturing after one year Fair value Bonds 30,000 50,000 25,000 40,000 Forward foreign exchange contracts: Convertible bonds with stock acquisition rights – 70,000 70,000 – Sell: USD $ – $ – $– Long-term loans 77,883 239,514 126,097 41,219 EUR – – – Total ¥108,219 ¥359,514 ¥221,097 ¥81,219 Other – – – Buy: USD 946 946 0 U.S. dollars (Thousands) EUR – – – Due in Due after one year Due after five years Due after Other – – – As of March 31, 2020 one year or less through five years through ten years ten years Total $946 $946 $0 Short-term loans $ 3,941 $ – $ – $ – Bonds 183,772 275,659 643,204 597,261 (2) Commodity-related transactions Convertible bonds with stock acquisition rights – 1,286,409 – – Long-term loans 772,369 2,095,525 1,276,302 458,917 Yen (Millions) Total $960,084 $3,657,594 $1,919,507 $1,056,179 Notional amount As of March 31, 2020 Total Maturing after one year Fair value Commodity (crude oil) swap contracts for accounts payable, accounted for by the deferral method: 16. Derivatives and hedging activities Receive/floating and pay/fixed ¥1,002 ¥– ¥(423) Commodity (crude oil) option contracts, accounted for The Group operates internationally and is exposed to the risk of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and jet fuel prices. by the deferral method: In order to manage these risks, the Group utilizes forward exchange contracts to hedge certain foreign currency transactions related to purchase Sell: Crude oil (Put) 431 – (99) commitments, principally of flight equipment, and foreign currency receivables and payables. Also, the Group utilizes interest rate swaps to Buy: Crude oil (Call) 555 – (54) minimize the impact of interest rate fluctuations related to outstanding debt. In addition, the Group also enters into a variety of swaps and options Total ¥1,988 ¥– ¥(576) in its management of risk exposure related to jet fuel prices. The Group does not use derivatives for speculative or trading purposes. Yen (Millions) The Group has developed internal hedging guidelines to control various aspects of derivative transactions, including authorization levels and Notional amount transaction volumes. The Group enters into derivative transactions in accordance with these internal guidelines. Derivative and hedging transacAs of March 31, 2019 Total Maturing after one year Fair value tions initiated by respective operational departments have been examined by the accounting department and these transactions, including their Commodity (crude oil) swap contracts for accounts measures and ratios, are generally monitored by management on a quarterly basis. Assessment of hedge effectiveness is examined at inception payable, accounted for by the deferral method: and, on an ongoing basis, periodically. Receive/floating and pay/fixed ¥– ¥– ¥– Commodity (crude oil) option contracts, accounted for The Group is also exposed to credit-related losses in the event of non-performance by counterparties in regard to derivative financial by the deferral method: instruments; however, it is not expected that any counterparties will fail to meet their obligations, as the majority of the counterparties are Sell: Crude oil (Put) – – – internationally recognized financial institutions. Buy: Crude oil (Call) – – – Total ¥– ¥– ¥– Summarized below are the notional amounts and estimated fair values of the derivative financial instruments outstanding at March 31, 2020 and 2019 for which hedged accounting has been applied. U.S. dollars (Thousands) Notional amount (a) Derivative transactions to which hedge accounting is not applied As of March 31, 2020 Total Maturing after one year Fair value Commodity (crude oil) swap contracts for accounts (1) Currency-related transactions payable, accounted for by the deferral method: Yen (Millions) Receive/floating and pay/fixed $ 9,207 $– $(3,886) Notional amount Commodity (crude oil) option contracts, accounted for As of March 31, 2020 Total Maturing after one year Fair value by the deferral method: Forward foreign exchange contracts: Sell: Crude oil (Put) 3,960 – (909) Sell: USD ¥ – ¥ – ¥– Buy: Crude oil (Call) 5,099 – (496) EUR – – – Total $18,267 $– $(5,292) Other – – – Note: The calculation of fair value is based on the data obtained from financial institutions. Buy: USD 103 103 0 EUR – – – Other – – – Total ¥103 ¥103 ¥0 140 141 Financial / Data Section  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (b) Derivative transactions to which hedge accounting is applied U.S. dollars (Thousands) (1) Currency-related transactions Notional amount As of March 31, 2020 Total Maturing after one year Fair value Yen (Millions) Forward foreign exchange contracts for accounts Notional amount receivable, accounted for by the deferral method: As of March 31, 2020 Total Maturing after one year Fair value Sell: USD $ 3,840 $ – $ (9) Forward foreign exchange contracts for accounts EUR – – – receivable, accounted for by the deferral method: Other – – – Sell: USD ¥ 418 ¥ – ¥ (1) Forward foreign exchange contracts for accounts EUR – – – payable, accounted for by the deferral method: Other – – – Buy: USD 3,305,586 1,316,429 110,106 Forward foreign exchange contracts for accounts EUR 4,594 – (36) payable, accounted for by the deferral method: Other 156 – (18) Buy: USD 359,747 143,268 11,984 Currency option contracts for accounts payable, EUR 500 – (4) accounted for by the deferral method: Other 17 – (2) Sell: USD (Put) 426,380 282,054 (8,986) Currency option contracts for accounts payable, Buy: USD (Call) 470,688 311,467 19,875 accounted for by the deferral method: Forward foreign exchange contracts, Sell: USD (Put) 46,403 30,696 (978) accounted for as part of accounts receivable: Buy: USD (Call) 51,225 33,897 2,163 Sell: USD 2,003 – (*) Forward foreign exchange contracts, EUR – – (*) accounted for as part of accounts receivable: Other 55 – (*) Sell: USD 218 – (*) Forward foreign exchange contracts, EUR – – (*) accounted for as part of accounts payable: Other 6 – (*) Buy: USD 87,007 – (*) Forward foreign exchange contracts, EUR 1,019 – (*) accounted for as part of accounts payable: Other 9 – (*) Buy: USD 9,469 – (*) Currency swap contracts for accounts payable, EUR 111 – (*) accounted for as part of accounts payable: Other 1 – (*) Receive/USD and pay/JPY – – (*) Currency swap contracts for accounts payable, Total $4,301,341 $1,909,960 $120,940 accounted for as part of accounts payable: Receive/USD and pay/JPY – – (*) Note: Calculation of fair value is based on the data obtained from financial institutions. Total ¥468,115 ¥207,861 ¥13,162 (*) The estimated fair value of forward foreign exchange contracts is included in the estimated fair value of accounts payable, as the amounts in such derivative contracts accounted for as part of accounts receivable and payable are aggregated with the receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies that are subject to hedge accounting. See Note 15 “Financial instruments and related disclosures” for additional information. Yen (Millions) Notional amount (2) Interest-related transactions As of March 31, 2019 Total Maturing after one year Fair value Forward foreign exchange contracts for accounts Yen (Millions) receivable, accounted for by the deferral method: Notional amount As of March 31, 2020 Total Maturing after one year Fair value Sell: USD ¥ 6,165 ¥ – ¥ (64) EUR 0 – 0 Interest rate swap hedging long-term loans: Other 77 – 0 Receive/floating and pay/fixed ¥82,333 ¥53,413 (*) Forward foreign exchange contracts for accounts payable, accounted for by the deferral method: Yen (Millions) Buy: USD 334,460 169,059 7,843 Notional amount EUR 188 – (8) As of March 31, 2019 Total Maturing after one year Fair value Other 138 – (2) Interest rate swap hedging long-term loans: Currency option contracts for accounts payable, Receive/floating and pay/fixed ¥111,253 ¥82,333 (*) accounted for by the deferral method: Sell: USD (Put) 45,366 32,274 1,575 U.S. dollars (Thousands) Buy: USD (Call) 41,012 29,221 (643) Notional amount Forward foreign exchange contracts, As of March 31, 2020 Total Maturing after one year Fair value accounted for as part of accounts receivable: Interest rate swap hedging long-term loans: Sell: USD 302 – (*) Receive/floating and pay/fixed $756,528 $490,792 (*) EUR 48 – (*) (*) Interest rate swap contracts are used as hedges and meet specific matching criteria, the net amount to be paid or received under the interest rate swap contract is added to Other 39 – (*) or deducted from the interest on the long-term loans. The estimated fair value of interest rate swap contracts is included in the estimated fair value of long-term loans. Forward foreign exchange contracts, accounted for as part of accounts payable: Buy: USD 17,931 – (*) (3) Commodity-related transactions EUR 999 – (*) Other 4 – (*) Yen (Millions) Currency swap contracts for accounts payable, Notional amount accounted for as part of accounts payable: As of March 31, 2020 Total Maturing after one year Fair value Receive/USD and pay/JPY – – (*) Commodity (crude oil) swap contracts for accounts Total ¥446,729 ¥230,554 ¥8,701 payable, accounted for by the deferral method: Receive/floating and pay/fixed ¥ 69,132 ¥27,453 ¥(24,304) Commodity (crude oil) option contracts, accounted for by the deferral method: Sell: Crude oil (Put) 33,121 15,468 (7,229) Buy: Crude oil (Call) 42,798 20,104 (1,717) Total ¥145,051 ¥63,025 ¥(33,250) 142 143 Financial / Data Section  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Yen (Millions) Yen (Millions) Notional amount As of and for the year ended March 31, 2020 Other Total Adjustments Consolidated As of March 31, 2019 Total Maturing after one year Fair value Operating revenues: Commodity (crude oil) swap contracts for accounts Operating revenues from external customers ¥15,621 ¥1,974,216 ¥ – ¥1,974,216 payable, accounted for by the deferral method: Intersegment revenues or transfers 28,602 395,923 (395,923) – Receive/floating and pay/fixed ¥ 74,591 ¥29,073 ¥5,234 Total ¥44,223 ¥2,370,139 ¥(395,923) ¥1,974,216 Commodity (crude oil) option contracts, accounted for Segment profit ¥ 3,526 ¥ 75,522 ¥(14,716) ¥ 60,806 by the deferral method: Segment assets 25,276 2,577,468 (17,315) 2,560,153 Sell: Crude oil (Put) 34,350 17,211 (445) Other items: Buy: Crude oil (Call) 44,114 21,989 2,147 Depreciation and amortization 262 175,739 – 175,739 Total ¥153,055 ¥68,273 ¥6,936 Amortization of goodwill – 4,006 – 4,006 Increase in property and equipment and intangible assets 141 352,325 (964) 351,361 U.S. dollars (Thousands) Notional amount Notes: As of March 31, 2020 Total Maturing after one year Fair value 1. “Other” refers to all business segments that are not included in the reportable segments, such as facility management, business support, and other operations. 2. Adjustments are as follows: Commodity (crude oil) swap contracts for accounts (a) Adjustments to segment profit consist of the elimination of intersegment transactions of ¥(9,979) million and corporate expenses of ¥(4,734) million. payable, accounted for by the deferral method: (b) Adjustments to segment assets consist of long-term investments (investment securities and stocks of subsidiaries and affiliates) in consolidated subsidiaries of ¥157,553 Receive/floating and pay/fixed $ 635,229 $252,255 $(223,320) million and eliminations of intersegment transactions of ¥(174,868) million. (c) Adjustments to increase in property and equipment and intangible assets mainly consist of the elimination of intersegment transactions. Commodity (crude oil) option contracts, accounted for 3. Segment profit is reconciled to operating income on the consolidated statement of income. by the deferral method: Sell: Crude oil (Put) 304,337 142,129 (66,424) Yen (Millions) Buy: Crude oil (Call) 393,255 184,728 (15,776) Reportable Segments Total $1,332,821 $579,114 $(305,522) Air Note: The calculation of fair value is based on the data obtained from financial institutions. As of and for the year ended March 31, 2019 Transportation Airline Related Travel Services Trade and Retail Subtotal Operating revenues: Operating revenues from external customers ¥1,728,645 ¥ 51,783 ¥140,805 ¥122,454 ¥2,043,687 Intersegment revenues or transfers 85,772 239,268 9,941 28,225 363,206 17. Segment information Total ¥1,814,417 ¥291,051 ¥150,746 ¥150,679 ¥2,406,893 Segment profit ¥ 160,556 ¥ 13,178 ¥ 606 ¥ 3,706 ¥ 178,046 Segment assets 2,409,579 148,288 60,163 61,019 2,679,049 (a) Description of reportable segments Other items: The reportable segments of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries are components for which discrete financial information is available Depreciation and amortization 152,948 4,496 507 1,354 159,305 and whose operating results are regularly reviewed by the Executive Committee to make decisions about resource allocation and to assess Amortization of goodwill 3,889 28 – 114 4,031 performance. Increase in property and equipment and intangible assets 370,778 1,838 241 1,156 374,013 The Group’s reportable segments are categorized under “Air Transportation,” “Airline Related,” “Travel Services,” and “Trade and Retail.” Yen (Millions) The “Air Transportation” segment conducts domestic and international passenger operations, cargo and mail operations, and other transportaAs of and for the year ended March 31, 2019 Other Total Adjustments Consolidated tion services. The “Airline Related” segment conducts air transportation-related operations, such as airport passenger and ground handling Operating revenues: services and maintenance services. The “Travel Services” segment conducts operations centering on the development and sales of travel plans. Operating revenues from external customers ¥14,625 ¥2,058,312 ¥ – ¥2,058,312 It also conducts planning and sales of branded travel packages using air transportation. The “Trade and Retail” segment conducts mainly import Intersegment revenues or transfers 26,333 389,539 (389,539) – and export operations of goods related to air transportation and is involved in in-store and non-store retailing. Total ¥40,958 ¥2,447,851 ¥(389,539) ¥2,058,312 Segment profit ¥ 2,275 ¥ 180,321 ¥ (15,302) ¥ 165,019 (b) Methods of measurement for the amounts of sales, profit, assets, and other items for each reportable segment Segment assets 23,434 2,702,483 (15,361) 2,687,122 Other items: The accounting policies of the reportable segments are substantially the same as those described in Note 3 “Summary of significant accounting Depreciation and amortization 236 159,541 – 159,541 policies.” Amortization of goodwill – 4,031 – 4,031 Segment performance is evaluated based on operating income or loss. Intersegment sales and transfers are based on current market prices. Increase in property and equipment and intangible assets 269 374,282 1,582 375,864 Notes: (c) Information about sales, profit, assets, and other items 1. “Other” refers to all business segments that are not included in the reportable segments, such as facility management, business support, and other operations. 2. Adjustments are as follows: Yen (Millions) (a) Adjustments to segment profit consist of the elimination of intersegment transactions of ¥(8,937) million and corporate expenses of ¥(6,365) million. Reportable Segments (b) Adjustments to segment assets consist of long-term investments (investment securities and stocks of subsidiaries and affiliates) in consolidated subsidiaries of ¥171,058 million and eliminations of intersegment transactions of ¥(186,419) million. Air (c) Adjustments to increase in property and equipment and intangible assets mainly consist of the elimination of intersegment transactions. As of and for the year ended March 31, 2020 Transportation Airline Related Travel Services Trade and Retail Subtotal 3. Segment profit is reconciled to operating income on the consolidated statement of income. Operating revenues: Operating revenues from external customers ¥1,658,763 ¥ 49,804 ¥134,759 ¥115,269 ¥1,958,595 U.S. dollars (Thousands) Intersegment revenues or transfers 78,974 249,629 9,237 29,481 367,321 Reportable Segments Total ¥1,737,737 ¥299,433 ¥143,996 ¥144,750 ¥2,325,916 Air As of and for the year ended March 31, 2020 Transportation Airline Related Travel Services Trade and Retail Subtotal Segment profit ¥ 49,550 ¥ 18,144 ¥ 1,393 ¥ 2,909 ¥ 71,996 Operating revenues: Segment assets 2,305,293 147,275 42,405 57,219 2,552,192 Operating revenues from external customers $15,241,780 $ 457,631 $1,238,252 $1,059,165 $17,996,829 Other items: Intersegment revenues or transfers 725,663 2,293,751 84,875 270,890 3,375,181 Depreciation and amortization 168,296 5,323 553 1,305 175,477 Total $15,967,444 $2,751,382 $1,323,127 $1,330,056 $21,372,011 Amortization of goodwill 3,889 3 – 114 4,006 Segment profit $ 455,297 $ 166,718 $ 12,799 $ 26,729 $ 661,545 Increase in property and equipment and intangible assets 343,476 6,200 258 2,250 352,184 Segment assets 21,182,514 1,353,257 389,644 525,764 23,451,180 Other items: Depreciation and amortization 1,546,411 48,911 5,081 11,991 1,612,395 Amortization of goodwill 35,734 27 – 1,047 36,809 Increase in property and equipment and intangible assets 3,156,078 56,969 2,370 20,674 3,236,092 144 145 Financial / Data Section  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements U.S. dollars (Thousands) As of and for the year ended March 31, 2020 Other Total Adjustments Consolidated 18. Selling, general and administrative expenses Operating revenues: Operating revenues from external customers $143,535 $18,140,365 $ – $18,140,365 The main components of selling, general and administrative expenses for the years ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 are as follows: Intersegment revenues or transfers 262,813 3,637,995 (3,637,995) – Total $406,349 $21,778,360 $(3,637,995) $18,140,365 U.S. dollars Segment profit $ 32,399 $ 693,944 $ (135,220) $ 558,724 Yen (Millions) (Thousands) Segment assets 232,252 23,683,432 (159,101) 23,524,331 2020 2019 2020 Other items: Commissions ¥103,495 ¥105,678 $950,978 Depreciation and amortization 2,407 1,614,802 – 1,614,802 Advertising 11,830 12,813 108,701 Amortization of goodwill – 36,809 – 36,809 Employees’ salaries and bonuses 39,446 39,760 362,455 Increase in property and equipment and intangible assets 1,295 3,237,388 (8,857) 3,228,530 Provision for accrued bonuses to employees 3,879 7,913 35,642 Retirement benefit expenses 3,329 3,462 30,588 Depreciation 27,616 24,828 253,753 (d) Information about geographical areas Net sales to third parties by countries or areas grouped according to geographical classification for the years ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 are summarized as follows: 19. Amounts per share U.S. dollars Yen (Millions) (Thousands) Amounts per share at and for the years ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 are as follows: 2020 2019 2020 Yen U.S. dollars Japan ¥1,631,052 ¥1,676,226 $14,987,154 2020 2019 2020 Overseas 343,164 382,086 3,153,211 Net assets per share ¥3,171.80 ¥3,285.46 $29.14 Total ¥1,974,216 ¥2,058,312 $18,140,365 Net income per share 82.66 331.04 0.75 Notes: Notes: 1. Net income per share assuming full dilution is not disclosed as the Company had no potentially dilutive shares outstanding during the years ended March 31, 2020 and 2019. 1. “Overseas” consists substantially of the Americas, Europe, China and Asia. 2. The basis for calculating net income per share is as follows: 2. Net sales of “Overseas” represents sales made in countries or areas other than Japan. U.S. dollars Yen (Millions) (Thousands) (e) Information about impairment loss on long-lived assets Years ended March 31 2020 2019 2020 Yen (Millions) Net income attributable to common shareholders ¥ 27,655 ¥110,777 $ 254.11 Reportable Segments Amount not attributable to common shareholders – – – Air Net income attributable to common stock ¥ 27,655 ¥110,777 $ 254.11 For the year ended March 31, 2020 Transportation Airline Related Travel Services Trade and Retail Other Adjustments Total Impairment loss ¥22,665 ¥2,494 ¥– ¥– ¥– ¥– ¥25,159 Weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the fiscal year (in thousands) 334,559 334,632 334,559 3. The basis for calculating net assets per share is as follows: Yen (Millions) U.S. dollars Reportable Segments Yen (Millions) (Thousands) Air For the year ended March 31, 2019 Transportation Airline Related Travel Services Trade and Retail Other Adjustments Total As of March 31 2020 2019 2020 Impairment loss ¥– ¥1,997 ¥– ¥– ¥– ¥– ¥1,997 Net assets ¥1,068,870 ¥1,109,313 $9,821.46 Amounts deducted from total net assets: U.S. dollars (Thousands) Non-controlling interests (7,842) (9,900) (72.05) Reportable Segments Net assets attributable to common stock at the end of the fiscal year ¥1,061,028 ¥1,099,413 $9,749.40 Air Number of shares of common stock at the end of the fiscal year used to For the year ended March 31, 2020 Transportation Airline Related Travel Services Trade and Retail Other Adjustments Total determine net assets per share (in thousands) 334,519 334,629 334,519 Impairment loss $208,260 $22,916 $– $– $– $– $231,177 The average number of shares of the Company held by the Trust for Delivery of Shares to Directors for the years ended March 31, 2020 and 2019 (f) Information about amortization and the remaining balance of goodwill were 173 thousand and 108 thousand, respectively. The shares held by the trust were deducted from the weighted-average number of shares Yen (Millions) outstanding during each of the years ended March 31, 2020 and 2019. Reportable Segments Air The number of shares of the Company held by the Trust for Delivery of Shares to Directors at March 31, 2020 and 2019 were 209 thousand and As of and for the year ended March 31, 2020 Transportation Airline Related Travel Services Trade and Retail Other Adjustments Total 107 thousand, respectively. The shares held by the trust were deducted from the number of shares of common stock at the end of each of the Amortization of goodwill ¥ 3,889 ¥3 ¥– ¥114 ¥– ¥– ¥ 4,006 fiscal years ended March 31, 2020 and 2019, which were used to determine net assets per share. Balance at the end of the fiscal year ¥24,003 ¥– ¥– ¥458 ¥– ¥– ¥24,461 Yen (Millions) 20. Supplementary cash flow information Reportable Segments Air As of and for the year ended March 31, 2019 Transportation Airline Related Travel Services Trade and Retail Other Adjustments Total A reconciliation of the difference between cash and deposits stated in the consolidated balance sheet at March 31, 2020 and 2019 and cash and Amortization of goodwill ¥ 3,889 ¥28 ¥– ¥114 ¥– ¥– ¥ 4,031 cash equivalents in the consolidated statement of cash flows is as follows: Balance at the end of the fiscal year ¥50,557 ¥ 3 ¥– ¥572 ¥– ¥– ¥51,132 U.S. dollars Yen (Millions) (Thousands) U.S. dollars (Thousands) 2020 2019 2020 Reportable Segments Cash and deposits ¥109,447 ¥ 68,301 $1,005,669 Air Time deposits with maturities of more than three months (31,120) (26,103) (285,950) As of and for the year ended March 31, 2020 Transportation Airline Related Travel Services Trade and Retail Other Adjustments Total Marketable securities 129,200 225,360 1,187,172 Amortization of goodwill $ 35,734 $27 $– $1,047 $– $– $ 36,809 Marketable securities with maturities of more than three months (71,590) (55,720) (657,814) Balance at the end of the fiscal year $220,554 $ – $– $4,208 $– $– $224,763 Cash and cash equivalents ¥135,937 ¥211,838 $1,249,076 146 147 Financial / Data Section  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 21. Impairment loss 23. Subsequent events The Group reviewed its long-lived assets for impairment for the years ended March 31, 2020 and 2019. As a result, the Group recognized 1. Conclusion of a commitment line contract impairment losses of ¥25,159 million ($231,177 thousand) and ¥1,997 million, included in other expenses, for the years ended March 31, 2020 The Company entered into a short-term commitment line agreement with the terms described below on April 28, 2020. and 2019, respectively. The details are as follows: (a) Counterparty Main domestic financial institution U.S. dollars For the year ended March 31, 2020 Yen (Millions) (Thousands) (b) Total commitment ¥350,000 million ($3,216,024 thousand) Application Location Category Impairment loss Assets expected to be sold Miami, Florida Machinery, lease assets, and ¥ 2,494 $ 22,916 (c) Amount of drawdown None other assets Others Peach Aviation Limited Goodwill 22,665 208,260 (d) Contract date April 28, 2020 Total ¥25,159 $231,177 (e) Assets pledged as collateral or guarantees None Note: The Group grouped its operating assets for impairment testing based on management accounting categories, and also grouped lease assets, assets to be disposed of by sale and idle assets on an individual basis. Business assets in Miami, Florida were written-down to recoverable amounts, based on the updated business plan. As a result, an impairment loss of ¥2,494 million ($22,916 thousand) was recognized. Details are as follows: ¥1,767 million ($16,236 thousand) for machinery, ¥693 million ($6,367 thousand) for lease assets, and ¥32 million ($294 thousand) for other assets. Also, goodwill for Peach Aviation Limited, a consolidated subsidiary of the Company, were written-down to recoverable amounts,based on their value in use. As a result, an impairment loss of ¥22,665 million ($208,260 thousand) was recognized. 2. Borrowing of funds The recoverable amount of these assets was measured at its net selling price or their value in use. The net selling price is determined by estimates of selling cost and The Company has executed loans from Development Bank of Japan Inc. selling price. The value in use is calculated by discounting the future cash flows at discount rates of 11.5%. (a) Use of funds Working capital For the year ended March 31, 2019 Yen (Millions) Application Location Category (b) Counterparty Development Bank of Japan Inc. Assets expected to be sold Miami, Florida Machinery, lease assets and ¥1,997 other assets (c) Loan amount ¥350,000 million ($3,216,024 thousand) Total ¥1,997 (d) Interest rate Floating rates Note: The Group grouped its operating assets for impairment testing based on management accounting categories, and also grouped lease assets, assets to be disposed of by sale and idle assets on an individual basis. Business assets in Miami, Florida were written-down to recoverable amounts, based on the updated business plan. As a result, an impairment loss of ¥1,997 million ($17,992 thousand) was recognized. Details are as follows: ¥1,433 million ($12,911 thousand) for machinery, (e) Execution date May 28, 2020 and June 29, 2020 ¥410 million ($3,694 thousand) for intangible assets, ¥49 million ($441 thousand) for lease assets, and ¥103 million ($928 thousand) for other assets. The recoverable amount of the above assets was measured at its net selling price as determined by estimates of selling cost and selling price. (f) Repayment date Long-term period determined by individual negotiation (g) Assets pledged as collateral or guarantees Existent 22. Supplementary information for the consolidated statement of income (a) Write-downs of inventories Inventories were valued using prices after write-downs of book value due to a decrease in net selling value. Write-downs of inventories included in cost of sales are as follows: U.S. dollars Yen (Millions) (Thousands) 2020 2019 2020 ¥1,181 ¥5,779 $10,851 Note: Figures in parentheses represent gains from the reversal of write-downs. (b) Other income (expenses), net U.S. dollars Yen (Millions) (Thousands) 2020 2019 2020 Gain on sales of investment securities ¥ 1,122 ¥ – $ 10,309 Compensation payments received 17,897 6,810 164,449 Valuation loss on investments in securities (853) – (7,837) Litigation settlement fees related to anti-trust law claims – (6,423) – Other (3,599) 1,577 (33,069) Other income (expenses), net ¥14,567 ¥ 1,964 $133,850 148 149 Financial / Data Section  Independent Auditor’s Report 150 151 Financial / Data Section  Independent Auditor’s Report Glossary Passenger Business Terms Belly Joint Venture The space below the cabin on passenger aircraft A joint business in the international airline Available Seat-Kilometers (ASK) that is used to transport cargo. industry between two or more airlines. A unit of passenger transport capacity, analogous Restrictions such as bilateral air agreements Okinawa Cargo Hub & Network to “production capacity.” Total number of seats x between countries and caps on foreign capital The ANA Group’s unique cargo network. With Transport distance (kilometers). investments still exist in the international airline Okinawa (Naha) Airport as an international cargo industry. Therefore, airlines form ATI-based joint Revenue Passenger-Kilometers (RPK) hub, the network uses late-night connecting ventures, instead of the commonly known Total distance flown by revenue-paying passenflights in a hub and spoke system servicing major methods used in other industries such as capital gers aboard aircraft. Revenue-paying passengers Asian cities. tie-ups and M&As, etc. By forming joint ventures, x Transport distance (kilometers). airlines in the same global alliance are able to Load Factor offer travelers a broader, more flexible network Airline Industry and along with less expensive fares, thus strengthenIndicates the seat occupancy ratio (status of Company Terms ing their competitiveness against other alliances seat sales) as the ratio of revenue passengerkilometers to available seat-kilometers. Revenue (or joint ventures). IATA passenger-kilometers / Available seat-kilometers. Full Service Carrier (FSC) The International Air Transport Association. Yield Founded in 1945 by airlines operating flights An airline company that serves a wide range of Unit revenues per revenue passenger-kilometer. primarily on international routes, functions include markets based on a route network that includes Revenues / Revenue passenger-kilometers. managing arrival and departure slots at airports code-sharing connecting demand. FSCs offer and settling receivables and payables among multiple classes of seats and provide in-flight Unit Revenues airline companies. Approximately 290 airlines are food and beverages that are included in advance Quantitatively measures revenue management IATA members. in the fare paid. FSCs are also called network performance by showing unit revenues per carriers or legacy carriers when compared with available seat-kilometer (Revenues / Available ICAO low cost carriers (LCCs). seat-kilometers). Calculated as yield (Revenues / The International Civil Aviation Organization. A Revenue passenger-kilometers) x load factor specialized agency of the United Nations created Low Cost Carrier (LCC) in 1944 to promote the safe and orderly developAn airline that provides air transportation services (Revenue passenger-kilometers / Available ment of international civil aviation. More than 190 at low fares based on a low-cost system that seat-kilometers). countries are ICAO members. includes using a single type of aircraft, charging Unit Cost for in-flight services, and simplifying sales. Indicates cost per unit in the airline industry. Star Alliance Fundamentally, LCCs operate frequent shortand Calculated as cost per available seat-kilometer. Established in 1997, Star Alliance was the first medium-haul point-to-point flights (flights and is the world’s largest airline alliance. ANA between two locations). Revenue Management became a member in October 1999. As of July This management technique maximizes revenues 2020, 26 airlines from around the world are Maintenance, Repair, and Overhaul by enabling the best mix of revenue-paying members. (MRO) Business passengers through yield management that A business that is contracted to provide aircraft involves optimum seat sales in terms of optimum Code-Sharing maintenance services using its own maintenance timing and price based on network and fare A system in which airline alliance partners allow crew and other personnel, along with dedicated strategy. each other to add their own flight numbers on facilities. Services include the maintenance, other partners’ scheduled flights. The frequent repair, and overhaul of aircraft and other equipOptimizing Supply to Demand result is that multiple companies sell seats on one ment owned by airlines. Involves flexibly controlling production capacity flight. Also known as jointly operated flights. (available seat-kilometers) according to Dual Hub Network Strategy demand trends in ways such as increasing or Antitrust Immunity (ATI) A strategy for using the two largest airports in the decreasing the frequencies on routes and Granting of advance approval for immunity from Tokyo metropolitan area (Haneda and Narita) for adjusting aircraft size. competition laws when airlines operating different yet complementary strategic aims and international routes cooperate on planning functions. At Haneda, which offers excellent routes, setting fares, conducting marketing access from central Tokyo, the strategy targets Cargo Business Terms activities, or other areas, so that the airlines are overall air travel demand in the Tokyo metropolinot in violation of the competition laws of such tan area, including the outskirts of Tokyo, as well Available Ton-Kilometers (ATK) countries. In Japan, the United States, and South as demand for connecting flights from various A unit of cargo transport capacity expressed as Korea, the relevant department of transportation Japanese cities to international routes that “production capacity.” Total cargo capacity (tons) grants ATI based on an application (in countries harness ANA’s existing domestic network. x Transport distance (kilometers). other than these three, it is common for a bureau Meanwhile, at Narita the strategy aims to capture such as a fair trade commission to be in charge), transit demand for travel between third countries Revenue Ton-Kilometers (RTK) but in the European Union the business itself via Narita, focusing on Trans-Pacific travel Total distance carried by each revenue-paying performs a self-assessment based on the law. between North America and Asia / China. This will cargo aboard aircraft. Revenue-paying cargo ATI approval is generally based on the two be accomplished by upgrading and expanding (tons) x Transport distance (kilometers). conditions that the parties do not have the power the international network and enhancing connectto control the market and approval will increase ing flights by setting efficient flight schedules. Freighter user convenience. Dedicated cargo aircraft. Seats are removed from the cabin space where passengers would normally sit, and the space is filled with containers or palletized cargo. 152 153 Financial / Data Section  Market Data For further information, Fact Book 2020 can be downloaded from the ANA Group corporate website in PDF format. https://www.ana.co.jp/group/en/investors/irdata/annual/ International Passenger Market Domestic Passenger Market Global Air Transportation Passenger Volume by Region Foreign Visitor Arrivals / Number of Japanese Overseas Travelers Number of Domestic Passengers and LCC Share Top 10 Airports in Japan by Number of Passengers RPK Number of Passengers LCC Share (Billions) (Millions) (Thousands)(%) Ranking (Thousands) Airport 9,000 3,011 3,000 32 100,000 20 8,679 1 Tokyo (Haneda) 81,707 27.76 2 Tokyo (Narita) 39,541 80,000 16 2,320 24 3 Osaka (Kansai) 28,663 6,000 1,932 2,000 4 Fukuoka 23,035 18.13 60,000 12 16 5 Sapporo (New Chitose) 22,814 6 Okinawa (Naha) 20,613 40,000 8 3,000 1,000 7 Osaka (Itami) 15,765 786 8 8 Nagoya (Chubu) 12,590 20,000 4 442 9 Kagoshima 5,769 185 0 0 0 0 0 10 Sendai 3,718 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (CY) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 0 20,000 40,000 60,000 80,000 100,000 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (Left) Total Foreign Visitor Arrivals Japanese Overseas Travelers (Left) Full Service Carriers LCCs (Right) LCC Share Number of Passengers on Domestic Operations (Right) Asia-Pacific Europe North America Middle East Latin America Africa Number of Passengers on International Operations Source: International Air Transport Association (IATA), 2020 Source: Japan National Tourism Organization (JNTO), 2020 Source: Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, fiscal 2019 Note: Compilation from reports on Status of Airport Operations, fiscal 2019 Source: Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, fiscal 2019 Foreign Visitor Arrivals by Country / Region ANA Domestic Passenger Business: ASK, RPK, and Number of Passengers ANA’s Top 10 Domestic Scheduled Flights by Number of Passengers Ranking (Thousands) (FY2019) Route Others 14.2% 1 Haneda–New Chitose 3,741 (Millions)(Thousands) Malaysia 1 .6% 80,000 60,000 2 Haneda–Fukuoka 3,543 Vietnam 1 .7% 3 Haneda–Itami 2,836 42,916 FY2019 Australia 2.1% China 30.4% 60,000 45,000 4 Haneda–Okinawa 2,688 27.76 million 58,552 The Philippines 2.2% 5 Haneda–Hiroshima 1,165 Composition 39,502 Thailand 4.3% 40,000 30,000 6 Haneda–Matsuyama 971 (–12.2% YoY) U.S.A. 5.6% 7 Haneda–Kansai 883 20,000 15,000 8 Haneda–Nagasaki 783 Hong Kong 7.7% Taiwan 9 Haneda–Kagoshima 765 South Korea 14.3% 15.8% 0 0 10 Haneda–Kumamoto 729 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 Note: Figures include revenue passengers on ANA flights and code-share flights operated Source: Japan National Tourism Organization (JNTO), 2020 (Left) RPK ASK (Right) Number of Passengers by partner airlines. Shares by Alliance (RPK) Share of Passengers on Domestic Operations by Airline 16.0% 21.7% 21% 24.9% 25% Number of Passengers 13.3% (Total) 42.1% 53.6% 46.2% 44% 42% 16.8% 15.6% +6.1% 17.1% 33% 16.2% 33% 16.5% International Domestic Total FY2015 96,059 thousand ANA JAL Others FY2019 101,872 thousand Star Alliance Oneworld SkyTeam Others Note: Figures for ANA exclude Vanilla Air Inc. and Peach Aviation Limited. Source: International Air Transport Association (IATA), 2020 Sources: 1  . Figures for ANA, JAL: The companies’ annual securities reports (consolidated basis) 2. Figures for total: Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, a preliminary report for fiscal 2019 154 155 Financial / Data Section  Note: Including routes suspended due to COVID-19 Compilation by ANA HOLDINGS INC. (As of September 1, 2020) ANA-Operated International Routes Haneda Narita Vancouver Stockholm Dusseldorf London Moscow Seattle Paris Shenyang Vienna Vladivostok Dalian Beijing San Francisco New York Brussels Chicago Istanbul Seoul Qingdao Washington, D.C. Frankfurt Munich Shanghai Chengdu Los Angeles Milano Wuhan Houston Hangzhou Xiamen Taipei San Jose Delhi Shenzhen Guangzhou Hong Kong Honolulu Hanoi Mexico City Mumbai Yangon Chennai Bangkok Manila Phnom Penh Ho Chi Minh City Kuala Lumpur Singapore Peach Aviation-Operated Routes Osaka routes Jakarta Sapporo (New Chitose) Niigata Dalian Kushiro Fukuoka Perth Sydney Beijing Sendai Tokyo (Narita) Qingdao Osaka (Kansai) Seoul (Incheon) Shanghai Tokyo (Haneda) Osaka (Kansai) Hangzhou Nagasaki Miyazaki Kagoshima Shanghai Hong Kong Taipei (Taoyuan) Haneda routes Narita routes Haneda / Narita routes Okinawa (Naha) Hong Kong Ishigaki Amami Oshima Kaohsiung Bangkok セブ 156 157 Financial / Data Section  Social Data Environmental Data WEB See the ANA Group corporate website for more: https://www.ana.co.jp/group/en/csr/data/ The following data represents ANA Group environmental performance. Fiscal 2019 data includes performance for Peach Aviation and Vanilla Air. Human Resources Data (ANA) Climate Change Countermeasures Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (FY) Unit Number of employees (As of March 31 of each year)People 12,859 13,518 13,982 14,242 14,830 Carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions Number of employees hired overseas Total 10,000 tons 1,074 1,126 1,161 1,156 1,246 People 1,387 1,454 1,475 1,442 1,464 (As of March 31 of each year) [Breakdown] Average age of employees (As of March 31 of each year)Years 36.0 37.4 37.4 37.5 38.0 Aircraft 1,062 1,114 1,148 1,143 1,233 Average years worked (As of March 31 of each year)Years 10.0 13.3 13.8 14.2 13.6 Passenger (1,005) (1,058) (1,097) (1,098) (1,196) Ratio of female managers Cargo (57) (56) (50) (45) (37) (As of April 1 of each year, excluding individuals 60 years old and over) % 12.2 13.3 13.9 14.6 15.2 Ground equipment and vehicles 11.5 11.8 13.5 13.2 12.6 Ratio of female directors (As of April 1 of each year)% 10.5 10.5 10.0 11.9 13.3 [Scope 1/2/3] Number of employees on pregnancy or childcare Scope 1 1,065 1,118 1,152 1,147 1,237.5 leave / Male (As of March 31 of each year) People 586/5 545/13 587/19 629/20 645/29 Scope 2 8.3 8.3 9.2 8.9 8.4 Number of employees on nursing care leave Scope 3 0.1*3 0.4*3 0.4*3 150.4*2 418.1*1 People 12 14 15 16 10 (As of March 31 of each year) Ratio of employees with disabilities*1 (As of June 1 of each year)% 2.32 2.38 2.49 2.57 2.68 Aircraft CO2 emissions per RTK kg-CO2 1.05 1.00 0.96 0.97 1.01 Work-related accidents (As of March 31 of each year) 66 109 82 111 69 Ratio of employees with healthy BMI*2 (As of March 31 of each year) Total energy consumption Male % 63.1 69.1 70.2 72.9 72.5 Total Crude oil equipment: 10,000 kl 414 434 448 446 480 Female % 75.2 69.8 72.0 72.6 73.0 Aircraft energy consumption 408 428 441 439 474 Ratio of employees that smoke (As of March 31 of each year) Ground energy consumption 5.5 5.5 6.5 6.4 6.3 Male % 22.9 19.4 19.1 17.2 16.7 Ozone depletion (ANA only) Female % 4.9 4.0 3.9 3.7 3.1 Fluorocarbon (Aircraft) kg 16.4 8.8 5.3 9.4 2.7 Employee obesity rate*3 (As of March 31 of each year) Halon kg 8.3 29.4 5.0 28.8 31.7 Male % 13.4 14.9 15.7 11.1 12.9 Female % 0.9 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.0 Fuel-efficient aircraft*4 *1 Total of ANA HOLDINGS INC., ANA, and qualified ANA Group companies (total of 11 companies including 1 special subsidiary) Number of fuel-efficient aircraft Aircraft 148 155 162 183 199 *2 Ratio of employees with BMI of 18.5%–25.0% *3 Changing calculation standards from 2018 Ratio of fuel-efficient aircraft (ANA-brand jet aircraft only) % 64.9 66.0 69.5 75.9 81.2 Before 2017: Ratio of employees receiving guidance from designated healthcare professionals Ratio of fuel-efficient aircraft — — — — 70.3 2018 and later: Ratio of employees meeting criteria for metabolic syndrome % (Including Peach Aviation, Vanilla Air) See the following webpage for more about the 37th Yen-Based Bond (Social Bond), issued in May 2019: *1 Scope 3 data for FY2019 is calculated in all categories. *2 Scope 3 data for FY2018 is calculated in categories 2–4, 6, 7, and assured. https://www.anahd.co.jp/group/en/pr/201904/20190417.html *3 Scope 3 data for FY2015–2017 is calculated in categories 6, 7, and assured. *4 Boeing 777, 787, 737-700, -800, Airbus A320neo, and A321neo Flight-Related Data (All Passenger Flights on ANA International and Domestic Services) (FY) Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 See the following webpage for more about the 36th Yen-Based Bond (Green Bond), issued in October 2018: In-service rate % 98.9 98.9 98.8 98.2 97.4 https://www.anahd.co.jp/group/en/pr/201809/20180928.html On-time departure rate*4% 90.6 87.6 86.1 88.4 88.7 On-time arrival rate* % 4 88.0 85.4 84.0 86.5 87.5 *4 Delays of 15 minutes or less, excluding canceled flights Resource Savings (FY) Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Customer-Related Data Waste produced (FY) Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Total 1,000 tons 28.9 36.8 37.5 34.3 32.6 Number of customer feedback reports 73,688 73,892 114,273 105,723 117,628 [Breakdown] [Breakdown by route type] General waste (Cabin waste and sewage included) 22.4 28.7 31.5 28.4 26.9 Domestic % 46.1 48.3 56.0 62.4 59.5 2.9 3.0 2.6 2.7 2.5 General waste (Ground waste included) International % 39.5 37.4 40.1 34.8 37.9 Industrial waste 3.6 5.1 3.4 3.2 3.2 Other % 14.5 14.3 3.9 2.7 2.7 [Breakdown by report type] Total paper consumption 1,000 tons 4.7 4.6 4.0 3.2 3.1 Complaint % 35.8 43.4 41.1 45.8 42.3 Compliment % 21.2 16.8 18.5 19.8 21.1 Total water consumption Comment / Request % 26.1 21.5 20.8 16.5 16.6 Clean water 10,000 kl 51.5 57.8 61.4 61.1 59.6 Other % 16.9 18.3 19.5 17.8 20.1 Non-potable water 10,000 kl 6.3 7.2 9.4 8.6 9.2 158 159 Financial / Data Section  The ANA Group Profile Corporate Data (As of March 31, 2020) ANA HOLDINGS INC. Organization (As of July 1, 2020) Corporate Profile Corporate Communications and Branding Trade Name ANA HOLDINGS INC. Administrator of Register General Administration Date of Foundation December 27, 1952 of Shareholders Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited General Meeting of Internal Audit Division Head Office Shiodome City Center, 1-5-2 (Stock Transfer Agency Department) Shareholders Corporate Sustainability Higashi-Shimbashi, Minato-ku, 1-4-1, Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo Executive Secretariat Tokyo 105-7140, Japan Independent Auditor Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu LLC Chairman Government & Industrial Affairs Number of Employees 45,849 (Consolidated) American Depositary Receipts Ratio (ADR:ORD): 5:1 Board of Directors President & Chief Executive Officer Paid-In Capital ¥318,789 million Exchange: OTC (Over-the-Counter) Legal & Insurance Fiscal Year-End March 31 Symbol: ALNPY Audit & Supervisory Human Resources Strategy Number of Shares of CUSIP: 032350100 Board Members Audit & Supervisory Board D&I Promotion Common Stock Authorized: 510,000,000 shares Depositary: Group Management Committee Issued: 348,498,361 shares The Bank of New York Mellon Group IT Management Audit & Supervisory Board Number of Shareholders 519,317 240 Greenwich Street Members Office Group ESG Management Digital Design Lab Promotion Committee Stock Listing Tokyo New York, NY 10286, U.S.A. Corporate Planning Tel: 1-201-680-6825 Ticker Code 9202 Corporate Strategy U.S. Toll Free: 1-888-269-2377 Business Development (888-BNY-ADRS) Finance, Accounting & Investor Relations URL: https://www.adrbnymellon.com Finance, Accounting Business Management Facilities Planning Scope of This Report Number of Subsidiaries and Affiliates (As of March 31, 2020) High Total of subsidiaries Total of affiliates Stakeholders’ priorities Operating segment of which, consolidated of which, equity method of which, equity method Reported in Annual Report (Hard Copy and PDF) Air Transportation 6 5 — 4 1 this report PDF version https://www.ana.co.jp/group/en/investors/irdata/annual/ Airline Related 48 37 — 5 2 Travel Services 5 5 — 3 1 For Further Information (Website) Trade and Retail 61 8 — 3 1 Corporate Profile https://www.ana.co.jp/group/en/about-us/ Others 8 7 1 30 10 Investor Relations https://www.ana.co.jp/group/en/investors/ Reported Sustainability https://www.ana.co.jp/group/en/csr/ Total 128 62 1 45 15 on the website High Fact Book 2020 Major Subsidiaries (As of March 31, 2020) Management priorities Fact Book 2020 can be downloaded from the Company’s corporate website in PDF format. This document contains financial data and Company name Amount of capital (¥ Millions) Ratio of voting rights holding (%) Principal business information on the domestic and international markets and LCC status. Air Transportation https://www.ana.co.jp/group/en/investors/irdata/annual/ ALL NIPPON AIRWAYS CO., LTD. 25,000 100.0 Air transportation Air Japan Co., Ltd. 50 100.0 Air transportation ANA WINGS CO., LTD. 50 100.0 Air transportation Peach Aviation Limited 7,515 77.9 Air transportation Forward-Looking Statements Airline Related This report contains statements based on the ANA Group’s current plans, estimates, strategies, and beliefs; all statements that are not statements of historical fact are forwardlooking statements. These statements represent the judgments and hypotheses of the Group’s management based on currently available information. Air Transportation ANA Cargo Inc. 100 100.0 Cargo operations Business, the Group’s core business, involves government-mandated costs that are beyond the Company’s control, such as airport utilization fees and fuel taxes. Overseas Courier Service Co., Ltd. 100 91.5 Express shipping business In addition, conditions in the markets served by the ANA Group are subject to significant fluctuations. Factors that could affect actual results include, but are not limited to, economic trends, sharp changes in exchange rates, fluctuations in the price of crude oil, and disasters. ANA Systems Co., Ltd. 80 100.0 Innovation and operation of IT systems Due to these risks and uncertainties, the Group’s future performance may differ significantly from the contents of this report. Accordingly, there is no assurance that the forward-looking statements in this report will prove to be accurate. Travel Services ANA Sales Co., Ltd. 1,000 100.0 Planning and sales of travel packages, etc. Trade and Retail ANA HOLDINGS INC. ALL NIPPON AIRWAYS TRADING Co., Ltd. 1,000 100.0 Trading and retailing Contact Shiodome City Center, 1-5-2 Higashi-Shimbashi, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-7140, Japan Note: No specified wholly owned subsidiaries as of the end of the fiscal year under review. Investor Relations E-mail: ir@anahd.co.jp 160 161
