Annual Sustainability Report How to use this document 03 Message from 25 Discover Pioneer the President Our operations Menu Safety is our commitment Easily access the 05 2020 relevant Preservation of the environment chapters from the menu events on the top right corner 37 Accomplish 07 Energy is Long-term investments Home Click on this icon to our beacon Partnership and knowledge return to the Index 2019 Highlights Society and petroleum Our assets Climate change Arrows Navigate through each 54 Message from the Chairman page by clicking the arrows 12 Pioneer on the top right corner of the Board of Directors Business model Our people 55 About the report Print Corporate governance Complement to GRI disclosures Use this button to print the PDF Risk management GRI content index Compliance Program Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish Message from the President To explore the Brazilian seas and discover new sources of energy Our purpose is to discover new sources of energy and, to do so, resources is what moves Enauta towards the future. Since the we make use of the knowledge we have of the Brazilian coast. In IPO at B3 S.A. in 2011, we have built a company with very solid 2019, we reinforced our presence in one of the regions with the foundations to create value in the present and in the long term, with greatest potential for new discoveries of associated oil and gas research, innovation, safety, social responsibility and cutting-edge in the country – the Sergipe-Alagoas Basin. In consortium with environmental management. ExxonMobil and Murphy Oil, two major companies in the sector, we conquered three more blocks in the area and strengthened We have achieved significant results in the short term, such as our portfolio with assets that may result in new production fields 39% growth in net revenues and 16.7% in EBTIDAX in 2019, which is in the short and medium terms. important to continue operations, investments and generate positive results for investors. At the same time, we are diligent in following the path of success, with the construction of a diversified portfolio and the formation of strategic partnerships with major international oil and gas exploration and production companies. The Atlanta Field operation in the Santos Basin completed two years and reached a record 10 million barrels of oil produced. We will now The more we pioneer the energy proceed to structure the Definitive Production System, which includes drilling up to nine additional wells and chartering an FPSO ship with universe, the more we are aligned with the greater processing capacity of up to 50,000 BOPD. In the Manati Field, universal principles of the Global Compact, already in a phase of decline, natural gas production maintains the related to human rights, environment, importance of the asset for the predictability of cash generation. labor and anti-corruption GRI 102-14 3 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish At the Brazilian Equatorial Margin, we invested in the new and mitigate impacts. We also engage our employees and suppliers frontier for exploration and production. In the deep and ultra-deep in workshops and other processes to identify risks and guide the waters of the states of Amazonas and Pará there is an unexplored action plans that protect our assets. continent where we are present with three blocks, for which we continue with the process of environmental licensing and research Consolidated in 2019, the regulatory changes for the concession on local biodiversity and coastal ecosystems. These are opportunities of exploration areas increased the interest of international for the long term, with greater risks, but also possibilities for companies in Brazil. The possibility of acting as pre-salt operators, more attractive returns. the adjustment in the local content obligation clause and the predictability of auctions tend to attract the biggest companies in Our sustainability-driven approach is another pillar that drives the world and give a new impulse to the industry in the country. our long-term value creation. Investment in studies and research to preserve the environment, respect for the fishing communities This scenario also creates opportunities for new partnerships, with whom we share the Brazilian seas, environmental compliance preserving the company's investment and cash generation capacity. and social responsibility in the value chain are aspects that we The knowledge about the Brazilian oil basins, the technical capacity always practice and put us in line with the main global initiatives of our team and the positive results of our performance as an in favor of sustainable development, such as the Sustainable operator, proven by the results obtained in the Atlanta Field, are Development Goals (SDG) and the 10 Principles of the Global credentials that differentiate us in the market. We are increasingly Compact, to which we are signatories. prepared to invest and expand our business, contributing to the evolution of the sector and the development of society as a whole. Safety care and risk management complement our business model aligned with international best practices in the oil and gas industry. We adopt the most modern protocols and procedures to prevent Lincoln Rumenos Guardado incidents and provide the necessary resources to contain any leaks CEO of Enauta GRI 102-14 4 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish 2020 relevant events Enauta is committed to informing all of its stakeholders in a transparent and timely manner through the various communication and engagement channels it has, and the Annual Sustainability Report is part of this set of instruments. This document presents data and results for the period between January 1 and December 31, 2019, but two extraordinary facts that occurred in the beginning of 2020 should be highlighted because of the possible impacts on the market in the short term. The first subsequent event was the observation of a sharp drop in oil prices, after Saudi Arabia cut the sale price of the barrel and indicated the beginning of a price war between the major producers, causing the price of the commodity to experience the biggest drop seen in a single day since the Gulf War (1990 and 1991). This decision is the result of the failure of negotiations between the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) and Russia on world production. The Russians opposed the cut in production suggested by OPEC to stabilize prices amid the pandemic of covid-19, which slows down the global economy and reduces demand for oil. The arrival of the disease caused by the new coronavirus also changed the work routine at the company. To deal with the situation, the crisis management team was activated, monitoring the global situation and communicating the internal team as to follow the guidelines and preventive measures of the World Health Organization (WHO) and the Ministry of Health. The current scenario brings greater volatility to Enauta's business, especially in the short term. In the long run, the price variation of the commodity is expected to be less significant and, for the moment, investment plans will not change. The company has one of the lowest leverage ratios in the industry, with positive net cash, which puts it in a comfortable situation in the face of these events. Enauta has always been guided by the strength of its balance sheet and prudence in risk management. Paula Costa Côrte-Real Director of Finance and Investor Relations 5 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish Actions taken in response to the covid-19 pandemic Throughout this unprecedented period, we have supported the health and safety of our employees and contractors, implementing operational and financial measures that aim to strengthen the sustainability of the business if the current crisis has more severe and lasting impacts. Measures Measures Business Plan and taken in offices taken in operations Operational/Financial Resilience The entire team was instructed to Limiting access to support bases in Niterói only to Acquisition of Brent options corresponding work in a home office regime, until operational personnel and restricting visits to vessels, to 35% and 16% of the expected production further notice keeping only those strictly necessary for the first and second semesters, Remote holding of meetings, through Mandatory compliance with a minimum quarantine respectively, which will partially mitigate telephones or video calls of seven days before departure and communication in the price volatility Suspension of national and case of symptoms compatible with covid-19 Evaluation of the next steps related to the international business trips. Strictly Submission of pre-shipment health questionnaire Atlanta Field Definitive System, with the necessary cases must have prior and assessment at check-in for FPSO Petrojarl I objective of adapting the project to this approval from the Board and the employees and service providers new scenario and making it resilient to occupational health team. Personal lower commodity quotations Mandatory health assessment of professionals travel was also discouraged and, if working on support vessels serving Enauta and prior Maintenance of the investment plan for the necessary, must be informed completion of the shipowner's form next biennium, including the timetable for Vacation concession and hour bank drilling the first well in the Sergipe-Alagoas Increased frequency of cleaning of vessels and compensation for selected employees, Basin in early 2021 support bases, intensification of awareness campaigns without prejudice to operations and measures to avoid agglomerations in the common Intensification of the office cleaning areas of the FPSO process, according to the guidelines of Identification of booths for isolation of suspected the competent bodies cases and medical evacuation procedure Alteration of the scale of work of the shippers, decision agreed with the union (in the case of Brazilians) and with each of the employees 6 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish Energy is the raw material of human development. Abstract and immaterial, it is what makes heat and fire appear, drives motors, drives electric lamps and is present in all the other activities we carry out in schools, workplaces and homes. And that is why, since prehistory, humanity has always been in search of sources of energy capable of transforming and improving the way we live on our planet. 7 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish Our company, Enauta Participações S.A., operates exclusively in Brazil, exploring the universe of energy. Our purpose is to employ technology, science and the highest standards of safety and quality in the search for safe and reliable primary energy sources that can be used by society for different purposes. Oil and natural gas are currently the most widely used energy resources in the world, responsible for meeting almost 60% of global demand – in Brazil, the two sources account for half of the energy matrix. The strategic importance of this source for the operation of several productive sectors, in countries of all continents, is what motivates us to advance in the area of exploration and production of oil reserves along the Brazilian coast, one of the regions with the greatest potential for the discovery of new fields with viable production. Total primary energy supply by source World Brazil 6% 32% 27% 12% 39% 11% 11% 22% 32% 3% 5% Coal Coal Natural gas Natural gas Nuclear Hydraulics Hydraulics Biomass and others Biomass and others Oil Oil Source: International Energy Agency (IEA), 2017 GRI 102-1 | 102-2 | 102-6 8 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish 2019 Highlights BRL 50.1 BRL 1,112 BRL 215.5 BRL 500 million million million million invested in total in net profit paid in dividends (CAPEX realized) net revenue in the year Investics 7.3 BRL 5.8 BRL 1,704.3 million million million barrels of oil equivalent invested in in net cash (boe) produced, liquid Research & for Enauta Development projects Investics Enauta’s daily production (boe) 3 new 2nd best blocks company acquired in the in the oil and gas 13,906 13,031 Sergipe-Alagoas Basin sector in the ranking Valor 1000 Gas and condensate 6,220 14,234 Oil 4Q18 4Q19 GRI 102-7 9 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish Click on the map markings to learn Our assets more about our portfolio assets Equatorial Margin Back to top Outer High Operated by Enauta Nor operated by Enauta GRI 102-4 10 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish Our portfolio is composed of 18 assets distributed across Relevant to our short and medium term strategy, the eight oil basins on the Brazilian coast. The diversification of SE-AL Basin is characterized by a high recoverable potential our prospects, with different stages of maturity, reduces the risk volume, logistical facilities and medium to low risk prospects, of exploratory activity and provides us with the security to with expectations of obtaining light oil. There have already advance towards new discoveries. been relevant discoveries of light oil and associated natural gas in the region. Our assets in production are the Atlanta Field, in Block BS-4, and the Manati Field, in Block BCAM-40 (Camamu-Almada Basin). In In the basins of Foz do Amazonas and Pará-Maranhão, we 2019, Enauta's total probable reserves were 104 million barrels of have three blocks also in the exploration phase. Called the oil equivalent (boe), according to certification reports. Brazilian Equatorial Margin, this region is the new frontier for industry in Brazil and therefore involves greater risks In 2019, we expanded our presence in the Sergipe-Alagoas Basin for exploration. However, recent discoveries in Guyana and (SE-AL) with the acquisition of three new blocks – SEAL-M-505, Suriname increase optimism about the area's potential. SEAL-M-575 and SEAL-M-637 – all of them in ultra-deep waters, totaling nine assets in an area of 6,791 square kilometers. The acquisitions occurred in the first cycle of the ANP's Permanent Bidding and our participation is 30%, within the same consortium we are part of in this region, which has ExxonMobil with 50% and Murphy Oil with 20%. Manati Field Seismic data from the first six blocks have already been acquired Gross sales volume (100%) Liquid reserves for Enauta and are being processed to obtain definitive data in 2020. In Caregory Liquids (MMBbl) Gas (Bm³) Liquids (MMBbl) Gas (Bm³) addition, the consortium has proceeded with the environmental 1P 0.41 4.01 0.18 1.81 impact study in order to be able to apply for a permit to drill the area – it is expected to begin activities in early 2021. 2P 0.51 4.81 0.23 2.16 3P 0.65 5.72 0.29 2.57 Atlanta Field Gross sales volume (100%) Liquid reserves for Enauta Developed Undeveloped Total Developed Undeveloped Total Caregory (MMBbl) (MMBbl) (MMBbl) (MMBbl) (MMBbl) (MMBbl) 1P 16.4 127.4 143.8 8.2 63.7 71.9 2P 23.1 158 181.1 11.5 79.0 90.5 3P 23.5 182.5 206 11.8 91.3 103.0 GRI 102-10 | OG1 | OG11 11 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish The exploration and production activities are capital intensive and have several risks inherent to their development. Therefore, we invest in the construction of a corporate governance model that supports the business strategy and ensures an ethical and transparent relationship with all stakeholders that relate to our company. 12 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish SDG DECENT WORK AND In our operations ECONOMIC GROWTH and value chain, we ensure decent With proven experience and deep knowledge of the Brazilian and safe working coast, we know which is the route to the best result. We pave conditions for all the way for energy with courage and confidence, supported by solid pillars to achieve positive results: PEACE, JUSTICE With solid corporate AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS governance and compliance Highly qualified systems and structures, we ensure responsible 1 professionals focused on strategic objectives decision-making and fight corruption Adoption of good corporate PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS Our business model is based on acting in partnership with 2 governance practices to ensure stakeholder alignment in decision making other players and suppliers, sharing knowledge and resources Risk management 3 aimed at preserving the company's investment and growth capacity Global Compact 1. Respect for human rights Commitment to operational 10. Fight against 4 safety and the protection of coastal ecosystems and communities corruption GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 13 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish The search for energy in the Brazilian seas is an activity in which the risks Our partners are shared among partners with great experience in the sector. With the opening of the national market, our knowledge of Brazil and the capacity of accomplishment – proven by the operation of the Atlanta Field – have 38% positioned our company as a strategic player to enable the entry of large international companies. 62% In addition to the so-called major companies, we have a historic partnership with Petrobras, the operator of the Manati Field and our partner in the exploration of two blocks located in the Espírito Santo Basin and in Block CAL-M-372, of Camamu-Almada. The formation of these consortiums, besides allowing the allocation of the National necessary resources for the development of the assets, provides the exchange of Foreign experiences and the evolution of the industry for the benefit of Brazilian society. GRI 102-15 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 14 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish Business model In 2019, our company entered a new moment in its history. We launched our new brand, Enauta, and did a thorough review of the strategic positioning and corporate purpose. We were born to explore the universe of energy, producing this energy to drive the For a better understanding of growth of society. our business model, the inputs and the value generated by our company can be divided Inspired by the concept of value generation in different types into four types of capital, represented of capital proposed by the International Council for Integrated by the elements of nature. Reporting (IIRC), we brought our team together to reflect on how Click on each one our business model differs in the exploration and production to see our value generation levers. sector. Our leaders evaluated, in a workshop, the way we conduct our operations based on the policies, processes and standards established by the corporate governance system. Then, they identified the differentiation levers of the company in relation to the peers that operate in Brazil. Air Fire Water Earth Back to top GRI 102-15 15 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish Our people Our administrative headquarters, located in the Career time of our employees city of Rio de Janeiro, is the center of operations that brings together a highly qualified and experienced team, responsible for the business 24% 20% and exploration and production projects that lead us to conquer new paths towards energy. We are a team of 122 professionals that, in ten years, has turned into reality a series of innovations in the segment in which we operate – as evidenced by the operation of the Atlanta Field. 19% 38% Technical knowledge is strengthened by a sense of responsibility and focus on the safety Up to 10 years of operations. Both in active fields and in 11 to 20 years exploration areas, we adopt strict criteria to 21 to 30 years identify and mitigate risks, prevent accidents Over 30 years with and minimize impacts. The leaders of the different areas act so that this integrated vision of productivity and safety is practiced by our Our team suppliers in all areas of operation. by functional category 2% Over a decade, we have worked to create and 40% solidify a collaborative and respectful working 26% environment among colleagues in which diversity and knowledge exchange are at the core of our business model. Thus, our team has a significant percentage of professionals with more than 20 years of experience in the sector and who transmit their knowledge to the youngest on a daily basis and through training. 31% Board of Directors Management, coordination and supervision Technicians (engineers and geologists) Analysts (other) GRI 102-7 | 102-8 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 16 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish Energy and diversity In 2019, our efforts were focused on reviewing the employee compensation Our company was one of the sponsors of the first Women In Energy (WIN) symposium held in Brazil by the model. We modified both short and long-term incentives, maintaining a salary Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE). More than 160 people and benefits policy in line with industry best practices. Our goal, starting in attended the event, which showed in a practical way the 2020, is to broaden the perception of our business value generation among our benefits of gender diversity and women's protagonism for staff, highlighting the strengths of our corporate culture and the challenges we the oil and gas sector. have to continue to explore the energy universe. Women who are part of our team in different areas, from oil engineering to finance, participated in the initiative Regarding the trainings, we have strengthened in the last year the incentive conducted at the headquarters of the Federation of to the leaders to participate more in internal lectures and Congresses of Industries of Rio de Janeiro (FIRJAN). the sector. As a result, the average number of training hours for this group SPE, the world's largest association of exploration and increased 28%, reaching the level of 58 hours per employee. In the consolidated production professionals, has had a section in Brazil since view, we had a 20% decrease in the total hours of training, due to the decrease 1985. The entity promotes the exchange of knowledge and in demand for specific training. contributes to the development of the industry through the engagement of associated professionals. We also participated in the first edition of the Mentoring Program for Women Professionals in the Oil & Gas Industry, created by the Diversity Committee of the Brazilian Institute of Petroleum, Gas and Biofuels (IBP). The initiative, which took place in 2019, aimed at developing We are experts professional skills among women working in the sector and 45% Graduates developing careers to hold leadership positions. The program lasted ten months, during which 16 pairs of professionals (one mentoring and another being mentored) from 15 different companies were trained and participated 92% in various activities – planning, laboratories and individual of our meetings. Two female employees represented our company employees have, at least, 30% MBA in this initiative, which will continue in 2020 with a new class of women. a degree in higher education 37.1% of leadership positions 17% Masters and Doctors (supervision or above) are held by women held by women (supervision or above) are dos cargos de liderança GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 404-1 37,1% 17 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish Corporate governance Natural Person Enauta Participações S.A. was incorporated in 2010 and, one year later, went public and listed its shares on the Novo 100% 100% Mercado (New Market) of B3 – the São Paulo Stock Exchange. The company is the parent company of Enauta Energia S.A., responsible for exploration and production activities. Queiroz Galvão Quantum FIA Free Float S.A. Our shares (ENAT3) are listed on the Novo Mercado (New Market) of B3, a segment of the stock market whose regulations drive companies to adopt the highest standards 63% 7% 30% of corporate governance. In addition to the regulatory aspect of the capital market, decision making is guided by the processes provided for in our Compliance Program, which brings together the tools necessary to ensure an honest Enauta Participações performance in all our relations. S.A. Our Board of Directors, the highest body of collegiate deliberation, is responsible for the formulation of business 100% policies and strategic direction in the long term. It currently has six members, two of whom are independent and serve on the three Advisory Committees that support decision-making. Enauta Energia S.A. 100% QGEP With the best corporate governance standards Netherlands and practices, our company makes decisions B.V. about strategic investments based on ethics, transparency and responsible management 30% Reference date: 31/12/2019 of the risks in our business model For a more detailed description of the shareholders and shareholding Atlantis Field composition, see item 15.2 of the Reference Form and the section Main B.V. Shareholders and Selling Shareholder , on page 110 of the Company's Share Issue Prospectus. GRI 102-5 | 102-18 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 18 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish The Executive Board, formed by three executives of recognized Related parties experience and knowledge of the sector, completes the governance To further strengthen our ethical and responsible conduct, we structure of the company, with the responsibility of conducting adopted the new Related Party Transactions Policy in 2019. The business and operational activities in a manner connected to the document, approved by the Board of Directors, directs decision strategy outlined by the Board of Directors. making when potential conflicts of interest may exist. The guidelines also specifically address transactions that the Installed since 2014, we have maintained in activity the Fiscal company may enter into with related parties, such as business Council composed of three active members and an equal number done with suppliers controlled by our shareholders. These specific transactions must always follow market conditions and comply with of alternates. This body, which is not permanent in nature, all internal requirements and processes we adopt for hiring, with oversees the acts of the company's management and opines on the broad disclosure in the form of a relevant act or fact, in accordance rendering of accounts for the General Shareholders' Meeting. with the relevant regulations. Governance General structure Meeting Ethics Committee NonCorporate Governance, Board of Permanent Strategy and Sustainability Directors Fiscal Council Committee Compensation Executive and Personnel Board Committee GRI 102-18 | 102-25 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 19 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish Risk management Since our foundation, the operational and market risks related to our business model have been actively and responsibly managed to ensure the continuous generation of value to our shareholders and other stakeholders with whom we relate. We have specific tools to assist in the analysis and management of risks, as well as studies developed by multidisciplinary and duly qualified teams. From the planning to the execution of our operations, we always put safety first. No activity is or will be undertaken by our company or partners without having applied the tools available to identify risks and define action plans and safeguards to prevent accidents and minimize their impacts. Our priority is to protect human life, the environment and our operations. At the end of 2019, the Board of Directors approved the creation of the Audit Committee as a new corporate governance body, with the role of assisting it in monitoring critical issues for business continuity. Thus, our risk management will be guided by an integrated risk management policy and supported by two new corporate areas – internal audit, directly linked to the Audit Committee, and the area of internal controls. This evolution, in addition to adapting our decision-making structure to the demands of the Novo Mercado (New Market) regulations, strengthens the company's management as it provides a more integrated and coordinated view of the value protection processes conducted by the different administrative areas. GRI 102-15 | 102-30 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 20 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish With the start of oil production in the Atlanta Field, a significant portion of our revenue is now exposed to foreign exchange volatility and the price of Brent, traded in dollars on the London How we manage our risks Stock Exchange. This factor added to the risk of mismatch between cash and receivables from the Manati Field gas, denominated in reais, and the need for dollarized investments and costs. The Market Risk Management Policy addresses these issues in our business model and has been appropriate to ensure continuity of operations and value generation. The mapping of risk factors that may impact our business is detailed and disclosed in Operational Market Risk the Reference Form, a regulatory instrument Compliance Safety Management Program that the company submits to the Brazilian Policy Policy Securities Commission (CVM). Interested parties should consult section 4 – Risk Factors in the We identify, monitor and The risks of exposure to Based on our Code of Ethical document available here. adopt the necessary exchange rate variations Conduct and internal rules, measures to mitigate and adverse financial we conduct our activities in the risks associated with impacts caused by an ethical and transparent the activities we carry claims on activities are manner. The Compliance out for exploration and mitigated by adopting the Program, which has been production. We also guidelines set forth in the in place for four years, engage our suppliers Market Risk Management covers all the tools we use in this management Policy, revised whenever to minimize risks related effort to ensure the necessary. The contracting to conflicts of interest, safety of people and of insurance and fraud and corruption. The of exploration and performed in accordance Information Security Policy production operations. with the best market also directs risk management practices, with the to preserve the integrity of monitoring of the Board our business. of Directors. Operational Financial Ethics and risks risks compliance GRI 102-15 | 102-30 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 21 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish Compliance Program Compliance Training At least once a year, all our employees undergo face-to-face Our Compliance Program, in operation since 2015, covers all the training on the Compliance Program, covering our Code of Ethics tools and processes we adopt to ensure that we act in line with and guidelines of conduct. In 2019, we presented a panel on this the ethical principles and values of our corporate culture. In our topic specifically for the Management and Board of Directors. governance structure, the Ethics Committee, which advises the From 2020 onwards, training will also be offered through the Board of Directors, is responsible for monitoring the evolution of company's online training platform. This way, we will be able to cover all employees and high-risk third parties. our practices and controls related to compliance monitoring. Among the tools we possess to ensure the integrity of our relationships are the Code of Ethics and the Anti-Corruption Policy, which point out the guidelines and behaviors to be adopted by all our professionals. Any person who identifies attitudes that are incompatible with these internal regulations or with the legislation must communicate the fact to the company through the Confidential Channel, another initiative within the Compliance Program. The Confidential Channel is managed by an independent company and ensures confidentiality, impartiality and the appropriate treatment for each situation. All communications received are forwarded for internal investigation and investigated in accordance with the legislation and company standards. In all our operations, we adopt anti-corruption practices to avoid risks of actions that compromise the company's reputation and are at odds with the law in interactions with public agents and private entities. We evaluate, for example, the offering of gifts and presents, philanthropic donations or sponsorships and the procedures for hiring third parties who may represent us before government agencies. These analyses follow the procedures set forth in the Anti-Corruption Policy and in the Third Party Hiring Procedure and, in 2019, did not identify any risk of corruption without addressed protection and mitigation mechanisms. GRI 102-16 | 102-17 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 205-1 | 205-2 22 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish Our suppliers In 2019, we hired Our business model requires the formation of strategic a total of 206 suppliers partnerships with suppliers of equipment, vessels and services and spent approximately with recognized technical capacity and experience in the BRL 1.1 billion exploration and production sector. In the Atlanta Field, the only asset that we operate in our portfolio and which is already in the production phase, we are responsible for contracting and monitoring the activities conducted by these companies. A relevant feature of our business model is the fact that the 95% of supplier suppliers directly involved in the operation and development spending in 2019 was for the operation of the BS-4 Block concentrate more than 95% of the of the Atlanta Field expenditures we make annually with our supply chain. Likewise, the activities carried out at sea are the most exposed to risk factors mapped to operational safety. Thus, our supply chain management and development strategy, 19 companies, in relation to safety aspects and environmental impacts, is all large, were hired directed towards the evaluation of suppliers considered critical. to perform activities All companies whose activities may put people's lives and physical integrity at risk, compromise the company's material assets or severely impact the environment are in this group – and therefore subject to performance evaluations according to our parameters and criteria. 16 of them are international companies In addition to this filter, we make an ongoing assessment acting in oil and gas fields of suppliers regarding the risk of corruption in their in other countries activities. All partners whose contracts are worth more than BRL 800 thousand or those who interact with public agents on behalf of our company (regardless of the total business) undergo the due diligence process under the Compliance Program. This assessment is supported by an online 60 audits on critical portal, managed by an independent company, which suppliers of the stores documentation and other evidence that proves Atlanta Field audited the compliance of partners. since 2018 GRI 102-9 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 23 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish Our goal is to operate the Atlanta Field without any accidents, leaks or critical non-conformities identified in external audits performed by regulatory agencies. To achieve these goals, we work closely and seamlessly with our critical suppliers. Critical suppliers are also regularly audited to assess compliance with health, safety and environmental (HSE) requirements. These evaluations are initially conducted at the pricing stage and are an integral part of the criteria used for contracting. After that, follow-up audits take place at least every one and a half years, complementing the evaluations made continuously by the area responsible for contract management. Since the start of operations in the Atlanta Field in 2018, until the end of last year, we have performed 60 audits on critical suppliers. Other actions to monitor the activities of suppliers involve the shipment of technicians from our own team, specialized in aspects of HSE. In 2019, our professionals spent more than 60 days boarding FPSO Petrojarl I carrying out inspections and identifying opportunities for improvement. In addition, we hold regular HSE meetings with suppliers and monitor incident indicators on a monthly basis through bridge documents requested from these companies. As we completed the first year of operation of the Atlanta Field in May 2019, we invited our suppliers to participate in a workshop in which we presented the results achieved in the areas of production, health, safety and environment. With the participation of 120 people, the event also aimed to disseminate best practices, through presentations and lectures by service providers. On the occasion, the companies with the best performance were recognized with the delivery of a commemorative plaque. GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 24 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish Our company's pioneering spirit and capacity for achievement are proven by the way we conduct business, generating value for our shareholders and delivering valuable energy resources to global development in a sustainable manner. We were the first independent Brazilian company qualified as a Type A Operator by the National Agency of Petroleum, Natural Gas and Biofuels (ANP), which authorizes us to operate on land and in shallow, deep and ultra-deep waters off the Brazilian coast. 25 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish SDG We have invested more than US$ 400 million in the construction DECENT WORK AND We value of the entire infrastructure for obtaining and treating natural gas ECONOMIC GROWTH operational and worker safety in at the Manati Field, in the Camamu-Almada Basin, on the coast all operations, of Bahia. An affordable and competitive energy source, the gas with the Integrated is distributed to industries in the Brazilian Northeast and drives Management System the local economy. We have a 45% participation in the consortium that has the concession of the asset, in production since 2007 and operated by Petrobras. We ensure the INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE resilience and reliability of In 2018, we started oil production at the Atlanta Field and operations, consolidated our status as an independent operator of offshore with the latest oil and gas fields (deep and ultra-deep water). We applied technology in assets technologies and united systems in an unprecedented way to overcome the challenges of this operation, closing 2019 with a Global Compact total production of 10 million barrels of oil. In December 2019, we were the sixth larger producer of oil and 2. Non-participation in the violation of gas in the country and the tenth company in the sector with the human rights highest volume produced, according to data from the ANP. The Atlanta and Manati Fields end the same month among the 20 with 7. Approach to the highest production in Brazil. environmental challenges 8. Environmental responsibility In 2019, we reached a record production of 10 million barrels of oil at Atlanta Field and started planning the Definitive System of production 26 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish Our operations Atlanta Field Our company is undergoing a transformation of its business model since the entry into operation of the Atlanta Field, an asset located in Santos Basin Block BS-4. In 2019, we drilled the third well of the first phase of development, the Anticipated Production System (SPA), and completed the interventions in the two existing wells whose primary elevation systems (BCSS bottom) had failed at the beginning of activities. Thus, the asset reached an average of 30 thousand barrels of oil produced per day – the maximum processing capacity of the FPSO Petrojarl I, a chartered vessel for this activity. With this successful operational performance, we consolidated our position as the first independent Brazilian operator to operate in the pre-salt exclusion zone. The know-how of our team made possible the exploration of the reservoir located in ultra-deep waters, under a 1,550-meter water blade, by means of technologies and methodologies that had never been used together, used for drilling and lifting up to the FPSO. Due to this innovative model, we chose to start production with the SPA in order to analyze the technical feasibility of the adopted model. After verifying the success of the production, the consortium that owns the BS-4 Block concession authorized the start of pricing for the implementation of the Definitive System (SD), which will include drilling up to nine additional wells and an FPSO with capacity to process between 50 and 70 thousand barrels per day. 27 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish The Atlanta Field produces heavy oil (14° API) used, a potential cause of ocean acidification. IMO for example, for the production of bunker oil, the fuel 2020 obliges ships to use bunker oil with a for ship engines. As a result, the product is generally sulphur content limited to 0.5% (previously the sold at a discount from the Brent price on the London ceiling was 3.5%). The oil from the Atlanta Field Stock Exchange. In the fourth quarter 2019, this value has a low sulfur concentration – only 0.35% – decreased considerably compared to the beginning of production, staying between US$ 8 and US$ 11. and has been one of the solutions adopted by the industry to meet this new demand. 30,000 barrels of oil per day is the maximum production capacity of One of the main reasons for this lower discount is All production from the SPA is marketed by the FPSO in the Atlanta Field related to the entry into force of the International Shell to customers in various parts of the world. Maritime Organization 2020 Low Sulphur (IMO 2020) Our production already serves companies the FPSO in the Atlanta Field regulation. The aim of this new legislation is to located in the Gulf of Mexico, West Coast of the maximum production capacity of barrels of oil per day is the reduce sulphur oxide emissions in maritime activities, United States and Asia. 30,000 28 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish Manati Field The production of non-associated natural gas in the Manati Field, operated by Petrobras and in which we have a 45% stake, began in 2007. Since then, it has played an important role in the energy matrix of the Brazilian Northeast, ensuring a safe and reliable source for thermoelectric plants and industries, and is currently responsible for about 30% of gas production in the region. The average production of the Manati Field in 2019 was 3.6 million m³ per day and the projection is that the asset, which has already entered its phase of decline, will extend its productivity until 2023/2024. The average volume of gas produced is directly related to the demand for energy in the Brazilian Northeast region. This consumption increased in the last two quarters of 2019 due to the reconnection of thermoelectric plants in this region. All of the gas produced there is acquired by Petrobras through an exclusive contract with a take or pay clause, which guarantees the BCAM-40 Block (Camamu-Almada Basin) consortium a minimal receipt and strengthens our financial forecast. Until May 2018, when we started oil production in the Atlanta Field, this was our only asset in production and its activities were extremely important to support our company's cash generation and ensure investments in the exploration and development areas of the other fields. 29 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish Safety is our commitment Our highest risks of accidents occur in Atlanta Field, where we have different third party Atlanta Field HSE Performance personnel working in our operations. Our mission is to promote the continuous engagement 2019 2018 of these teams in the methodologies and practices that we adopt, reinforcing the culture and values of operational safety. LTI (Lost Time Incidents) 0 0 Restricted Work Case / 3.33 2.48 We adopt internationally recognized methodologies to elaborate our risk analysis where, with Medical Treatment Case / First Aid the participation of a multidisciplinary team, we establish the safety barriers and measures Case (RWC/MTC/FAC) necessary to reduce the occurrence of incidents to ALARP (as low as reasonably possible). In Severity Rate 0 0 2019, we conducted 12 risk analyses to assess safety in offloading operations (removal of oil Audits in Critical Suppliers 100% 90% from the FPSO), in third well drilling and production operations occurring simultaneously, in the subsea system and in the chemical injection system in producing wells. The 2019 rates were calculated over a total of 1,201,924 hours worked. We do not have the information segregated by gender, since it is transmitted to Enauta in a consolidated way by the suppliers. It is important to point out that, in the Atlanta Field, practically 100% of the workers are men, so gender segregation is not a material issue for the company's management. Since the arrival of the FPSO Petrojarl I, there has been no lost time incidents – we celebrated The IAFC is an operational indicator that measures the percentage of suppliers considered critical that were hired and evaluated on HSE aspects. The goal is to reach 100%. on January 8, 2020, two-years with no LTIs. However, we emphasize that the maintenance of this healthy environment depends on the continuity of awareness actions, training and continuous risk assessment. GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 403-2 30 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish Since 2013, we have been using the international ICS (Incident Our values for Command System) methodology, which subsidizes the formation operational safety of an integrated structure to respond to emergency situations. Specifically for the Atlanta Field, we have an Individual Emergency Plan (PEI), approved and evaluated annually by means of a Leadership promotes a culture of operational simulated one with the participation of IBAMA. safety and incident prevention by encouraging workers to communicate unsafe conditions. In 2019, we carried out seven emergency response simulations (IMT), with the mobilization of resources such as vessels for oil containment and collection, aircraft for overflight and means to monitor the stain. The exercises were also accompanied by experts in emergency response and fauna protection. Since we Individual responsibility to know and began our operation, we have not had any incidents involving oil act in the right way, considering safety, health, spills at sea. environment and asset integrity issues. To extend the protection mechanisms, we are associated with Oil Spill Response Limited (OSRL), the largest organization specialized in emergency response in the industry and which The company's commitment to ensuring guarantees resources to attend to occurrences of this type. We the necessary resources for prevention, mitigation are also part of Wild Well Control (WWC), which provides support and control of impacts related to operational for contingency plans and combat equipment in situations of activities, permanently seeking continuous submarine leaks (called blowouts). improvement of results. Risk Management which identifies, evaluates and discloses the risks involved in operational activities to all employees involved in order to prevent incidents from occurring. 12 risks analyzes were carried out to assess safety in offloading operations Integrity Management to keep operational assets preserved in order to ensure offloading operations a high level of reliability, respecting the useful out to assess safety in life for which they were designed. risks analyzes were carried 12 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 306-3 31 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish Integrated Management System The strengthening of the safety culture is provided by the solidity of our Integrated Management System (IMS), which brings together the various tools and protocols we adopt to conduct our activities safely. ISO 14001 (environmental management) and ISO 45001 (occupational health and safety) certifications attest to the fact that we have adopted the best practices and controls in the IMS. The incorporation of new software and models increases the strength of the IMS and gives more agility to our management processes. In the last year, we adopted the Management System, a tool that helps in the management of non-conformities and the establishment of plans for implementation and follow-up of corrective actions. Another technology we adopted was the BowTie system for visualizing critical aspects Corporate guidelines of operational safety and implementing barriers to prevent accidents. This technology improves the understanding of the production flow and facilitates the connection between risk situations and actions needed to mitigate them. Operational Certifications manuals Policies • ISO 14001 (environmental Establish the management) procedures to • ISO 45001 (occupational be adopted in • Integrated health and safety) the different Management activities in order System Operational risk to perform them • Operational assessment ISO 45001 certification in a standardized Security Policies replaced OHSAS 18001, and its way, meeting the We adopt the main achievement is the result of a requirements of methodologies recognized major effort conducted since HSE and avoiding by the industry for identifying 2018 to adapt the system to the occurrence of and assessing risks and new requirements. incidents implementating recommendations for safe operation GRI 102-11 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 32 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover 9 Accomplish Still in 2019, we launched the Rules that Save Lives , adopting the safety model of the International Association of Oil & Gas Producers (IOGP). This is a simplified set of nine rules that shows workers in the Life-Saving sector the actions that can be taken for their own protection and that of their colleagues, in order to Rules avoid serious accidents. Bypassing Confined space Driving Energy isolation Hot work safety controls Line of fire Safe mechanical Work authorization Working at height lifting GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 33 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish Preservation of the environment When conducting business in search of energy sources, we aim to act to prevent, mitigate and control the impacts of activities on the environment, health and safety and to comply with all legal requirements and other standards that apply to our company's operations. These guidelines were established by the Integrated Management System Policy (IMS), which follows the ISO 14001 guidelines and all the requirements required by the legislation and technical notes of the environmental agencies. The basis for our actions is to obtain and maintain the environmental licenses necessary for the development of exploration and production activities. In 2019, we began the preparation of the Environmental Impact Study (EIS) that will subsidize the request for licensing for the Definitive System (SD) of operation of the Atlanta Field, in addition to compliance with all the conditions of the licenses that we already have for this asset. We also updated the EIS sent to Ibama together with the license application for the drilling of the blocks in the ParáMaranhão Basin, on the Brazilian Equatorial Margin. Atlanta Field's first full year of operation led to increased emissions and generation of waste and effluents compared to previous years GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 34 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish Atmospheric emissions The management of greenhouse gas (GHG) Another platform we have joined to communicate In 2019, gross emissions for scope 1 increased emissions resulting from our operational our governance of GHG emissions is the Carbon as a result of activities to drill the third well and activities has become strategic following the Disclosure Program (CDP). Every year, we respond maintenance interventions on the other two entry into operation of the Atlanta Field and to the entity's questionnaire, which aims to provide already in place. In addition, it was the first year in has led to an accelerated evolution of the tools more transparency to investors on how companies which operations occurred over the 12 months – we use to quantify the volume of CO2 emitted, manage these impacts. production began in May 2018. Indirect emissions identify reduction opportunities and define (scope 3), on the other hand, grew due to the action plans and investments necessary to Since 2018, our emissions have increased operation of vessels to assist the operation. achieve this objective. significantly due to activities in the Atlanta Field. Faced with this scenario, we began an internal The use of the drillship and vessels of other Since 2015, we have measured our GHG discussion on actions that could improve our types (AHTS, Line Handler and PSV) has led to emissions based on the Brazilian GHG Protocol performance and, at the end of 2019, we conducted increased consumption of marine diesel. In Program methodology and published our a sector benchmarking study to identify best addition, the use of natural gas in FPSO Petrojarl inventory in the Public Emissions Register. In practices adopted by the industry. Based on this I has also increased due to higher production. all years, the data have undergone external analysis, we will develop an action plan throughout As a result, the energy generated from these two verification and, therefore, our inventory is 2020 to improve our performance and, possibly, to fuels practically doubled in 2019 compared to the classified in the Gold category. set targets for the management of the issue. previous year. Energy generated GHG Emissions (thousand tCO2e) from fuels (GJ) 10.22 58.63 117.57 1.55 23.72 40.09 130.8 928.0 1,910.9 Scope 2 indirect emissions refer only to electricity consumption, and are significantly lower. Learn more on page 60. The data for 2019 are preliminary because the Brazilian GHG Protocol Program calculation tool was not released until the closing of this 647.7 1,529.0 Report. Consult the inventory in the Public Emissions Register. 130.8 280.4 381.9 Scope 1 Scope 3 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Marine diesel Natural gas GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 302-1 | 305-1 | 305-2 | 305-3 35 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish Waste and effluent The operation of the Atlanta Field has also brought greater visibility to Hazardous waste by type and disposal method (t)* other environmental impacts that are connected to our business and, as well as GHG emissions, demand continuous management efforts and 2019 2018 search for operational improvements. One of the aspects we monitor is Depressurization/mischaracterization 0.2 0.2 the generation, treatment and proper disposal of waste and effluents. The Treatment plant 428.3 104.2 amount of discarded materials and substances grew in relation to 2018 Reprocessing 5.0 2.2 as a result of the increase in the volume of production in assets, whose operation was maintained over 12 months for the first time. Re-refining 81.5 13.5 Landfill 0.0 3.3 Total waste generated reached 715 tons in 2019, an increase of Cleaning/decontamination 17.7 5.1 approximately 85% in the annual comparison. Hazardous materials are Processing 17.7 29.2 sent to treatment, re-refining and decontamination processes. Other types of waste, such as paper and plastics, are sent for recycling. Autoclave 0.7 0.0 Incineration 0.1 0.0 The volume of effluent was 439,000 cubic meters, almost doubled on Reconditioning 0.0 0.4 the same comparative basis. The increase was due to the greater use On-site storage 0.7 9.1 of vessels for operational activities and the drillship to drill the third well in the Atlanta Field. The entire volume of effluent goes through treatment, • Total 551.8 167.0 *Covers only the operation of the Atlanta Field (BS-4). in existing plants in the FPSO and in ships, before being discarded at sea. In 2019, most of these substances were transported to be treated in Effluent Treatment Plants on the continent. Types of effluent generated (thousand m³) Non-hazardous waste by type and disposal method (t) 11.0 2019 2018 BS-4 Office Total BS-4 Office Total 428.6 Landfill 33.9 3.6 37.6 23.6 3.2 26.8 Reuse 0.0 0.0 0.0 6.0 0.0 6.0 Recycling (paper, cardboard and plastic) 112.4 1.4 113.8 74.1 1.6 75.6 On-site storage 11.8 0.0 11.8 5.0 0.0 5.0 Composting 0.0 0.0 0.0 2.0 0.0 2.0 Treatment plant 0.1 0.0 0.1 102.2 0.0 102.2 Oily water • Total 158.2 5.0 163.2 212.8 4.8 217.6 Sanitary effluent GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 306-1 | 306-2 36 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish Breaking new ground with responsibility and discovering the essential energy resources for society allows our company to create value in different ways and positively impact all audiences connected to our business model. We have a financial management that ensures the responsible allocation of financial resources and the investments that generate results for our shareholders on a continuous and long-term basis. We direct our Research & Development projects to engage the academy in the search for solutions and innovations that transform the exploration and production industry. We establish a relationship of proximity and trust with coastal communities, working collaboratively so that exploration and development of assets occur in harmony with local culture. A model that preserves regional traditions and drives territorial growth with knowledge sharing and respect for diversity. 37 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish SDG CLIMATE ACTION Aware of the climate change scenario, we have natural gas as an opportunity for a To leverage the positive impacts of our business sustainable energy model, we align management practices with global transition initiatives promoting sustainable development. Our company is a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact, an initiative that brings together companies LIFE We encourage committed to ten universally accepted principles to BELOW WATER research and promote human rights, environmental preservation, knowledge development on labor relations and anti-corruption practices. mangroves and their role in regional As members of the Brazil Network of the Global ecosystems Compact, we follow the initiatives to promote Agenda 2030 and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) in the country's business ecosystems. With reflections Global Compact and the exchange of experiences in this sense, we identify the connections of our actions to SDG 14 – 1. Respect for Life below Water, focused on the conservation and human rights sustainable use of the oceans. 9. Diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies The connection of the business strategy with the principles of the Global Compact and the Sustainable Development Goals enhances the generation of value for our company GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 102-12 38 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish Starting in 2011, when we start exploring new blocks in the southern coast of At the Equatorial Margin, we are carrying out the Bahia, we innovate in the way we fulfill the contractual obligations assumed Costa Norte Project – the largest R&D investment with the environmental agencies and regulators of the sector and relate to local in our history – to build methodologies to communities. Our first research and development (R&D) project – the Japi Project understand the dynamics of natural processes – established an unprecedented model of cooperation between universities, on the seashore and identify the vulnerability of government agencies and residents of the areas of influence. one of the largest mangrove areas on the planet. With an investment of around BRL 14 million, the The initiatives carried out in partnership with the fishing community of the project is conducted in partnership with different Canavieiras Marine Extractive Reserve bear fruit to this day, such as the donation institutions (universities, research institute and of equipment to minimize the impacts of the oil crisis of as yet unknown origin oceanography companies) and seeks to expand that hit the northeastern beaches in 2019 (read more on page 47). the scientific knowledge base of the region. To learn more To learn more about the Japi Project about the Costa Norte (2011-2014), click here Project, click here GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 39 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish Long-term investments The financial results we achieved in 2019 reflect Total net revenue (BRL million) The volume of investments (CAPEX) made the moment of transformation of our company and 357.4 797.0 1,112.0 in 2019 totaled US$ 50 million, with most of it the success of a long-term strategy focused on the (about 76%) going to the Atlanta Field, where we operation of offshore blocks on the Brazilian coast. drilled the third well foreseen in the Anticipated The Atlanta Field closed the period as responsible for Production System. The other resources were 63.5% of our revenues. The increase in demand for mainly directed to the exploration of the blocks gas in the Brazilian Northeast region, driven by the in the Sergipe-Alagoas Basin, our focus for reconnection of thermoelectric plants in the last two short-term growth. quarters, also contributed to close the year with a 288.0 707.0 39% growth in net revenues. In addition to increasing production, we have been able to be more efficient in our operations and have 357.4 509.0 404.0 Click here and access our Financial been able to take advantage of the opportunities in a Statements for more information on Enauta's scenario of stable Brent prices coupled with reduced financial performance in 2019 heavy oil supply. We achieved a 46% reduction in the 2017 2018 2019 average lifting cost, which represents the cost for the Manati Atlanta operation and maintenance of the Atlanta Field, and were able to finalize maintenance interventions in both producing wells at a total cost of US$ 34 million CAPEX 2019-2021 (US$ million) (below the US$ 45 million initially budgeted). 2019 total CAPEX: 2020 total CAPEX: 2021 total CAPEX: The combination of these factors allowed our US$ 50 million US$ 46 million US$ 150 million profitability, measured by the EBITDAX indicator, to 1 5 2 reach BRL 670.7 million, a growth of 16.7% despite 9 non-recurring revenues of BRL 193.5 million in 2018 and 14 net non-recurring expenses of BRL 119.4 million in 2019. Adjusted for non-recurring items, EBITDAX increased 45% in the annual comparison. 27 63 The net profit was BRL 215.5 million, a 49% decrease from the previous year, a comparison that should 40 85 consider the non-recurring effect of receiving part of the sale of Block BM-S-8 in 2018. Production Exploration Others GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 40 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish Value for the public The responsibility in conducting business and developing assets has allowed us to generate relevant value for our shareholders. Between 2018 and 2019, a total of BRL 900 million was directed to the payment of dividends, an amount that exceeds by more than ten times the minimum payment of BRL 0.15 per share historically paid, as established in the Bylaws. In the years 2017 and 2018, we had extraordinary dividend distributions due to the identification of excess cash. The distribution of liquidity to shareholders was considered the way to improve profitability. Cash allocation is always analyzed without compromising the company's growth or investment capacity in the long term due to short term distribution. For 2020, the Board of Directors approved, in April 16, the distribution of BRL 300 million as dividends, equivalent to BRL 1.14 per share. The oil and gas industry also generates value for society as a whole, through the payment of royalties, auction subscription bonuses and other types of government participation in exploration and production activities. These resources are made available to governments and contribute to investments in education, health and development of territories. In 2019, the operating consortiums in which we have a stake allocated a total of BRL 81.6 million for the payment of royalties, with the Union and the State of Rio de Janeiro as the main beneficiaries. The exploration and production of oil and gas, essential energy sources for society, drive the economy and technological development of the country GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 41 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish Distribution of value added in 2019 (BRL million) 52.9 The value added distributed totaled BRL 648.3 million in the year, an 18% reduction in comparison with the previous period, mainly due to the 215.5 increase in costs with materials, energy and services and the amounts accounted for as depreciation and amortization. Regarding the distribution Personnel of added value, the growth in the remuneration of third party capital 213.8 Taxes, fees and contributions stands out, whose representativeness over the total rose from 5% to 30% Remuneration of third-party capital in the annual comparison. This variation is explained by the increase in Return on equity interest payments and bank expenses. 202.1 30% of the amount distributed was directed to the remuneration of third-party capital of third-party capital directed to the remuneration of the amount distributed was 30% GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 201-1 42 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish The investment we make in R&D projects drives discoveries in the area of This model allowed, for example, a technical study to be carried out for four exploration and production and also new ways of relating to the Brazilian years with a focus on artificial lifting and guaranteed flow for the production coastal environment. Innovation and technological development occur of ultraviscous oils, as is the case with the existing one in the Atlanta Field. through partnerships with universities and research institutions and generate The research was conducted in partnership with Unicamp, from São Paulo, and knowledge that is available to industry and society as sources of knowledge resulted in the development and improvement of technologies that increase the and levers for a productive model with lower social and environmental impacts. safety and efficiency of the operation. The total investment in this project alone was BRL 4.9 million. The total amount of resources invested in R&D projects by companies in our sector has exceeded BRL 2 billion in recent years, according to data compiled More than 50% of our investment in R&D is destined to research and projects in by the Brazilian Institute of Petroleum, Gas and Biofuels (IBP). This amount the environmental area, with a focus on expanding knowledge and promoting the corresponds to 1% of the gross revenue generated by the high productivity preservation of marine and coastal ecosystems. fields, as determined by the ANP. In 2019 alone, our R&D investments totaled BRL 5.8 million. Click here to check out all the R&D projects we support GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 43 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish Partnership and knowledge Approximately 50 million Brazilians live in the coastal regions voluntary obligations aimed at generating knowledge and of Brazil, spread over 19 different states. Investing in research information that benefit the entire society. that broadens knowledge about marine ecosystems and mangroves is the most efficient way to generate value for local We understand that this model of action allows us to align our communities through our business model, helping to protect company with the principles and guidelines on which the 17 the history, culture and way of life of these populations. Sustainable Development Goals (SDG), proposed by the United Nations (UN) as a global agenda to promote sustainable and The resource allocation strategy aligned with our purpose of environmentally responsible development, are based. In the exploring the universe of energy is guided by our Partnerships same way, we ensure that our actions are connected to the ten and Knowledge for the Brazilian Sea program. Within this principles of the Global Compact, respecting human rights and initiative, we cover all initiatives originating from legal or promoting respect for the environment and biodiversity. GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 44 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish Costa Norte Project Developed since 2016 on the coasts of the states of Amapá, The objective of the Costa Norte Project is to develop a Maranhão and Pará, the Costa Norte Project is the largest R&D computational methodology for the understanding of coastal investment we have made, with a total investment of around processes and to define the vulnerability of mangrove forests BRL 14 million. The initiative has been conducted in partnership that exist in the Foz do Amazonas and Pará-Maranhão basins. with the Federal University of Rio de Janeiro (UFRJ), the State This region concentrates the largest continuous area of University of Rio de Janeiro (UERJ), the Federal University of mangroves in the world, with approximately 7.4 thousand Pará (UFPA), the Scientific and Technological Research Institute square kilometers, and presents the ideal conditions for the of the State of Amapá (IEPA) and the oceanography company reproduction and feeding of several species of fish, birds, PROOCEANO. crustaceans and other animals. GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 45 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish To identify and evaluate the vulnerability of mangroves This model of joint action becomes even to exploration and production operations, those involved more relevant considering the geographic in the project conducted field research for several position of Blocks PAMA-M-265 and PAMA-M-337 BRL 14 million purposes – recording tides, salinity and temperature, and (Pará-Maranhão Basin) and FZA-M-90 (Foz do is the investment for the characterizing the phytosociology of mangrove forests. Amazonas Basin) and the proximity to various Costa Norte Project They also did launches of drifters in the oceans and survey conservation units along the coast of these Costa Norte Project of satellite images in high resolution. All the knowledge states. The environmental studies presented is the investment for the generated by this initiative is of great relevance to establish actions for the prevention and mitigation of accidents on to IBAMA for the exploitation of these assets recognize the high relevance of these areas for BRL 14 million the Brazilian Equatorial Margin, expanding the positive biodiversity. impact of the investment made. Operating units and Block area Near Social and protected areas (hectares) conservation unit biodiversity relevance PAMA-M-265 block 769,3 The coastal areas of the states of Pará and High relevance, considering the high Maranhão (located more than 200 km from sensitivity – environmental study PAMA-M-337 block 769,3 the closest point to the blocks) have several classified by IBAMA as Class 2 according conservation units, with sensitive ecosystems to Ordinance 422/11 FZA-M-90 block 766,3 The coastline of the state of Amapá has High relevance, considering the high several conservation units, the closest sensitivity – environmental study (PARNA of Cabo Orange) being about 150 km classified by IBAMA as Class 1 according from the shallowest point of the block to Ordinance 422/11 GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 304-1 46 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish Mar Brasil In 2019, the series Mar Brasil – o Desafio da Sustentabilidade no Mar Brasileiro (Brazilian Sea – The Challenge of Sustainability in the Brazilian Sea) premiered on Brazilian television with the purpose of publicizing valuable initiatives that seek to contain the destruction of the country's oceans and preserve biodiversity. Produced with financial support from Enauta, through the Audiovisual Incentive Law, the documentary divided into five episodes was produced by Ocean Filmes with support from the Brazilian Navy and the Oceanographic Institute of USP. The presentation of stories and testimonials show how researchers, scientists, NGOs and beach communities work to preserve the sea on the Brazilian coast, treating the sea as the origin of life. Shown on the Click here to watch the episodes of the Bandeirantes channel, the Mar Brasil series is narrated by Tamara Klink, series Mar Brasil – o Desafio da daughter of Brazilian navigator Amyr Klink. Sustentabilidade no Mar Brasileiro Partnership with communities in Bahia Throughout our history, during the exploration phase of Block BM-J-2 (returned to the Union in 2015), we established a solid partnership with the communities of the Extractive Reserve (RESEX) of Canavieiras, on the southern coast of Bahia. Through the R&D programs and compensatory plans provided for in the licensing obtained at the time, fishermen and residents of the area were trained to act in the event of accidents and leaks. In 2019, the RESEX was one of the areas impacted by the oil spill of unknown origin that hit the beaches of the Brazilian Northeast. Our way of conducting business, with ethics and transparency, allowed us to collaborate with these populations in an attempt to prevent contamination of sensitive areas. We donated safety equipment and other materials requested to contain the oil that was approaching the coast. With this support, some of the protection actions that were trained could be applied in order to minimize environmental damage in the region. GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 47 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish Social investment Our business model allows for the support of initiatives to society in the Other investments areas of health and sport. In 2019, the total volume of investments in social projects made by our company was BRL 2.35 million. Part of these resources was voluntarily allocated to support the Hospital do Amor (Barretos – São Paulo) and development of two communities established in municipalities within Hospital Pequeno Príncipe (Curitiba – Paraná) the area of influence of Block BS-4. With the start of production in Law of Support to the Elderly and the Federal Law the Atlanta Field, we mapped community organizations with activities of Support to Children and Adolescents (FIA) related to artisanal fishing and environmental education projects with Hospital do Amor serves cancer patients from all over Brazil which we could work together and encourage the development of and the contributions support the Elderly Support Program. under-represented groups of society. Hospital Pequeno Príncipe is a national reference in pediatrics and attends children and adolescents in more than 30 medical One of the selected was the Arte Peixe Cooperative, with its female specialties. The investments strengthen the Integral Health leadership and based in the district of Atafona – municipality of São Project, which strengthens the humanization of the treatment João da Barra (Rio de Janeiro). The community will benefit from financial of patients in the Unified Health System (SUS). support and technical monitoring for the requalification of the food production system, aiming at obtaining the State Inspection Seal for the marketing of fish products. Another partnership was signed with the Rural Association of Women Artisans and Quilombola Farmers of Barrinha (ARMAAQBAR), located in the municipality of São Francisco de Itabapoana (Rio de Janeiro). The community will receive support for the construction of Volleyball Network (Instituto Compartilhar) Sports Incentive Law the association's headquarters, which tends to expand the organization capacity and local protagonism. Through the Sports Incentive Law, we also support the Volleyball Network project, carried out by the Compartilhar Institute. The The strategy for implementing private social investment follows entity, designed by former Brazilian volleyball coach Bernardinho, benefits over a thousand children and adolescents from the guidelines of our Social Responsibility Policy. According to municipal schools in Rio de Janeiro by engaging in physical these guidelines, we carry out social and environmental impact activities on school contracts. assessments on 100% of the assets in which we operate and develop action plans for local development – either voluntary or in compliance with licensing conditions. GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 413-1 48 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish Society and petroleum Petroleum production and consumption around the world continue at an increasing pace. According to the Statistical Review of World Energy, global demand in 2018 reached a record 99.8 million barrels per day that year, an increase of 1.5% and the ninth consecutive year of growth. The United States and China are the largest consumers and Brazil ranks seventh in this ranking. The growth of production in new regions of the globe, from new discoveries, has allowed demand to be met and gradually reduced the influence of Arab countries on petroleum supply. The Brazilian pre-salt reserves, for example, may contain more than 100 billion barrels (the equivalent of all Kuwait's reserves) and place the country on the route of the world's largest producers. Extraction has also increased in the United States, which exploits the shale formations, and in Canada, where there are the so-called bituminous sands. Petroleum and its derivatives continue to be fundamental for development, while society advances in the transition from the energy matrix to renewable sources GRI 102-15 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 201-2 49 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish Behind this continuous investment in new ways of extraction and the search for cost reduction is the pressing need of the whole society for energy. Oil and natural gas are essential for cargo handling and agricultural and industrial production, for their security in supply, production efficiency and competitive costs. It is estimated that peak demand will occur between 2030 and 2035, but by 2050 petroleum will still play a relevant role in the world's energy matrix. Along with this growth in the production and consumption of hydrocarbons, society is moving in search of renewable energy sources. Science has seen an increase in the concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere and multilateral organizations have engaged countries in promoting a new model of production less dependent on fossil fuels. The energy transition is irreversible and necessary so that we can guarantee the natural balance of the planet for the next generations. This change, though gradual and long-term, will have a major impact on the industry's current business model, but not on how we materialize our purpose to unlock the energy universe and deliver to society the resources for sustainable development. GRI 102-15 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 201-2 50 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish Climate change The participation in multilateral discussion forums, such as the Brazil Network of the Global Compact and other initiatives in the oil and gas sector, drives in our company the formation of a sustainability vision that integrates the strategic objectives to the search for solutions for mitigation and adaptation to climate change. Increasingly, our ambition is to be protagonists and influence our peers so that the energy transition is positive for both industry and society. One of the initiatives in this direction is the support to research that evaluates possibilities of valuation of the carbon sequestration potential that occurs in mangrove forests. As part of our investment in R&D, we are financing a study along these lines, which is being conducted by the Center for Studies in Geochemistry and Marine and Coastal Ecology, of the State University of Rio De Janeiro (NEGEMC-UERJ). The objective of the research is to measure the importance of mangroves in the state of Rio de Janeiro for carbon storage and the contribution of these ecosystems to the mitigation of climate change, seeking to estimate a monetary value for this positive impact. The expectation is that, from this research, the relevance of protecting mangrove forests will become clearer for the definition of public policies, influencing our peers in the industry, the governments of Brazil and international conventions that address the issue of global warming. GRI 102-15 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 201-2 51 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish New rules The Brazilian government has advanced in recent years in modernizing the rules for the exploration of petroleum reserves in the country, especially in pre-salt areas. Recent changes in the rules for the use of local content in exploration activities, the greater predictability of auctions for the concession of the blocks and the creation of a permanent supply for areas not auctioned have helped to boost the sector in 2019 and open up positive prospects for the coming years. There are also many challenges to increase competition in the pre-salt areas. The end of the obligation to keep Petrobras as the operator of these blocks was a first step to make the participation and interests of large international companies feasible. Our interest in these exploratory areas remains, as does the search for strategic partners for this growth. GRI 102-15 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 201-2 52 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish New gas market Natural gas is strategic for the energy transition because its and resources to this transformation. In the medium term, the contribution to the greenhouse effect is smaller than oil, although expectation is that this liberalization will make gas prices more with excellent physical qualities to offer energy. Obtained in an competitive and attractive to final consumers. associated way (together with oil) or not, as occurs in the Manati Field, this fuel is still relatively little used in the country due to the high In the basins where our assets are located, the highest probability investments needed to connect the producing fields to consumer is the presence of gas associated with the oil. Thus, the opening markets, among other reasons. of the gas market and the greater offer of this energy source to the Brazilian society increases our capacity to generate value In 2019, the national government initiated a series of discussions through the knowledge and assets we already possess. One of the aimed at opening up the gas market, in order to allow the possibilities for our company, in the medium term, is to use the participation of other investors who could contribute technology Manati Field for underground storage of natural gas. GRI 102-15 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 201-2 53 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish Message from the Chairman of the Board of Directors The history of our company began with the production of natural gas The corporate governance model we have built in recent years and in the Manati Field, a reserve that has become of great relevance in the continuous evolution of our management practices ensure that supplying the energy demand of the Northeast region of Brazil. Two our company will be ready to meet this challenge. Our executives and years ago, when we started operating the Atlanta Field, we started to the Board of Directors work closely together to evaluate the different produce an oil with low sulfur content, currently quite attractive to meet scenarios and build a strategy that balances, with great success, the the new international regulation that requires the use of less polluting achievement of positive results with maintaining the capacity to generate fuels in ships. value in the long term. Climate change has led society to increasingly seek alternatives from In order to maintain this condition, we must keep investing in our lower carbon energy sources. Although petroleum will remain the people. Preparing employees to be our leaders in the future, with an mainstay of the production system for a few more decades, this is a understanding of corporate purpose and belief in a sustainable business trend that will transform the oil and gas industry in the long term. Our model, is essential for innovation and continued growth of the company. company must be prepared to accompany this change, maintaining its purpose of clearing the energy universe in all its possibilities. The success of the Atlanta Field operation, overcoming unique challenges with an engineering project unique in the world, is the greatest evidence In the current context, given the importance of petroleum to the world that we can discover and produce the energy sources that society needs. and the opportunities on the Brazilian coast, our strategy of investing in Our capacity for achievement is what will continue to propel us along the areas of great potential – such as the Sergipe-Alagoas Basin – is right. path of growth and sustainable development. We can discover significant reserves of associated oil and gas and be an even more relevant player within our sector. With a possible opening of Thank you all, the gas market and new investments for the expansion of distribution systems, we even study the possibility of using the Manati Field as a Antônio Augusto de Queiroz Galvão reservoir for the gas that will be produced in that region. Chairman of the Board of Directors 54 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish Our Annual Sustainability Report has been prepared since the creation of Enauta as a way of rendering account to society of the positive and negative impacts of our activities. It is an institutional commitment to transparency and wide dissemination of economic, environmental, social and corporate governance information. 55 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish This edition covers the period from January 1 to December 31, Stages of the materiality matrix elaboration 2019 and the data was provided by the various areas of the company and validated with the Board (only the economicfinancial data were submitted to external verification). The document covers the same scope as the Financial Statements 01 Assessment of major international sustainability guidelines and sector benchmarks and follows the model proposed by GRI Standards. The socio• Global Compact environmental performance indicators, however, refer only to • Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) the assets in which we operate (Atlanta Field). • Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) • Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) The materiality matrix, prepared in 2018, guides the content • International Institute for Integrated Reporting (IIRC) presented in this publication and the GRI disclosure items prioritized for reporting. This process of defining material themes was conducted in four stages and resulted in the 02 identification of eight material topics. Analysis of national and international studies produced by institutions focused on the promotion of sustainable development • Mapping the Oil and Gas Industry to the Sustainable Development Goals: an Atlas (IPIECA-PNUD) • Oil & Gas – Exploration & Production (SASB) • Sustainability Reporting Guidelines & Oil and Gas Sector Supplement (GRI) Click here to learn more about the materiality process in Enauta's 2018 Report 03 Individual interviews with regulatory and sector bodies, financial and capital market companies, suppliers, strategic partners and academia and with Enauta's leaders • 22 interviews conducted 04 Prioritization of the topics raised in the previous stages, according to methodologies proposed by the GRI and the IIRC • 8 material topics identified GRI 102-40 | 102-42 | 102-43 | 102-45 | 102-46 | 102-50 | 102-52 | 102-56 56 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish Materiality matrix 17 1 16 2 Operational 15 3 Partnership and personnel model safety 14 4 13 5 Management of Climate change the environmen12 6 and energy tal impacts of transition production 11 7 10 8 9 Risk Community management relations and impacts Governance and Financial compliance health and wealth generation Click and learn about the material topics identified in the update process that we conducted in 2019 and their correlation with the SDG and the principles of the Global Compact. Back to top GRI 102-44 | 102-47 | 103-1 57 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish Complement to GRI disclosures 102-3 | Location of headquarters Our headquarters is located in the city of Rio de Janeiro. 102-8 and 102-41 | Information on employees and other workers and Collective bargaining agreements Workers by type of job* 2019 2018 2017 Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total CLT 69 51 120 68 51 119 68 53 121 Statutory 2 0 2 2 0 2 2 0 2 Internship 2 4 6 4 0 4 4 0 4 Outsourced 48 10 58 30 12 42 22 10 32 *Data controlled in Excel sheets. Employees by type of contract* 2019 2018 2017 Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Indefinite term 70 50 120 69 51 120 69 53 122 Fixed term 1 1 2 1 0 1 1 0 1 • Total 71 51 122 70 51 121 70 53 123 *Considers only CLT and statutory employees, all covered by collective labor agreements or conventions. Professionals with a contract of indeterminate duration work full time. Those with a fixed term (young apprentices) have a daily work day of six hours. 102-13 | Membership of associations Our company participates in sector initiatives promoted by the Brazilian Institute of Petroleum, Gas and Biofuels (IBP), the Brazilian Association of Petroleum Geologists (ABGP) and the Brazilian Society of Geophysicists (SBGF). 58 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish 102-22 and 102-23 | Composition of the highest governance body and its committees and Chair of the highest governance body Composition of the Board of Directors Composition of the Ethics Committee Antônio Augusto de Queiroz Galvão Chairman José Luiz Alquéres Chairman José Augusto Fernandes Filho Member José Augusto Fernandes Filho Member José Luiz Alquéres Independent member Luiz Carlos de Lemos Costamilan Member Leduvy de Pina Gouvêa Filho Member Luiz Carlos de Lemos Costamilan Independent member Composition of the Compensation and Personnel Committee Ricardo de Queiroz Galvão Member Antônio Augusto de Queiroz Galvão Chairman Luiz Carlos de Lemos Costamilan Member Composition of the Fiscal Council Ricardo de Queiroz Galvão Member Sérgio Tuffy Sayeg Active member José Ribamar Lemos de Souza Active member Allan Morgado Guerra Active member Nelson Mitimasa Jinzenji Alternate member Gil Marques Mendes Alternate member 102-48 and 102-49 | Restatements of information Gustavo Cortes Riedel Alternate member and Changes in reporting There was no resubmission of data or change in the scope or limits of material topics. Composition of the Corporate Governance, Strategy and Sustainability Committee 102-51 | Date of most recent report The last report was published in 2019, referring to the 2018 performance. José Luiz Alquéres Chairman José Augusto Fernandes Filho Member 102-53 | Contact point for questions regarding the report Questions and comments about our Annual Sustainability Report can be Luiz Carlos de Lemos Costamilan Member sent to enauta@enauta.com.br. 59 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish 102-54 | Claims of reporting in accordance with 307-1 and 419-1 | Non-compliance with environmental the GRI Standards laws and regulations and Non-compliance with laws and This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. regulations in the social and economic area Our company did not receive significant fines or non-monetary sanctions 205-3 | Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken related to environmental or socioeconomic aspects in 2019. We did not register a case of corruption in 2018, nor any lawsuits in which Enauta or its employees are defendants. 403-3 | Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 305-1, 305-2 and 305-3 | Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions, Our employees are not subject to a high risk or incidence of occupational Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions and Other indirect diseases. (Scope 3) GHG emissions Our greenhouse gas inventory is prepared in accordance with the specifications 404-1 | Average hours of training per year per employee of the Brazilian GHG Protocol Program and audited by a third party. Emissions monitoring is performed on a monthly basis using specific software (eClimas) Average hours of training per employee and covers CO2, CH4, N2O, HFC, PFC and SF6 gases. 2019 2018 2017 Inventory of GHG emissions (thousand tCO2e) • By gender 2019 2018 2017 Men 74.12 94.02 41.65 • Scope 1 Women 52.12 64.42 78.50 Emissions 117.57 58.63 10.22 • By functional category Biogenic emissions 0.00 0.00 0.03 Board of Directors 15.10 3.33 6.00 • Scope 2 Management/coordination/supervision 62.26 49.42 54.59 Indirect emissions (electricity consumption) 0.02 0.02 0.03 Technicians (engineers and geologists) 56.93 89.93 150.94 • Scope 3 Analysts (other) 76.31 101.68 184.03 Indirect emissions (other) 40.09 23.72 1.55 • General 64.93 81.54 120.15 60 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish GRI content index Global GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omissions Compact GRI 101 | Foundation 2016 General disclosures Organizational profile 102-1 | Name of the organization 8 102-2 | Activities, brands, products, and services 8 102-3 | Location of headquarters 58 102-4 | Location of operations 10 102-5 | Ownership and legal form 18 102-6 | Markets served 8 102-7 | Scale of the organization 9 and 16 102-8 | Information on employees and other workers 16 and 58 6 102-9 | Supply chain 23 • GRI 102 | General disclosures 2016 102-10 | Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 11 102-11 | Precautionary Principle or approach 32 102-12 | External initiatives 38 102-13 | Membership of associations 58 Strategy 102-14 | Statement from senior decision-maker 3 and 4 102-15 | Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 14, 15, 20, 21, 49, 50, 51, 52 and 53 Ethics and integrity 102-16 | Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 22 10 102-17 | Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 22 10 For the Materiality Disclosures Service, GRI Services reviewed that the GRI content index is clearly presented and the references for Disclosures 102-40 to 102-49 align with appropriate sections in the body of the report. The service was performed on the Portuguese version of the report. GRI 102-55 61 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish Global GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omissions Compact Conteúdo geral Governance 102-18 | Governance structure 18 and 19 102-22 | Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 59 102-23 | Chair of the highest governance body 59 102-25 | Conflicts of interest 19 102-30 | Effectiveness of risk management processes 20 and 21 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 | List of stakeholder groups 56 102-41 | Collective bargaining agreements 58 3 102-42 | Identifying and selecting stakeholders 56 102-43 | Approach to stakeholder engagement 56 102-44 | Key topics and concerns raised 57 • GRI 102 | General Reporting practice disclosures 2016 102-45 | Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 56 102-46 | Defining report content and topic Boundaries 56 102-47 | List of material topics 57 102-48 | Restatements of information 59 102-49 | Changes in reporting 59 102-50 | Reporting period 56 102-51 | Date of most recent report 59 102-52 | Reporting cycle 56 102-53 | Contact point for questions regarding the report 59 102-54 | Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 60 102-55 | GRI content index 61, 62, 63, 64 and 65 102-56 | External assurance 56 GRI 102-55 62 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish Global GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omissions Compact Material topic | Management of the environmental impacts of production • GRI 103 | Management 103-1 | Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 34, 36, 45, 46 and 57 approach 20161 103-2 | The management approach and its components 34, 36, 45 and 46 103-3 | Evaluation of the management approach 34, 36, 45 and 46 • GRI 304 | 304-1 | | Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected 46 8 Biodiversity 2016 areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas • GRI 306 | Effluents and 306-1 | Water discharge by quality and destination 36 8 waste 2016 306-2 | Waste by type and disposal method 36 8 306-3 | Significant spills 31 8 • GRI 307 | Environmental 307-1 | Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 60 8 compliance 2016 Material topic | Risk management • GRI 103 | Management 103-1 | Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 20, 21 and 57 approach 2016 103-2 | The management approach and its components 20 and 21 103-3 | Evaluation of the management approach 20 and 21 Material topic | Governance and compliance • GRI 103 | Management 103-1 | Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 18, 19, 22 and 57 approach 20162 103-2 | The management approach and its components 18, 19 and 22 103-3 | Evaluation of the management approach 18, 19 and 22 • GRI 205 | Anti205-1 | Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 22 10 corruption 2016 205-2 | Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 22 10 205-3 | Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 60 10 • GRI 419 | Socioeconomic 419-1 | Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area 60 compliance 2016 1. The management approach refers to all GRI topics in the material topic “Management of environmental impacts of production.” 2. The management approach refers to all GRI topics in the material topic “Governance and compliance.” GRI 102-55 63 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish Global GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omissions Compact Material topic | Partnership model • GRI 103 | Management 103-1 | Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 13, 14 and 57 approach 2016 103-2 | The management approach and its components 13 and 14 103-3 | Evaluation of the management approach 13 and 14 Material topic | Climate change and energy transition • GRI 103 | Management 103-1 | Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 35, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53 and 57 approach 20163 103-2 | The management approach and its components 35, 49, 50, 51, 52 and 53 103-3 | Evaluation of the management approach 35, 49, 50, 51, 52 and 53 • GRI 201 | Economic 201-2 | Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due 49, 50, 51, 52 and 53 7 performance 2016 to climate change • GRI 302 | Energy 2016 302-1 | Energy consumption within the organization 35 7 and 8 • GRI 305 | Emissions 2016 305-1 | Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 35 and 60 7 and 8 305-2 | Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 35 and 60 7 and 8 305-3 | Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 35 and 60 7 and 8 Material topic | Community relations and impacts • GRI 103 | Management 103-1 | Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 38, 39, 41, 43, 44, 47, 48 and 57 approach 2016 4 103-2 | The management approach and its components 38, 39, 41, 43, 44, 47 and 48 103-3 | Evaluation of the management approach 38, 39, 41, 43, 44, 47 and 48 • GRI 413 | Local 413-1 | Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, 48 1 communities 2016 and development programs • GRI Oil and gas sector OG11 | Number of sites that have been decomissioned and sites that 11 disclosures 2013 are in the process of being decommissioned 3. The management approach refers to all GRI topics in the material topic “Climate change and energy transition.” 4. The management approach refers to all GRI topics and sector disclosures in the material topic “Community relations and impacts.” GRI 102-55 64 Enauta | 2019 Annual Sustainability Report Pioneer Discover Accomplish Global GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omissions Compact Material topic | Operational and personnel safety • GRI 103 | Management 103-1 | Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 16, 17, 23, 24, 30, 31, 32, 33 and 57 approach 20165 103-2 | The management approach and its components 16, 17, 23, 24, 30, 31, 32 and 33 103-3 | Evaluation of the management approach 16, 17, 23, 24, 30, 31, 32 and 33 • GRI 403 | 403-2 | Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, 30 Occupational health and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities and safety 2016 403-3 | Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related 60 6 to their occupation • GRI 404 | Training and 404-1 | Average hours of training per year per employee 17 and 60 education 2016 Material topic | Financial 103-1 health and wealth | Explicação dogeneration tópico material e seu limite • GRI 103 | Management 103-1 | Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 40, 41, 42 and 57 approach 2016 6 103-2 | The management approach and its components 40, 41 and 42 103-3 | Evaluation of the management approach 40, 41 and 42 • GRI 201 | Economic 201-1 | Direct economic value generated and distributed 42 performance 2016 • GRI Oil and gas sector OG1 | Volume and type of estimated proved reserves and production 11 disclosures 2013 5. The management approach refers to all GRI topics in the material topic “Operational and personnel safety.” 6. The management approach refers to all GRI topics and sector disclosures in the material topic “Financial health and wealth generation.” GRI 102-55 65 Credits General coordination Corporate information Enauta Rio de Janeiro Consulting, editorial Avenida Almirante Barroso, 52 – room 1.301 – coordination and design Centro – Rio de Janeiro (RJ), phone: +55 21 3509-5800 usina82 Bahia Photos Avenida Antônio Carlos Magalhães, 1.034 – Enauta’s collection and Shutterstock room 353 – Pituba – Parque Center Itaigara – Salvador (BA), phone: +55 71 3351-6210 www.enauta.com.br
