H.E. Antonio Guterres Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA May 8, 2020 Dear Mr. Secretary General, As President and Chief Executive Officer of Gabriel Resources, I am pleased to reconfirm that the Gabriel Resources’ Group supports and commits to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. This year’s submission of the Communication on Progress occurs during a challenging period for the international community, in a context marked by the global pandemic of the Covid-19 virus. During this period, the highest priority of Gabriel Resources is health, safety and welfare of the Group’s employees, consultants, contractors and community members. Gabriel recognizes that the situation is extremely fluid and is monitoring the relevant recommendations and restrictions on travel and implementing appropriate safety measures. At the same time, the Covid-19 crisis has led to new reflection on, and underscored, the important and integral role that the extractive industry plays in society and the global economy. Mining produces the essential and irreplaceable components of daily life and modern technology, as well as the building blocks of innovation. Mined minerals and metals are essential to the technologies that define our modern medical world and are critical components of important medicines, medicinal innovations and healthcare devices; they are used to construct roads, hospitals, and critical infrastructure; they provide and facilitate essential energy sources; and they are indispensable components of technology and consumer goods from cell phones to computers. Technological innovation is key for sustainable human development, and minerals and metals play a crucial role in the development of new technologies in the fields of machine learning, automation, robotics and artificial intelligence – providing indispensable solutions to meet today’s societal needs, including the challenges presented by the current Covid-19 pandemic. The mining sector has exceptional potential to contribute to the economic development of Romania, provided good policy and governance frameworks are in place, and to play a critical role in helping Romania’s economy recover from the impacts of the Covid-19 pandemic. As reflected in this and prior reports, Gabriel Resources has made enormous investments in the development of the Roşia Montană gold and silver project (the “Project”), which ranks among the top 20 undeveloped gold projects globally and is the largest undeveloped gold project in Europe. The Project was planned and initiated to contribute to the sustainable development of the community, to stimulate the economy, to protect the environment, to safeguard cultural heritage, to build new infrastructure and to promote social development through all its components. These are only some of the reasons for which I still hope that the Romanian Government will recognize the significant importance of the Romanian mining sector and the tremendous benefits that 1 the Rosia Montana Project would yield for Romania and its people not only for its social, economic and environmental benefits, but also as a model of modern, responsible mining that would set the highest standards for the future mining projects in Romania. Gabriel Resources shares the most advanced vision of the mining sector with regard to its capability to mobilize physical, technological and financial resources that can be leveraged for sustainable development, and with regard to its important role to play in the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) achievement. Yours faithfully, Dragos Tanase President & CEO Gabriel Resources 2019 Communication on Progress The UN Global Compact’s ten principles requires that the Group’s interests are aligned with those of its stakeholders – with local communities and environments as well as global customers and investors. In Romania, the national legislative framework is designed, as is the case with many other governments, to respects the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Romania’s Constitution states that all the constitutional provisions regarding human rights and liberties shall be interpreted and applied in conformity with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Human Rights The Group not only complies with all legal requirements in force as concerns human rights at national and international level (Bill of Human Rights; International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work), but exceeds them by applying zero tolerance to noncompliance to any breach against human rights, customs and values when dealing with employees and others who are affected by the Group’s activities. The Group is fully committed not only to respecting human rights but also to identifying, preventing and mitigating any adverse impacts on human and the local communities’ rights that may be caused by the Project through ongoing monitoring at all levels of the business, internal decision-making, budgetary allocations and oversight processes. This should provide for effective responses if such impacts occur, by drawing on feedback from both internal and external sources, including all affected stakeholders. Labour, Health & Safety As outlined in the previous reports, the Group has consistently committed to delivering sustainable benefits to the region where it operates and to enhance community capacity to become self-sustainable in its future development. In order to increase the benefits for the operational area, the Group has demonstrated a commitment to hire local workers and to partner with local businesses wherever possible and procured that its contractors do the same. Over recent years, the Group has been left with no alternative but to implement a series of cost-saving measures (including a material reduction in the workforce of the Group) to align the cost base of the Group with the status of the Project in Romania. Throughout this difficult period, the Group has made every attempt to act responsibly and diligently towards its employees and contractors and to manage properly and sensitively the impacts of such decisions on the community and all affected stakeholders. Promoting health & safety as a value of the Group The Group includes in its operations all necessary measures aimed at protecting the health and safety of employees, consultants and/or contractors, as well as of people living and working in areas potentially 2 affected by the Group’s operational activities. Thus, all employees are properly trained to ensure their own safety, as well as the safety of the people around them. The Group places professional ethics and employee safety at the heart of its daily activities and provides a working environment free of any discrimination or any other arbitrary barriers that would hold back professional development and progress within the Group. In the context of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Group has implemented appropriate health and safety measures, including, but not limited to, restricting all non-essential business travel; organizing videoconferences instead of face-to-face meetings; encouraging employees, consultants and contractors to work from home, wherever possible; increasing sanitation measures at the Group’s sites and offices; and imposing social distancing rules for certain critical activities that cannot be suspended. The Group recognizes that the situation is extremely fluid and is continuously monitoring the situation and the relevant governmental recommendations and restrictions on travel. Stakeholder Engagement According to Romanian legislation, international standards and best practices and as part of its Social & Environment Management System, the Group has always sought to engage with a broad range of stakeholders, including, but not limited to, the local, regional and national authorities, the directly affected community and nearby communities, non-governmental organisations, as well as the general public and national and international media. The dialogue carried out by the Group with its stakeholders has sought to raise, increase and maintain awareness of the Project and to obtain feedback in order to ensure continuous improvement and longterm planning efficiency. The information the Group has received from stakeholders has enable it to improve its activities, mitigate any possible adverse impacts and to strengthen positive impacts in line with its sustainability objectives. Over the years, the Group has engaged with all relevant stakeholders through multiple initiatives, including a series of public consultations during various permitting stages, public meetings for urban planning and development plans, community debates initiated by the Group and requested by affected people, site visits, community events and direct interaction with stakeholders. The Group has also participated in multi-stakeholder fora concerning the sustainable development of the operational area. The Group has consistently demonstrated an open-minded and responsive attitude in responding to NGO’s concerns. Community – Sustainable Development The Group understands that true sustainability is about building up a community's capability and vitality over time. Accordingly, the Group integrated the interests of the community and ecology in designing the Project to make Roşia Montană a model mining development. Through its implementation of the Project, the Group sought to create the conditions necessary for the revitalization and long-term sustainable development of Roşia Montană and the surrounding area, and thereby to overcome and reverse the poverty, pollution, depopulation, and sense of hopelessness that afflicted the community, especially since the cessation of State mining operations at Roşia Montană in 2006. The Project was planned and developed to contribute to the sustainable development of the community, to stimulate the economy, to protect the environment, to safeguard cultural heritage and to promote social development through its components and programmes: ▪ Direct and indirect job creation; ▪ Local business development; 3 ▪ New local infrastructure; ▪ Improvements of environmental conditions, ‘greening’ of old abandoned mining sites; ▪ Research, restoration, maintenance and enhancement of cultural heritage; ▪ Development of new facilities for the community; ▪ Improved human capital through programmes and partnerships in health, social and cultural areas; ▪ Human capital development through professional training programmes; ▪ A new village for the commune with a new community centre and new institutions; ▪ A prosperous community able to offer a rich cultural and industrial tourism potential. Roşia Montană Gold Corporation (“RMGC”), the Group’s principal operating subsidiary in Romania, has been by far the main supporter of the local communities – over the years, the Group has invested in a comprehensive set of programmes designed to improve infrastructure and living standards, addressing education, skills training, assistance for the elderly, community health, jobs and businesses creation, and respect for the area's archaeological heritage. The Group’s investment in the development and maintenance of the physical infrastructure represents a direct contribution to durable development the responsible mining principles. To provide resettlement options to families affected by the Project, and based upon the outcome of consultation with affected families in Roșia Montană, the Group constructed a 22-hectars modern neighbourhood, known as Recea, in the residential area of the county capital, Alba Iulia. This site features significantly improved infrastructure, reliable electricity, and modern amenities, with design and layout based on community input. In total, the Group constructed 137 houses at Recea, the majority of which were completed and transferred to resettled families. The Company also built a church and associated facilities at the Recea site. In addition, the Group has invested in improving the infrastructure of the Roșia Montană locality, as well as other localities in the area of the Apuseni Mountains. The Group also intended to support the development of cultural heritage tourism as the cornerstone of the long-term sustainable development of Roşia Montană and the surrounding communities by making significant investments to preserve and develop cultural heritage, to clean-up historical pollution, and to develop modern infrastructure where none before existed. During the period 2000-2014, RMGC granted sponsorships in the amount of over US$8 million for NGOs and local communities. The main programs and partnerships developed in the Project area included programs for the maintenance and improvement of the community physical infrastructure, sports partnerships, environmental protection programs in partnership with the neighbouring communities, cultural heritage programs related to the research and preservation of all aspects of the cultural heritage of the community, tourism development programs, programs for strengthening social cohesion, community identity, educational programs; supporting social, cultural and scientific events, and promotion of cultural heritage and human rights. Community Relations Management The Group has been proactive in engaging communities located on or near the site in consultations and decision-making about the future mine proposal. The local community represents a major stakeholder for the Group. Over the years, the Group has developed and implemented a comprehensive set of policies, codes of conduct and instruments aimed at fostering and maintaining good and respectful relations with the community. Throughout its activity, starting in 1998, the Group has interacted with all relevant stakeholders – ranging from the communities in the area proposed for the Project development, to neighbouring communities, decision-making institutions and agencies from various levels of local, regional and national government, the general public and local, national and international NGOs. 4 Feedback obtained from dialogue with the community in the Project area has been recorded, reported, reviewed and considered in framing the decision-making processes of the Group. Community consultation in the Project area and surveys and monitoring carried out by the Group have consistently emphasised the negative impact on the community of the failure of the Romanian authorities to permit the resumption of mining activities in the Apuseni Mountains, where the potential for other economic activity is very low. As a result of these efforts, and the intensive engagement of the Group in the community over the years, a strong level of support was established in favour of the Project. Monitoring of relocated and resettled families A high priority for the Group has been to ensure that the resettlement and relocation of families affected by the mine is handled with care and empathy and with attention to protection of community identity and the cultural values of the region. To ensure a responsible approach to the acquisition of surface rights for the Project, in 2000 RMGC engaged various independent consultants (international and Romanian) to prepare a resettlement plan appropriate for the Project. To ensure the plan complied fully with Romanian requirements as well as international best practices, it was also reviewed and appraised by a leading international project management consultancy practice and a respected international resettlement specialist in large-scale industrial projects. The resulting Resettlement and Relocation Action Plan (“RRAP”) set out the approach that was adopted by RMGC for the acquisition of surface rights and the resettlement and relocation of affected households in the Project-impacted area. The RRAP was first made public in 2001. With the assistance of highly qualified independent experts and in accordance with prevailing national and international standards and guidelines, RMGC developed and updated as necessary the RRAP to guide the company’s approach to resettle and/or relocate affected households and businesses. The RRAP set out the standardized approach that RMGC followed to establish compensation for property to be acquired and for providing financial and other support for displaced persons and businesses, including moving and relocation assistance for integration within the new communities, and support to replace any lost income. RMGC’s fundamental approach, as detailed in the RRAP, was to acquire property rights on a “willing seller/willing buyer” basis. The Group purchased properties owned by 794 households, acquiring on a willing seller-willing buyer basis property from approximately 78% of households in the Project area. In accordance with the monitoring obligations set out in the RRAP and other social management and sustainable development plans adopted by the Group, as well as the provisions of the Group’s ‘Environmental Impact Assessment Report’, the Group has carried out social impact monitoring of the affected households, undertaken evaluations of the efficiency of the measures proposed and adopted and subsequently implemented improvements thereto. Even if – following the Romanian authorities’ refusal to permit the project – the Group downsized the most important part of the activities in the project area, it still maintained a minimum set of functions for the relations with the community, receiving and addressing community or other stakeholders’ complaints and applications for different types of support. Community Sponsorship As a consequence of the Romanian authorities’ refusal to address the regulatory assessment and permitting procedures for the Project, the Group was left with no alternative but to cease almost all investment programs in 2014, including community sponsorship and support programs (including support to churches, a ‘Cultural and Living Traditions’ program, community infrastructure, schools and education, hospitals and health, the “Future of Mining” Union and medical transportation). 5 Cultural Heritage The Group has demonstrated its commitment to the research, preservation, restoration, and promotion of the cultural heritage of Roşia Montană as an integral part of the development of the Project. RMGC developed a Cultural Heritage Management Plan, in accordance with Romanian and EU legislation and with World Bank and other international guidelines, aimed at drawing on and valorising Roşia Montană’s cultural heritage in all its forms – archaeological, architectural, and historical. Such plan presented an integrated approach to sustainable development for Roşia Montană and the surrounding area through cultural heritage-based tourism that included restoration of historic buildings, development of a circuit of mining museums, and restoration of historically significant portions of underground mining galleries to permit safe access by tourists. To ensure that the Project would be designed and developed in a manner consistent with preserving cultural heritage, the Group funded at Roşia Montană from 2001-2006 the largest program of privately funded professional archaeological research ever undertaken in Romania. Over the years, the Group has undertaken and financed extensive programs of exploratory and preventative archaeology to identify and preserve sites and artifacts of historical importance in the Project and surrounding area. Such programs have also included the specialized design work undertaken for the repair and maintenance of houses and the restoration of two iconic community buildings, and the rehabilitation of a significant part of previously unexplored old underground mining galleries, all located within, or close to, the historical center of the village of Roșia Montană. The Group still invests in the maintenance of the Romanian galleries and other historical monuments. Environment The Group designed, and intended to implement, the Project in an environmentally responsible manner based on the highest international environmental standards. In doing so, the Project would have represented a model for large-scale modern mining projects. An important benefit of the Project was RMGC’s detailed long-term remediation and rehabilitation plans to abate and treat the severe historical pollution at the Project site caused by the State’s prior mining activities in and around Roşia Montană. In so doing, RMGC would have relieved the State of its obligation to clean up the historical pollution at Roşia Montană, which the State was either unwilling or unable to do. Roşia Montană, the site of the Project, is a deeply and visibly scarred and polluted area that has been mined for almost 2,000 years, including by the Romanian State from the early 1960s to 2006. Given Roşia Montană’s remote location, scarred landscape, polluted waterways, and poor infrastructure, a significant mining project offered the only viable means of attracting the capital to address the remediation needs of the area. In this context, the Group committed to invest millions of dollars to tackle such legacy pollution problems and, as described in previous reports, it invested in a pilot water treatment facility to demonstrate the Group’s commitment to such remediation activities. The Group was also committed to the implementation of an integrated environmental management system and the planting of 1000 hectares of new forest. In addition, in responding to the challenges of climate change the Group has over the years carried out numerous reviews to reduce the energy intensity of the proposed operations, as well as exploring the utilisation of renewable energy technologies as a means to reduce the carbon footprint of the Project. Corporate Governance As noted in previous reports, the board of directors and management of Gabriel believe that sound and effective corporate governance is essential to the Group’s performance and the Group seeks to achieve the highest standards of corporate governance. The Group has adopted certain practices and procedures 6 to ensure that effective corporate governance practices are followed and that the board functions independently of management. In addition, Gabriel’s corporate governance committee reviews the Group’s corporate governance practices and procedures on a regular basis to ensure that they address significant issues of corporate governance. Through the application of these standards, the Project with its independent monitoring of compliance and transparency would have provided a ‘model’ for industrial projects in terms of sustainable development. Finally, as noted in prior reports, the Group’s commitment to sustainable development is demonstrated by its willingness to adopt and embrace key initiatives and processes that drive best practices. The Group recognises and supports, amongst others, the following international initiatives: ▪ International Council on Mining and Metals, 10 Principles for Sustainable Development (www.icmm.com) ▪ International Cyanide Management Code (ICMC) (www.cyanidecode.org) ▪ International Labour Organisation (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights to Work (www.ilo.org) ▪ Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change – Best Available Techniques for the mining field (www.epa.ie) ▪ Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development guidelines for multinational enterprises (www.oecd.org) ▪ United Nations Global Compact (www.unglobalcompact.org) ▪ World Bank Safeguard Policies and IFC Performance Standards on relevant issues such as environment, resettlement, and relocation activities (www.ifc.org). 7
