AT P Group Responsibility 2019 Preface As the pension company of more than five million members the reports more comprehensible and increase focus on the and as one of the main providers of welfare benefits, ATP individual areas. plays a significant role in Denmark. Having one of the largest pension asset holdings in Europe, ATP has a special obligaWe therefore urge interested parties to read the thematic tion to invest responsibly and fulfil our responsibility to society. reports, whereas this report is to be considered an anthology which briefly describes ATP’s work in the different areas Established by statute, ATP’s aim is to provide good, stable and addresses ATP’s internal CSR efforts with regard to the pensions and basic financial security for its members by environment and diversity. investing its pension assets sensibly and responsibly. This year, in the reporting of ATP’s own efforts as an employer The preconditions for high future returns are long-term and and company, we have decided to use the new ESG key figures sustainable business value creation. Therefore, it is also imporprepared by CFA Society Denmark, FSR Danish Auditors tant to us that ATP and the companies in which we invest estaand Nasdaq. blish long-term goals and take responsibility for the societies they operate in. By acting responsibly, the companies maintain The report is ATP’s statutory report on responsibility and their legitimacy and license to operate, which is fundamental covers the period 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2019, cf. to continued growth and development. The companies’ longSection 22 of the Executive Order on Financial Reporting by term growth contributes directly to generating solid returns for the Danish Labour Market Supplementary Pension Fund (ATP). the benefit of ATP’s members. At the same time, experience The report also includes ATP’s statutory report on the status shows that we make better investment decisions by integrating of compliance with the target figures set for the underrepreESG information with knowledge of other business aspects sented gender, cf. Section 23 of the Executive Order on Finaninto the decision-making basis. cial Reporting by the Danish Labour Market Supplementary Pension Fund (ATP). ATP’s five million members, Danish and international NGOs and other stakeholders have – often diverging – expectaThe report also constitutes ATP’s Communication on Progress tions with regard to how ATP should exercise responsibito the UN Global Compact, describing ATP’s progress in terms lity. At the same time, institutional investors are faced with of incorporating the ten principles of the Global Compact into constant dilemmas in terms of responsibility in investments, processes and business procedures. As part of its responsiincluding in their assessments of specific companies. ATP bility, ATP continues to support the ten principles of the Global takes the responsibility of navigating in an area characteCompact, covering the areas of human rights, labour, environrised by diverse expectations, dilemmas and complex issues ment and anti-corruption and we are currently integrating very seriously. We want our responsibility work to be charathem into our processes. cterised by consistency, predictability, seriousness and transparency and to be based on facts rather than subjecIn the first half of 2020, we will issue the publication ‘ATP as tive assessments. a responsible investor’ which will also describe our responsibility work. ATP has worked with the integration of ESG for a number of years, and we have continuously intensified our efforts in terms ATP complies with the Stewardship Code by the Committee on of resources and scope. Along with this, the demands and Corporate Governance. The report can be found under Further expectations of the outside world for our responsibility reporInformation in ATP’s financial statements. ting have increased significantly. Therefore, for 2019, ATP has decided to divide the responsibility report into thematic reports Bo Foged, CEO that deal with single subjects. Our hope is that this will make Responsibility 2019 2 ATP's business model HOW ATP LIVSLANG PENSION ctive of the investment portfolio is to generate a return that (LIFELONG PENSION) WORKS will allow the building of reserves for, e.g. financing increased life expectancy, so that ATP secures lifelong pensions, and to Contributions increase the guaranteed pensions, thereby maintaining the This year, ATP received member contributions totalling DKK real value of the pensions. 10.1 billion. DKK 3,408 was paid to ATP on behalf of the average employee, two thirds of which was paid by the employer. Payments When a member starts receiving state-funded old-age pension, AT ATP ATP Livslang Pension (Lifelong Pension) becomes payable. The largest portion of the contributions – 80% – is applied to This year, pensioners received a total of DKK 17.1bn. The guaranteed pensions which are hedged to ensure that ATP is payments comprise the guaranteed pensions and any current always able to deliver on the pension promises issued to our bonus allowances. A full, annual pension for a 65½-year-old, members. who has who has contributed to ATP throughout his or her working life, is DKK 24,500 for 2019 (the average annual ATP The remainder – 20% – is included in the bonus potential and pension for a 65½-year-old was DKK 16,400 in 2019). invested widely in equities, real estate, etc. The principal objeResponsibility 2019 3 Thematic reports We want our responsibility work to be characterised by consiIn recent years, ATP’s ESG activities have been based on four stency, predictability, seriousness and transparency and to be guiding principles which guide the day-to-day work in relation based on facts rather than subjective assessments. We also to the various small and large decisions made in the ESG area. want our new reporting format to reflect this. • ESG as an investment belief All seven reports therefore use the same structure for At ATP, we believe that ESG is important for the long-term the reporting: return on our investments. • Basis • Strong tailored processes Provides information about ATP’s policies, investment We believe that effective integration of ESG is achieved motives and external expectations for how ATP will act in through strong processes tailored to concrete investment the specific ESG area. processes. • Processes • Development of ATP’s ESG competencies Provides information about the fixed processes mainTrue ESG integration requires building and developing the tained by ATP on an ongoing basis in connection with the ESG competencies of the investment organisation. ESG activities. • Preference for capital stewardship • Activities We believe that it is better to influence compaProvides information about activities and nies by exercising our right to vote as results of ATP’s work within the past year. active owners – to a certain limit. In our opinion, we consistently meet the provisions of the All seven reports also describe the relevance of the four prinDanish ATP Act on the non-financial report on responsibility ciples for the specific work explained in each of the sepawhich focuses on policies, how such polices translate into rate reports. practice and what results have been achieved. It is our hope that this new structure will help make ATP’s ESG activities more accesible. Responsibility 2019 4 The ATP Group The ATP Group The ATP Group 2019 2019 2019 Stewardship Fact-finding Tax Part of ATP’s responsibility Part of ATP’s responsibility Part of ATP’s responsibility The ATP Group The ATP Group The ATP Group 2019 2019 2019 ESG in unlisted assets Climate Thematic engagement Part of ATP’s responsibility Part of ATP’s responsibility Part of ATP’s responsibility The ATP Group 2019 Sustainable Development Goals Part of ATP’s responsibility For the financial year 2019, ATP has issued seven thematic reports which deal with different aspects of ATP’s responsibility work. The reports are available at atp.dk Responsibility 2019 5 Governance and policies To ensure management ownership of responsibility in ATP’s that deliberately and repeatedly violate the rules and regulainvestment decisions, ATP’s Supervisory Board has decided tions of the countries in which they operate. The policy also that the responsibility efforts are to be coordinated by a states that the portfolio companies must act in accordance Committee for Responsibility. The Committee is chaired by with the standards that follow from the international conventhe CEO and other members are the CIO (Chief Investment tions adopted by Denmark. Officer) and the CRO (Chief Risk Officer) as well as relevant managers within and outside the investment organisation. The Policy of Stewardship Committee Secretariat is served by Team ESG, which is part ATP’s Policy of Stewardship describes the principles and of the Investment department. The Executive Board provides processes that guide ATP’s stewardship work. As a responongoing reporting on the responsibility work to the Supervisible long-term investor, ATP has an interest in investors as sory Board. owners of listed companies being able to understand and control the companies’ overall actions, thereby promoting the Governance and responsibility companies’ long-term value creation. Tax Policy on Unlisted Investments Supervisory Board ATP’s Tax Policy on Unlisted Investments describes ATP’s approach to tax in relation to ATP’s illiquid investments. We have decided to take it further than what is required by law in the tax area. We do so to make our investments more resilient Team ESG Committee for responsibility to taxation risks and to take co-responsibility for strengthening governance in the area. We have high standards for ensuring that ATP pays the correct amount of tax – neither too much, nor too little. Portfolio managers MOST SIGNIFICANT ESG RISKS ATP’S RESPONSIBILITY POLICIES ATP has a diversified investment strategy. As a result, Policy of Responsibility in Investments ATP has investments in many different companies within ATP’s Policy of Responsibility in Investments constitutes the various different industries. Therefore, ATP is exposed overall framework for the work on responsibility across asset to a wide range of risks which are specific to the indiclasses and investment methods. vidual company and industry. ATP’s work is organised with a view to managing and understanding such risks. The aim of the policy is to ensure that ATP also includes considerations for the environment, climate, human rights, As an owner, ATP may on the one hand use dialogue labour and management issues in its risk management and with the company to create an understanding of the investment processes in line with other business conditions challenges facing companies and any company-speand risks. cific risks. An understanding that ATP can use to make better and more informed investment decisions. On In ATP’s Policy of Responsibility in Investments, the Supervithe other hand, ATP can work to minimise risks and sory Board sets out a number of basic principles and minimum promote the long-term value creation of companies by criteria for the portfolio companies’ conduct. Among other encouraging change. things, the policy states that ATP does not invest in companies Responsibility 2019 6 Responsibility 2019 7 ATP’s stewardship activities Stewardship is given high priority at ATP. As active owners, ATP and other investors are better able to understand and control the companies’ overall transactions and promote their longterm value creation. Basis The basis for this work is ATP’ Policy of Stewardship, which such as the Danish government and the EU, which during the lays down the framework and principles of ATP’s work. ATP’s past years have adopted both the Stewardship Code and the principles build on our own experience as well as leading EU’s updated Shareholder Rights Directive. expert and academic knowledge in the field. ATP also follows the development of other players, who are ATP’s Policy of Stewardship is updated annually and approved also part of defining requirements and expectations for the by ATP’s Supervisory Board to ensure that ATP follows the stewardship of institutional investors. This includes legislators development in the field. Processes ATP pursues two processes that govern our stewardship actiin regular contact with the companies’ executive boards and vities. Continuous dialogue and dialogue through general boards of directors. This allows us to impact the companies’ meetings. The two processes reflect the difference in how long-term value creation, while also allowing us to use the stewardship is best exercised depending on either ATP’s dialogue to make better investment decisions. ownership interest or the value of our investment. Dialogue through general meetings means that ATP particiA continuous dialogue is undertaken with the companies in pates in the general meetings of our portfolio companies. ATP which ATP holds a large ownership interest. We do so because attends meetings both in person and by proxy, but has opted we have great influence in these companies and because for an extended and hands-on proxy voting model where ATP, we can defend spending more resources due to the size of based on our voting policy, considers each voting item speciour investment. As part of the continuous dialogue, we are fically, so that ATP makes the decision itself. Activities ATP’s stewardship activities are largely defined by the two ATP has continued to focus on the composition of the boards processes – continuous dialogue and dialogue through and remuneration packages, particularly in US companies, general meetings. and climate has been a prominent topic at a number of general meetings. In total, we voted against the recommendation of The continuous dialogue with the companies is basically the board of directors in 22% of the proposals. confidential and is not shared with the public. We publish any presentations ATP make at company general meetings, All ATP’s voting items are available at atp.dk. just as we publish our voting in the companies. During the 2019 general meeting season, ATP has voted at a total of 442 general meetings, where all proposals have been reviewed. Responsibility 2019 8 ATP’s ESG principles and stewardship #1 ATP has a considerable interest in the markets for listed companies functioning according to the best international standards, in manageESG as an ment and control generally being exercised with the overall transacinvestment belief tions of the listed companies and in the pricing on the markets being as effective as possible. #2 ATP sees ESG risks in line with other investment risks, including market risks. ATP’s Policy of Stewardship seeks to minimise risks and optiStrong mise business opportunities in ATP’s portfolio of listed companies. ATP tailored processes therefore pursues two specific processes for stewardship that match our investment style. #3 ATP handles all stewardship-related matters itself. We believe that by handling dialogue and stewardship ourselves rather than hiring an Development external business partner, we gain special and important insight into of ATP’s ESG a company's affairs. Furthermore, we believe that this is the only way competencies to ensure the integrity of all votes and thereby maintain ATP's reputation with companies and other stakeholders. #4 As an active owner, ATP may on the one hand use dialogue with the company to create an understanding of the challenges facing compaPreference nies and any company-specific risks and opportunities. At the same for capital time, ATP can work to minimise risks and promote the long-term value stewardship creation of companies by encouraging change. Responsibility 2019 9 ATP’s screening and fact-finding activities ATP’s screening and fact-finding activities ensure that the investment portfolio is investigated on an ongoing basis with a view to identifying the companies which involve the greatest risk of breach of the Policy of Responsibility in Investments. This also helps ensure that ATP complies with international guidelines for good company conduct. Basis The basis of the screening and fact-finding activities is ATP’s The policy and its implementation in the investment processes Policy of Responsibility in Investments which sets out a are an important part of ATP’s efforts to comply with the OECD number of basic principles and minimum criteria for the portGuidelines for Multinational Enterprises which set out expefolio companies’ conduct. ctations for companies’ conduct and include topics such as human rights, environment and anti-corruption. Among other things, the policy states that we do not invest in companies that deliberately and repeatedly violate the rules ATP has developed different processes for identifying potenand regulations of the countries in which they operate. The tial violations depending on the asset type and method. For policy also states that the portfolio companies must act in liquid assets, we have developed screening processes which accordance with the standards that follow from the internatiensure that we continuously monitor whether companies in onal conventions adopted by Denmark. the portfolio violate the principles of ATP’s Policy of Responsibility in Investments. Processes The screenings allow ATP to focus its resources on the most If a screening indicates that a company might be in breach serious allegations and possible breaches of ATP’s Policy of of the policy, the investigation will change to fact-finding. Responsibility in Investments. Fact-finding is a flexible investigation process which may include many different types of sources and whose purpose As the equity portfolio is relatively dynamic, we have tailored is to make it possible for ATP’s Committee for Responsibility the screening processes to include risk-based screenings of to conclude whether or not there has been a breach of ATP’s the surrounding equity pool in addition to screenings of the policy. current portfolio. This helps us identify potential investments that should be further investigated. If ATP’s Committee for Responsibility finds that a portfolio company is in breach of ATP’s Policy of Responsibility in Investments, ATP will either exclude or engage in a targeted dialogue with the company. Activities ATP decided to exclude five companies with activities within decided to exclude Grupo Mexico as the company was unwila special type of tar sand extraction from its investment ling to engage in a dialogue. universe. The assessment was based on the fact that a significant volume of the companies’ business comes from activiATP has been in dialogue with a utility company with activities ties that are likely to be in conflict with the Convention on Bioloin the USA, Mexico, Europe and Brazil. The company was being gical Diversity and relevant guidelines in the area. accused of not having consulted the local population in connection with the construction of a hydropower plant in Brazil. In 2019, ATP carried out fact-finding of two mining companies, Grupo Mexico and another company, both of which have been ATP stopped the fact-finding as the company was believed accused of unacceptable conditions in connection with their to have taken the proper measures and was willing to initiate mining activities. The result of the fact-finding was that ATP corrective actions. Responsibility 2019 10 ATP’s ESG principles and fact-finding #1 ATP’s Policy of Responsibility sets out that ATP must include considerations for the environment, climate, human rights, labour and management issues in its risk management and investment processes. ESG as an Screening and fact-finding help ensure that ATP complies with the investment belief Supervisory Board’s policy and ensures that ATP does not take unnecessary risks in its investments. #2 ATP sees ESG risks in line with other investment risks, including market Strong risks. ATP’s screening and fact-finding processes are designed to tailored processes match the different investment approaches established by ATP for the individual asset types used. #3 ATP carries out the screening and fact-finding work, including the dialogue with companies and external managers, itself as this will give Development us more insight into the companies’ affairs. This also helps increase of ATP’s ESG the professional substance and knowledge sharing to make sure that competencies ATP meets the global requirements and standards in the area and to strengthen ATP’s reputation as a serious and responsible investor. #4 By carrying out the investigation of and engaging in dialogue with companies in conflict with ATP’s Policy of Responsibility in Investments, Preference ATP gains an insight into the companies’ affairs and challenges which for capital enables a positive outcome of the dialogue. For the same reason, ATP stewardship views exclusion as a last resort only to be used when dialogue is unsuccessful in influencing a company in the desired direction. Responsibility 2019 11 ATP’s tax work It is important for the credibility of the pension fund and for the long-term returns of the members that ATP pays the correct amount of tax and that we support good tax behaviour in investments. Transparency and clarity with regard to ATP’s policy and processes for tax payment are part of our responsibility. Basis ATP has decided to take it further than what is required by law cannot force managers and co-investors to follow our tax in the tax area. We do so to make our investments more resipolicy and we cannot control how they act in relation to investlient to taxation risks and to take co-responsibility for strengtments of which ATP is not part. hening governance in the area. We have high standards for ensuring that ATP pays the correct amount of tax – neither too We cannot change the world on our own, but as a major invemuch, nor too little. stor we are willing to assume part of the responsibility. If aggressive tax planning is to be prevented entirely, it requires We also want to exert our influence in the the fight against enhanced international cooperation. We believe that transaggressive tax planning, while also retaining some degree of parency and clarity about our policy and processes for tax realism, since we do not always have the casting vote. We payment are part of ATP’s responsibility. Processes ATP has fixed processes in place for incorporating taxation ding whether the investments comply with our Tax Policy. in our new unlisted investments. This way, we ensure that we have control of taxation in the investments and that we miniATP has its own tax experts who ensure that we can act mise taxation risks when we step in as owner. We also ensure promptly and profoundly when investment opportunities are that the tax structure is in accordance with our Tax Policy. identified. If the investments do not comply with ATP’s Tax Policy, we look into whether we can adapt the investment or The purpose of the due diligence phase is to map out and the contractual basis. uncover the taxation risks involved in the investments, incluActivities In 2019, in cooperation with a group of Danish pension compaAs part of ATP’s work, we make annual spot checks to ensure nies, ATP developed a common tax code for unlisted investthat our investments comply with our Tax Policy. In 2019, we ments which lays down a number of requirement and expectamade 13 spot checks which all showed compliance with ATP’s tions for the tax practice of external asset managers. If enough Tax Policy. investors make requirements for responsible tax behaviour, it will limit the possibilities of the market players who do not In 2019, ATP held a series of dialogues on tax practice with want to align their tax practice to match the expectations of foreign pharmaceutical companies in the listed portfolio. ATP and other responsible investors. The companies were responsive and provided satisfactory answers to how the companies deal with tax issues. Responsibility 2019 12 ATP’s ESG principles and tax #1 ATP considers aggressive tax planning as an investment risk for ATP that does not contribute to the long-term value creation of our investments. With regard to ATP’s own tax matters, we seek to avoid being ESG as an subjected to double taxation so that most of the return on investments investment belief is taxed in Denmark and that tax is not paid twice on the return for pensions. On the other hand, it is also important that we pay the tax we are required to pay. #2 ATP maps out taxation in relation to all new, unlisted investments by conducting taxation due diligence. We seek to influence and, if possible, Strong simplify the tax structures in connection with new investments and as tailored processes far as possible commit external asset managers in which ATP invests as a minimum to comply with the tax policy. In ATP’s listed investments, tax is an integral part of our stewardship work. #3 ATP wants to stay updated on and follow the international initiatives in the tax area. Therefore, it is important to have the skills to continuously Development assess new tax structures on the basis of the Tax Policy. At the same of ATP’s ESG time, we build knowledge of how it is possible to influence and make competencies new requirements for investments in ATP. #4 ATP engages in an active dialogue with other pension funds and asset Preference managers for the purpose of achieving common standards and criteria for capital for international investment structures in order to reduce the related stewardship tax uncertainties. Responsibility 2019 13 ATP’s ESG activities in relation to unlisted assets ATP makes investments in unlisted assets and funds which are to generate stable returns to ATP’s members over a long period. As a result, ATP has structured its investment process to ensure that ESG becomes part of the value creation and that we address matters that must or should be improved. Basis Because of the long-term nature of unlisted investments, it is ATP complies with the OECD Guidelines for Multinational important that ESG aspects that might have an impact during Enterprises. ATP’s period of ownership form an integral part of ATP’s investment process. This prevents unexpected surprises for ATP In several cases, ATP has a considerable ownership interest during the period of ownership and thus protects ATP against in a fund or an infrastructure project which allows us to have a unwanted risks, but can also help identify further opportunihigh degree of influence on how a given investment is run. The ties of value creation. considerable influence also increases ATP’s responsibility for ensuring that we are not in breach of the OECD Guidelines for ATP’s Policy of Responsibility – and its implementation in Multinational Enterprises. our investment processes – is also designed to ensure that Processes ATP has three main lines of business within unlisted investment process applied for such investments. As these are often ments – direct investments, investments in funds and investsingle assets, we can narrow down the relevant areas and ments in real estate. All three lines of business have very concentrate the dialogue on these. specific investment processes that require thorough due diligence processes. In fund investments with no specific investments to be considered, ATP focuses on assessing the ability of the fund to work For global direct investments and fund investments, ATP has with ESG when the fund starts to invest on behalf of ATP. This defined an ESG process tailored to the well-defined investis done in parallel with the rest of the due diligence process. Activities In the past year, ATP had a number of illiquid investments work in relation to illiquid assets. This includes cases from where ESG was incorporated in the investment process. For the due diligence process and cases from our subsequent confidentiality reasons, we are not able to say much. Time is asset management process. In Spanish Redexis Gas, ATP has also spent on making ESG due diligence for assets which ATP decided, in cooperation with the management, to focus on eventually decides not to invest in. Moreover, it is difficult to green transition, and in a new investment, we have required make quantitative assessments of the ESG work in relation to improved ESG conditions. illiquid assets as the scope of such work very much depends on the individual investment. As part of ATP’s continued focus on data and reporting, ATP is a member of the GRESB initiative for both real estate and However, ATP would like to unveil how we incorporate ESG in infrastructure. Every year, ATP announces our own GRESB practice, and therefore, ATP publishes cases from our ESG performance. Responsibility 2019 14 ATP’s ESG principles and illiquid assets #1 ATP is a long-term investor which is to ensure that illiquid investments maintain their value throughout the life expectancy. The incorporation of ESG parameters are therefore an essential part of the risk assessESG as an ment of the investment. At the same time, ATP believes that ESG inteinvestment belief gration is an important part of the management task and that good practice in the area may eventually strengthen the value creation. #2 The buying and selling of illiquid assets are resourceand cost-intensive processes where a number of matters have to be clarified and agreed before the purchase of a specific asset. Therefore, it is Strong important that any ESG aspects are identified and clarified early in the tailored processes process to ensure that any potential problems are addressed and that agreements can be made with the investment parties on solutions and expectations for ESG. ATP ensures that ESG is incorporated from the very start in the screening of new investments. #3 Unlisted investments differ from listed investments on a number of parameters – e.g. data coverage is far more extensive for listed compaDevelopment nies. Therefore, ATP wants to build special skills in making ESG assesof ATP’s ESG sments of unlisted companies. We do so by building knowledge of competencies various industries and companies and by knowing the right questions to ask our business partners. #4 As an investor in companies outside the listed markets, it is possible for ATP to influence companies which are not regulated within the conventional framework for listed companies. As a result, ATP exerPreference cises capital stewardship in both funds and companies to have a posifor capital tive impact on the conditions and secure the value of ATP’s investstewardship ments in the future. We do so by being active owners throughout the investment period. Responsibility 2019 15 ATP’s work with climate change The interplay of climate change and investments is complex and may impact ATP’s return in various ways. Climate change offers new investment opportunities, but many also lead to new types of risk. That is why ATP is considering climate in our investment decisions. Basis Climate change is one of the greatest challenges we face how climate change will affect the investment portfolio, and we today and will have a massive impact on our society and therefore want to consider climate broadly in our work across therefore also ATP’s investments in the future. We therefore our portfolio. want to support the transition to a green economy in Denmark and globally by being an active investor and providing capital ATP supports the recommendations from the Financial Stability for green projects. Board’s Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and uses them as an overall framework for verifying, Climate change has a strong impact on ATP’s investments, challenging and developing our approach to and understansince it has the potential to affect the long-term risk-adjusted ding of climate risks. return both positively and negatively. It is impossible to predict Processes ATP applies a number of processes to ensure that climate that our equity selection also considers climate risks. This concerns are meaningfully integrated in the investment helps strengthen the resilience against climate risks in the processes. As a new initiative, we focus on mapping our equity portfolio. exposure to extraction of fossil fuels across asset classes throughout our portfolio. Based on this mapping, we have During the past years, ATP has amassed a portfolio of green chosen not to invest in credit and private equity funds that bonds worth almost DKK 20 billion. This is an area where we invest in extraction of fossil fuels. want to help develop the market for green bonds by engaging in a dialogue with the issuers of green bonds and demanding We have integrated climate in the global equity portfolio that they are transparent and report. where equity is selected based on quantitative models so Activities In 2019, we focused on the carbon intensity of the extracin a dialogue with seven companies that we found were not tion activities of oil companies. Based on Stanford researcher sufficiently transparent when it came to relevant CO2 emission Masnadi’s estimates as to the carbon intensity of oil producfigures. Three of the companies did not respond to our inquition in each of the world’s oil-producing countries and data ries and have therefore also been excluded from our investregarding the geographical distribution of the oil companies’ ment universe. In 2020, we will continue the dialogue with a production, we have created an estimate of the carbon intennumber of oil companies to assess their ambitions and specific sity of the production of the individual oil companies. initiatives to reduce the carbon intensity from their oil extraction activities. Based on this analysis, we have divested four companies from ATP’s investment universe since their carbon intensity was ATP is part of the Climate Action 100+ investor initiative, which significantly higher than the average. We have also engaged on several occasions in 2019 managed to push the world’s biggest CO 2 emitters in a greener direction. Responsibility 2019 16 ATP’s ESG principles and climate in investments #1 ATP believes that climate change has a material impact on the risk-adjusted return on our investments. Climate change engenders new investment opportunities, but also leads to a number of investESG as an ment risks – both transition risks and physical risks – that can have a investment belief negative impact on ATP’s investments. That is why we are considering climate when we invest in the same way as we consider other investment aspects. #2 Climate change can affect ATP’s investments in various ways depending on the specific asset class and investment. Efficient integration is conditional on the climate work being adapted to the individual investStrong ment process. For some of ATP’s investments, a quantitative approach tailored processes that focuses on data is the most expedient alternative, while other processes are more suitable for a qualitative approach, such as investments in funds. The interplay of climate change and investments is complex and multi#3 faceted. Investors are faced with a host of methods that can be used to calculate climate footprint, climate risks, etc. Actual integration of climate change in ATP’s investments demands a persistent focus on Development developing our own knowledge and understanding of climate change of ATP’s ESG and the possible paths of transition towards a low-emission economy. competencies Only by doing so will we acquire the competencies that are necessary to be able to integrated climate in our investment decisions and our stewardship. #4 Climate change affects the value of many assets in ATP’s portfolio. That is why we use our capital stewardship across the portfolio from Preference our investments in listed equity, in our investments in infrastructure and for capital real estate and as an active voice in developing the market for green stewardship bonds. We have a preference for capital stewardship, but do not want to assume any climate risks in our investments that we do not assess are compensated in terms of return. Responsibility 2019 17 ATP’s work on thematic engagement Thematic engagement is ATP’s structured dialogue with a number of our portfolio companies where we focus on improving the companies’ practice within ESG thematics. The dialogue is driven by a constructive approach and an ambition to strengthen the value creation in the companies. Through dialogue, we also increase our own level of knowledge for the benefit of future investments. Basis The basis of our thematic engagement work is ATP’s Policy We have decided to handle all stewardship-related matters of Responsibility in Investments and Policy of Stewardship. ourselves. We believe that it gives us important insight into the We work to integrate responsibility considerations in line with companies’ affairs to handle the dialogue and the stewardship considerations for other business matters and risks, because ourselves – an insight we would not gain if we delegated such we believe that analysis of companies’ ESG aspects is an work to an external business partner. Thematic engagement is important and relevant element in the risk management actia key component in work of clarifying companies’ ESG issues. vities and because our experience is that investment opportunities can also be identified on the basis of this work. Processes Our choice of thematics and participants in the thematic We mainly use a data-driven approach, because experidialogues is based on an assessment of whether dialogue ence shows that such an approach gives a more structured about the theme with the relevant group of portfolio compadialogue with a clear focal point. nies can strengthen the companies’ future value creation and/ or our investment processes and decisions. Our experience A data-driven approach also makes it possible to conduct shows that thematic engagements can make it easier for us engagements with large groups of companies rather than just to understand the companies’ challenges and opportunities dialogues with a few companies. This way, our engagements and to uncover ESG risks across the portfolio. will reach all relevant companies. A common feature of the themes is that ATP tries to contribute to extend best practice We maintain a pipeline of possible engagement themes which for any given ESG area to as many companies as possible. are approved by ATP’s Committee for Responsibility on an ongoing basis based on analyses from ATP’s ESG team. Activities In 2019, ATP conducted a number of thematic engagements, In a number of thematic engagements conducted in 2019, we focusing on different elements of the portfolio companies’ focused on control mechanisms in corporate governance. In value creation. In 2019, we engaged in dialogues with a total of academic literature, there is general consensus that it is impor182 companies about eight different thematic engagements. tant for the value creation of a company that the company has strong structures to ensure that the board of directors and We decided to focus on reporting of material ESG data by management work in the best interest of the shareholders. comparing the Materiality Map prepared by the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB) with the company Finally, we conducted two thematic engagements on employee assessments made by our ESG data providers. The diverse satisfaction and human rights based on a data-driven answers provided us with knowledge which we will use in our approach – similar to our general approach. future SASB work. Responsibility 2019 18 ATP’s ESG principles and thematic engagement #1 Like ATP’s other responsibility work, the basis of the thematic engagement work is our belief that responsibility considerations contribute to ESG as an the companies’ long-term value creation and should therefore be an investment belief integral part of the investment discipline. We believe that the thematic engagements help secure the future real value of the investments. #2 The processes for thematic engagement have been made to ensure that we can apply our stewardship to influence the companies in the desired direction. At the same time, the processes are designed in such Strong a way that the information and insights gained through our engagetailored processes ments can be used directly in the future investment work. This could e.g. be in relation to uncovering risks across the portfolio or by identifying new investment opportunities. #3 The analyses behind and the conduct of thematic engagements are an important part of our efforts to build strong internal ESG competencies. We believe that we create the most possible value for the investDevelopment ment processes and for the companies’ future actions by carrying out of ATP’s ESG the analysis work and the company dialogues ourselves rather than competencies delegating it to an external party. This way, we ensure that ATP’s work and approach are characterised by consistency, predictability, seriousness and transparency. #4 We want to exercise our influence as an investor. Thematic engagement allows us to engage in dialogue with companies on topics which are Preference not necessarily related to a potential breach of our Policy of Responfor capital sibility in Investments but where the topic may have material influence stewardship on the future value creation of the company. This helps us expand best practice across companies and industries and thus promote positive ESG development. Responsibility 2019 19 ATP and the Sustainable Development Goals The UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) set an ambitious agenda for sustainable development, and as an investor with keen focus on responsibility, it is natural that ATP’s work reflects the SDGs. We use the SDGs for inspiration, guidance and quality assurance of our responsibility work. Basis ATP fully supports the UN’s 17 sustainable development goals. the long-term value creation in companies and thereby contriAs a long-term investor whose purpose is to provide good bute to sustainable development and growth. We pursue pensions to its members, ATP has a strong interest in the sustaistewardship and ESG integration in order to promote an nable social and environmental development of the planet and increased focus on long-term value creation in the compathe economy. If the global economy does not develop sustainies and influence them to minimise any negative impact they nably, and if the world does not achieve the goals set, there may may have on society and the planet and to work towards a be a risk of growing unrest, conflicts, increased global warming more sustainable business development. and thus increasingly uncertain conditions for growth and future returns on the investment portfolio. The 17 SDGs set a very ambitious agenda for the global development towards 2030. Achieving the goals requires the As a result, we also have an inherent interest in and a responcommitment of a wide range of stakeholders in society, inclusibility for – through our investment processes – to support ding the corporate sector and investors. Processes We want our investments to contribute positively to achieving achievement of the SDGs. ATP complies with the OECD Guidethe SDGs, but we are careful not to take credit for any positive lines for Multinational Enterprises through our fact-finding, impact on society as the matters contributing to the positive thematic engagement and ESG due diligence. impact of an investment are often complex. Therefore, we annually state the impact which our two According to the Danish Business Authority’s Guide to Responon-going processes, fact-finding and thematic engagement, sible Investment, compliance with the OECD Guidelines for and focused initiatives and investments have had on the SDGs. Multinational Enterprises helps the world navigate towards Activities In addition to the ongoing SDG work through fact-finding, and renovation of old real estate. This allows us to make decithematic engagement and ESG due diligence, ATP has also sions as a construction client that can support the SDGs, e.g. made focused investments and initiatives that contribute to through sustainability certification of real estate. the SDGs. As part of our stewardship, we also monitor how Danish In 2018, ATP made a commitment to the Danish SDG Investcompanies in the investment universe incorporate the SDGs in ment Fund (the SDG Fund) which made its first investments their business. Our analysis for 2019 shows that an increasing in food production and health care in Africa and renewable number of companies incorporate the SDGs in their business. energy in Eastern Europe in 2019. In our property portfolio, we have increased our focus on sustainability in the design and construction of new real estate Responsibility 2019 20 ATP’s ESG principles and the Sustainable Development Goals #1 Like ATP’s other responsibility work, the basis of the sustainable development work is our belief that responsibility considerations contribute to the companies’ long-term value creation and risk management and ESG as an should therefore be an integral part of the investment discipline. We investment belief believe that a close relationship exists between the achievement of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals, the companies’ long-term value creation and the future real value of the investments. #2 ATP’s established tailored processes for fact-finding, thematic engagement and ESG due diligence already to a high extent capture the development problems which the 17 DSGs seek to address. We evaluate Strong on an ongoing basis whether the ESG activities ensure an adequate tailored processes cross-cutting focus on the 17 SDGs or whether we need to launch new initiatives aimed at the SDGs not adequately captured by our existing ESG work. #3 The SDGs set out an ambitious and complex agenda for sustainable, global development which is full of dilemmas. As a global investor with investments in numerous companies, ATP considers it an imporDevelopment tant role to contribute to progress across all these goals. We can only of ATP’s ESG contribute to the progress of the companies if we develop our own competencies understanding of the individual SDGs and the interplay of the different SDGs. #4 ATP wants to exercise its influence as an investor. We believe that we can step up the companies’ awareness of the considerable business opportunities offered by the SDGs for the individual company Preference while also increasing the companies’ focus on the potential negative for capital impacts which their business model and business conduct might have stewardship for the achievement of the SDGs. At the same time, we are aware of the focused investments and initiatives that may contribute to achieving the SDGs. Responsibility 2019 21 Resource consumption and diversity in ATP Follow-up on ATP’s own environmental, social and governance key figures. EMPLOYEES IN THE ATP GROUP rikshavn, Hillerød, Allerød, Lillerød and the offices of ATP’s subsidiaries in Copenhagen. In 2019, the ATP Group had a total of 2,747 full-time employees (on average), who were mainly based in Vordingborg, In 2019, ATP’s CO 2 emission per employee totalled 1.03 Holstebro, Haderslev, Allerød, Lillerød, Frederikshavn, tonnes. The total electricity and water consumption fell Copenhagen and the headquarters in Hillerød. compared to 2018, whereas water consumption increased. As a large employer with many offices, the ATP Group CO2 emission from heat and electricity consumption leaves its footprint on society, for example in the form of Tonnes environmental, climate and employee impacts. 1400 1200 Employees in Denmark 1000 800 243 600 400 200 0 2017 2018 2019 202 Emission from heat consumption Emission from electricity consumption 1601 105 261 KPI development shows a slightly increasing trend for 259 water consumption per employee and m 2. In future, ATP will analyse the possibilities of reducing water consumption. However, the KPIs for electricity and heat consumption per employee and m2 show a downward trend, reflecting the Note: *Average number of full-time employees in 2019 in Denmark. reduced total electricity and heat consumption. The total CO 2 emissions for 2019 ended at 2,915 tonnes from electriATP plays a significant role in society and has a social city and heat consumption and transport. responsibility. ATP is aware of this and has in an effort to increase transparency incorporated relevant recommendaElectricity consumption tions by CFA Society Denmark in the reporting of environKwh Kwh mental, social and governance key figures. 2500 70 2000 66 KEY FIGURES FOR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 1500 62 1000 58 In the table on the next page, ATP accounts for its environmental impacts, for instance through CO 2 emissions, elec500 54 tricity, heat and water consumption in ATP’s Danish offices 0 50 in Copenhagen, Haderslev, Holstebro, Vordingborg, Frede2017 2018 2019 Electricity consumption per employee Electricity consumption per sq. m. Responsibility 2019 22 Initiatives in 2019 other initiatives. ATP engages in the circular economy, and Sustainability is a major focus area for ATP as reflected in in 2019, we donated used furniture to the local communiour activities. We continuously consider how we can keep ties, and we aim to use recycled materials as we did when our carbon footprint at a minimum through procurement and we bought new carpets. Environmental impact of CO2, consumption of electricity, heat and water, etc. 2019 2018 2017 ATP facts Number of locations 9 10 9 Number of sq. m. 63,435 76,654 73,933 Number of employees (FTE) 1 2,747 2,948 2,966 Consumption data 2 Electricity consumption (MWh) 4,288 4,342 4,198 Heat consumption (MWh) 5,879 6,355 5,667 Heating degree day-adjusted heat consumption (MWh) 6,438 7,516 6,519 3 Water consumption(m ) 20,301 18,747 15,710 KPIs Area per employee (sq. m) 24 27 27 Electricity consumption per employee (kWh) 1,520 1,567 2,062 Electricity consumption per sq. m. (kWh) 56 59 69 Heating degree day-adjusted heat consumption per employee (kWh) 2,282 2,765 3,202 Heating degree day-adjusted heat consumption per sq. m. (kWh) 84 102 107 3 Water consumption per employee (m ) 7.6 6.9 7.7 3 Water consumption per sq. m. (m ) 0.27 0.25 0.26 CO 2 emission CO2 emission, heat consumption (tonnes) 945 1,076 1,057 CO2 emission, electricity consumption (tonnes) 991 982 1,189 CO2 emission, transport (own vehicles, taxis and air travel) (tonnes) 979 3 CO2 Scope 1 (tonnes) 128 133 121 CO2 Scope 2 (tonnes) 1,812 1,930 2,128 Total CO2 emission (tonnes) 2,9153 CO2 emission per employee (tonnes per FTE) 1.03 3 1 Number of employees is stated as the average number of full-time employees. 2 Consumption figures for electricity, heat and water are stated using the most recently available figures. In order to make trends in KPIs comparable, these are calculated on the basis of the average number of employees during the period of consumption and the number of sq. m. used in the period of consumption. Moreover, consumption when moving in/out is translated into annual consumption. Therefore, the KPIs cannot be deduced directly from the table. 3 No reference year has been specified due to changed calculation method of the air travel provider. Responsibility 2019 23 Energy-saving initiatives women, vulnerable youths and employees with mental disorATP continuously seeks to improve our environmental impact ders. The aim is to help the FASE+ employees become self-supand CO2 emissions from consumption. In 2019, ATP started to porting and thus able to manage a job or education on normal install LED lighting throughout the Hillerød location, and this or special conditions. In return, the FASE+ employees carry out work is expected to be finished at the beginning of 2020. The a number of ATP's service and administrative tasks, relieving replacement is expected to generate total CO2 and kWh savings other employees of some of their workload. In 2019 alone, a of up to 50%. Moreover, much of the lighting at the Frederikstotal of 65 employees have been associated with FASE+. At the havn and Vordingborg locations has already been replaced by end of 2019, 22 employees who were formerly associated with LED and such replacement work is carried out continuously at FASE+ were working for ATP on general or special conditions. all locations. At the end of 2019, charging stations for electric cars to be used by the employees were established at several locaATP’s Policy of Diversity tions. The continued increased focus on a more sustainable ATP strengthens our working environment through ATP also involves several minor initiatives, such as replacediversity. Diversity provides for a more dynamic, vibrant ment of water softening systems, investigations into the use and inspirational working environment. In other words, of heat sources and optimisation of ventilations systems, diversity among managers and employees is the basis all of which contribute to the vision of reducing the environfor continuous innovation and competitiveness. Divermental impact. sity expands ATP’s recruitment potential and ensures a wide range of skills in managers and employees. We Phase-out of disposable tableware expect both managers and employees to help ensure With the aim of reducing the climate footprint of our canteens, that diversity flourishes and thrives in the workplace. ATP started to phase out our use of disposable tableware in 2019. The result is minimum consumption of disposable tableware which has been replaced by compostable material. Employee satisfaction surveys Increased focus on organic food and food waste ATP is constantly working to create an attractive workplace In 2019, all canteens in ATP achieved bronze status for which is able to attract and retain motivated, dedicated organic food within the existing budget. The ambition is and qualified managers and employees. Employee satisstill to increase the volume of organic produce. The focus faction is measured annually against the following three on optimum use of produce and surplus production has raised awareness of food waste and waste separation. This will continue in 2020. Employee satisfaction 100 80 SOCIAL KEY FIGURES 60 Diversity and inclusion 40 ATP has a strong trackrecord of commitment to diversity and 20 inclusion, and back in 2010, this led to the establishment of the FASE+ department. One thing all FASE+ employees have in 0 2017 2018 2019 common is that, for various reasons, they need support in order Job satisfaction Satisfaction Motivation to facilitate their return to the labour market. The employees Note: Employee satisfaction survey data are based on ATP employees’ own ratings of job satisfaction, satisfaction and motivation on a scale from 0 to 100. currently associated with FASE+ include non-Western men and Responsibility 2019 24 Follow-up on social key figures 2019 2018 2017 Number of employees (FTE) 2,747 2,948 2,966 Women 64% 64% 65% Gender distribution among all employees Men 36% 36% 35% Women 50% 51% 52% Gender distribution among managers, including CEOs Men 50% 49% 48% Employee turnover rate1 16% 16% 14% Sickness absence rate (average number of days per FTE) 8.3 8.2 8.6 Pay difference between genders All employees2 1.4 1.4 1.4 Customer advisors 0.9 0.9 0.9 1 Employee turnover rate is calculated on the basis of all ordinary employees. 2 The calculation does not include trainees, people employed under the flexjob scheme, employments of less than six months, members of the Group Management, CEOs of the subsidiaries and civil servants. targets: job satisfaction, satisfaction and motivation. For Gender balance in management 2019, the indices for all three targets were at the same level At the Group’s management levels, ATP aims for a 60/40 as previous years of 77, 76 and 77, respectively. per cent split which meets the gender balance requirements set out in the Danish Act on Gender Equality. For Employee turnover rate 2019, this aim was met as 50% of managers were women. In 2019, ATP’s employee turnover rate was 16%. The orgaIn 2019, all areas had an overrepresentation of women nisation is undergoing major development involving the across all employees. management of many new tasks and projects that require a diverse range of qualifications. Some of the employee ATP is constantly striving to increase the share of women turnover can be ascribed to relocations and organisational in management, and the gender targets are part of ATP’s changes. 1% of the reported turnover for 2019 is emploPolicy of Diversity. It is part of ATP’s strategy to increase yees who left ATP at the end of December 2018 in connethe focus and emphasis on diversity in connection with ction with the relocation of AES from Østerbro to Hillerød. the recruitment of new employees, and a targeted effort Adjusted for this, employee turnover decreased from 2018 is made to recruit a wide range of candidates for the to 2019. management and development of in-house talent in ATP’s talent programme in order to also get more women into Sickness absence senior management. Follow-up on sickness absence for ATP’s employees shows a level of just over 8 sickness days per year. ATP pays attention Pay difference between genders to sickness absence and has most recently included quesATP is an organisation with great variation in tasks and job tions about stress in the annual employee satisfaction survey. types and that requires diversity in skills and specialists In the management of stress, focus has been on helping within many different areas. The pay difference between people suffering from stress back to work after a period of men and women of 1.4 means that there is a pay difference absence. From 2018 to 2019, there was a small drop in shortof 40% for men and women across the Group. The diffeterm absence whereas long-term absence increased. rence reflects the variation in tasks and the diversity in the composition of employees across the Group. The largest Responsibility 2019 25 Follow-up on governance key figures 2019 2018 2017 Women 31% 31% 31% Gender distribution on the Supervisory Board Men 69% 69% 69% Women 35% 32% 34% Gender distribution on the Board of Representatives Men 65% 68% 66% Attendance at Supervisory Board meetings1 90% 92% Pay difference between CEO and all employees 11 13 12 Pay difference between CEO and employees, isolated for ATP Livslang Pension 8 9 9 (Lifelong Pension) 1 Attendance at Supervisory Board meetings was not calculated in 2017 employee group, customer advisors, which comprised a total ATP’s report on the status of compliance with the target of 1,024 employees in 2019, or more than one third of all figures set for the underrepresented gender employees in the Group, is found to be sufficiently homogeATP’s Policy of Diversity has been adopted by the Supervineous to make a comparison of pay levels across the orgasory Board. The policy also defines a target for the gender nisation with regard to gender. The pay difference is a factor distribution of its senior management. The target is to have 0.9 which means that the pay of men in customer service is at least one third of the underrepresented gender on ATP’s 10% less than that of women. Board of Representatives (at least 11) and on ATP’s Supervisory Board (at least 5). This target had to be achieved by 1 April 2019. GOVERNANCE KEY FIGURES The target for the Board of Representatives was met as Pay difference CEO and employees 11 women served on the Board of Representatives in 2019 The purpose of the key figure CEO-Worker pay ratio is to (35%). The target for the Supervisory Board was not met, show the pay ratio between CEO and employees and to as 4 women still served on the Supervisory Board in 2019 show the development in pay for the CEO compared to the (31%). employees. The members of ATP’s Board of Representatives and In ATP, the key figure is a factor 11 for 2019, meaning that Supervisory Board are appointed by the individual orgathe remuneration of the CEO corresponds to 11 times the nisations. The election period applicable for members of average pay of all employees in ATP. This includes employees carrying out administrative tasks for external parties. Target figures for the underrepresented gender When considering ATP Livslang Pension (Lifelong Pension) ATP’s executive order on accounting stipulates that and the associated employees in isolation, and in order for ATP is to account for the status of compliance with the key figures to be comparable to other pension funds, the the target figures set for the underrepresented gender key figure is a factor 8, meaning that the remuneration of the on the Supervisory Board, including why ATP has not CEO corresponds to 8 times the average pay of employees. achieved the target set, if this is the case. Responsibility 2019 26 the Board of Representatives and the Supervisory Board is of ATP’s Group Management and that those with special three years, which means that one third of the members are skills in investment subsidiaries are male members of the appointed each year. Group Management. We are still working towards the gender balance target. The As previously mentioned, there is no gender underrepresenreplacements made in 2019 have not altered the balance on tation at other management levels in the ATP Group. Overall, the Supervisory Board, as the individual organisations decided for all management levels the distribution is balanced. The that the most qualified candidates for the open vacancies gender balance in management varies according to manawere men. When filling posts, the organisations are aware of gement level and area. the need for ensuring a gender-balanced Board of Representatives and Supervisory Board. The gender balance target also applies to the Supervisory Focus on sustainability in the Group strategy Boards of some of ATP’s subsidiaries. This means that the Sustainability is an integral part of the Groups’ strategy for underrepresented gender should make up at least one third 2020. ATP will continue its responsibility work and define of the Board, the same as the target for ATP’s Supervisory further environmental, social and governance targets. Board and within the same time frame. In the subsidiaries covered by the legislation, the target has not been met. This ATP fully supports the UN’s 17 sustainable development is the case for the companies Via equity Fond I K/S and Via goals. As a long-term investor whose purpose is to provide equity Fond II K/S, ATP Timberland Invest K/S, ATP Real good pensions to its members, ATP has a strong interest Estate Partners I K/S, ATP Ejendomme A/S, ATP Private in the sustainable social and environmental development Equity K/S and the companies ATP Private Equity Partners of the world. ATP uses the goals as a source of inspiraI-VI K/S. This is primarily due to the fact that the Supervition for its own initiatives. As an example, ATP Ejendomme sory Boards of ATP’s subsidiaries are made up of members has increased focus on sustainability in the construction of new real estate and renovation of old real estate. Responsibility 2019 27
