WELCOME ABOUT GOVERNANCE AND LABOR AND ENVIRONMENTAL UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL FORWARD-LOOKING MESSAGE HILLENBRAND BUSINESS ETHICS HUMAN RIGHTS RESPONSIBILITY COMPACT INDEX STATEMENTS DRIVING IMPACT FOR A SUSTAINABLE WORLD Hillenbrand is committed to being a company where the positive impacts of our people, products, and partnerships help better the environments in which we operate. HILLENBRAND // 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT WELCOME MESSAGE // 1 Welcome to Hillenbrand’s inaugural Last year, we took an important step in the public demonstration of our commitment to sustainability by joining the United Nations keeping our employees safe and healthy. I am glad to report we rose to the occasion and believe we will be in a good sustainability report. We are delighted Global Compact. With this action, we placed ourselves alongside position as a company once the situation improves. some of the most responsible and ethical companies in the world. to share these stories and data with This report reaffirms our support for the Ten Principles of the United On the heels of the COVID-19 pandemic, the entire world witnessed Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, the boiling over of racial tensions in the U.S. and abroad and you and, more important, to reinforce Environment and Anti-Corruption. confronted the impacts of racism and inequality. As individuals our commitment to ethical, responsible and as a company, we reflected on our Core Values and This report describes our actions to continually improve the reaffirmed our commitments to creating an inclusive environment. and holistic thinking about how our integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We believe that As a global company, we know that our success as a business business practices can positively prioritizing sustainability in our business efforts has the potential and as a society depends on collaborating across diverse to improve all aspects of our Company, including our social influence the world around us. and environmental impacts, and to help us deliver superior backgrounds, experiences and thoughts so we can be our best and serve our communities and our customers with the best and financial results creating long-term shareholder value. We also fastest innovations and solutions. commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders through subsequent annual reports and other communication channels. Thank you for taking the time to share in our first sustainability story. We look forward to reporting on our progress in the future. The stories and information contained in this report primarily cover calendar year 2019. But we would be remiss if we did not acknowledge the remarkable and unprecedented events of 2020. The global COVID-19 pandemic challenged us in ways we had not experienced before. Almost overnight, we were confronted by very real threats, forced to rethink our production Joe Raver processes, and most important, turned further attention toward President & CEO, Hillenbrand, Inc. HILLENBRAND // 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT HILLENBRAND // 2 About Who We Are Hillenbrand Hillenbrand is a global diversified industrial company with businesses that serve a wide variety of industries around the world. Our portfolio includes industrial businesses such as Coperion, Milacron Injection Molding & Extrusion and Mold-Masters, in addition to Batesville, a recognized leader in the death care industry in North America. Hillenbrand is publicly traded on the NYSE under “HI.” HILLENBRAND // 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT HILLENBRAND // 3 Our vision Corporate Culture We are a world-class global diversified Hillenbrand’s corporate culture is based on five Core Values, which guide our behavior and decision making. The acquisition The Code helps our team apply our policies, Core Values and beliefs to situations they may face while representing industrial company with a proven of Milacron in November 2019 strengthened this further as the Hillenbrand and provides them with the mechanisms to get Milacron Core Beliefs aligned very well with Hillenbrand’s. questions answered and to report concerns to management. record of success driven by the Our actions are further supported by our Code of Ethical Business Conduct (our “Code”), which serves as a practical Hillenbrand Operating Model. guide to understanding our ethics and compliance standards. Core Values Core Beliefs • Individual Worth & Integrity Commitment Customers, accountability, professionalism and change • Excellence in Execution Quality Best outcomes in a safe environment • Spirit of Continuous Learning & Improvement Teamwork Improve and achieve more together • Courage Growth Nurture integrity, innovation and learning • Customer Focus & Partnership Service Exceptional customer experiences People Value our people and diversity…recruit, develop and retain the best teams ABOUT HILLENBRAND HILLENBRAND // 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT HILLENBRAND // 4 Our businesses Develops and manufactures highly engineered, A manufacturer of industry-leading plastics-processing A leading global supplier of hot runners, controllers, energy-efficient, positive displacement pumps. technology and solutions. auxiliary-injection and co-injection systems. The international market and technology leader An innovative pioneer in the technological development of A leader in highly engineered, mission-critical flow in compounding systems, feeding technology, screening machines that are used in dry separation of products control solutions. bulk-materials handling systems and services. from size analysis to conveying, screening and separating. A mold technologies leader. Its catalog remains the A recognized leader in the death care industry in North Comprised of three respected brands: Pennsylvania Crusher, industry’s broadest, its products are the benchmark of America through the manufacturing and sale of funeral Gundlach Equipment and Jeffrey Rader. These companies high quality, and it continues to provide customers with services products, including burial caskets, cremation casket design and manufacture high-quality, proven size-reduction and knowledge, expertise and service. containers and urns, other personalization and memorialization material-handling equipment solutions and replacement parts for products and technology applications for funeral homes. mission-critical applications involving high-value materials. ABOUT HILLENBRAND HILLENBRAND // 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT HILLENBRAND // 5 How we think about sustainability Hillenbrand is committed to bettering the environments in which Joining the UNGC as a participant and officially announcing our we operate through the positive impacts of our people, products support of these principles represents the first formal steps on and partnerships. We focus on meeting the needs of the present our sustainability journey. We believe that considering sustainability while using our position to make improvements for future generations, in our business efforts will improve all aspects of our company, driving change and positively impacting the world around us. Last including our social and environmental impacts. year, Hillenbrand publicly committed to advancing sustainability and addressing topics of material importance to stakeholders and our own Core Values and beliefs by endorsing the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). ABOUT HILLENBRAND HILLENBRAND // 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT HILLENBRAND // 6 How We Manage Sustainability The Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee of our Board of Directors reviews Hillenbrand’s policies, objectives, practices and progress with respect to sustainability and corporate social responsibility. The leaders responsible for our environmental, social and corporate governance (ESG) activities make regular presentations to this committee about the Company’s efforts in these areas. Our Sustainability Steering Committee (“SSC”), composed of senior leaders at our businesses and functional areas and supported by executive management, is charged with building our sustainability framework for the future. The SSC works across functions and operating companies to make preserving the longevity of our communities, our resources, our workforce and our environment part of our corporate culture and actions. The SSC supports value creation for internal and external stakeholders by facilitating integration of environmental, social, ethical and economic responsibility principles into daily business practices. Hillenbrand’s company-wide sustainability strategy is then conveyed to each business, which has latitude to decide how to best tie their local efforts to the larger strategy, depending on business requirements, cultures and social context. As the SSC continues its coordinating work with our businesses, we anticipate uncovering further opportunities for company-wide initiatives and achievements. ABOUT HILLENBRAND HILLENBRAND // 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT HILLENBRAND // 7 Materiality and Our Core Values and Beliefs Are Our North Star Stakeholders They are the guiding force behind our actions and shape what is important to us as a company. In 2019, led by the SSC, we conducted a materiality assessment and proactively engaged with key internal and external stakeholders (including shareholders and customers) to identify the Importance assigned by EXTERNAL stakeholders sustainability-related topics most important to our people, stakeholders and our business. We 5.0 looked to Global Reporting Initiative guidelines and UNGC principles as guiding frameworks in our selection of topics and stakeholders. Stakeholders ranked sustainability topics by importance, and the results of this research helped identify the areas defined as most material to our business. 4.8 As a result, we gained insight into the perspectives of our stakeholders, which are essential to “high” to “very high” Worker Safety our long-term success as a company. These are the ten topics, and corresponding examples, our stakeholders determined to be most material: 4.6 Data Security Worker Safety Occupational Health and Safety Management System, Job Safety Training Employment Practices Data Security Customer Privacy and Protection of Employee, Customer and Proprietary Data 4.4 Employee Training & Education Employment Practices Hiring Strategy, Employee Turnover, Benefits Economic Performance Economic Performance Revenue, Operating Costs, Wages, Community Investments Environmental Compliance 4.2 Employee Training Operational Material & Education Training Programs, Leadership Development Efficiency & Recyling Non-discrimination Environmental Diversity & Inclusion Compliance Compliance With Laws and Regulations, Management Systems 4.0 Anti-corruption Non-discrimination Corporate Ethics Program, Reporting Mechanisms Operational Material 3.8 Efficiency & Recycling Efficient Use of Materials, Use of Recycled Materials “high” to “very high” Diversity & Inclusion Diversity of Workforce and Leadership Teams Anti-corruption Communication About Policies, Concern Reporting, Training 3.6 3.6 3.8 4.0 4.2 4.4 4.6 4.8 5.0 Importance assigned by INTERNAL stakeholders ABOUT HILLENBRAND HILLENBRAND // 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT HILLENBRAND // 8 Building a more inclusive society in the workplace and   community.              Hillenbrand and its businesses come together every year as one team     to serve communities as global citizens. Hillenbrand’s One Campaign     helps address global problems through local solutions and encourages employees to participate in 1 day of service, 1 week of volunteering, 1 month of educational awareness and 1 year to move the needle     in sustainability.         The One Campaign aligns with UN Sustainable Development Goals to implement solutions to sustainability challenges in communities    around the world. Hillenbrand intentionally pursues One Campaign          initiatives that contribute to the sustainable development of our company, our people and our communities. In 2019, the One Campaign directly contributed to the following sustainable development goals as a part of our broader sustainability strategy. ABOUT HILLENBRAND HILLENBRAND // 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT HILLENBRAND // 9 Sustainable Development Employees from Hillenbrand and Rotex spent 1 day supporting RefugeeConnect, an organization focused on providing quality The Company recognizes diversity and inclusion is integral to our people and our business. To emphasize the importance of reducing Goals in education to children who are directly impacted by a refugee inequalities in the workplace, Hillenbrand provided inclusionexperience. Employees spent over 90 hours on programming focused programming in August for employees. Implicit bias that will help empower children to pursue their goals and embrace training, live panel discussions and resource databases were made Action their new surroundings. available during the One Campaign Month of Awareness. Employees spent 1 week partnering with Kids Discovery Factory, a non-profit organization with a mission to spark kids’ passion for STEAM. Inspiring generations of young learners to innovate and create aligns closely with Hillenbrand’s Core Values. More than 130 students attended the week-long camp staffed by Hillenbrand employees. The Company focused its 1-year initiative on developing an office waste recycling program at the corporate center. A number of sites across our Company already had established programs; the corporate center is located in a rural community where recycling is less available. A team of motivated employees helped launch a comprehensive recycling program aimed at redirecting waste and moving the needle in sustainability of our office space. 100 + 320 + 150 + Volunteers Hours Students ABOUT HILLENBRAND HILLENBRAND // 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT HILLENBRAND // 10 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS IN ACTION German American Partnership Program The German American Partnership Program (GAPP) is an established exchange program for high (secondary) school students from the U.S. and Germany. To address changing workforce demographics, the company sponsors a GAPP exchange in partnership with high schools near Hillenbrand’s headquarters in Batesville, Indiana, USA and Coperion’s manufacturing site in Weingarten, Germany. Students from both schools had the opportunity to select and tackle real-world business challenges associated with achieving one or more of the SDGs. Students worked across cultures to research global challenges such as climate, water and food crises, and inequality under the UN’s theme of Making Global Goals Local. By providing these students with a study abroad experience and insight into manufacturing jobs, the program gives students a leg up, helps them think about future career opportunities and expands their horizons. “We strive to be a great company and we’re willing to invest in our future workforce and our capability to create an impactful experience for these students.” —Kim Ryan, SVP, Hillenbrand/President, Coperion HILLENBRAND // 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT HILLENBRAND // 11 Economic Performance Over the past few years, we have experienced significant growth, transforming into a global diversified industrial company. Our industry. The acquisition nearly doubled the number of global employees and expanded our geographic reach. leadership positions in many of our businesses are driven by highly engineered core technologies that are differentiated in the With the Milacron acquisition, Hillenbrand now has approximately marketplace by our deep experience and applications expertise. pro forma $2.7 billion USD in revenue annually 1, more than 40 In November 2019, Hillenbrand acquired Milacron Holdings locations globally and employs approximately 11,000 people. Corp., a manufacturer and distributor of engineered and customized systems in the plastics technology and processing Hillenbrand became a publicly traded company in 2008. FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS GAAP MEASURES (Prior to Milacron Acquisition) (in millions, except per share data) 2019 2018 2017 We strive to provide a superior return Revenue(1) $ 1,807.3 $ 1,770.1 $ 1,590.2 to our shareholders, exceptional Gross Profit 623.0 642.1 590.8 value to our customers and great Gross Profit Margin 34.5% 36.3% 37.2% Net Income(2) 121.4 76.6 126.2 professional opportunities to our Diluted EPS 1.92 1.20 1.97 people, and to be responsible to our Operating Cash Flow 178.9 248.3 246.2 Capital Expenditures 25.5 27.0 22.0 communities through the deployment Dividends Per Share $ 0.84 $ 0.83 $ 0.82 of the Hillenbrand Operating Model. 1 Represents total of previously disclosed Hillenbrand financial data for FYE 9/30/2019 and Milacron financial data conformed to Hillenbrand’s FYE 9/30/2019. 2 Net Income attributable to Hillenbrand. ABOUT HILLENBRAND HILLENBRAND // 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOVERNANCE AND BUSINESS ETHICS // 12 Governance and Business Ethics Hillenbrand’s Board of Directors is responsible for supervising the overall management of the Company in accordance with satisfies itself that the risk-management processes implemented by management are adapted to the Company’s strategy and are the requirements of the Indiana Business Corporation Law and functioning as directed, and that a culture of risk-adjusted decision other applicable laws. The Board is led by its Chairperson, making throughout the organization exists in an appropriate manner. who is an independent director under the standards of the New York Stock Exchange and U.S. Securities & Exchange As part of our commitment to good corporate governance, we Commission. Currently, the Board is comprised of 11 members, annually reach out to key shareholders to discuss a variety of of whom ten are independent directors, three are women, and topics. In recent years, many of these discussions have included one is African American. shareholder views on sustainability topics. We continue to review and evaluate valuable shareholder feedback like this in the context There are four standing committees of the Board: Audit, of our overall sustainability journey. Nominating/Corporate Governance, Mergers and Acquisitions and Compensation and Management Development. The Board as a whole is responsible for overseeing the Company’s exposures to risk, which include economic, labor, corruption and environmental risks. As a part of this responsibility, the Board HILLENBRAND // 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOVERNANCE AND BUSINESS ETHICS // 13 Data Security & Privacy Data security in a global organization is an issue of increasing Security starts at the top of our organization, where our leadership We also train our employees how to recognize and properly importance. At Hillenbrand our approach to data security begins leads by example and consistently communicates the requirements respond to phishing and social engineering schemes. Hillenbrand with our corporate culture, which is underpinned by our Code for vigilance and compliance throughout the organization. As has deployed a system where employees can push a button to and Core Values. These shape our mindset and approach to how a shared service, our Information Security organization provides report suspicious emails, which are then automatically logged for we do business and are particularly relevant to how we think about top-down leadership, harmonized security standards and further review. Our phishing recognition pass rate has averaged the protection of our employee, customer and proprietary data. world-class security tools in support of our defense-in-depth 95% or better since 2018, which is in line with industry peers. strategy. These security standards are modeled on the ISO 27001/02 framework for information security management systems, In addition, at the corporate level, our privacy compliance tested by third parties, and supported by the Audit Committee of efforts are guided by our Privacy Steering Committee, which the Board. includes executive management team members. The importance of privacy and data protection is also raised through employee training on topics like the European Union General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA). GOVERNANCE AND BUSINESS ETHICS HILLENBRAND // 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOVERNANCE AND BUSINESS ETHICS // 14 Anti-Corruption As recognized in principle 10 of the UN Global Compact, Hillenbrand’s anti-corruption program is designed to prevent, We provide several targeted trainings on ethics and compliancecorruption is a tax often levied on the most vulnerable in detect and remediate risks of corruption against multiple related issues throughout the year for our employees, including our societies. As a global company operating in different anti-corruption standards, including the U.S. Foreign Corrupt management. These include training on our Code, Anti-Bribery countries with different regulatory systems and risk profiles, Practices Act and the U.K. Bribery Act of 2010. We work and Anti-Corruption training for the employees who need to be assessing and mitigating risks related to corruption issues is of with each business unit on a risk-adjusted basis to implement familiar with the respective subject matter. paramount importance. controls to increase awareness, limit improper or undesirable behavior and test the effective implementation of those controls. Employees are required to make prompt and full disclosure In 2019, we took increased internal actions by expanding the regarding any concerns they have about a potential ethics or team responsible for ethics and compliance-related matters. The company provides guidance to all employees regarding compliance-related issue. These potential concerns or questions We also continued to strengthen our program by seeking out corruption in the form of a Global Anti-Corruption Policy Statement may be reported confidentially to any member of the Company’s and leveraging external best practices—as an example, the and Compliance Guide (“ABAC Policy”). This policy supplements Ethics & Compliance Department, Ethics Committee, the updated guidelines issued by the U.S. Department of Justice the Code and applies to all employees, officers and agents of the Company’s legal department, or an employee’s manager, in April 2019 on evaluating the effectiveness of a company’s Company, anywhere in the world. Compliance with this ABAC supervisor or human resources representative. Additionally, a corporate compliance program. Policy and the Code is mandatory. Depending on their respective toll-free Code of Ethics and Compliance Help Line and web areas of responsibility, employees, officers and agents may be portal is available to confidentially raise concerns or questions. asked to certify as to their understanding of and compliance with Anonymous reporting is also supported, where allowed by law. this ABAC Policy and the Code. As an indicator of the success of our efforts, in fiscal 2019, the Ethics & Compliance Department logged 134 reports regarding No Company officer, employee or agent shall, for the purpose of securing an improper advantage for the Company, offer potential concerns or questions, in line with external benchmarks on or promise, or make or facilitate a payment or gift of, anything of value to—or accept anything of value from—any person, concern reporting usage. All of these were duly investigated and including, but not limited to, a foreign government official. Furthermore, every Company officer, employee and agent is have been or are in the process of being resolved in accordance obligated by Company policy and federal law to keep books, records and accounts that accurately and fairly reflect all with the Code and applicable procedures. transactions and any disposition of Company assets. For more information, see page 19 of our Code. GOVERNANCE AND BUSINESS ETHICS HILLENBRAND // 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOVERNANCE AND BUSINESS ETHICS // 15 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS IN ACTION Indiana Sustainability Development Program The Indiana Sustainability Development Program is a renowned summer externship for sustainability students who attend Indiana University. ISDP selects nearly 30 partner organizations every year that have a need for a young professional to assist in moving sustainability forward in their organizations. Hillenbrand proudly supports ISDP and its mission to provide educational experiences for future sustainability leaders. Hillenbrand’s Public Affairs team hosted the Company’s first ISDP intern in 2019 and together worked to establish key elements of the Company’s sustainability framework and strategy. Hillenbrand’s internship programs also spanned beyond ISDP as part of the Company’s investment in sustainability and the future workforce. “My experience at Hillenbrand has been invaluable. I’m thankful for the trust that the team placed in me, allowing me to learn how to advocate for and work towards a sustainable future at Hillenbrand. ISDP certainly picked an organization that was eager to commit to its sustainability journey, and I am honored that I’ve gotten to be a part of it.” —Emilee Brown, 2019 ISDP Sustainability Intern HILLENBRAND // 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT LABOR AND HUMAN RIGHTS // 16 Labor and Human Rights Our employees form the backbone of Hillenbrand. From assembly-line workers to executives, we value each of our employees and strive to enable their success at Hillenbrand and beyond. Our Human Resources and Environmental, Health and Safety (“EHS”) teams work to protect employee safety on the job, invest in their development opportunities and cultivate an inclusive space for all. HILLENBRAND // 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT LABOR AND HUMAN RIGHTS // 17 Worker Safety We take the health and safety of our employees seriously and where appropriate. Employees also receive additional hours of view their well-being to be integral to our success and use health and safety training throughout the year on program-specific leading indicators (forward-looking) to develop proactive, materials per regulatory and company-specific requirements. preventive-measure programs that encourage new and innovative solutions for worker safety. In addition, we use To better understand worker safety at the site level, we have lagging indicators (backward-looking) to assist in providing developed safety scorecards. In addition to common lagging direction for effective proactive programs. indicators, such as injury performance, the scorecards highlight leading indicators such as observations and near-misses as well Our operating companies conduct workplace and workstation as other proactive actions taken at the site to ensure worker observations to identify any opportunities to improve safety safety. Through these scorecards, operating companies share best protocols and perform internal audits of safety compliance. practices between sites to improve worker safety measures. We Our businesses have also performed ergonomic assessments are currently collecting this information primarily from U.S. sites at individual sites and regularly engage employees on safety and compile similar data on safety measures in place at certain and maintain an open line of communication regarding safety sites outside the U.S. We began a more comprehensive approach in the workplace. to this initiative in 2019 and, in early 2020, we formed an EHS Council composed of representatives from across the Company to Individual operating companies utilize a variety of learning further this initiative, among other things, by developing a uniform methods and programs to meet and exceed regulatory tracking and reporting framework for our businesses and sites. In requirements related to training, including general health and addition to our EHS Council, in 2016 we established a Safety safety overview during new-hire orientation, and additional Roundtable group to provide a space for operating companies topic-specific training (e.g., powered industrial trucks, cranes, etc.) to share best practices on worker safety. Coperion Stuttgart Field Service has an ISO 45001 certification. LABOR AND HUMAN RIGHTS HILLENBRAND // 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT LABOR AND HUMAN RIGHTS // 18 2019 Rolling Recordable Incident Rate 2.90 2.80 2.78 2.70 2.70 2.62 2.60 2.55 2.50 2.47 2.44 2.41 2.39 2.37 2.40 2.32 2.35 2.30 2.21 2.20 2.10 JANUARY FEBRUARY MARCH APRIL MAY JUNE JULY AUGUST SEPTEMBER OCTOBER NOVEMBER DECEMBER The table above includes the 2019 Rolling Recordable Incident Rate for Abel, Batesville, Coperion/Coperion K-Tron, Red Valve, Rotex Global, and TerraSource Global. Hillenbrand is currently gathering and analyzing safety data from the acquired Milacron businesses. Rolling Recordable Incident Rate is calculated on a 100-full-time-equivalent-employee basis. LABOR AND HUMAN RIGHTS HILLENBRAND // 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT LABOR AND HUMAN RIGHTS // 19 In 2019, Coperion’s Wytheville site was recognized by the U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration’s (OSHA) Safety & Health Achievement Recognition Program (SHARP) for its exemplary safety and health programs. LABOR AND HUMAN RIGHTS HILLENBRAND // 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT LABOR AND HUMAN RIGHTS // 20 Supporting Our Employees At Hillenbrand, one of our employee-centric goals is to equip with quick conversations. Using these reviews, we identify highand empower people to reach their full potential. In addition to potential employees as well as those who could fit opportunities DEFINE FREQUENT & FOCUSED company-wide ethics training, employees engage in work-specific in a different operating company or location, and we conduct DESCRIBE FACILITATIVE training based on their work site and operating company. This regular leadership succession planning. DISCUSS & ADJUST FORWARD LOOKING decentralized approach allows each operating company to implement the trainings most pertinent to the work employees As Hillenbrand continues to transform and integrate Milacron into Y CO are engaged in day-to-day. We understand that providing IT one cohesive company, we are working to build a foundational AC learning opportunities is essential to employee retention and and scalable human resources structure. To do this, we are investing AR HI the success of Hillenbrand. in technology and infrastructure that will allow us to collect more CL NG detailed information on employee performance and analyze We provide regular feedback to our employees and collaboratively trends across operating companies as we seek to continually COM MITM ENT discuss growth opportunities. During performance and career improve company performance and the employee experience. development reviews, we use our performance conversation framework: Clarity, Coaching, Commitment. We also encourage managers to check in with their employees throughout the year ACTION ACCOUNTABILITY ACHIEVEMENT For our top-performing employees, we hold leadership development programs, which include 90 to 120 hours of training on leadership, problem solving, innovation and how to embody Hillenbrand’s mission, Core Values and beliefs. Approximately 60 Hillenbrand employees a year participate in this program. LABOR AND HUMAN RIGHTS HILLENBRAND // 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT LABOR AND HUMAN RIGHTS // 21 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS IN ACTION Manufacturing Camp Hillenbrand proudly participates in Manufacturing Camp with other Indiana-area businesses, an annual event that gives local middle schoolers the opportunity to learn about the career possibilities in manufacturing. Students meet industry and business professionals who mentor them on soft skills needed in any career, such as time management and communication. Students then design their own production line to fill backpacks with school supplies that are distributed to students in need across the Company’s headquarters region. Through hands-on experiences, students learn about manufacturing careers while they support their fellow students and communities. Hillenbrand aims to empower all young men and women to pursue careers in manufacturing. 948 Backpacks In 2019, Company volunteers helped students prepare nearly 1,000 backpacks filled with school supplies for donation to Batesville area youth. HILLENBRAND // 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT LABOR AND HUMAN RIGHTS // 22 Diversity and Inclusion, and Human Rights In accordance with our Core Value of Individual Worth and This commitment to diversity is embodied in our corporate Employees can report concerns regarding discrimination in the Integrity, we aspire to be an inclusive and diverse workplace governance standards, which require board members to be workplace using our Code of Ethics and Compliance Help for all employees. We are integrating diversity throughout our diverse in terms of gender and of race and ethnicity, and other Line. Each complaint is logged and tracked, and an investigator employment practices, such as recruitment and training, and characteristics, including background, perspective, knowledge, is assigned to every case. Hillenbrand maintains a strict policy host events to open discussion and engagement by employees skills and experience. protecting employees against retaliation. on these topics. As a manufacturing company, we also participate in educational programming to address the gender biases and Our annual ethics training includes course material regarding Hillenbrand’s recently adopted Global Human Rights Policy stigmas that have historically prevented more women from pursuing “respect in the workplace” an online and in-person training that includes a commitment to maintaining harmonious relationships careers within the industry. outlines how we expect employees to treat each other, our with all its employees, including the unions and workers’ councils customers and other stakeholders. We also worked with an representing those employees, and to eliminating the practice We are also integrating diversity and inclusion throughout our outside diversity and inclusion consultant to conduct focus of child labor throughout our supply chain. other human resources processes. For our talent recruitment groups to discuss the meaning of diversity and related issues processes, our primary, enterprise-wide recruiters are trained and concerns in the workplace. As part of our work with the We recognize and respect employee rights to join or not join and certified through AIRS Diversity & Inclusion certification to consultant, we plan to offer inclusion training for our executive any lawful organization of their own choosing. We are committed recruit a diverse slate of candidates for each open position. In management team, supporting our goal that everyone throughout to complying with laws pertaining to freedom of association, addition, we are expanding our internship recruitment to different Hillenbrand is engaged in creating an inclusive workplace. privacy and collective bargaining. diverse institutions to encourage students from various backgrounds to consider a career in industrial manufacturing. Executive Management Team gender diversity ratio as of 12/31/2019 was 36 % LABOR AND HUMAN RIGHTS HILLENBRAND // 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT LABOR AND HUMAN RIGHTS // 23 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS IN ACTION Junior Ambassadors Program In 2019, Hillenbrand partnered with the Batesville Community School Corporation (BCSC) to launch the Junior Ambassadors Program for local 4th and 5th grade students. The Junior Ambassadors Program empowers the young leaders of tomorrow to understand the UN SDGs through a comprehensive curriculum on global sustainability issues. Students learn about these issues in a classroom environment and discuss how to be a part of the solution. Students read books recommended by the UN, conduct research, create projects, present findings and spread awareness of sustainability issues within their community. Helping educate our employees and our communities about the importance and relevance of these goals to our people, products and planet is critical to Hillenbrand’s sustainability journey. 35 Books “We will use books as a tool to encourage students to interact with the world around them and help them make a difference in achieving global goals.” —Paul Ketcham, Superintendent of Batesville Community School Corporation HILLENBRAND // 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY // 24 Environmental Responsibility We are committed to protecting the environment in the communities in which we operate, and we seek to demonstrate our corporate Given that a large portion of our business sells to the plastics industry, we are investing in new solutions that drive and adapt citizenship by adhering to all environmental regulations and to the industry’s transition away from single-use plastics. For example, promoting environmental stewardship. By actively managing in 2019, Coperion provided an African blown film manufacturer, operational material efficiency, energy usage, waste and recycling Asahel Benin Sarl., with technology to produce sustainable, and environmental compliance, we believe that we can deliver bio-based plastic films to comply with new regulations concerning products that exceed our customers’ expectations while minimizing packaging in Benin. our impact on the environment. We believe that this enables our long-term business success, provides superior returns for our shareholders and upholds our responsibility to the communities in which we operate. HILLENBRAND // 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY // 25 Energy and Emissions Operational Material Efficiency and Recycling Environmental Compliance With a global corporate footprint in more than 40 countries, Our operating companies are constantly searching for and In recent years, we established management mechanisms to we recognize our responsibility to reduce our energy usage discovering new, innovative ways to reduce and reuse waste understand our environmental impacts and create relevant policies, and lower our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions footprint. from our production processes. Our Batesville business is including the recent adoption of our Global Environmental Policy, Our operating companies have implemented energy utilizing scrap wood and sawdust either in our boilers to heat which reaffirms our commitment to comply with all applicable efficiency initiatives at various sites. For example, in 2019 our own kilns for drying our lumber or is sending sawdust offsite environmental laws and regulations. Our EHS Council has begun one Hillenbrand site piloted a ten-hour, four-day work week, to help heat other processes needed in other manufacturing coordinating actions across our businesses and reports its findings which is estimated to result in a 20% year-over-year energy settings. Batesville also re-melts and reuses some of its zinc to the SSC. Our environmental management processes are reduction. Other operating companies also invested in trimmings from diecasting and recycles other materials such based on regulations and best available data and are proactive energy-efficient lighting and we are looking into similar as steel and copper. and precautionary in nature. initiatives across our portfolio—underlining our commitment to efficiency and environmental responsibility. For materials that we cannot reuse, our operating companies Hillenbrand also encourages a culture of collaboration between aim to recycle them through site-specific initiatives. For example, sites that enables various efficiency-related projects to be We are improving mechanisms to collect uniform energy-related when we acquired Milacron in 2019, that included the implemented in other sites. At each operating company, individuals data across our businesses and better understand our enterpriseMilacron site in Batavia, Ohio, which had fully integrated tasked with driving the Hillenbrand Operating Model are also wide greenhouse gas footprint. When that process is complete, recycling protocols into all of their assembly lines. equipped with a Kaizen-based standardized tool kit to drive we anticipate disclosing related data. continuous efficiency improvements and coordinate to share Our operating companies also work with our suppliers to best practices. Efficiency improvements often correlate with reduce the use of plastic and foam packaging in packaging environmental benefits. materials and in how materials are delivered to our sites. This work includes increasing the proportion of bulk shipments over The Company’s quarterly reviews of the businesses include discussion individual shipments, which produce more waste. of energy usage from utilities, material reuse per person and scrap rate to calculate a standardized efficiency measure, which allows us to compare efficiency across our businesses, several of which have adopted and implemented environmental management systems. Certain Milacron Injection Molding & Extrusion locations have also earned and maintained their ISO 14001 certifications. ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY HILLENBRAND // 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY // 26 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS IN ACTION Star-Spangled Symphony The health and well-being of communities around the world is often related to access to cultural programming. Hillenbrand partnered with the City of Batesville and many others to host the Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra’s annual 4th of July celebration. More than 3,000 people from the communities surrounding the Company’s headquarters attended the free outdoor concert and festivities they might have otherwise had to travel long distances to experience. Hillenbrand is dedicated to empowering local communities to embrace both the emerging and classical arts and knows the sustainability of rural communities is highly influenced by the ability to attract and retain talent despite growing urbanization. 3,000 + Attendees “We continue to invest in arts and cultural opportunities as we inspire, engage, innovate and build quality of place. Our ongoing emphasis on arts and culture will enhance the quality of lives of our current workforce and attract future employees.” —Joe A. Raver, President & CEO, Hillenbrand HILLENBRAND // 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY // 27 In 2020, the COVID-19 We rose to the occasion and believe that we are well-positioned to manage through these challenges and be in a good position when the environment improves. pandemic presented We are especially proud of how we have been able to apply Last and most important, the safety of our employees and their challenges to the our core competency in manufacturing complex and essential families has been paramount. Throughout the crisis, we have components to the global response to the COVID-19 pandemic. had comprehensive plans in place to screen our people and Hillenbrand team Several of our businesses were able to quickly provide molds make sure that those who had to work on-site were kept as and other components to assist in the manufacturing of personal safe as possible. As we started ramping back up to full capacity unlike any we have protective gear, ventilators and other equipment needed to fight and returning to work, we did so gradually, safely and in COVID-19. Additionally, many of our businesses provided alignment with the guidance of public health professionals and previously experienced. components to manufacture testing equipment, a critical aspect regulatory authorities. of the public health response to this crisis. Across the board, Hillenbrand companies did their part to provide critical tools, We used this crisis as an opportunity to showcase our Core Values expertise and charitable support to help fight the virus. and beliefs, to pull together under trying times and show the world what the Hillenbrand team can accomplish. HILLENBRAND // 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX // 28 United Nations Global Compact Index THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT PAGE NUMBERS Human Rights Our approach to human rights is consistent with the principles of the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Principle 01 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights the International Labor Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Pages 17–24 Principle 02 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses We require all members of our value chain to comply with all applicable rules and regulations. Pages 17–24 Labor Principle 03 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Page 23 Principle 04 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Pages 17–24 Principle 05 The effective abolition of child labor Pages 23 Principle 06 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Page 23 Environment Principle 07 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Page 26 Principle 08 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Pages 25–26 Principle 09 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Pages 25–26 Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Page 14 HILLENBRAND // 2019 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS // 29 Cautionary Note on Forward-Looking Statements Throughout this document, we make a number of “forward-looking Words that could indicate we are making forward-looking statements include: statements” that are within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the “Securities Act”), Section intend believe plan expect may goal would project 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and that are become pursue estimate will forecast continue could anticipate intended to be covered by the safe harbor provided under these sections. As the words imply, these are statements about future target impact promise improve progress potential should encourage sales, earnings, cash flow, results of operations, uses of cash, financings, share repurchases, ability to meet deleveraging This is not an exhaustive list, but is intended to give you an idea of how we try to identify forward-looking statements. goals and other measures of financial performance or potential The absence of any of these words, however, does not mean that the statement is not forward-looking. future plans or events, strategies, objectives, beliefs, prospects, assumptions, expectations, and projected costs or savings or transactions of the Company that might or might not happen in HERE IS THE KEY POINT: the future, as contrasted with historical information. Forward-looking Forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance, and our actual results could differ materially from those set forth in any forward-looking statements. statements are based on assumptions that we believe are reasonable, but by their very nature are subject to a wide range Any number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, could cause our performance to differ significantly from what is described in the forward-looking statements. For a discussion of factors that could cause actual results to differ from those contained in forward-looking statements, see the discussions under the heading “Risk Factors” in Item 1A of Part I of the Company’s Form of risks. If our assumptions prove inaccurate or unknown risks and 10-K filed with the U.S. Securities Exchange Commission (“SEC”) on November 13, 2019, and in Item 1A of Part II of the Company’s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2020 filed with uncertainties materialize, actual results could vary materially from the SEC on August 5, 2020, as well as other risks and uncertainties detailed in our other filings with the SEC from time to time. The forward-looking information in this document speaks only as Hillenbrand’s (the “Company”) expectations and projections. of the date covered hereby, and we assume no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. Contact Us Hillenbrand, Inc. One Batesville Blvd. Batesville, IN 47006 www.Hillenbrand.com Phone: 1-812-934-7000 Email: info@hillenbrand.com
