Annual Report 2019 Contents OVERVIEW Significant events in 2019 2 Statement by the CEO 4 Our business 8 Market and trends 10 Goals and strategies 14 Property management 16 Letting 17 Retail 19 Property development 23 Urban development 25 Our vision is to Ongoing projects 26 create future-proof Future projects 28 Transaction activities 30 cities for everyone, Acquisition in Malmö 31 where people and Financing 32 companies thrive. Magasin X 35 Property holdings 37 REGIONS Our regions 42 Region Stockholm 44 Region Gothenburg 50 Region Malmö 54 Region Uppsala 58 ADMINISTRATION REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Contents financial statements and notes 63 Administration Report 64 Comments to the financial statements 66 Proposed appropriation of profits 78 Notes 79 UPPSALA Risks and risk management 98 STOCKHOLM Corporate Governance Report 102 The Board of Directors and auditors 108 Senior executives 109 Board of Directors signatures 110 Auditors’ report 111 GOTHENBURG SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING Sustainability reporting with GRI Index 116 Climate reporting according to the TCFD 120 Auditor’s statement on the sustainability report 135 Impact Report, green financing 136 Auditor’s statement Impact Report 141 MALMÖ OTHER INFORMATION Targets and fulfilment 142 Quarterly and five-year overview 144 Definitions 148 Addresses, website, calendar and production 148 Sweden’s largest Property value 156 property company SEK billion VASAKRONAN’S ASSIGNMENT is to generate a high, Energy intensity 92 kWh/sq. m. risk-weighted return for our owners the First, Second, Third and Fourth Swedish National Pension Funds, though never at the expense of the environment and people. A return that will benefit Sweden’s current and Square metres 2.3million future pensioners. IN ADDITION TO THE ASSIGNMENT from our owners, Vasakronan’s ambition is to be Sweden’s Net lettings 426 SEK million leading property company. We will achieve this by: • Generating a high total yield, that should also exceed that of the industry in general. Environmental certification 85 per cent • Being the preferred choice for tenants looking for office or retail premises. • Being perceived as the most attractive employer Project volumes 14,347 SEK million in the industry. 7,040 • A ssuming social responsibility and striving for longterm sustainable development. Rental revenue SEK million TO ACCOMPLISH OUR ASSIGNMENT, we must c­ reate long-term sustainable value in the business. This is achieved through good property management and Operating surplus 5,207 SEK million development of our properties, streets and areas, supplemented by active transactions. Occupancy rate 94.1 per cent S I G N I FI C A N T E V EN T S I N 2 019 Significant events in 2019 POSITIVE RESULTS IN TRIANGELN Successful letting, extended opening hours and an expanded offering of shops led to an increase in the number of visitors as well as sales at Triangeln, Malmö’s most central shopping centre. Visitors increased almost 4%, meaning that the shopping centre had a total of 7,350,000 visitors. In 2019, retailers like XXL, ICA Nära and Gina Tricot opened at the location and sales increased just over 6%. Doubled solar electricity production In Fyrislund, Uppsala, Vasakronan owns 12 hectares of land for which there are currently no development plans. In 2019, Vasakronan decided to construct a solar park on the site. The facility will go into operation in spring 2020, with 11,000 panels with an installed capacity of 4.4 MW – the equivalent of 240 households’ annual power consumption. The park will double Vasakronan’s own solar electricity production and provide renewable electricity to the grid. 2 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T S I G N I FI C A N T E V EN T S I N 2 019 Project Strand in final phase During the year Statistics Sweden leased 7,200 square metres at the Strand International interest development property. This means that development of Solna Strand has in green financing entered its final phase. The project encompasses a total of 26,000 square metres and completion is scheduled for the third quarter of 2020. Other tenants at the In 2019, Vasakronan’s lending took property are COWI and UHR, the Swedish Council for Higher Education. a further step in a green direction. Investors around the world, primarily in Asia and Central Europe, are seeking serious investment alternatives in the type of Dark Green debt instrument the company offers. During the year, the company has for the first time issued three green bonds denominated in Japanese yen, American dollars and Australian dollars, respectively. Of the total SEK 16.5 billion borrowed during the year, 86% was green. The Swedish Tax Agency at Nya Kronan During the year, the Swedish Tax Agency signed a lease for 42,000 square metres at Nya Kronan in central Sundbyberg. The lease is for ten years and occupancy is scheduled for the end of 2021. The agreement encompasses two newly constructed buildings and one existing building that JUVELEN – A SHIMMERING ACQUISITION will be renovated. The agreement with IN UPPSALA the Swedish Tax Agency means the propIn June, Vasakronan acquired the office property Juvelen (the Jewel) from erties are now fully let. Nya Kronan will Skanska. Located on Stationsgatan in Uppsala, close to Uppsala central have solar cell panels in the facade and ­station, Juvelen is only a stone’s throw from Vasakronan’s development property Magasin X. It includes lettable area of over 8,600 square metres, nearly be certified according to LEED, ideally 7,800 square metres of which comprises office space and approximately with a Platinum rating. 800 square metres encompasses stores and restaurants. The purchase price was based on an underlying property value of SEK 563 million. VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 3 S TAT EM EN T BY T H E C EO 4 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T S TAT EM EN T BY T H E C EO Ready to meet tomorrow’s challenges “Vasakronan had another year of record-breaking results. We are now looking forward to the inauguration of the completely renovated Sergelhuset and the introduction of Arena, our own co-working concept,” says Vasakronan’s CEO Johanna Skogestig. Best full-year results ever for Vasakronan – again! thing from traditional lettings, turnkey offices and Smart & Why did 2019 go so well? Klart premises to Arena. The turnkey offices are ready for “There are several interconnected factors that contributed to immediate occupancy and in a Smart & Klart office, which our fantastic performance – SEK 13.9 billion after tax. Obvieven comes with a coffee machine and pot plants, tenants can ously the continued increase in value for attractive properties move in and begin working the same day. With the addition of had a major role. At the end of the year, our collected portfolio the co-working concept Arena, we can offer our customers an was valued at over SEK 156 billion. Another reason was that even higher degree of flexibility and service. It’s a natural comseveral of our ongoing projects are nearing completion and plement to our total offering.” have been let under very favourable market conditions. An equally important contributing factor was the successful new Why are tenants demanding more flexibility letting and renegotiations of existing properties.” and what does this mean for Vasakronan? “Markets for many of our customers are all the more volatile, 2020 has been at least equally exciting, hasn’t it? which makes it difficult for them to anticipate what their “Yes indeed! Everyone at Vasakronan is looking forward to needs for premises will be after a few years. As a result, the opening of the new Sergelhuset property in Stockholm’s they’re demanding solutions that give them as much room to most central location. It will include Arena, our own model for manoeuvre as possible. They don’t know if they’ll need more co-working, and introduce an entirely new digital interface floor space or less, another type of premises or another geofor our tenants. In 2020, Vasakronan also took the first steps graphic location. toward creating a climate-neutral value chain by 2030, where In our view, even going forward most companies will still we not only consider our own operations but also the climate want their own premises that they can apply their own idenimpact we have through our project activities and our tenants’ tity to. But beyond that, they want an offering that gives them use of our properties.” maximum flexibility, like a rubber band. That’s why we think several customers find our full palette of options appealing. Why is it important for Vasakronan It enables and simplifies quick transitions and adaptations. to have its own co-working alternative? An example of something our customers want is the ability to “Arena is an important part of our total office space offering. share conference rooms, reception and other services. This We are noting demand from our customers for a higher can include complementing a head office in the inner suburbs degree of flexibility, so it is important for us to offer everywith workplaces in the city centre.” VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 5 S TAT EM EN T BY T H E C EO “Sergelstan is a good example of what we want to create – a part of Stockholm City where everyone wants to be.”  JOHANNA SKOGESTIG, CEO OF VASAKRONAN What role do new technological One development property that’s attracting several solutions play for the office offering? tenants is Magasin X in Uppsala. Why do so many “Technological and particularly digital development is advancorganisations want to have offices there? ing incredibly quickly. The shared digital language RealEstate“It’s extremely gratifying. Even though there are two years left Core has given us control over all of our data so we can use it until the property’s expected completion, 80% of the office efficiently. So far, this has primarily entailed streamlining and space is already let. One reason is that there is a lack of modern savings in energy consumption. A major step forward for us in office premises in central Uppsala. Another, at least equally 2019 was supplying information to the environmental certifiimportant, reason is that Magasin X is currently the largest cation body LEED through, for the first time, direct readings office property in Sweden with a frame made entirely of wood. from our properties. While we’re convinced that a wooden building is appealing for The real eye-openers will come, I think, later in 2020. When the forward-thinking, experience also shows that visitors feel Sergelhuset opens, we’ll launch our new digital customer more comfortable in wooden buildings. interface. It gives our tenants the ability to manage several Magasin X is extremely important for Vasakronan. We face practical issues via mobile devices, such as access to premises, high expectations from many sources – from customers, archibooking conference rooms or paying for services connected tects, the city of Uppsala and our own employees. If Magasin X to the workplace.” is successful, it will have incredibly positive effects and lead to the construction of more office properties with wood frames. Why is Vasakronan investing so much in project development? Magasin X will show what can be achieved with renewable “There is great demand and a willingness to pay for cutting materials and thereby pressure suppliers of construction edge and space-efficient premises in central locations. material like concrete and steel.” Premium premises in an attractive location is a way for many companies and organisations to attract the best talent. We Vasakronan’s goal is to be the world’s most sustainable have a fantastic portfolio and, considering how the transaction property company. How will you accomplish that? market has developed over the last few years, the importance “Vasakronan has worked with sustainability for many years. of maximising its potential is a given. Developing the locations We were the first in Sweden to offer green leases, we’re the we already own through renovations and new builds is the Swedish property company with the highest portion of envimost profitable investment we can make. Now we’re taking ronmentally certified properties (85% at the end of 2019) and into account how we can do that without affecting the climate. we’ve reduced our energy use close to 60% since 2008. Now This will, in the long term, be a precondition for healthy financwe’re taking the next step and setting a goal for all of our ing and profitability in development projects. ­operations to be climate neutral in ten years. Right now we have several projects in different phases, with It’s a tough challenge and an ambition that requires all parts a total investment volume of SEK 14 billion. Large portions of of Vasakronan. But our organisation’s strength is everyone’s the development properties are already let, despite the relacollective spirit and the culture of courage we’ve created. tively long time left until occupancy for some of them. People aren’t afraid to try new methods, and it’s okay to make In addition to Sergelhuset, another three development propmistakes now and then. I’m impressed by the commitment of erties will be completed in 2020, representing an investment our employees.” volume of around SEK 6 billion.” What area of operations can contribute the most to sustainability gains? “Project development will probably make the largest contribution. We’re going to set high standards in our procurements. Every project needs to be sound financially, but also equally sound environmentally. 6 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T S TAT EM EN T BY T H E C EO Conducting climate smart operations is profitable. That much You’ve been CEO since 1 November 2019 and is obvious. That’s why we have set the bar high for many years, have already made several organisational changes. and why we’ll continue to raise it higher and higher. Our cusWhat do you want to accomplish with them? tomers want help reducing their energy consumption, they’re “We need to focus on our projects, both ongoing and future, demanding green electricity and looking for ways to reduce and on letting our very best employees work on them. Before, their waste. They also want to offer a workplace that employa lot of knowledge in the company was decentralised. Now we ees can easily reach with public transport or bicycle. There’s a need to strengthen our resources, collaborate more and look high willingness to pay for this.” at projects from a sustainability perspective. Moving major projects to the management phase is a major challenge, as is Besides sustainability, what are managing the new offering that we’re developing.” the biggest challenges in the future? “Our innovative, unique and creative approach to the ground We’re probably on the brink of a slowdown in the market. floors of properties is one success factor. Stores have been How prepared is Vasakronan? greatly affected by growing e-commerce and we need to “We’re as prepared as we can be. We’ve been refining the assume that the negative trend will continue for the coming composition of our borrowings for several years, so we now years. To counteract this trend, we need to make the environhave several sources of financing and loans with longer terms. ment and areas around our properties a welcoming and pleasWe’ll complete our ongoing development projects and secure ant experience, both in the days and evenings. lettings with attractive rent levels. Over time, the project Sergelstan is a good example of what we want to create – portfolio will need to be added to. We won’t slow down our a part of Stockholm City where everyone wants to be. Much investments, but will continue to add value to our existing has been renovated already and, once completed, our various portfolio in attractive locations. development projects will give the area a real facelift. SergelA weaker economy will require us to work closely with gatan will regain its previous glow, the terraces between the tenants, follow trends in market rents and remain flexible in Hötorgsskrapor high-rises will open up and the entire pedesdiscussions and rent negotiations with our customers. Vasa­ trian street will make things much greener. kronan is working from a strong position. We are distributed At the same time, there are areas where we need to take across several types of tenants, and many of them are not measures to increase safety and comfort. Kista is one of them. sensitive to economic fluctuations. We have modern, flexible Vasakronan aims to help by building mixed-use areas, primarproperties in attractive locations in cities with healthy growth. ily with housing and more services. We’re currently working All in all, I’m feeling optimistic about the future.” on this at the Hekla block.” The last five years have seen a steady upswing in the property Stockholm, February 2020 market. What do you see ahead of you for the next five years? “A focus on efficient use of resources. Not only how to optimally use properties, but also how we handle sustainability Johanna Skogestig challenges. We also need to maintain and develop our areas. Chief Executive Officer Both the ones that are new for Vasakronan, like Lilla Bommen in Gothenburg, the southern station entrance in Uppsala and Södra Hagalund in Solna, as well as existing areas where we need to invest more resources, such as Kista in western Stockholm.” VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 7 OUR BUSINESS TRENDS STAKEHOLDERS Read more on pages 10–13. Read more on page 117. OUR ASSIGNMENT High return & sustainable business OUR OPERATIONS Property management • Development • Transactions Read more on pages 16–31. OUR VALUES Openness binds us together • Enthusiasm drives us forward We get things done • Fair and honest • A holistic approach 8 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T OUR BUSINESS Future-proof cities FO R E VERYO N E , WH ERE PEO PLE AN D CO M PANIES TH RIVE STRATEGIES • Climate strategy • Product strategy • Customer and market strategy • Technology strategy • Employee strategy • Investment strategy • Financing strategy Read more on page 14. GOALS • Financial • Environmental • Social Read more on pages 15, 142–143. VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 9 M A R K E T A N D T R EN D S Vasakronan a leader in transitioning quickly Major, revolutionary changes are currently affecting the propTougher competition erty industry and entail new possibilities and new challenges. A number of interconnected factors have helped create new preconditions for developing and planning urban areas in major cities. The rapid growth of e-commerce has led to Climate challenges are global and are leaving to traditional office lettings, turnkey premises growing challenges for retail. In some sectors, their mark on politics, social debates and and Smart & Klart – pre-furnished spaces that a large portion of sales has shifted from tradibusiness in every country. For several years, are ready for immediate occupancy. tional to online retail. Competition has led to measures taken by the property sector, which Regardless of letting form, we can take stores reducing their size, while other chains is a major energy consumer, have focused on a holistic approach to delivering functions have gone out of business. At the moment, reducing energy consumption. In the last few and services and we can partner with chosen there is a major shift where stores are adaptyears, the industry has also started to focus external suppliers to offer a variety of attracing to the new market conditions in a variety on other areas that also contribute to global tive additional services. of ways. warming. For Vasakronan, this has long been For the last few years, property owners about the use of construction material, transEntirely new possibilities with a significant share of retail tenants have portation and waste management. Meeting Ever-increasing digital development also carried out a variety of changes to make these climate challenges is a way to ensure creates new possibilities for our tenants. physical stores more attractive. Shopping long-term profitability and Vasakronan has These are based in the digital language streets in city centres have become more therefore set the ambitious goal of being climate RealEstateCore, which makes it possible to mixed, where the share of restaurants, coffee neutral across the entire value chain by 2030. collect and analyse large amounts of data shops, services and experiences has grown. At the same time, several other changes, generated in different manners. This, in turn, The reduced need for retail floor space also many of them connected to climate challenges, creates the conditions for everything from means that stores have concentrated operaare ongoing that entail changes in the playing reduced energy consumption and better tions on street level, while spaces on second field for property companies. The conditions ventilation to increased safety and more effistoreys have been converted to offices or for service companies and authorities today cient use of premises. Together with other other operations. are changing much faster than before. This actors in the property industry, Vasakronan requires property owners to offer office premstarted the company Accessy to develop Collaboration increases appeal ises that are more flexible when it comes to a platform for access to several premises. Vasakronan has worked with strategies for space, location, lease periods and levels of During the year, we also began a partnership pedestrian streets for many years. These service. A labour shortage in certain sectors with the Property Technology company strategies aim to create areas that are strong and increased knowledge of the importance Tmpl Solutions to jointly develop a digital brands in and of themselves, and that are of the workplace for health and well-being interface for services. attractive regardless of whether someone means that a workplace’s design has become works there or goes there for the shopping, an important factor in the competition for Better environment in the heart of the city restaurants or experiences. To be successful, desirable employees. This trend has benefited To help climate efforts and simultaneously we need to coordinate with other property property owners that, like Vasakronan, offer improve environmental and traffic conditions owners, municipalities and other actors in modern, space-efficient premises in attractive in city centres, it is important to streamline the area. The more we work together toward locations and with different models for premtransportation to and from properties and the same goal, the stronger the area’s brand ises and services offerings as well as flexible simplify waste management. Organising becomes. The ambition is for every project, leases. transportation in both directions and an area and street to have its own distinct For the last several years, Vasakronan has increased use of electric vehicles leads to profile. developed its office offering to provide cussignificantly reduced emissions and fewer For the urban areas in major cities to be tomers a range of possibilities in choosing the vehicles. attractive, it is important for visitors to persolution, or combination of solutions, that Vasakronan has taken on a leading role in ceive them as safe and comfortable, regardbest suits them. In 2020 we launched Arena, this development by converting cellar floors less of the time of day. Together with other Vasakronan’s own co-working concept. With in some properties from parking to space for property owners and actors, Vasakronan is Arena as part of the premises palette, we can consolidating and streamlining waste manactively working with a range of initiatives to offer customers everything from co-working agement. increase appeal. 10 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T M A R K E T A N D T R EN D S TREND Flexibility and service New Arena – with work in focus When we introduce Arena, Vasakronan’s own co-working offering, it will be something different than the numerous joint and shared office premises that already exist. Arena is based on our thorough knowledge of how to design the best, most efficient workplaces. Good ergonomics, a healthy indoor climate, easily accessible technology and a high level of service are the key ingredients in our model. Our focus is on creating the very best conditions to help our customers do a really good job. Regardless if someone wants to work undisturbed in a quiet part of the office or in groups in environments that stimulate creativity. It should be easy to work and easy to thrive – and just as easy, via the digital interface, to manage signing contracts and make payments and appointments. Arena is an integrated part of our total office space offering. When we follow our customers closely, we can see how their premises needs are changing at an increasing rate. That is where Arena is a natural complement to the traditional office leases, turnkey premises and the Smart & Klart concept. That is also why the target group for Arena is primarily our existing customers and potential customers who are interested in our collected office offering. In 2020, the first Arena will open in the new Sergelhuset in Stockholm. This will be followed in the coming years by Arena in Magasin X in Uppsala and Platinan in Gothenburg. There are even plans for Arena in central Malmö and a few other addresses in Stockholm. Nordstan in Gothenburg already has a pilot Arena. “It should be easy to work and easy to thrive.” VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 11 M A R K E T A N D T R EN D S TREND Retail sector The new Sergelstan emerges When the new Sergelhuset opens its doors in 2020, Sergelstan will also begin to really take shape. The transformation of the area around Sergels torg, the most central part of Stockholm, is the most comprehensive urban development investment since the current Stockholm City was built over 50 years ago. A new and exciting street life is growing around the new office and hotel properties. Streets that had previously been overshadowed are now open and attractive pedestrian precincts with a rich and varied offering of stores, restaurants, coffee shops, services and experiences. One example is Malmskillnadsgatan, where Soltrappan is a welcoming link between the different street levels of Sergels torg and Sveavägen. Another important part of Sergelstan is Sergel­ gatan, one of the capital’s most famous thoroughfares, which is undergoing a total facelift to recapture its former glow. Together with other property owners, Vasakronan wants to create a sustainable and innovative shopping and experience alternative that will always have positive surprises to offer. Completion of stage one of the new Sergelgatan is planned for spring 2021. The entire street will be complete by the end of 2021. When all parts of Sergelstan are completed, it will be a natural hub in central Stockholm, rich with the hustle and bustle of people for most of the day. The aim for Sergelstan is for each street to have its own unique profile. Together they will create an interesting and attractive whole, for those who work in Stockholm City, for all Stockholmers and for visitors from elsewhere Sweden and all over the world. “When all parts of Sergelstan are completed, it will be a natural hub in central Stockholm.” 12 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T M A R K E T A N D T R EN D S TREND Digital­ isation New platforms for sustainable development Vasakronan has continued to work during the year to reach the goal of connecting all properties, collecting all data and simple accessibility. Several new initiatives were taken to this end. The company Idun Real Estate Solutions was founded to establish PropTechOS, an operating system that efficiently handles large amounts of data related to buildings. The company Accessy was also established together with some of Sweden’s largest property companies and the Swedish Property Federation’s service company, with the goal of developing an industry-wide standard for access to resources in buildings. In the end of the year, we also started Tmpl Work to develop a platform for tomorrow’s office services. The solution will eventually be an integrated part of our customer offering. All solutions are accessible for all commercial products and are based on the digital language RealEstateCore, a broad initiative that aims to establish a shared definition of building-related data. Everything we do is based on the conviction that we need to share the results of our development work. The only way to create smart, sustainable cities is to, as soon as possible, work with as many property owners and tenants as possible in a shared ecosystem. “The only way to create smart, sustainable cities is to, as soon as possible, work with as many property owners and tenants as possible in a shared eco­ system.” VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 13 G OA L S A N D S T R AT EG I E S Prevailing Our development trends strategies Our operating environment is changing at an increasTo ensure that the assignment from owners is fulfilled, ingly rapid rate, creating both opportunities and chalmanagement develops an annual strategic plan that the lenges. By gaining an understanding of the market’s Board than ratifies. The plan guides the coming years trends and underlying drivers, we can develop our and encompasses seven strategies. business and satisfy emerging needs. CLIMATE STRATEGY TREND We work with climate goals that challenge and engage the Flexibility entire private sector. The climate goals affect all of the company’s decisions and require involvement from all of our employees as well as our customers and suppliers. and service PRODUCT STRATEGY Our properties contribute to a positive city environment and offer premises that last over time. We take responsibility for the safety, atmosphere and maintenance of our areas, and the technological solutions in our buildings help us and our customers reach our goals. CUSTOMER AND MARKET STRATEGY TREND We follow our customers over time and offer solutions Retail adapted to their needs. We actively share our knowledge about how office space and other resources can be used more efficiently. sector TECHNOLOGY STRATEGY Our technological solutions simplify our customers’ daily tasks and lead to increased efficiency and profitability for the companies. We stay one step ahead and are not afraid to try new technologies. EMPLOYEE STRATEGY We have an organisation that adapts to match our changing TREND surroundings and leadership that creates the conditions Digital­ for our employees to succeed and thrive in their work. INVESTMENT STRATEGY isation W  e focus on property holdings focused on offices and city retail in Nordic growth areas and our properties should be survivors in the rental market. We adapt and develop the property portfolio based on its assessed climate impact. FINANCING STRATEGY We have low financial risk through diversified sources of finance, secured credit limits and a spread of maturities. We drive development in green financing. 14 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T G OA L S A N D S T R AT EG I E S Our long-term Results that goals contribute Our ambition is to be a sustainable leader in all Vasakronan’s operations contribute to several of dimensions. Challenging and engaging targets have the Sustainable Development Goals that UN member been set to reach this goal. nations committed to in September 2015. For more information about where our impact is the largest, see pages 116 and 123–134. FINANCIAL • A total yield of at least 6.5% per year (rolling average over 10 years) • A total yield of at least 0.5 percentage points higher than the industry ENVIRONMENT • Our entire value chain will be climate neutral by 2030 • Our properties are self-sufficient and do not require any energy to be purchased • We have halved our power requirements • Our business and those of our customers generate no waste that is unable to be recycled or reused • We build our properties using renewable, recycled or reused materials • All of our financing is green • We are the world’s most sustainable property company SOCIAL • All employees act in accordance with our values and our code of conduct • We have a positive work environment free from negative stress • Discrimination and harassment do not occur at our workplaces • The design of our properties contributes to the security, safety and health of those both inside and outside them • Suppliers work in accordance with our code of conduct for suppliers • We reflect the society in which we work in terms of gender, ethnicity and age • We have no workplace accidents at our construction sites VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 15 PRO P ER T Y M A N AG EM EN T An offering that meets everyone’s needs With a modern property portfolio in prime locations, a broad selection of smart and efficient solutions for premises, a focus on sustainability in all we do and new technological solutions, Vasakronan is continuously creating new possibilities, for its own operations as well as for customers. Today’s workplaces affect performance and and meeting rooms, will open in Sergelhuset high-quality office solutions, and the option are a tool for changing, influencing and inspirin 2020. The work environment, technology to utilise the various resources with others. ing. Through a broad offering of attractive and services are cutting edge. The concept premises in prime locations and thorough not only meets customers’ various premises Increased share of self-produced energy knowledge in designing effective workneeds but is also well aligned with society’s The property sector accounts for just over places, Vasakronan can meet tenants’ speincreased focus on sustainability and interest 30% of society’s energy consumption. cific needs. Close collaboration and longin sharing resources. Therefore, reducing our energy consumpterm relationships mean that many tenants For retail tenants, Vasakronan offers tion and using renewable energy is an choose to stay at a location for the long term. pop-up shops that include everything important issue. Low energy consumption is In the last two years, 70% of tenants at the needed in the form of fittings, check-outs, also a prerequisite for buildings attaining end of their leases chose to extend. We also payment solutions, convenient lease condienvironmental certification with high ratings. live in a rapidly changing world. New situations and even store staff. With the help of different technological solutions arise constantly. Company employees tions and an effective, knowledgeable organwork side by side with contracted consulLarge service offering isation, continuous improvements are contants, freelancers and strategic partners. To facilitate tenants’ day-to-day work, Vasa­ ducted to reduce energy consumption. In the Businesses expand, are bought out or start kronan offers several different services through autumn, new software that Vasakronan up temporarily. The assorted requirements our partners. Tenants can receive help with helped develop, PropTechOS, was installed in for premises are many and sometimes comeverything from caretakers and cleaning to several buildings. It helps collect large plex. To meet everyone’s needs, Vasakronan fruit baskets and dry cleaning. Opting for green amounts of property data and analyses it in currently offers several solutions and conservices also allows us to reduce our environreal time. Access to data creates opportunicepts. Everything from entirely customised mental impact in multiple ways, including by ties to further reduce energy consumption materials and office design to flexible, readyoffering an environmentally certified range of and use premises more efficiently. to-use workplaces that can be rented for office products, waste sorting and transportaSince 2009, the energy intensity of our a short time. Smart & Klart means that tention via green vehicles and bicycle couriers. portfolio has more than halved. In 2019, ants do not have to deal with all the practical Particularly good local service is provided energy intensity decreased to 92 kWh/sq. m. issues such as IT, workplace furniture, fittings in premises where Vasakronan owns all or per year (103). At year end, 63% (47) of the and coffee machines. They can move in the most of the surrounding area and can therebuildings had an energy intensity below same day the lease is signed and move out on fore design comprehensive solutions that suit 100 kWh/sq. m. per year. short notice. The first “Vasakronan Arena”, its tenants. For example, these properties Vasakronan’s long-term energy ambition is a co-working concept that offers flexible offer receptions, restaurants, conference to be self-sustaining. To reach this goal, efforts agreements for workplaces, separate offices facilities and gyms. Tenants are offered are ongoing to increase our own energy pro16 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T RECORD LETTINGS SUNDBYBERG AND SOLNA, north of Stockholm, employer with lots of employees, like the Swedish are two of the country’s fastest-growing municipalities Tax Agency, will be important for the area. and areas where Vasakronan has had a strong presence Vasakronan has also signed a major lease with for many years. In central Sundbyberg, Vasakronan Statistics Sweden for 7,200 square metres at the has let around 43,000 square metres to the Swedish development property Strand in Solna, north of Tax Agency in the Nya Kronan block. This means that Stockholm. This means that Strand now has an occuthe property is fully leased. The Swedish Tax Agency pancy rate of 57% and the project is entering its final will move in to two newly constructed buildings and phase. Statistics Sweden has been a Vasakronan tenant one existing building undergoing renovation. The at Garnisonen since the early 70s. The move will bring lease is for ten years and occupancy is scheduled for more appropriate and flexible premises with a view of the end of 2021. the water and good public transportation. Nya Kronan will have solar cell panels on the The project encompasses 26,000 square metres facade and be certified according to LEED, ideally with over six floors in three buildings. The buildings open a Platinum rating. A total of around 3,000 people will up towards the water and will be linked together with work here, and efficient, modern office solutions have a new glass office building. made it possible to conduct operations in less space At the end of 2018, it was clear that the Swedish than they currently let. The new lease means that the Council for Higher Education, UHR, would also move in. Swedish Tax Agency will be leaving its previous premStrand will be completed in the third quarter of 2020 ises of 70,000 square metres in Solna Strand. and Statistics Sweden will take occupancy in summer Sundbyberg has both the vibrancy of a big city and the same year. Strand includes an additional building the idyll of a small town, and the central areas will be that has already been developed and completed. This developed positively over the next few years. A major is fully let, with COWI as the largest tenant. VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 17 PRO P ER T Y M A N AG EM EN T Energy intensity new construction. However, to meet our tenelectric vehicle charging stations, car pools kWh/sq.m. ants’ demands, even our existing properties and bicycle storage so that tenants can travel 150 must be certified. To certify properties, sustainably to and from work. Proximity to Vasakronan primarily uses the LEED environpublic transport is also very important. The 100 mental certification system, which is the syscompany actively tries to improve the fretem most commonly used internationally. The quency of services and the location of public 50 highest level is Platinum. LEED certification transport stops in several areas. includes an assessment of the property’s As part of the “Älskade stad” (Love your 0 energy consumption, indoor environment, city) initiative, Vasakronan collaborates with 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 material use, waste management and water Ragn-Sells, Bring and the City of Stockholm use. The ambition is to certify all properties in to set up urban consolidation centres in the duction, primarily through installing solar photothe portfolio as Gold or Platinum. Achieving heart of the city. Plans for a new urban convoltaics. A total of 63 solar photovoltaic systhis requires a structured property managesolidation centre under Sergelhuset in Stocktems (55) were in operation at year end and ment approach and clear procedures for our holm are ongoing. In this way, distribution of these are estimated to generate a total of 4,200 environmental agenda. At year end, 85% (85) goods to stores can be coordinated using MWh each year. In 2019, Vasakronan decided of the portfolio was environmentally certified, electric vehicles that can bring waste back to to construct a solar park of around 30,000 of which 72% (69) was rated Gold or higher. the urban consolidation centre. This reduces square metres in Fyrislund, Uppsala. This will congestion, noise and emissions. double the production of solar electricity. Reduced emissions Vasakronan undertakes climate compenMost solar photovoltaic systems in the Vasakronan has reduced its Scope 1 and sation for the remaining direct emissions – as portfolio that have been installed so far are Scope 2 emissions 99% since 2006, and operwell as certain indirect emissions – by pursolar panels mounted on regular roofs. Other ation of Vasakronan’s properties have been chasing shares in compensation projects. solar photovoltaic technologies are being climate neutral since 2008. This is possible Compensation is conducted annually, in tested, such as rooftop panels that have intebecause the amount of energy purchased has arrears. For a summary of Vasakronan’s total grated solar cells and thin film on windows. more than halved since 2009, and because greenhouse gas emissions, see page 127. To increase our own production of solar electhe purchased energy is renewable or climate In 2018, Vasakronan’s long-term climate tricity, and thereby profitability, we are testneutral. The focus is now on reducing indirect targets were approved by the Science Based ing the storage of surplus electricity generemissions – emissions from purchased goods Targets Initiative, a collaboration between ated by the solar photovoltaic panels by way and services, as well as those that arise when the World Wide Fund for Nature, the United of different storage solutions and distributtenants use their premises. One of the largest Nations Global Compact, Carbon Disclosure ing it locally to several buildings via internal sources of indirect emissions is tenants’ priProject and the World Resources Institute. direct current grids. vate electricity consumption, and since 2017 The goal is to ensure that the climate goals set To further enhance energy efficiency, we have added a clause to all new leases that by the company have a scientific basis and are geothermal energy solutions are also being the customer will undertake to purchase in line with the requirements for companies exploited via aquifers. This means that green energy. in the Paris Agreement. groundwater tables in the earth are used Another cause of indirect emissions is to heat and cool properties. This process is waste, both from our tenants and from ongoClose relationships with our tenants currently used in Sergelhuset in central ing projects. Vasakronan is therefore taking The management organisation is decentralised Stockholm and in the Triangeln shopping active steps to make it easier for its tenants to into four regions and a separate, centrally centre in central Malmö. sort and recycle waste. For example, a central coordinated Technical Operations & Developagreement was signed with Ragn-Sells with ment Unit that is staffed in each city in order Ambitious certification the objective of recycling a larger share of to create close relationships with our tenants. Environmental certification of both existing tenants’ waste. In terms of waste from project The properties are managed with our own and new build properties is important for activities, there is a considerable ability to staff in all business-critical areas. This means reducing climate impact and sustainable sociinfluence both the amount of waste and the that tenants meet Vasakronan employees etal development. It also provides indepenproportion of it that can be reused. with adequate knowledge about the tenants, dent evidence of our properties’ low environAnother facet of our work to reduce emisproperties and areas. Tenants can also contact mental impact and is a precondition for our sions is creating the conditions for sustaina central customer service desk to report a green financing. Environmental certification able transportation to and from properties. fault or questions about rent invoices or other requirements are set from the start for all At many properties, Vasakronan provides issues related to the property. 18 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T DYNAMIC CITY ENVIRON­ MENT CREATING THE DYNAMIC CITY and sense of secuers and actors in all four of our regions. We want to rity that everyone wants requires using the space create secure, attractive and engaging places with between buildings and filling ground floors with things a distinct character. to do. We need physical stores, though maybe not as New concepts for stores are also emerging. There many as before. We need food and meeting places and will soon be dedicated pop-up store space in every the ability to create experiences and events. area. This means that new actors can have visibility in Retail has expanded and grown relatively well for central locations for a short period. Another example just over 20 years. But the need for floor space has is Södertull in Malmö, where Vasakronan and Voii decreased with digitalisation and competition with Studios developed an urban marketplace, Beyond Us, e-commerce. Experiences that complement shopping to make it easier for brands to establish themselves favour physical environments. People want to meet, in a physical environment. They can also expose, sell touch and feel goods – and experience them. More and market their products without significant investalso realise the importance of sustainable consumpments or long leases. Some twenty actors within fashtion. They are being more careful in their choices and ion, lifestyle, furnishings and experiences are collected often prefer to buy second-hand. All this means that in 1,000 square metres. It also has a showroom, parcel there are great opportunities for meeting new forms delivery, coffee shop and open workplaces. of consumer needs. Vasakronan looks forward to future challenges and During the last few years, Vasakronan has develthe company is well equipped to meet them. We do this oped clear strategies for the streets surrounding our with new solutions and always in dialogue with our city properties. By defining what we want to achieve, customers, their customers and with consumers. we have committed ourselves to other property ownVA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 19 PRO P ER T Y M A N AG EM EN T Customer service functions as a back office purchase must be conducted with professional and can resolve most of the issues without correctness, objectivity and honesty while needing to forward it to other parts of the observing good business practice. Purchasing organisation. is also based on competitive procurements. More problems can be identified and Tenders are evaluated and prioritised on the addressed through new IT solutions, before basis of how they fulfil the specified requirethey become a problem for the tenant. By ments in terms of expertise, sustainability collecting and analysing property-related and work environment agenda, function, Sandra Jonsson data in real time, problems with things like execution, design and price. Technology & Development Manager, ventilation or lifts can be noted at an early Everyone who works on behalf of Vasa­ Stockholm and Uppsala stage. The number of registered complaints kronan, regardless of which employer they decreased 14% in 2019, in large part due to work for, is to have acceptable work condiWhat has been going on the ability to act proactively. tions and to be treated with respect and conwith new digital solutions? Customer satisfaction is a must to remain sideration for the health and safety of the “A lot! We’ve found a way to work even more a profitable company. To monitor how satisindividual. Vasakronan’s size means there is efficiently. I especially want to point out that we digitalised the process for applying for fied our tenants are and to identify areas for potential to achieve economies of scale in our LEED environmental certification. We might improvement, Vasakronan carries out the procurement process. The work is led by a be the first in the world to do so. A great deal of customer satisfaction survey “Tyck om Vasa­ central procurement department that data about the properties has to be collected, kronan” at the beginning of every year. The ensures that purchases meet high quality and documented and compiled. Previously this most recent one was conducted in the beginsustainability requirements at the lowest was done manually, which took a lot of time. ning of 2020 and indicated an improvement possible cost. A systematic procurement The property-wide digital language, Real­ over the preceding year. The score was 77 (76) process also affords the opportunity to set EstateCore, gives us better control over all for office and 76 (73) for retail. The scale of requirements for suppliers and contractors the data properties generate. And development of sensors to measure various data is the survey is from 1 to 100, where a score of at to, inter alia, reduce their environmental always moving forward. “ least 80 corresponds to a grade of Very good. impact and minimise the risk of corruption and human rights violations. To support this Which challenges does A more secure city process, Vasakronan’s Code of Conduct for Vasakronan need to meet? “We need to make things as simple and flexiVasakronan’s operations are built on a pleasSuppliers is applied to suppliers. ble as possible for our tenants. Together ant atmosphere and a sense of safety in and In 2019, the Vasakronan’s Code of Conduct with the PropTech company Tmpl Solutions, around our properties. Implementing better for Suppliers was signed for all new agreements we’re developing a digital platform that will lighting, reviewing the entry system and entered into via the procurement department. become the interface for office services in ensuring that everything is clean and attracOngoing audits are carried out to ensure that the future. tive can improve security. suppliers live up to their obligations. In 2019, There is potential in using premises more Another important measure is creating a a total of 80 supplier audits were conducted. efficiently and therefore sustainably. dynamic city and increasing the flow of foot The outcomes of these audits show that supAccomplishing this requires utilisation rate traffic around properties, even outside of pliers met our work environment and human data. But there is also a need for securely managing access to our properties. That’s office hours. Several initiatives were carried rights requirements in a satisfactory manner. why we have worked with other industry out during the year to encourage livelier actors to start Accessy AB, which will streets, in cooperation with other property A friendly corporate culture develop a digital access platform.” owners, different organisations and municiVasakronan’s corporate culture is distinguished Do you see any risks with digitalisation? palities. A wide variety of activities were held by professionalism, flexibility and innovative “There are more opportunities to measure in Sergels torg in Stockholm, including dance, thinking. It encourages innovation and trying and collect data. This increases the need for theatre and concerts. The increased flow of new, unproven alternatives. Our work is satisethical data management and security. We people increased the sense of safety and faction-driven, and things are done in a fair and can’t allow information to fall into the wrong crime around the square decreased signifitrustworthy manner. Daily operations are hands, and data subjects’ privacy must be cantly, despite a reduced police presence. characterised by short decision-making paths respected. This issue is important to us, for example, GDPR. We can create sound strucand delegated responsibility. Operations are tures with RealEstateCore, but also have Sustainable purchasing conducted sustainably in every stage, which control over information.” To successfully conduct business, Vasakronan includes employees’ work environment. Cultineeds to work with various suppliers. Each vating employee participation, dedication and 20 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T PRO P ER T Y M A N AG EM EN T satisfaction is the key to a successful business. Commitment that makes a difference Sweden Green Building Council and ByggFar-reaching opportunities for developVasakronan’s vision is to “create future-proof varubedömningen (a non-profit organisation ment and a good work environment are cities for everyone, where people and comowned by large developers and property offered to retain skilled employees and attract panies thrive.” Therefore, we have a clear owners in Sweden) are examples of instances new talents. The health of our employees ambition to get involved in important social where Vasakronan was one of the initiators is regularly monitored, and much effort is matters, even if they are not directly associated when both organisations were formed and devoted to wellness activities as well as with Vasakronan’s business. A prerequisite for continues to actively participate in different preventing work injuries and rehabilitating involvement is that we can make a difference ways. Vasakronan also subscribes to the UN’s employees on long-term sick leave. and that our employees perceive it as relevant. climate initiative Caring for Climate, KlimatAll employees and job applicants must Löparakademin, a non-profit organisation that pakten i Stockholm and Uppsala klimatproto­ be treated equally and given equal oppor­ supports young people in socially disadvankoll as well as many different research and tunities for growth, development and protaged areas, is one such example. Vasakronan development collaborations within a range of motion as well as equal pay for equal work. provides support through an annual financial different areas. During the year, Vasakronan This approach, combined with the principles contribution as well as an Advisory Board that was also a driving actor behind an initiative of the United Nations Global Compact, is offers skills and resources. In Gothenburg, for a climate-neutral Malmö by 2030. summarised in a Code of Conduct, to which Vasakronan partners with Mitt liv, an organiDuring the year Vasakronan was also all employees have access. Vasakronan has sation that promotes a more inclusive society ranked the most sustainable office company a Compliance Officer, a role that is filled by and diversity in the labour market. This collabin Europe as well as number twelve globally Vasakronan’s General Counsel, to whom oration has included, among other measures, by the Global Real Estate Sustainability employees and others can anonymously a diversity course for all Gothenburg-based Benchmark, or GRESB. The goal for 2020 is report any suspected incidents of lack of employees along with mentorship and internto further improve our score and, in the longcompliance with laws, rules or policies. ship programmes. term, to be considered the world’s most susThere is also an external whistle-blower Vasakronan is also involved in many contexts tainable property company. function that both employees and external to promote positive developments in the propparties can contact. erty sector. Within environmental issues, the What are you doing to create security and Stockholm, City i samverkan, AMF, Axfast safety in and around your properties? Gålöstiftelsen and Kulturhuset/Stadsteatern at “A lot of it is about practical measures, like Sergels torg. ensuring there is sufficient lighting for streets The square was filled with activities like music, and facades, access to and within our propertheatre and art, as well as extra seating. It was a ties and that we actively maintain locations by success and now work is ongoing year-round to keeping them clean, pleasant and free of grafmake the square more dynamic. The long-term fiti. We’re also working with security in areas goal is to renew a place that many people just that feel unsafe, like basement levels and pass by. For a long time there have been probgarages. These are places that we need to keep lems with crime and drugs there, and now we an eye on, which is why we have camera surveilwant to create a safe environment where peolance in certain areas. ple feel comfortable and want to spend time.” We want to counteract “broken windows” – the Vasakronan also helped found AMP. tendency for crime or signs of disorder to create What is AMP? an urban environment that encourages more of “Centrum för AMP collects knowledge and the same. If, instead, we create a positive environexperience in creating safe and secure places. ment, that encourages positive behaviour. We It was founded by different actors in the area work intensively with life between the buildings taking shared responsibility for the city. The and, together with the city and other property chairman is Fredrik Reinfeldt, and other foundowners, take responsibility for public spaces.” ers include Insurance Sweden, the Swedish How are you collaborating with others? Trade Federation, AMF, Atrium Ljungberg and “Collaboration to develop urban environments Humlegården. The work supports Vasakronan’s takes different forms in all of our areas. In the vision of future-proof cities and it will be excitAnna Nordin summer we started a project with the City of ing to see what we can achieve together.” Head of Stockholm City Business Area VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 21 PRO P ER T Y M A N AG EM EN T Vasakronan’s borrowing even greener In 2019 Vasakronan’s lending took another major step in a green direction. Of the total of SEK 16.5 billion borrowed during the year, no less than 86% was green, the highest-ever share in the company’s history. “This means that we’re quickly approaching the time when half of our financing is green,” Anna Denell, Vasakronan’s Head of Sustainability, declares proudly. Group Treasurer Thomas Nystedt is also pleased with the development and cites several factors that helped increase green borrowing. “Today there are investors around the world who are seeking serious investment alternatives in different types of green debt instruments. The fact that Vasakronan was the first to issue a green corporate bond has earned us a reputation and opened the doors to the international investment market,” he says, and continues: “We’ve also had a high rating from the institute Moody’s since 2018. They have a good reputaThomas Nystedt Anna Denell tion, which means that our circle of investors has Group Treasurer Head of Sustainability expanded beyond the Nordic region and northern Europe. Interest has been great, not least in “During the year I visited our regional offices commercial properties will be built in the Asia, and last year a third of the company’s borand explained how employees’ daily work, for future. rowing was in the Japanese and Korean markets.” example with energy efficiency, positively “In a few years, we’re going to see lots of Towards dark green affects our financing opportunities. It feels like wooden office buildings. Manufacturing one While both Anna Denell and Thomas Nystedt everyone at the company understands how ton of cement, an important component of the are proud of the growth in green borrowing, they’re connected, and like employees are concrete that has become the dominant buildthey are careful to point out that Vasakronan becoming more interested,” explains Thomas ing material, releases one ton of carbon dioxide, has strict rules for what qualifies as green. Nystedt, and continues: while growing trees actually bind the same “When we borrow green, it should really be “I often run into property technicians in the eleamount for every ton of trees that grow.” ‘Dark Green’,” emphasises Anna Denell, stating vator or at the office and they tell me, ‘Thomas, Lining up for wooden office buildings that the share of green borrowing would have now we’re almost under 100!’” To qualify for Anna Denell explains that other projects built been much higher if the requirements in Vasa­ green financing according to Vasakronan’s in wood have had shorter build times, cleaner kronan’s revised framework for financing were framework, an existing property needs to have and quieter construction work sites and less stringent. less than 100 kilowatt hours of energy consumpreduced transportation compared to conven“Of course the long-term goal is for all borrowtion. It also needs to be certified Gold or higher tional projects. “And, most importantly, tenants ing to be green, but it’s much more important according to LEED. appreciate indoor environments in wooden to environmentally certify all of Vasakronan’s Visiting investors buildings,” says Anna Denell, noting that there properties.” There is also a growing interest among invesare potential tenants lining up for wooden At the end of 2019, all of the company’s investtors to see how their green money is being buildings as well as financiers lining up to lend ment properties were environmentally certiconverted into new and renovated properties. on wood-based property projects. fied and several properties are currently in the Representatives for banks and other investors “Besides, it can be a fantastic opportunity for certification process. Almost all of the buildings are visiting more often and asking educated Sweden, a country with a significant, sustainin Vasakronan’s portfolio that receive a new questions about everything from waste manageable timber industry.” certification receive a higher one – from Silver ment to how Vasakronan uses aquifers (ground­ In 2020, Group Treasurer Thomas Nystedt will to Gold, or from Gold to Platinum. The improvewater sources deep in the earth) to heat and work to keep expanding the circle of investors, ments are primarily due to additional energy-­ cool properties. not least in Asia but also in Europe, while Head of efficiency measures and the installation of solar “They’re particularly impressed with our Sustainability Anna Denell will set an increased photovoltaics. ­project Magasin X in Uppsala, which will be focus on reducing the entire value chain’s climate Dedicated employees ­Sweden’s largest office building with a frame impact, for example with tenants’ waste manageBoth Thomas Nystedt and Anna Denell testify entirely of wood,” says Anna Denell, who is conment, which requires close collaboration with to the importance of sustainability in all parts of vinced that the new property next to the train tenants. Vasakronan’s operations. station in Uppsala will be a precursor to how 22 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T PRO P ER T Y D E V ELO P M EN T Britt Lindqvist Building sustainably Head of Business Development, Vasakronan What new needs do you see in every stage among customers? “Companies and organisations are changing in different ways and their workplace needs can also change quickly. Customers are demanding greater flexibility when it comes to things like services, resource sharing and The negative environmental impact of the construction process lease terms. Sometimes they need solutions needs to be reduced. Being climate smart should always be a priother than a traditional office.” ority. There is a great deal of focus on optimising and reducing How are you meeting this demand? the use of material. “Our offering has four pillars. Traditional offices, where the customer influences everything before moving in; finished offices and Smart & Klart offices, where everything As tenants’ demands change over time, 50% (33). In 2019, a total of SEK 4.4 billion (3.3) is included and clients only have to move in – Vasakronan needs to create new types of was invested in the development of properties or out, for that matter – on short notice. Now we also have Arena, our own co-working conpremises either by way of new construction and, over the past five years, SEK 2.5 billion cept. The idea with this palette of premises is or upgrades to existing properties. The goal on average has been invested every year. for it to work for the customer a little like an is to design premises that are as flexible and In early 2019, Vasakronan signed a ten-year accordion. Or a bag of sweets, where you general as possible, without too many custolease with the Swedish Tax Agency for 42,000 pick out your favourites and leave the rest.” misations for current tenants. Premises that square metres at the Nya Kronan property in What does Arena involve? can be modified without any major measures Sundbyberg. The agreement means that reno“Arena primarily targets current and potento meet changing needs or for a completely vation and modernisation of Nya Kronan has tial customers. It has workplaces, offices new tenant, thereby saving time, money and begun. The total investment amounts to SEK and meeting rooms that are available as the environment. 1,650 million and encompasses two buildings needed. Workplaces are designed so that Offering premises that are produced and and one existing building undergoing renovapeople feel well and can work effectively. This includes everything from sound, lightmaintained with as little environmental impact tion. Work is expected to finish in November ing, technology and indoor climate to ergoas possible is a given. Vasakronan environmen2021. Construction of Magasin X also began nomics and sustainability. We take all this tally certifies all projects in accordance with in central Uppsala during the year. The propand add our smart services.” LEED and our aim is to achieve the highest erty encompasses just over 11,000 square Where can we find Arena? level – Platinum. For a building to obtain certimetres of office space and the total investment “In all of our areas, including Sergelhuset in fication, there are requirements governing new amounts to SEK 530 million. The occupancy Stockholm, which will be completed in 2020, construction or redevelopment, the properrate in the property was 40% at the end of and in Magasin X, the wooden office buildty’s impact on the environment and on energy the year, with two years until completion. ing in Uppsala, which will be ready in spring intensity during day-to-day management. During the year, the fully let property Hilton 2022.” in Frösundavik outside Stockholm was comWhat else is needed to create Large project portfolio pleted. Construction of the property reprethe office of the future? Vasakronan only invests in markets in which sented a total investment of SEK 390 million. “Smart digital solutions for services that are it has strong insight and where growth condiIn additional to the development potential connected to the premises and that make tions good. This limits any financial risk related in existing properties, Vasakronan also has work life more efficient. This includes contracts, bookings, services and payments. to property development. At year end, ongoplanned development rights and future potenThat’s why we’ve collaborated with actors ing property projects had a total investment tial development rights. At present, there are within and outside the industry to develop a volume of SEK 14.3 billion (10.6). The occudetailed development plans for approximately new technological interface that will be pancy rate in major ongoing projects amounted 280,000 sq. m. of office space. Efforts are accessible starting autumn 2020.” to 69% (41) while the rate of capitalisation was constantly underway to identify new potenVA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 23 PRO P ER T Y D E V ELO P M EN T An increasing share ambition is to increase both the percentage Dynamic city environment of waste is recycled of renewable material and reduce the amount Vasakronan’s goal is to take an active responof material per square metre in project develsibility for creating a dynamic city environopment activities. ment where everyone enjoys spending time During the year, the fully let property Hilton in and around our properties. It is important in Frösundavik outside Stockholm was comfor everyone to feel safe and secure in their pleted. The use of materials in Hilton was based local surroundings. As employers, our tenon actual measurements over the course of ants want to ensure that their employees the entire project taken in partnership with have a safe workplace and a safe journey to the research institute RISE. This means that and from work. This is becoming an increasRecycling, 67% (57) Vasakronan now has a solid reference project ingly important issue when selecting premEnergy reuse/incineration, 18% (21) for future measurements. ises. When planning new construction and Landfill, 14% (19) Hazardous waste, 1% (2) Work has continued during the year to renovations of properties or blocks, we focus Biogas production, 0% (1) increase the share of recycled material either on planning for measures that will create through reusing it in our own properties or secure places and a positive city environment. tial projects for the 1.7 million sq. m. of as yet through selling it to other actors. Waste workGood conditions are created for establishing unplanned development rights that are part shops are arranged at the beginning of all new a healthy mix of operations that contribute of Vasakronan’s portfolio. construction and major redevelopment projto a dynamic city life outside of the workday. ects, with the aim of identifying measures As a property owner, it is also important Reuse and recycle that could reduce the amount of project to be able to offer premises with good public During new construction, redevelopment, waste and increase the amount recycled. At transportation and local services. It facilitates leasehold improvements and maintenance, year-end 2019, 62 tonnes (51) of material had daily life for our tenants and contributes to a large quantities of material are used that have been reused. This increase can primarily be reduced climate impact. an environmental impact when they are proexplained by the fact that the amount of duced and transported. There is therefore a reused materials used in the redevelopment Safety in focus lot of focus on optimising and reducing mateof Sergelhuset in central Stockholm is greater To manage project risks, Vasakronan places rial use and to opt for reused materials or than last year. great emphasis on quality-assuring processes materials produced from renewable or recyTo further reduce the operations’ impact that are to be implemented. The company’s cled products to a larger extent. It is also on the climate, Vasakronan sets high requireemployees take responsibility for managing important to ensure that the materials used ments for transportation to and from projand monitoring projects, even when external do not contain hazardous substances that are ects. For some years now, all newly initiated project managers and contractors are hired spread into indoor environments or into ecoprojects must transport waste and materials for the actual work. During contractor prosystems outside. That is why every component using renewable fuel. For more information curement, we ensure that they live up to the built into our properties is always evaluated about Vasakronan’s material and waste mancompany’s strict requirements relating to with respect to the material’s climate impact agement within project development, see professional correctness, objectivity and during the property’s lifecycle. pages 124 and 126. honesty while observing good business pracVasakronan has noted continuously To increase awareness and grow the industice. All suppliers are to follow Vasakronan’s increasing demand from companies for longtry in a sustainable direction, Vasakronan is code of conduct, which the company continuterm sustainable solutions for premises. One active in several initiatives and partnerships. ously monitors. method of achieving the target of a fossil-free In the summer, Vasakronan, together with Building projects can be high-risk, and our construction sector and concurrently meeting 80 other companies in the construction and ambition is to have no accidents or severe tenants’ needs is to build with materials that property sector, joined a local initiative in injuries at Vasakronan’s building sites. The have a lower climate impact than steel and Malmö (“Lokal färdplan 2030 Malmö”) aimed company therefore sets stringent requireconcrete. In Uppsala, Vasakronan is currently at accelerating the construction sector’s adapments for contractors in terms of construcbuilding Sweden’s first office building with a tation to climate change and the implementation site safety, and in 2018 we began sharpwood frame, encompassing just over 11,000 tion of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable ening the internal procedures for reporting square metres, and an extension made Development. Another initiative is the Cenincidents and accidents. Vasakronan also entirely of wood is planned in Gothenburg. trum för cirkulärt byggande, which has a digiparticipates in Håll Nollan – an organisation When a new project is completed, Vasa­ tal marketplace for recycled material with the that works to ensure common sector stankronan requires all major new construction aim of increasing collaboration between mardards for a secure and safe work environand major redevelopment projects to report ket participants and developing a functional, ment in the construction sector. the type and amount of material used. Our large-scale market for recycled material. 24 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T URBAN DEVELOPMENT SERGELSTAN, WHICH INCLUDES the block around the street-level floors. They need to be filled with Sergels torg, is Vasakronan’s largest urban developservices, restaurants, activities and experiences as ment project in central Stockholm. The company is well as stores to attract and retain visitors. It is also investing a total of five billion Swedish krona in renovatimportant to reach more sustainability-conscious ing and refurbishing. The first stage entails renovating consumers. This can be through providing spaces for Sergelhuset. King, among others, will lease offices and second-hand stores and restaurants that use organic, Stureplansgruppen will open a restaurant with a rooflocally-grown ingredients. top terrace and a conference and events centre on the The Hötorgsskrapor high-rises, particularly the entrance level. Vasakronan’s head office will also be lower storeys, will be refurbished and technological located here. Sergelhuset will be completed by the installations replaced. First are high-rises 1 and 2, end of 2020. which are the closest to Konserthuset. They will be The next step in the development of Sergelstan is completed by spring 2021. Then renovations will conbreathing new life into Sergelgatan, which stretches tinue according to plan at buildings 3 and 4, starting in from Sergels torg to Hötorget. Sergelgatan was autumn 2020 and continuing for the next two years or Sweden’s first pedestrian street. Over the years, the so. The side facing Sveavägen will receive new, open street’s appeal has decreased, along with the stores’ and accessible office entrances. Two new courtyards, sales. This is one of the reasons for the investment one between building 1 and 2, and another between 3 that will bring the entire area back to life. and 4, will also be accessible via Sveavägen and SergelNearly 250,000 people walk down Sergelgatan gatan. The roof terrace that encircles the high-rises every week. People meet here to work, eat, shop and will be renovated to open up to the public with a new, relax. This requires innovative solutions. The vision exciting offering. There will be a new restaurant at the is a modern shopping and experience precinct with corner by Konserthuset. Together with the Haymarket hustle and bustle at all hours of the day. hotel, Hötorgshallen and Filmstaden Sergel, this will One part of the new approach is to better manage create an attractive frame for Hötorget. VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 25 PRO P ER T Y D E V ELO P M EN T Ongoing projects PRIORN IN THE MIDDLE OF MALMÖ With Triangeln’s station around the corner, Konst­ halltorget in front of it and Pildamms­parken to the side, the development property Priorn, in central Malmö, offers offices with open views at the city’s most accessible location. The property encompasses 13,000 square metres and will be seven storeys tall. In 2020, Region Skåne, COWI and the architect bureau Här! will move in. The investment corresponds to SEK 580 million and the building will be certified LEED Platinum. Bank palace with a history When Styrpinnen 15 was built beside Kungsträdgården in 1901, the goal was to impress. Now the property has been completely renovated to meet modern office needs without compromising on charm. In August 2020, game developer Embark Studios will move in and lease the entire building of 4,300 square metres. Large investments in property projects Share Area of Estimated Environ­ Total invest­ Capitalised, capitalised, premises, completion Occupancy mental City Property ment, SEK m SEK m % sq. m. date rate, %1) certification Stockholm Sergelhuset 3,700 2,669 72 56,500 Dec 2021 492) LEED Gothenburg Platinum 2,600 1,052 40 53,700 Dec 2022 673) LEED Sundbyberg Kronan 1 1,680 350 21 42,700 Nov 2021 100 LEED Stockholm, Solna Strand Nöten 5 916 594 65 26,000 Dec 2020 55 LEED Stockholm Nattugglan, block 2 800 168 21 15,000 Jun 2022 80 LEED Malmö Priorn 5 530 444 84 13,200 Apr 2020 67 LEED Uppsala Magasin X 530 67 13 11,500 Dec 2021 514) LEED Uppsala Kronåsen 1:1 Celsius 420 287 68 10,200 Oct 2020 82 LEED Stockholm Sperlingens Backe 300 38 13 3,900 Dec 2021 47 LEED Stockholm Styrpinnen 15 290 242 83 3,700 Jun 2020 100 LEED Stockholm, Solna Diktaren 115 19 17 6,400 Aug 2021 100 LEED Total major property projects 11,881 5,930 50 69 Stockholm Sergelgatan 1,500 213 14 Mar 2023 –5) LEED Other projects 966 610 Total 14,347 6,753 1) Calculated based on area. 2) Including the lease to EY, the occupancy rate amounts to around 62%. 3) Including Vasakronan Arena, the occupancy rate amounts to 72%. 4) Including Vasakronan Arena and Vasakronan’s regional offices, the occupancy rate amounts to around 77%. 5) Part of the property and the occupancy rate is not reported. 26 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T PRO P ER T Y D E V ELO P M EN T Platinan, a different kind of meeting place People have always met in Lilla Bommen in Gothenburg – to socialise, haggle and work. With Platinan, we are building further on the location’s extroverted history. 60,000 square metres of offices, co-working space, restaurants and a new Scandic hotel. The building is our first contribution to the city’s vision of a new RiverCity Gothenburg. The building will be completed in 2021. COWI, KPMG and Wistrand Advokatbyrå have already signed leases. Platinan represents a total investment of SEK 2.6 billion. Offices and labs at Uppsala Science Park In the middle of Uppsala’s research hub, next door to SERGELHUSET, PEOPLE AND Hubben, we are building Celsius: 10,000 square metres ACTIVITY ALL THE TIME of offices and advanced lab The transformation of Sergelhuset, a part of Sergelstan and Vasa­ environments. The largest kronan’s largest urban development project to date, is ongoing at tenant is the National Food Sergels Torg in central Stockholm. Sergelhuset encompasses three Agency, which is leasing around buildings totalling 60,000 square metres and represents a total 8,000 square metres. Occuinvestment of SEK 3.7 billion. The goal is to create a city that is active pancy is planned for around and dynamic at all hours of the day. The project will be completed in the end of 2020. 2020. Actors like Stureplansgruppen, King, EY and Vasakronan will occupy the property. VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 27 PRO P ER T Y D E V ELO P M EN T Future projects SÖDRA HAGALUND IS A DREAM LOCATION As Hagastaden develops, central Stockholm has expanded northwards. At the same time, Solna’s central areas are expanding. In between lies the hub of Södra Hagalund, a future development area with workplaces and residences and easy access to transportation. When the new yellow underground line is completed in 2026, one of the stops will be Södra Hagalund. Vasakronan has signed an agreement in principle with Solna municipality and the ambition is to create around 60,000 square metres of commercial premises. Development will be carried out in stages and the detailed development plan for the first stage is underway. Hekla in the heart of Kista Vasakronan is fully planning the development of the Hekla block in Kista, north of Stockholm. The project encompasses 47,000 square metres of office space and 12,000 square metres of residences. A new detailed development plan for the block is currently being developed. The goal is to create a mixed neighbourhood with modern, sustainable buildings. A larger mix of workplaces, services and retail will create a more dynamic and welcoming Kista. The new light rail line and the expansion of the underground will also contribute to the ongoing development. 28 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T PRO P ER T Y D E V ELO P M EN T A renewed Hugin The Hugin block is in central Uppsala, a stone’s throw from the central station. It was built in the 70s and is in need of renovation. Now Hugin will be renewed and the block will be filled with residences, businesses and a preschool as well as a new pedestrian precinct from the train to Fyrisån. It encompasses a total of around 65,000 square metres. There are plans to preserve the existing concrete frames in three of the buildings. This is positive both for the climate and for the budget. Work to develop a detailed development plan is ongoing. LILLA BOMMEN TAKES THE NEXT STEP The Lilla Bommen area continues to change. The renovation of Läpp­ stiftet was completed in 2018 and the next building in the block is Kromet, which is next to the bridgehead of Hisingsbron. Through the detailed development plan for the new Hisingsbron and neighbouring areas, Vasakronan has received development rights for around 140,000 square metres. This will become workplaces, hotels, residences, restaurants, coffee shops, and cultural institutions. The location close to the city means that the central areas will naturally be connected to each other. The construction start is planned for 2021. VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 29 T R A N S AC T I O N AC T I V I T I E S Investment strategy In the current market, focus is on exploiting development opportunities in the existing portfolio. Purchases and sales are made to further increase quality. Vasakronan is a long-term actor with a focus in the city is 97% and the acquisition of Juvelen Strategic divestments on offices and city retail in Nordic growth is a strong addition to the portfolio. During the year, Vasakronan completed areas. The company also exploits opportuniThe acquisition of Aura strengthens our divestments of properties for a total of SEK 1.5 ties to best develop the existing portfolio. The presence in the Universitetsholmen district billion. In early 2019, the Nya Vattentornet 2 goal is to continuously enhance the quality of in central Malmö, an area that is expected to and 4 properties in the Ideon area of Lund were the portfolio and thus increase long-term have continued positive development. Comsold to Wihlborgs for close to SEK 1,260 milreturns through, inter alia, buying and selling pleted in the autumn by Skanska, the proplion. With this sale, Vasakronan has left Lund. properties. erty covers 6,700 square metres of lettable In the spring, Vasakronan vacated TelefonThe company also monitors developments area, of which nearly 5,700 square metres fabriken 7 at Telefonplan in Stockholm. The in the markets and sub-markets where it is is office space. At year end, the property sale to Einar Mattson included a development currently active but potential markets are was nearly fully let, and the largest tenants right for residences and amounted to SEK also followed carefully. Growth potential in are Grant Thornton, Lindab and Trägårdh 210 million. The development right for Hyllie the existing portfolio is also continuously Advokatbyrå. The purchase price for Aura Connect in Malmö was sold for SEK 85 milanalysed. Above all it is the location, rent was SEK 430 million. lion to Skanska in the autumn. levels, investment needs and development potential that determine whether a property will be bought, sold or developed. Property divestments 2019 Purchase price, Growth in Uppsala and Malmö Property City Buyer SEK m Transfer date Acquisitions have been made in the last five Nya Vattentornen 2 and 4 Lund Wihlborgs 1,259 Feb 2019 years for a total of SEK 3,600 million and sales Järva 2:7 Stockholm Sporthallen i Solna 2 Apr 2019 of around SEK 9,100 million. This equals an Telefonfabriken 7 Stockholm Einar Matsson Projekt 210 May 2019 average property turnover of SEK 2,500 milRegndroppen Malmö Skanska 85 Dec 2019 lion each year. Any acquisition is carefully Total property value 1,556 analysed in advance to ensure that the propTransaction costs, as well as deduction for deferred tax –6 erty meets Vasakronan’s high standards in Total purchase price 1,550 terms of operating expenses, energy consumption and choice of materials. Agreed divestments to be completed During the year, two new build office propPurchase price, erties were acquired from Skanska: Juvelen Property City Buyer SEK m Transfer date in Uppsala and Aura in Malmö. Juvelen is situSmedjan 13 and 15 Malmö Trianon 88 Dependent on detailed ated next to Uppsala central station, one of development plan Uppsala’s premier office locations, near Vasa­ Total purchase price 88 kronan’s development property Magasin X, which will be completed in December 2021. Property acquisitions 2019 The property was acquired for an underlying Purchase price, property value of SEK 563 million and Property City Seller SEK m Occupancy encompasses a total of 7,800 square metres Juvelen Uppsala Skanska 563 Dec 2019 of office space and 800 square metres of Aura Malmö Skanska 430 Dec 2019 shops and restaurants. Uppsala county is an Total property value 993 innovative region experiencing rapid growth. Transaction costs, as well as deduction for deferred tax –16 The occupancy rate in Vasakronan’s portfolio Total purchase price 977 30 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T OUTSTANDING ACQUISITIONS AURA, A CHARACTERFUL property that comprises centre. Next to Aura you can find Malmö Saluhall, Vasakronan’s most recent acquisition, lies in the Malmö University, Malmö Live and Vasakronan’s ­Universitetsholmen district in Malmö. It was built by Bassängkajen property. Skanska in 2019 and encompasses 6,700 square The rent trend for modern office properties in metres, of which nearly 5,700 comprises office space. Malmö is increasing and Aura is an attractive product The occupancy rate is high and tenants include Grant with premises that are in demand in the market. Thornton, Lindab, Adecco and Trägårdh Advokatbyrå. The property will be environmentally certified LEED The Universitetsholmen district is a development Platinum and was purchased from Skanska for area that is developing positively. Offices and resiSEK 430 million. In conjunction with the acquisition, dences are being constructed and public spaces are Vasakronan sold the development rights for Hyllie being refurbished. The location is central, within Connect to Skanska. walking distance of the central station and the city In early 2019, Vasakronan sold the Nya Vatten­ centre. It is a transition zone where the bay’s largetornet 2 and 4 properties in the Ideon area of Lund scale industrial buildings are mixed with smaller-scale to Wihlborgs for SEK 1,260 million. With this sale, ones before finally transitioning into the denser city Vasakronan has ceased all operations in Lund. VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 31 FI N A N CI N G Financing risk declines Vasakronan further reduced financing risk in the loan portfolio primarily through borrowing in more foreign currencies. The percentage of green borrowing increased and the ambition is to eventually have 100% green financing. Managing and developing properties is a capincreased the repo rate to zero percent. portfolio and the strong links to its owners. ital-intensive business. Access to financing During the year, the variable market rate was Vasakronan has ambitious targets for its suswith favourable terms is therefore a preconpositive for the first time since early 2015. tainability efforts and works actively to link a dition for optimally conducting operations. sustainability perspective to its financing. In Vasakronan strives to create a capital strucStable position 2013, Vasakronan was the first company to ture that fulfils both the owners’ expectations Vasakronan is financed through owners’ issue green bonds and in 2018, we became of healthy returns on equity and financial stacapital and through external borrowing. This the first to issue green commercial paper. bility requirements that ensure the company division is decided by weighting the requireVasakronan’s strategy is to take a leading role is able to independently fulfil its financial ments for returns and financial stability. and to drive development in green financing. commitments. External borrowing takes place in the capital This financing strategy is reflected in the Growing interest in the company’s bonds market by way of bonds or commercial paper company’s financial policy that helps ensure during the year has enabled borrowing in new or from banks. At the end of the year, the share excellent risk management and internal markets like Asia and Central Europe, which of capital market financing was 75% (71) and control. The financial policy is reviewed has broadened the investor base. the share of secured and unsecured bank ­annually by the Board and financial risks are In the spring, Moody’s confirmed the rating financing was 25% (29). followed up and reported to the Board on a the company received in spring 2018 with quarterly basis. the score A3, stable outlook, noting a lower Long-term financing strategy financing risk. According to its financing strategy, Vasakronan Lower LTV strives for financial stability, risk-weighted borInterest-bearing liabilities, net of cash and Advantageous financing rowing, a broad borrowing structure and to be cash equivalents, increased during the year The year began with relatively high credit in the forefront of green financing. First and and amounted to SEK 63 billion (59), mainly margins due to outflows from fixed-income foremost, financial stability entails minimising due to dividends paid to the owners and funds, anticipation of a decrease in central financing risk through guaranteeing future increased investments. The loan-to-value bank stimuli and global political unease. Howborrowing needs in good time and spreading ratio was 38% (41) at year end. Prevailing ever, market conditions improved during the loan maturities. Vasakronan has agreed market conditions continued to enable boryear, which gradually entailed declining credit credit limits with several banks and investors rowing on favourable terms and the average margins. to have the option to switch between different interest rate was 1.7% (1.6) at year end. We had good access to capital market sources of financing. Moreover, cost-­effective Net financial items deteriorated slightly to financing for most of the year, primarily borrowing is achieved through maintaining an an expense of SEK 1,131 million (expense: thanks to stable inflows in corporate bond optimal fixed-interest structure and leverag1,043) due to a larger loan portfolio and funds. Turnover in the Swedish and Norweing the prevailing market conditions. gian capital markets remained strong and The risk for high refinancing and new in total corporate bonds were issued in the borrowing costs is limited by diversifying Low average interest rate Swedish market for SEK 190 billion (159) and borrowing, allocating across several different % in the Norwegian market for NOK 60 billion sources of funding and markets where differ3 (60). Vasakronan remained one of the largest ent prerequisites can be exploited in different issuers in the Swedish corporate bonds marmarket conditions. Vasakronan’s goal is to retain 2 ket during the year, as funding expanded to a strong rating. During the year, Moody’s more markets and currencies. confirmed the rating the company received in 1 The long market rates during the year were spring 2018 with the score A3, stable outat historically low levels. The short market rates look. In its explanation, Moody’s highlighted 0 increased during the year after the Riksbank the high quality of Vasakronan’s property 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 32 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T FI N A N CI N G somewhat higher interest during the year. cies other than SEK. The EMTN programme Green financing under the framework The interest coverage ratio, which indicates has a loan limit for all currencies of EUR Amounts in SEK million the company’s sensitivity to interest rate 6,000 million. Borrowing in foreign currenGreen commercial paper 560 changes, declined to a multiple of 4.6 (4.7) cies is hedged through cross-currency interGreen bonds, SEK 18,673 due to higher net interest. According to the est-rate derivatives, which eliminates curGreen bonds, NOK 684 financial policy, the goal is to have an interest rency risk. Green bonds, EUR 2,809 coverage ratio no lower than a multiple of With the establishment of the EMTN Green bonds, JPY 835 2.0. Net interest-bearing liabilities in relation programme, Vasakronan’s bonds will be Green bonds, AUD 530 to EBITDA show net debt in relation to the listed on Euronext Dublin and the Oslo Stock Green bonds, USD 1,672 business’s earnings and amounted at year Exchange. The bonds contain a change of Total volume of Green Finance 25,762 end to a multiple of 12.0 (11.9). Our aim is control clause that allows lenders to termiInstruments to prevent this key metric from exceeding nate the loan unless the current owners colTotal volume of Green Assets — Green Pool 33,318 a multiple of 10 over the long term. lectively or separately own at least 51% of Remaining approved borrowing capacity 7,555 Vasakronan and the change in ownership Borrowing in more currencies simultaneously leads to a downgrade in the end, corresponding to 11% (10) of the total In 2018, Vasakronan established a Euro company’s rating by one notch. debt portfolio. Medium Term Note programme (EMTN proOf the SEK 15.2 billion (11.6) in bonds gramme), which opened up the possibility of issued during the year, green bonds comprised Good access to bank financing financing in more currencies and tenors. In SEK 13.4 billion (7.4), thus making Vasakronan Access to bank finance remained solid during 2019, Vasakronan issued bonds in six currenSweden’s largest issuer of green corporate the year, with good opportunities to borrow cies for a total of SEK 15.2 billion (11.8). The bonds. Refer to page 34. with longer tenors at low rates. During the issue was carried out for the first time in JPY, year, secured bank loans totalling SEK 1.3 bilUSD and AUD. Vasakronan’s ability to broaden Financing through commercial paper lion (2) with long tenures were signed. Vasa­ the investor base and reach new markets Vasakronan’s commercial paper enables kronan’s secured bank loans amounted to reduced the company’s financial risk, somethe company to issue commercial paper in SEK 12 billion (13) at year end, corresponding thing that Moody’s highlighted in their explanaSwedish krona or euros. The loan limit is to 17% (21) of the total debt portfolio. Total tion when they confirmed the company’s rating. SEK 25,000 million and the maturity is a maxibank loans outstanding secured against Of the total liability at the end of the period, mum of one year. Borrowing using commercial mortgage deeds declined to 7% (9) of the 27% (17) consisted of borrowings in currenpaper totalled SEK 7.2 million (6.2) at year Group’s total assets. The financial policy Sources of financing widely distributed Higher percentage of foreign financing Bonds, 11% 1 Bonds, SEK, 37% –7 Bonds, NOK, 16% 0 Bonds, EUR, 7% 6 Bonds, JPY, 1% 1 Bonds, AUD, 1% 1 Bonds, USD, 3% 3 –4 Secured bank loans, 17% –1 The NIB and EIB, 7% –8 –6 –4 –2 0 2 4 6 8 % On balance-sheet date Changes in sources of financing 2018–2019 percentage of total borrowing VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 33 FI N A N CI N G states that collateralised loans must not and an annual energy intensity of under 100 and Fourth Swedish national pension funds exceed 20% of total assets. kWh/sq. m. New construction and major that amounts to SEK 18 billion. The agreement In addition to secured bank loans, Vasa­ redevelopment projects being financed must extends until further notice with a notice kronan had green unsecured loans with the have a minimum certification of LEED Platiperiod of two years. Cash and cash equivalents Nordic Investment Bank and the European num or BREEAM Outstanding, and an of SEK 3.5 billion (2.2) and the unutilised credit Investment Bank that totalled SEK 4.8 billion energy intensity that is 25% below the facility together correspond to 166% (134) of (4.8). The aim is to continue increasing the National Board of Housing, Building and loans maturing over the next 12 months. share of unsecured bank financing that Planning’s guidelines (BBR requirements). In amounted to 7% (8) of the total loan portfolio addition to properties, solar photovoltaic sysExploiting low interest rates at the end of the year. tems are considered green investments. Changes in interest rates and credit margins Vasakronan’s bank loan agreement conBorrowing through green bonds contributes influence borrowing expenses. Therefore, the tains a change of control clause that allows to a diversified investor base and thereby to fixed-interest structure must be balanced to lenders to terminate the loan unless the curlower financing costs. Investments that qualilimit the effects of changes in interest rates rent owners collectively or separately own at fied for green borrowing under Vasakronan’s or credit margins. A long fixed-interest tenor least 51% of Vasakronan. In addition, there is framework amounted at year end to SEK 33 lowers interest rate risk but can entail a higher a covenant specifying that the interest coverbillion (24) and total Green Finance Instruaverage interest rate in the short term. age ratio may not fall below a multiple of 1.5. ments increased to SEK 26 billion (17.0). For In accordance with Vasakronan’s financing Agreements for unsecured loans also include more information, see Vasakronan’s impact strategy, the company shall exploit the precovenants stating that the LTV may not report for green financing on pages 136–141. vailing market situation to lock in low credit exceed 65%. For a number of years, Vasakronan has margins and market rates and work actively to obtained loans from the Nordic Investment maintain an optimal fixed-interest structure. Increase in green financing Bank (NIB) and European Investment Bank Vasakronan’s fixed-interest strategy is to In 2013, Vasakronan was first in the world to (EIB), which are both for finance projects that have a portion of the loan portfolio with floatuse green corporate bonds to offer the capiimprove the environment in Nordic and ing interest and the remainder with fixed tal market the opportunity to invest in new European countries. The loans will finance interest rates at longer tenors. In some cases construction and redevelopment projects four of Vasa­kronan’s projects, including the as long as 15 years. This allows the company that lead to lower energy consumption and redevelopment of Sergelhuset in central to benefit from low floating interest rates less climate impact. Since then, bonds totalling Stockholm and the Platinan new build in while fixed interest rates protect against rising around SEK 32 billion have been issued, makGothenburg. The aim is for these properties interest rates. There is a limitation within the ing Vasakronan Sweden’s largest issuer of to achieve LEED Platinum certification, and it financial policy which states that the average green corporate bonds. In 2018, Vasakronan is precisely this high environmental profile fixed-interest tenor may not be less than 2 refined and expanded the “Vasakronan – that enables financing through the NIB and years, and that the amount of fixed-interest Green Finance Framework,” which regulates EIB. During the year, Vasakronan received its maturities within 1 year may not exceed 55% the company’s green financing, to include first green secured loan of SEK 760 million. of interest-bearing liabilities. additional financial instruments. In 2018, The percentage of green financing consistVasakronan uses interest-rate derivatives the company issued the world’s first green ing of green bonds, green commercial paper to achieve a preferred fixed-interest tenor. commercial paper. and green loans increased during the period During the year, the company continued to use The new framework follows the Green to 47% (35) of the total loan portfolio. Vasa­ the low interest rate conditions and decreased Bond Principles and states that all borrowing kronan’s ambition is to eventually have 100% interest rate risk through new derivatives with in line with the framework is earmarked for green financing. maturities of up to 15 years. As a result, the green investments. The criteria for when an average fixed-interest tenor increased and investment can be classified as green are also Credit commitment from owners was 5.8 years (4.7) at year end. The proporgiven in the framework. An existing property To secure its access to capital, the company has tion of loans with fixed-interest maturities must have a minimum rating of LEED Gold, a credit facility with the First, Second, Third within one year declined to 32% (43) and 34 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T MAGASIN X IN CENTRAL UPPSALA Magasin X, an exciting new mentally certified as LEED Platinum, the highest posbuilding, is taking shape. The first ground was broken sible rating. in autumn 2019 and occupancy is planned for autumn Magasin X will offer a variety of office solutions: 2021. Magasin X will be Sweden’s largest office proptraditional offices, the Smart & Klart concept, and erty with a frame made entirely of wood. The building Arena, Vasakronan’s own co-working concept. encompasses 11,500 square metres in seven storeys Arena offers workplaces, offices and meeting rooms and is a good example of sustainable construction that existing or potential tenants can use as a flexible with low climate impact. and extra resource when their needs change. Using wood as a construction material has several Interest in Magasin X is considerable and tenants advantages. Trees bind carbon dioxide as they grow include the Swedish Tax Agency and White Arkitekter, and wood is renewable and recyclable. Thanks to its who previously signed agreements for 3,500 and low weight, it also requires less transportation and 1,000 square metres, respectively. Vasakronan’s raising the frame goes faster than with concrete. own Uppsala office will also move in. In early 2020, It also leads to a better work environment for contwo more tenants joined: Ramböll and Tmpl Solutions, struction workers since there is less dust and noise. who will rent 1,300 and 3,500 square metres, respecTogether with smart and efficient energy solutions, tively. This means that Magasin X, still two years this makes Magasin X an office building with a very before completion, has an occupancy rate of 80%. small carbon footprint. The building will be environVA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 35 FI N A N CI N G loans with fixed-interest maturities of five The proportion of loans maturing within the All derivatives are recognised at market value years or more increased to 53% (47) of internext 12 months decreased to 19% (25), and in the balance sheet. In the case of interest-­ est-bearing liabilities. the share of loans maturing in five years or rate derivatives, a surplus or deficit value more rose to 37% (27) of interest-­bearing liaoccurs if the agreed interest rate is higher or Low financing risk bilities. The average loan-to-maturity increased lower than the current market rate. In the Vasakronan’s financing strategy specifies during the year to 5.2 years (3.9) and average same manner, a surplus or deficit value also that the company’s financing risk is to be loan-to-maturity taking into consideration occurs in the currency derivative of the agreed limited by diversifying sources of financing unutilised credit commitments totalled 5.6 exchange rate deviates from the relevant and spreading out loan maturities over time. years (4.4). Vasakronan’s aim is to continue exchange rate. The change in value is recThrough borrowing in different markets, in reducing financing risk primarily by replacing ognised in profit or loss. The unrealised different currencies and via different instruloan maturities with loans with longer tenors. change in value has no effect on cash flow and ments, the company strives to reduce the risk will not have any realised impact on earnings for significantly increased refinancing and Limiting risk if the derivative is held to maturity. As cross-­ new borrowing costs by exploiting each fundVasakronan uses derivatives primarily to currency derivatives are perfectly matched ing source’s specific conditions. The financial obtain the desired fixed-interest structure in against underlying loans, there is an opposite policy established by the Board regulates the the debt portfolio. By combining a loan with exchange rate effect on the latter, meaning the maturity structure by stipulating that the floating interest and an interest-rate derivacurrency effect is eliminated in profit or loss. average remaining tenors for interest-bearing tive, a pre-determined interest rate can be At year end, the value of the derivative liabilities may not be less than two years and secured over the term of the derivative. By portfolio amounted to SEK 73 billion (62), loan maturities within a twelve-month period fixing rates over a longer period, a limit is set of which 74% comprised interest-rate derivamust correspond to not more than 40% of on the interest-rate risk linked to cash flow. tives and 25% cross-currency derivatives. interest-bearing liabilities. Currency derivatives are used in addition to The remaining share of 1% consisted of During the year, Vasakronan further reduced interest-rate derivatives to eliminate currency inflation-­linked derivatives. The value change financing risk in the loan portfolio primarily exposure on loans i foreign currencies. The in derivatives was negative SEK 881 million through borrowing in more foreign currencies risk of inflation is eliminated by derivatives (positive: 13), which was due to lower long and increased borrowing with long tenors. when borrowing via inflation-linked bonds. market rates during the year. Financial policy ensures balanced risks Outcome, Financial policy in brief 31 Dec 2019 Financing risk Loan-to-maturity min. 2 years 5.2 Loans maturing, 12 months max. 40% 19% Credit commitments and cash/loans maturing 12 months at least 100% 166% Interest-rate risk Interest coverage ratio min. 2.0x (LTM) 4.6 Fixed-interest period min. 2 years 5.8 Interest maturity within 12 months max. 55% 32% Credit risk Counterpart’s rating min. A–, or BBB+ with CSAs Met Currency risk Currency exposure No exposure Met 36 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T PRO P ER T Y H O L D I N G S Strong demand increased value The demand primarily for modern, sustainable offices in prime locations helped the value of Vasakronan’s properties rise to SEK 156 billion, an increase of 9.7% over last year. Vasakronan’s portfolio is concentrated to high demand for modern office premises in Good distribution across sectors Stockholm, Gothenburg, Malmö and Uppsala, prime locations. The value of the portfolio markets with conditions for strong economic increased in 2019 to SEK 156 billion (139). Public sector, 24% Services, 22% growth and good liquidity for transactions. Excluding completed investments, this means Consumer goods, 18% The properties are mainly modern, sustaina change in value of SEK 13.3 billion (10.7), IT, 9% able and flexible office and retail properties corresponding to 9.7% (8.5). The increase in Finance, 6% close to good public transport. The shops are value is largely due to rising market rents but Telecom, 3% primarily within city retail. Our assessment also to a lower yield requirement, particularly Industry, 3% is that they give high long-term returns at in Gothenburg. The value increase was greatOther, 15% carefully measured risk, even if the shortest in Stockholm, followed by Gothenburg, term return may vary. At year end, the propand amounted to 11.8% (9.3) and 6.8% (9.7) Breakdown by sector, share of contracted rent erty portfolio comprised 174 properties respectively. During the year, the value of (174) and a total lettable area of 2.3 million development properties rose 11.5% (8.7) sq. m. (2.4). Vasakronan divested its properand contributed 1.6 percentage points to ties in Lund at the start of 2019. the total increase in value. High percentage of buildings with environmental certification The ten largest properties account for 33% of the property value Vasakronan aims high when it comes to Property Known as Location environmental certification of its property Blåmannen 20 Klara Zenit City, Stockholm portfolio. Our ambition is for the share of Garnisonen Garnisonen Östermalm, Stockholm properties certified in accordance with Hästskon 12 Sergelhuset City, Stockholm LEED Gold or higher to increase. At the end Uggleborg 12 Klara C City, Stockholm of the period, 85% (85) of our property portfolio was environmentally certified, of which Spektern 13 Swedbankhuset City, Stockholm 72% (69) was rated LEED Gold or higher. Telefonfabriken Telefonplan Telefonplan, Stockholm Jakob Större 18 Jakob Större City, Stockholm Strong rental market Nordstaden 8:27 Part of Nordstan City, Gothenburg Trends in the regional property markets in Kronåsen 1:1 Uppsala Science Park Uppsala which Vasakronan operates were characterGasklockan 3 Gasklockan Malmö ised by a consistently strong economy and The ten largest properties based on market value. VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 37 PRO P ER T Y H O L D I N G S Even distribution of rents to maturity No. of contracts Annual rent, SEK m % of total 2020 1,311 1,185 16 2021 875 1,184 16 2022 804 1,348 19 ≥2023 1,163 3,121 43 Total 4,153 6,838 94 Residential 1,175 101 2 Garage – 254 4 Total 5,328 7,193 100 Maturity structure for contracted rent. Widely distributed over many tenants Change in value by region Contribution to change in value, Share in % Change in value, % percentage points Swedish Police Authority 3 Stockholm 11.8 7.8 Ericsson 3 Gothenburg 6.8 1.2 H&M 3 Uppsala 4.2 0.3 Swedish Prison and Probation Service 2 Malmö 4.1 0.4 Försäkringskassan (Social Insurance Agency) 2 Total 9.7 9.7 Swedish National Courts Administration 1 Åhléns 1 Change in value, by category Contribution to change in value, Handelsbanken 1 Change in value, % percentage points KPMG 1 Investment properties 9.5 8.1 The Riksdag Administration 1 Development properties 11.5 1.6 Total 18 Transactions – – Largest tenants, share of contracted rent. Total 9.7 9.7 38 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T PRO P ER T Y H O L D I N G S Total yield in focus based on cash-flow projections over a period ten largest tenants account for only 18%. To evaluate how well the operations and indiof at least ten years and calculation of future Of these ten, five are in the public sector. vidual properties are developing financially, residual values based on yield requirements. Broken down by sector, public sector tenants total yields (the sum of the yield and changes At the start of the year and mid-year, all account for 24% of the contracted rent in value, including projects and transactions) properties are valued by external appraisers where the average remaining term to matuare followed up continuously. Reviews are and valued internally for the other quarters. rity is 6.6 years. conducted against the MSCI Swedish PropA more detailed description of the valuation For the lease portfolio as a whole, the erty Index. For 2019, Vasakronan’s total yield methodology can be found on page 87. average remaining term to maturity is 3.9 was 13.4% (12.5), where the average for the The ten largest properties account for years (4.2). In 2020, 16% of the commercial index not including Vasakronan was 9.9% 33% of the portfolio’s value of SEK 156 bilcontracted rent will be subject to renegotia(10.4). This means that Vasakronan exceeded lion. The largest property in terms of value is tion. The number of leases, not including flats the index by a full 3.5 percentage points. Klara Zenit in central Stockholm, with an estiand garages, amounted to 4,153 and the Over the past ten-year period, Vasa­ mated market value of almost SEK 10 billion. contracted rent amounted to SEK 7.2 billion kronan’s total yield averaged 11.5% (10.0) The Stockholm-based properties account for (6.5) on 31 December 2019. Of the total cona year, where the average for the index not 67% (66) of the total value, which is around tracted rent, 74% (74) was office premises including Vasa­kronan was 9.9% (9.1). The SEK 105 billion (92). For a detailed descripand 18% (18) retail premises. The remainder direct yield for 2019 was 3.5% (3.8), comtion of the portfolio, refer to the table on comprised flats, parking, hotels and other. pared with the index excluding Vasakronan page 41 and the property lists under each of 3.6% (3.7). region. Strong net lettings Market concentration and the property portQuarterly valuations Wide distribution lowers risk folio’s high quality and flexibility provides Vasakronan values the property portfolio Risks linked to the lease portfolio are limited considerable opportunities to offer new and each quarter in line with the established by ensuring a wide distribution over many existing tenants a broad selection of premvaluation policy. The valuation principles are tenants active in various industries and a ises. In 2019, new leases corresponding to the same since 1997 and coincide with the diversified maturity structure. No individual an annual rent of SEK 982 million (510), or RICS Red Book guidelines and MSCI Sweden tenant accounts for more than 3 percentage 220,000 sq. m. (146,000), were signed. The Annual Property Index. The valuations are points of the contracted total rent, while the large change compared with 2018 is primarily VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 39 PRO P ER T Y H O L D I N G S due to letting to the Swedish Tax Agency in able that on average surpassed the earlier Nya Kronan, which was completed in early amount by 12% (12). Net lettings for the year 2019 for a total of 43,000 square metres. amounted to SEK 426 million (19). During the year, renegotiations and lease The occupancy rate was 94.1% (93.1) on extensions of existing contracts correspond31 December 2019. Of the total vacancies, ing to an annual rent of SEK 1,030 million 1.4 percentage points (2.0) is attributed to (990) were also completed. Based on the ongoing projects and 0.2 (0.5) is attributed to contracts up for renegotiation, 70% (69) of vacant development properties. The loss in the tenants decided to remain in their premincome for the vacant properties amounted ises. Renegotiations and lease extensions to SEK 375 million (419). during the years resulted in a new rent payFocus on office and retail High long-term total yield % 15 Värdeförändring 12 Direktavkastning Offices, 74% Retail, 18% 9 Other, 8% 6 3 0 Vasakronan IPD Vasakronan IPD Vasakronan IPD Contracted rent by property type 10 years 3 years 2019 Yield Change in value Vasakronan’s total yield compared with MSCI Sweden Annual Property Index (not including Vasakronan) Property portfolio in growth cities Stockholm 67% Gothenburg 18% Malmö, 8% Uppsala, 6% Following sales of its holdings in Lund, Vasakronan’s properties are located in four cities in Sweden distributed over four regions, of which 67% of the property portfolio’s value is in Stockholm. 40 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T PRO P ER T Y H O L D I N G S Even distribution of rents to maturity Net Environ­ Area, Market Contracted operating Investmental Number of thousand value, rent, Occupancy income, ments, Change in certificaRegion/Property type properties sq. m. SEK m SEK m rate, % SEK m SEK m value, % tions2), % STOCKHOLM CENTRAL Offices1) 45 786 81,561 3,257 95 2,298 2,039 85 Other 2 9 20 – –2 3 Central Stockholm, total 47 795 81,581 3,257 95 2,296 2,042 13.5 84 INNER SUBURBS Offices 24 543 22,420 1,233 90 862 948 84 Other 9 41 1,112 67 100 51 10 12 Stockholm inner suburbs, total 33 584 23,532 1,300 91 913 958 6.2 79 Stockholm, total 80 1,379 105,113 4,557 94 3,209 3,000 11.8 82 GOTHENBURG Offices 23 254 15,511 707 95 516 673 99 Retail 11 149 12,638 624 96 480 128 86 Gothenburg, total 34 403 28,149 1,332 96 995 801 6.8 94 MALMÖ Offices 21 197 8,933 443 90 300 177 94 Retail 10 95 3,863 258 92 140 63 100 Other 2 4 214 14 93 10 3 100 Malmö, total 33 296 13,010 715 91 450 243 4.0 96 UPPSALA Offices 16 185 6,925 416 97 280 342 80 Retail 8 58 2,657 164 98 113 52 74 Other 3 2 217 9 80 6 2 0 Uppsala, total 27 244 9,799 589 97 399 396 4.2 78 TOTAL 174 2,323 156,071 7,193 94 5,053 4,440 9.7 85 The data in the tables are based on property category, see the definition on page 148. 1) Central Stockholm – Retail only comprises one property, which is why this has not been reported separately and is instead included in Central Stockholm – Offices 2) Share of the region’s area VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 41 O U R R EG I O N S Our regions Lower yield requirement, offices % 6 Malmö C Göteborg 5 Uppsala i Stockhol “Market rents continued to rise in 2019 in all of the 4 Stockhol Stockhol markets where Vasakronan operates. The most positive developments continued in central 3 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Källa: DTZ Stockholm,” says Anders Ahlberg, interim SVP for Property investments. Rising market rent, offices SEK/m²/year 8,000 “The occupancy rates for our Malmö C Göteborg development properties are 6,000 Uppsala i high, even in projects that are 4,000 Stockhol far from completion.” Stockhol 2,000 Stockhol Anders Ahlberg, 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Källa: DTZ Interim SVP for Property investments How would you summarise 2019? Rising yield requirement, retail “The year was characterised by continued healthy demand for offices in % prime locations, especially modern, space-efficient offices. In short this 6 Malmö C means that rent levels continued to increase, primarily in central Stockholm Göteborg but also in our other markets. A good example is Uppsala, our smallest sub-market. There is strong growth in rent as new, modern offices – unlike 5 Uppsala i what was there before – are being built in central Uppsala.” Stockhol 4 Stockhol Is the company at all affected by signals of a weak economy to come? “Not at all, so far, when it comes to the office market. In our existing office Stockhol premises we’ve had essentially no vacancies at all. And the occupancy rates 3 for our development properties are high, even in projects that are far from 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Källa: DTZ completion. In my opinion, this is due to a combination of favourable market Stockholm’s CBD Central Stockholm (excl. CBD) conditions and the focus we’ve had on our development properties. One Stockholm Suburbs Central Uppsala Gothenburg’s CBD positive example is Magasin X in Uppsala, which is already 80% let even Malmö’s CBD though the building won’t be ready for occupancy for another two years.” What do the ongoing favourable conditions mean for property prices? “There is still a lot of pressure on the transaction market. Sales in 2019 were Stable market rent, retail of a record size and market prices in the major cities where Vasakronan has properties have risen. A rather limited offering means high price levels for all SEK/m²/year 16,000 types of properties in prime locations, even ones that aren’t of the highest Malmö C quality. Yield requirements continued to fall during the year, but it’s the posiGöteborg tive rent trend that has driven up prices. 12,000 Uppsala i Aren’t there any storm clouds on the horizon for the property market? Stockhol “The retail areas competing with e-commerce are under pressure. Vasa­ 8,000 Stockhol kronan’s retail premises are in excellent locations in city areas, so while they Stockhol are still affected they are doing better than others. There was even a weak increase of rental revenue from retail in 2019.” 4,000 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Stockholm’s CBD Gothenburg’s CBD Malmö’s CBD Källa: DTZ Source for all diagrams: DTZ/Cushman & Wakefield 42 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T O U R R EG I O N S Share of Vasakronan Share of Vasakronan 2019 2018 total1) the region1) Largest tenants, share2) % Market share % REGION STOCKHOLM CENTRAL Central Stockholm, Market value, SEK m 81,581 70,130 H&M 4 incl. CBD Rental revenue, SEK m 3,172 2,948 Handelsbanken 2 Vasakronan 12 Net operating income, SEK m 2,296 2,175 The Riksdag Administration 2 AMF 7 Occupancy rate, % 95 94 NetEnt 2 Fabege 5 Number of properties 47 46 45% Offices, 79% Tieto 2 Folksam 4 Area, thousand sq. m. 795 795 Retail, 16% AFA 4 Environmental certification, % 84 85 Other, 5% Source: CBRE INNER SUBURBS Market value, SEK m 23,532 21,487 Ericsson 16 Stockholm inner suburbs Rental revenue, SEK m 1,292 1,208 Social Insurance Agency 8 Fabege 14 Net operating income, SEK m 913 855 University of Arts, Crafts and Design 4 Vasakronan 12 Occupancy rate, % 91 90 Swedish Transport Administration 4 Klövern 12 Number of properties 33 33 18% Offices, 85% JM 3 Humlegården 7 Area, thousand sq. m. 584 601 Retail, 3% Atrium Ljungberg 4 Environmental certification, % 79 76 Other, 12% Source: CBRE REGION GOTHENBURG Market value, SEK m 28,149 25,630 Swedish Police Authority 8 Gothenburg’s CBD Rental revenue, SEK m 1,325 1,280 Swedish Prison and Probation Service 8 Vasakronan 22 Net operating income, SEK m 995 974 Åhléns 5 Wallenstam 14 Occupancy rate, % 96 95 National Courts Administration 4 Hufvudstaden 9 Number of properties 34 34 19% Offices, 61% SEB 4 Balder 8 Area, thousand sq. m. 403 402 Retail, 34% SEB 6 Environmental certification, % 94 94 Other, 5% Source: Vasakronan via Datscha REGION MALMÖ Malmö’s CBD and Market value, SEK m 13,010 13,196 Swedish Police Authority 16 Västra Hamnen Rental revenue, SEK m 692 761 Prison and Probation Service 5 Vasakronan 20 Net operating income, SEK m 450 494 Scandic Hotels 4 Wihlborgs 15 Occupancy rate, % 91 90 Malmö University 2 Balder 6 Number of properties 33 35 10% Offices, 60% Bonnier 2 Volito 4 Area, thousand sq. m. 296 339 Retail, 28% Midroc 4 Environmental certification, % 96 97 Other, 12% Source: Vasakronan via Datscha REGION UPPSALA Market value, SEK m 9,799 8,491 Region Uppsala 10 Central Uppsala Rental revenue, SEK m 559 521 Swedish Medical Products Agency 8 Vasakronan 22 Net operating income, SEK m 399 371 National Courts Administration 6 Skandia Fastigheter 10 Occupancy rate, % 97 97 National Food Agency, Sweden 4 Uppsala Univ. Foundations 9 Number of properties 27 26 8% Offices, 68% Municipality of Uppsala 3 Municipality of Uppsala 6 Area, thousand sq. m. 244 236 Retail, 19% Castellum 4 Environmental certification, % 78 77 Other, 13% Source: Vasakronan via Datscha 1) Contracted rent 2) Share of the region’s contracted rent. VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 43 R EG I O N S TO CK H O L M A year of strong new letting New letting for the year in the Stockholm region was just over SEK 800 million, while the corresponding figure for a typical year would be around SEK 330 million. A clear trend is that tech companies and game developers want central locations in the city to attract the right employees. “At Sergelhuset, we want to offer the Smart & Klart office concept as well as Arena, our own concept for co-working.” Ronald Bäckrud SVP, Stockholm Region What do you want to showcase from 2019? which will be a resource for us as well. This will “The strong letting. In a typical year we have new take our activity-based work approach to the letting of around SEK 330 million but in 2019 we next level.” had close to SEK 810 million. We also had SEK 765 How do the plans for Sergelgatan look? million in annual rent in our renegotiations, corre“During the year we have renegotiated retail agree­ sponding to a result of 14.3%. ments in order to create flexibility and enable future It is gratifying that many of our new lettings, such development. Renovations will be completed in as the 12,600 square metres to Handelsbanken two stages, the first of which began in the autumn. at Tre Vapen, were made with only limited renoThe entire project will be completed in 2022. vations. This keeps costs down, both for us and The goal is to establish more stores and provide the customer and, not least, the climate. more services and restaurants. Sergelgatan will A continuing trend is that many of our customers be a modern shopping and experience street that are reviewing their needs for premises, reducing offers a lively atmosphere at all hours of the day. their space and demanding greater flexibility. We are also cooperating with the city and other It is also clear that tech companies and game property owners to increase security in the area.” developers want central locations in Stockholm to attract the right employees. In August 2020, What is the status outside of the city centre? game developer Embark Studios will move in to “We’re working close with Kista, where we and Bankpalatset at Kungsträdgården. They’re letting other property owners want to grow Kista from the entire property, or 4,300 square metres.” a mere IT cluster to a dynamic and multifaceted suburb. There is a great deal of interest in Kista How is letting at Sergelhuset progressing? and of the 7,200 square metres that Nordea “Really well. Close to half of the property is vacated at the end of the year, one-third has already let and there is a great deal of interest for already been let to Cybercom. the remaining portions. During the year, game Letting in Solna is going well. The Hilton property developer King signed an agreement for 11,500 is completed and, in principle, fully let. At the square metres. Stureplansgruppen is renting Strand development property, a lease has been 3,600 square metres, the majority of which will be signed with Statistics Sweden for 7,200 square restaurants, rooftop bars and conference spaces. metres. Statistics Sweden has been one of our At Sergelhuset, we also want to offer the Smart & tenants at Garnisonen since the early 70s. That Klart office concept as well as Arena, our own customers can remain with us despite evolving concept for co-working. Arena encompasses needs for premises is the best award of all. 3,000 square metres and will be a resource for Alviks strand is in the middle of an interesting existing tenants when they need more workplaces. conversion where we are developing more resiWe’re also moving our head office to Sergelhuset dences than offices. It’s an attractive location in October 2020. We’ll be right next to Arena, near the water, perfect for housing.” 44 R EG I O N S TO CK H O L M THE TRE VAPEN PROPERTY, a stone’s throw from Garnisonen, Karlaplan and close to the green areas of Gärdet. Constructed in the 50s to house the University of Arts, Crafts and Design. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency moved out in 2019. Handelsbanken took up residence at the same time, renting the entirety of the 12,600 square metres that were vacated. 45 R EG I O N S TO CK H O L M C EN T R A L S TO CK H O L M Year of Environ­ construction/ Lettable mental most recent area excl. Share certifi­ Name of property Street address redevelopment garage sq. m. Offices Retail cation1) 1 Argus 8 Skeppsbron 38/Packhusgränd 7/Tullgränd 4/Österlånggatan 47 1788/2002 5,717 LS 2 Beridarebanan 11 Sergelgatan 8–14/Sveavägen 5–9 Hitechbuilding/ 1961/2007 24,352 LG Mäster Samuelsgatan 42 2 Beridarebanan 4 Sergelgatan 16–18/Sveavägen 13/Läkarhuset 1962/2000 12,943 LG 2 Beridarebanan 77 Sveavägen 17/Sergelgatan 20–22/Hötorget 2–4 1958/1996 15,447 LG 3 Blåmannen 20 Drottninggatan 53/Mäster Samuelsgatan 50–60/ 2000–2003 65,526 LP Bryggargatan 1–9/Klara Norra Kyrkogata 14 4 Bremen 1 Tegeluddsvägen 3–9 1964/2008 21,334 – 5 Gamen 12 Götgatan 74–80/Vartoftagatan 21–51 1959/2006 31,192 LC 5 Gamen 8 Åsögatan 106A–108/Götgatan 72A 2000/2001 5,835 LP 6 Garnisonen 3 Karlavägen 96–112/Oxenstiernsgatan 15/Linnégatan 87–89/ 1886/2004–05 136,162 LG & LP Banérgatan 16–30 7 Getingen 11 Sveavägen 163–167/Ynglingagatan 18 1955/2005 23,853 LP 8 Grönlandet Norra 1–5 Drottninggatan 96–98/Wallingatan 2/Holländargatan 17/ 1800/2001 15,572 LG Kammakargatan 15 9 Hästskon 12 Sveavägen 2–10/Hamngatan 24–32/Mäster Samuelsgatan 39A–B/ 1963 53,218 – Malmskillnadsgatan 13–17, 36–40/Sergelarkaden 2/Sergelgången 9 Hästskon 9 Hamngatan 22/Regeringsgatan 45 1935 9,667 – 10 Jakob Större 18 Jakobsgatan 2–8/Regeringsgatan 8–24/Västra Trädgårdsgatan 7 1975/2009 26,590 LG 11 Kungliga Trädgården 7 Hamngatan 25–27/Västra Trädgårdsgatan 10–12 1969 5,423 LP 12 Kurland 11 Holländargatan 21A/Kammakargatan 32 1884 2,274 LG 13 Lyckan 10 Lindhagensgatan 124–132/Hornsbergsvägen 17 1940/2005 23,718 LG 13 Lyckan 9 Lindhagensgatan 122/Nordenflychtsvägen 55 1936/2003 8,370 LG 14 Matrosen 4 Birger Jarlsgatan 2–4/Nybrogatan 1–3/Ingmar Bergmans gata 1–3 1893/1984 9,264 LS 15 Munklägret 21 Hantverkargatan 15/Parmmätargatan 12 1958/2000 6,330 LP 16 Nattugglan 14 Västgötagatan 1–7/Folkungagatan 44 1978/2015 22,269 LP 17 Pennfäktaren 11 Vasagatan 7 1977/2009 12,010 LG 18 Riga 2 Hamburgsvägen 12–14/Fjärde Bassängvägen 11–19/ 2010 24,386 LG Malmvägen 7–13/Tredje Bassängvägen 2–14 19 Sejlaren 7 Sveavägen 25–29/Olofsgatan 6–8/Olof Palmes gata 7/ 1930/1995 10,232 LP Apelbergsgatan 44 20 Skjutsgossen 8 Krukmakargatan 15–21 1942/2008 12,275 LG 21 Skravelberget Mindre Hamngatan 2/Birger Jarlsgatan 1–5/Smålandsgatan 5 1903/1999 9,052 – 12–13 22 Skären 3 Mäster Samuelsgatan 11/Norrlandsgatan 12 1853/1984 1,758 LC 23 Spektern 13 Hamngatan 29–33/Regeringsgatan 26–32/Sergelgången/ 1975/1995 28,192 LG Västra Trädgårdsgatan 17 24 Sperlingens Backe 45 Stureplan 2 1897/1959 3,905 – 24 Sperlingens Backe 47 Birger Jarlsgatan 16/Grev Turegatan 1 1935/1993 8,222 – 25 Starkströmmen 2 & 4 Midskogsgränd 1–5 1965 9,192 – 26 Stuten 12 Kungsgatan 25–27/Regeringsgatan 67–71/Oxtorgsgatan 2–4 1925/2002–05 14,888 LP 27 Styckjunkaren 11 Birger Jarlsgatan 6D & 10 1891/1984 1,615 LS 27 Styckjunkaren 7 Birger Jarlsgatan 14/Grev Turegatan 2/Riddargatan 2 1900/1987 2,244 LS 28 Styrpinnen 12 Hamngatan 13 1979/1995 2,223 – 29 Styrpinnen 15 Kungsträdgårdsgatan 16/Näckströmsgatan 1 1901/1990 3,647 LG 30 Sumpen 14 Lästmakargatan 6/Norrlandsgatan 22 1856/1985 2,046 LS 30 Sumpen 15 Stureplan 17–19/Birger Jarlsgatan 19/Kungsgatan 1 1895/1980 3,981 LC 30 Sumpen 16 Stureplan 13/Lästmakargatan 2–4 1862/1988 3,010 – 31 Svea Artilleri 14 Valhallavägen 117 Bldg 81–Bldg 87 1877/2013 22,088 LG 32 Tre Vapen 2 Valhallavägen 191–215/Lindarängsvägen 1–7/Borgvägen 6–22 1959/2005 38,473 LP 33 Uggleborg 12 Vasagatan 14–18/Klara Västra Kyrkogatan 9–15/ 1934/2016 33,157 LP Klara Vattugränd 1/Klarafaret 4 34 Uppfinnaren 2 Östermalmsgatan 87/Artillerigatan 62 A–B/Skeppargatan 61–63 1914/2003 16,819 LG 35 Vildmannen 6 Biblioteksgatan 11/Lästmakargatan 1 1925/1981 4,809 LS 35 Vildmannen 11 Lästmakargatan 3 1897/1998 1,511 LS Total Central Stockholm 794,791 1) LP=LEED Platinum LG=LEED Gold LS=LEED Silver LC=LEED Certified 46 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 29 BANKPALATSET A comprehensive upgrade of the old Bankpalatset is nearing completion. In November 2019, game developer Embark Studios signed an agreement for the entire property of 4,300 square metres. Occupancy is sched­ uled for August 2020. 7 25 13 4 31 18 12 8 34 19 26 30 24 2 3 35 27 32 17 22 9 14 23 11 28 21 6 15 33 10 29 1 20 16 FOLKUNGAGATAN 44 The Nattugglan 14 devel­ 16 opment property is on Folkungagatan 44. During 5 the year development began of 23,000 square metres allocated over seven floors. Tyréns is renting 12,500 square metres. Occupancy is planned for summer 2022. 32 TRE VAPEN 2 During the year, Handels­ 9 SERGELHUSET banken signed a lease for 60,000 square metres of urban development 12,600 square metres. in the middle of central Stockholm. Offices, Handelsbanken took occu­ retail, services and housing are being con­ pancy in June, when the structed to revitalise Sergelstan. King, EY, Swedish Environmental Stureplansgruppen and Vasakronan’s own Protection Agency moved out head offices are some of the groups who will and took over all of the prem­ take up residence in 2020/2021. ises vacated by the agency. 47 R EG I O N S TO CK H O L M S TO CK H O L M ’ S I N N ER S U B U R B S Year of Environ­ construction/ Lettable mental most recent area excl. Share certifi­ Name of property Street address redevelopment garage sq. m. Offices Retail cation1) 1 Albydal 3 Sundbybergsvägen 1–3/Solna Access 1979/2003 28,246 LG 2 Alvik 1:18 Gustavslundsvägen 129–145 1987 47,986 – 3 Bredbandet 1 Isafjordsgatan 2–4/Dalviksgatan/Grönlandsgatan/Kistavägen – – – 4 Bromsten 9:1 Sulkyvägen 1–31/Sulkyvägen 2–32 – – – 5 Diktaren 1 Terminalvägen 32–40 (Tegelhuset) 1965 6,751 – 6 Godset 4 Sturegatan 3–9/Fabriksgränd 1/Järnvägsgatan 2–10/ 1977 21,722 LG Lysgränd 2 7 Hammarby Gård 12 Hammarby Kaj 10A/Hammarby Kaj 10D 2017 12,457 LP 8 Hekla 1 Isafjordsgatan 14–16/Blåfjällsgatan/Grönlandsgången/ 1975/2001 25,550 LG Kistagången 9 Hilton 7 Gustav III:s Boulevard 48–52 2019 9,778 LP 10 Hårddisken 1 Isafjordsgatan 10/Hans Werthéns Gata/Grönlandsgatan/ – – – Dalviksgatan 11 Järvafältet Järva Dammtorp/Sjövägen/Mellersta Järvafältet 1929 2,084 – 12 Katla 1 Kista Science Tower/Färögatan 33 (Main entrance)/ 2002 48,804 LG Hanstavägen 11, 21, 27, 29 13 Knarrarnäs 2 Knarrarnäsgatan 1–11/Hanstavägen 2/Isafjordsgatan 1/ 2003 42,652 LG Kista Entrance 14 Kronan 1 Sturegatan 2–4 B/Ekensbergsvägen/Prästgårdsgatan 1–3/ 1981 13,616 LG Tallgatan 15 Magasinet 1 Sturegatan 1/Fabriksgränd 2 2009 12,340 LS 16 Modemet 1 Isafjordsgatan 10–12/Hans Werthéns Gata 1/ 2008/2015 58,667 LS, LG Grönlandsgatan 31/Blåfjällsgatan 4/Modemgatan 10–12 & LP 17 Nöten 3 Solna strandväg 96–122 1949/2000 35,800 LG 18 Nöten 5 Solna strandväg 62–86 1986 27,918 – 19 Rosenborg 1 Gustav III:s Boulevard 54–58 2007 10,306 LG 20 Rosenborg 2 Gustav III:s Boulevard 62–66 2009 10,921 LG 21 Rosenborg 3 Rosenborgsgatan 2–12 2014 17,106 LP 22 Rosteriet 6 & 8 Rosterigränd 2–16 1959/1999 17,421 LP 23 Sicklaön 37:49 Kvarnholmsvägen 56 1972/2002 33,769 – 24 Sundbyberg 2:44 Torshamnsgatan, Kymlinge Norra – – – 25 Telefonfabriken 1 Telefonvägen 22A–30, LM Ericssonsväg 12–32 and others 1939/2010 100,122 LS & LG Total, Stockholm inner suburbs 584,016 1) LP=LEED Platinum LG=LEED Gold LS=LEED Silver 48 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 14 NYA KRONAN The Swedish Tax Agency is mov­ ing in to 43,000 square metres in the Nya Kronan block. The building is under construction and occupancy is scheduled for the end of 2021. This ten-year lease means that the property 8 16 is already fully let. 12 10 13 3 11 24 4 21 20 19 6 9 14 15 18 17 1 5 2 22 25 23 7 9 HILTON During the year, the newly built property in Frösundavik reached an 18 STRAND occupancy rate of 96%. Tenants include A development property totalling IFS Sverige AB, Huawei, Extenda 26,000 square metres. During 2019 Retail and IT-total. The property Statistics Sweden rented 7,200 square encompasses a total of 9,600 square metres. With this, Strand reached an metres of lettable area across nine occupancy rate of 57% and the project is storeys, of which the top two are built entering its final phase. Statistics Sweden entirely out of wood. will move in during summer 2020. 49 R EG I O N G OT H EN B U RG Attractive views over Göta älv The Lilla Bommen area continues to expand. The next building in the block is Kromet, which is next to Platinan at the bridgehead of Hisingsbron. One of the challenges in the city is finding climate-­ smart solutions for transportation. “Platinan, still two years before ­completion, has reached an occupancy rate of 67%.” Kristina Pettersson Post, SVP, Gothenburg Region What do you want to showcase from 2019? Fashion chains like NA-KD opened in Kompassen “Platinan in Lilla Bommen will be completed in in Fredstan. NA-KD were going to stay for only 2021. We’re now beginning to see what the buildthree months, but the store was so successful ing will look like, giving Gothenburg a new silhouthat NA-KD chose to stay longer.” ette. It creates an entirely new atmosphere in the What are the main challenges in 2020? area and is the beginning of our changes in Lilla “It will remain tough for retail, meaning that store Bommen. It’s exciting to see how much one buildowners as well as property owners need to innoing can affect things. vate. We want to keep contributing to a dynamic, We’ve already let space in Platinan to Scandic, attractive city centre and distinct pedestrian Wistrand Advokatbyrå and KPMG. During the year, streets. Attractive pedestrian streets also create the technology consultant COWI announced it good conditions for businesses that rent offices would be moving in. This is a sizeable establishment, in the area. meaning that Platinan, still two years before comTo that end, the non-profit organisation Gothenpletion, has reached an occupancy rate of 67%.” burg Citysamverkan was founded, including the What else is happening in Lilla Bommen? City of Gothenburg, organisations focused on the “Last year the renovation of Läppstiftet was comcity centre, Vasakronan and other property ownpleted and we’re continuing to develop the area, ers. The idea is to jointly develop the city centre in which will change a lot in the near future. There different ways so that it attracts Gothenburgers will be workplaces, hotels and residences for and visitors, but also draws people and compaaround 25,000 people, and a rich offering of nies to the region.” restaurants, coffee shops and cultural institutions. Is there anything else you’re looking forward to? The next building in the block is Kromet, which is “Finding new, smart solutions for transportation next to Platinan near the bridgehead of Hisingsin the city, which is also part of improving the bron, with a view over Göta älv. The construction experience for visitors. Gothenburg has transstart is planned for 2021. This is another exciting ported goods from a hub to the city via electric project with a strong focus on how we can further train for quite some time. Now we’re seeing a reduce our climate footprint, such as through development with more deliveries by bicycle. recycling and smart material choices.” In Nordstan we’re participating in a research How does the overall occupancy rate look? project to develop a digital platform to consoli“It has been stable, with healthy demand for date and optimise transportation in the city. The offices. Top rents for offices are around SEK goal is to reduce shipments by around 40%. 4,500 per square metre. The pressure has been It’s also gratifying to see the renovations at somewhat lower for stores but we’ve had several Brunnsparken fully under way. This area has long exciting establishments. For example & Other been considered unsafe. When renovations are Stories opened its first store in Gothenburg, an complete in 2020, it will be a lighter, greener and excellent addition to Kungsgatan. more welcoming place. This is a win for both The market for pop-up stores is also growing. Nordstan and Fredstan.” 50 R EG I O N G OT H EN B U RG LILLA BOMMEN in Gothenburg, a vigorously developing area. Here we are building Platinan, a locale for innovative meetings with 60,000 square metres of offices, co-working space, restaurants and a new Scandic hotel. COWI, Wistrand Advokatbyrå and KPMG also signed agreements in 2019. This means that the occupancy rate has reached 67% with two years to go before completion. 51 R EG I O N G OT H EN B U RG Year of Environ­ construction/ Lettable mental most recent area excl. Share certifi­ Name of property Street address redevelopment garage sq. m. Offices Retail cation1) 1 Gullbergsvass 1:16 Lilla Bommen 1–2/Hamntorget 1/Lilla Bommens Torg 11 1989 31,873 LP 2 Gullbergsvass 16:1 Gullbergs Strandgata 2–8 1984/1986 22,836 LG 3 Gullbergsvass 3:3 Vikingsgatan 1–5/Gullbergs Strandgata 3–7 – – – 4 Heden 22:19 Bohusgatan 13–15/Skånegatan 9 1984/2018 24,121 LG 5 Heden 42:1 Ernst Fontells Plats 15 1964/2005–12 52,924 LG 6 Heden 42:2 – – – – 7 Heden 42:4 Ullevigatan 11 2010 20,550 LG 8 Heden 42:5 – – – – 9 Heden 46:1 Ullevigatan 15 2009 16,534 LG 10 Heden 46:3 Skånegatan 1–3 2015 20,318 BE 11 Högen 3:1 Knipavägen 21/Råhult Partille 1984/2006 1,395 – 12 Inom Vallgraven 11:6 Arkaden/Fredsgatan 1–3/Drottninggatan 38–48/ 1970/2002 21,098 LG Södra Hamngatan 37–43/Östra Hamngatan 36 13 Inom Vallgraven 17:3 Drottninggatan 13/Västra Hamngatan 10/Kyrkogatan 20–22 1813/1994 4,110 LS 14 Inom Vallgraven 19:18 Kyrkogatan 44/Östra Hamngatan 31 1905/1987 2,784 LS 14 Inom Vallgraven 19:7 Drottninggatan 37/Östra Hamngatan 29 1864/1966 2,141 LS 14 Inom Vallgraven 19:9 Östra Hamngatan 33/Kyrkogatan 46 1810/1940 1,739 LS 14 Inom Vallgraven 20:14 Kungspassagen/Kungsgatan 48/Kyrkogatan 23 1930/2002 4,170 LG 14 Inom Vallgraven 20:6 Kungsgatan 50/Kyrkogatan 25 1850/1960 3,686 LS 14 Inom Vallgraven 20:7 Östra Hamngatan 35/Kyrkogatan 27 1800/1944 1,755 LS 15 Inom Vallgraven 22:3 Kungsgatan 31–33 1930 1,585 – 16 Inom Vallgraven 22:15 Kungsgatan 27–29/Västra Hamngatan 12–16/Vallgatan 12–14 1936/2006 9,190 – 17 Inom Vallgraven 22:16 Kungsgatan 35–39/Vallgatan 16–24 1910/2008 10,856 LC 18 Inom Vallgraven 33:10 Magasinsgatan 22 & 24 1978/1995 3,103 LG 19 Inom Vallgraven 59:14 Ekelundsgatan 8–10/Kungsgatan 26–32/ 1844/2009 10,872 LG Magasinsgatan 7A–C & 9/Kyrkogatan 1–7 20 Inom Vallgraven 61:11 Kungsgatan 12–18/Käppslängareliden 1/Otterhällegatan 12 1972/2008 10,000 LG 21 Inom Vallgraven 7:5 Centrumhuset/Östra Hamngatan 52/Östra Larmgatan 15–21/ 1939/1996 9,196 LS Kungsgatan 61–67 22 Inom Vallgraven 8:18 Kompassen/Kungsgatan 58–60/Kyrkogatan 35&39/ 1974/2015 11,549 – Östra Larmgatan 9–13/ Fredsgatan 9–11, 12–14 23 Inom Vallgraven 9:13 Fredsgatan 6–10/Drottninggatan 49–65/Kyrkogatan 56–60/ 1967/2013 8,353 LG Östra Larmgatan 3–7 24 Lorensberg 45:16 Storgatan 53/Södra vägen 3–5 1957/2009 6,536 LP 25 Nordstaden 10:20 Köpmansgatan 9/N:a Hamngatan 18 Ö:a Hamngatan 30–34 1930 6,356 LS 26 Nordstaden 10:23 Köpmansgatan 11 –25/Götgatan 13–15 &14–16/ 1986 27,785 LG Norra Hamngatan 20–34 27 Nordstaden 17:6 Kronhusgatan 9–13, Torggatan 16 1862/2003 4,517 LS 28 Nordstaden 21:1 Kronhusgatan 2A/Packhusplatsen 2/Smedjegatan 1 A 1901/2008 4,936 LP 29 Nordstaden 31:1 S:t Eriksgatan 3/Nedre Kvarnbergsgatan 3 1787/2005 2,324 LG 30 Nordstaden 8:27 Östra Hamngatan 18–24/Nordstadstorget 1–7/ 1974 44,061 LP Spannmålsgatan 11–15/ Postgatan 22–24 Total Region Gothenburg 403,253 1) LG=LEED Gold LS=LEED Silver LC=LEED Certified BE=BREEAM Excellent 52 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 17 MEETHSHUSET In May 2019, & Other Stories opened the doors to its first establishment in Gothenburg. The store encompasses 900 square metres in two storeys in the historic Meethshuset. 2 3 1 11 29 30 27 28 26 25 12 7 9 23 8 14 22 5 10 13 21 6 19 16 17 20 15 4 18 24 1 LÄPPSTIFTET Gothenburg’s premier landmark has been renovated over the last few years. The 3 PLATINAN premises have been modThe development property Platinan by Nya ernised and the entrance Hisingsbron includes 60,000 square metres area has received a new glass of offices, co-working space, restaurants facade and entrance, Älv­ and a Scandic hotel. Wistrand Advokatbyrå, porten, with a view over KPMG and COWI have signed agreements Göta älv. The property was for office space. This means that the occure-certified in 2019 and pancy rate has reached 67% with two years received LEED Platinum. to go before completion. 53 R EG I O N M A L M Ö Strong presence in Malmö Purchase of the Aura property at Universitetsholmen and investments in projects in Nyhamnen are strengthening Vasakronan’s position in Malmö. The shopping streets in Triangeln, Södertull and Södra Förstads­ gatan showed a positive trend despite a tougher market for stores. “There is a healthy occupancy rate and the rent levels have gradually been raised in both the older and newer properties.” Anna Stenkil, SVP, Malmö Region What do you want to showcase from 2019? What has been happening with “Above all, our efforts to concentrate and the shopping street? strengthen our presence in Malmö. We accom“Despite a touch market for retail, it’s gratifying plished this last year by divesting our holdings that Triangeln, Södertull and Södra Förstadsgatan in Lund and then purchasing the Aura property have all had more visitors and increased sales. from Skanska in the autumn. Aura is a newly built This shows that our efforts to develop this street office property in Universitetsholmen, an optihave had results. mal location for us where we see great potential The number of visitors to Triangeln increased for the area. nearly four percent and the occupancy rate is The proximity to the central station and Malmö around 92%, compared to 88% in 2018. Tenants Live is a major plus. The city is also planning to like XXL, ICA Hemma and Gina Tricot moved in develop Nyhamnen. The comprehensive plan was during 2019. The presence of these establishments developed by the Municipal Council and outlines has increased sales for the other stores in Triangeln.” an entirely new urban and residential environment Are there any other new store openings? directly by the water. “Yes, Beyond Us is an exciting concept that began Nyhamnen’s location near the central station in October. It encompasses 1,000 square metres makes it a very attractive locale for both new of premises at Södertull that was previously a sinworkplaces and residences, which we are part gle store but is now a mix of public lounge space, of creating. This applies to buildings in stage one market hall, showroom, conference centre and and we are also considering more development where you can even go to yoga. rights.” The project is the work of Frida Roos and Petra How does the office market look? Hodel, who are helping us test this innovative “There is a healthy occupancy rate and the rent concept. The results so far have been very posilevels have gradually been raised in both the tive. Many actors see Beyond Us as a way to make older and newer properties. In January we their products visible for a short time. This completed a major letting to MTM, the Swedish reduces risks and costs.” Agency for Accessible Media, which is renting What will be important in 2020? 1,700 square metres in Bylgiahuset – previously “First and foremost, continuing to develop the Öresundshuset and Skandiahuset. office projects in Nyhamnen. But of course the The consulting company COWI, was the first challenges in retail as well, where we have to keep tenant to move in to our new office project, on our toes to deal with increased e-commerce. Priorn, in December. The next major move-in Malmö’s plan to be climate-neutral by 2030 is is Region Skåne’s memory clinic, which will also an exciting challenge. We’re one of several happen in February 2020. We are putting on actors who have signed on to the initiative and the finishing touches and the building will be are actively contributing to it. The national goal is completed during the second quarter of 2020.” 2045, which we think is too late. For Vasakronan and our entire value chain, the goal is the same as for the city of Malmö: climate neutrality by 2030.” 54 R EG I O N M A L M Ö PRIORN, 13,000 square metres of development property in Malmö’s most accessible location. The building will be ready in 2020. The tenants include COWI, Region Skåne, E.ON Wind Sweden and the architect firm Här! 55 R EG I O N M A L M Ö Year of Environ­ construction/ Lettable mental most recent area excl. Share certifi­ Name of property Street address redevelopment garage sq. m. Offices Retail cation1) 1 Abbedissan 1 Rådmansgatan 13/S:t Johannesgatan 2–6 1944/2010 8,171 LG (previously Priorn 2) 1 Abbedissan 2 Pildammsvägen/S:t Johannesgatan – (previously Priorn 5) 2 Björnen 1 Södra Förstadsgatan 17/Kärleksgatan 2/Davidshallsgatan 14 1903/2001 3,864 LG 3 Björnen 38 Södra Förstadsgatan 25–27/Davidshallsgatan 26 1904/1999 5,269 LG 4 Bylgia 1 Hans Michelsengatan 2A, 2B/Skeppsbron 17 1957/2004 8,855 LP 5 Carl Gustav 5 Södra Tullgatan 4/Kanalgatan 3–5/Stenhuggaregatan 2–4/ 1961/2000 15,194 LG Södra Vallgatan 3 A–C 6 Claus Mortensen 26 Södergatan 14 1967/2009 3,237 LS 7 Claus Mortensen 35 Södergatan 20/Baltzarsgatan 43 1898/2009 1,993 LS 8 Delfinen 12 Södra Förstadsgatan 2/Drottninggatan 38 1908/2007 5,380 LG 9 Elefanten 23 Södra Förstadsgatan 22–24/Södra Långgatan 25/Lugna gatan 38 1938/1988 5,888 LS 10 Elgen 14 Södra Förstadsgatan 9–11/Davidshallsgatan 10/Storgatan 22 1937/1998 5,723 LS 11 Gasklockan 3 Porslinsgatan 6/Malmgatan 1/Drottninggatan 7 1993/2014 54,898 LG 12 Hans Michelsen 9 Adelgatan 1–3/Bruksgatan 1–3/Norra Vallgatan 51–52 1974/2013 2,003 LP 13 Jungmannen 1 Skeppsgatan 9 2004 5,114 LG 14 Kaninen 26 Södra Förstadsgatan 33–47/Rådmansgatan 10/Triangeln 2–4 1989/2013 36,678 LS 15 Kaninen 27 Södra Förstadsgatan 49–51/Friisgatan 2/S:t Johannesgatan 1 A/ 1958/2013 19,428 LS Triangeln 16 Kaninen 30 & Rådmansgatan 12 A–C/Rådmansgatan 18 A–C/ 2012 11,551 LS & Innerstaden 6:149 S:t Johannesgatan 1 E, 2C, 3 N–W BVG 16 Kaninen 32 Rådmansgatan 16 2012 4,701 LG & BVG 17 Magnus Stenbock 2 Gustav Adolfs Torg 12/Torggatan 2 1894/2007 5,254 LG 17 Magnus Stenbock 4 Södra Tullgatan 3/Torggatan 4/Södra Vallgatan 5 1963/2010 10,477 LP 18 Nereus 1 Neptuniplan 7–9/Matrosg 1/Styrmansgatan 2/ 2012 16,678 LP Bassängkajen 10–12 19 Oscar 1 Stortorget 31/Södergatan 1–3 1903/2004 2,997 LS 19 Oscar 17 Stortorget 27–29/Stortorget 19–23/Lilla Torg 2–4/ 1910/2001 14,222 LG Skomakaregatan 7–11 20 Relingen 1 Propellergatan 1/Västra Varvsgatan 10 2000 5,117 LP 21 Sankt Jörgen 7 Södergatan 28/Kalendegatan 27 1929/2012 5,590 LG 22 Sejen 3 Neptuniagatan 40–44/ Argogatan 7 2019 6,699 LP 23 Sirius 1 Jörgen Kocksgatan 9/Navigationsgatan 3 1992 7,114 LG 24 Smedjan 13 & 15 Celsiusgatan 33–35/Östra Farmvägen 5 1937/2004 11,231 – 25 Stapelbädden 3 Stora Varvsgatan 13A, Södra Stapelgränd 4 2012 8,100 BE 26 Tigern 1 Södra Förstadsgatan 1/Regementsgatan 2 1893/2008 2,508 LS 26 Tigern 7 Södra Förstadsgatan 7/Storgatan 37 1894/2006 2,335 LS Total Region Malmö 296,269 1) LP=LEED Platinum LG=LEED Gold LS=LEED Silver BVG=BREEAM Very Good BE=BREEAM Excellent 56 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 17 SÖDERTULL In October, Beyond Us – The Urban Market – opened at Södertull. The space includes 1,000 square metres of stores, showrooms, parcel delivery, coffee shops, workplaces and an exercise studio. Beyond Us is managed by Voii Studios on behalf of Vasakronan. 4 25 23 20 13 18 22 12 11 6 19 7 21 5 17 26 8 10 24 2 9 3 14 15 16 1 22 AURA Acquired from Skanska for SEK 430 million, includes a 1 PRIORN total of 6,700 square metres Priorn is being constructed in Malmö’s best of which nearly 5,700 are location for offices. 13,000 square metres office space. The occupancy ­allocated over seven floors and a garage. Tenrate is high and tenants ants include COWI, Region Skåne and E.ON include Grant Thornton, Wind. Priorn represents an investment of Lindab, Adecco and SEK 580 million and the building will be comTrägårdh Advokatbyrå. pleted during the second quarter of 2020. 57 R EG I O N U PP S A L A A jewel among properties The purchase of Juvelen, close to Uppsala central station, was our largest transaction of the year. Over the last few years, the areas on either side of the railway tracks have become one of Uppsala’s best office locations. Tenants include SMHI and Vivo Media. “The floor space and environmental profile are both modern, making Juvelen a fantastic addition.” Jan-Erik Hellman, SVP, Property development, former SVP, Uppsala Region What do you want to showcase from 2019? to go up during summer 2020. I hope and believe “What I call ‘our daily machine’ works very well when that Magasin X will get a lot of attention – from it comes to working with tenants and letting. Of the industry, from the municipality, and from the course this is based on strong demand, but an organapproximately 30,000 people who pass by the isation still needs to deliver: take care of its customarea every day.” ers, see opportunities and find the right solution.” What was the largest transaction in Uppsala? How do the occupancy rate and rent levels look? Purchasing Juvelen, which we took possession “It has been well over 97% for quite some time, of in December. The property is on Stationsgatan, so there has been favourable pressure. And even close to Uppsala central station and Magasin X, if it’s been somewhat weaker for restaurants and Uppsala’s best commuter location. The floor stores, we’ve had several new openings, including space and environmental profile are both modern, Lakritsroten, Hawaii Poké and TUGG Burgers. making Juvelen a fantastic addition. Tenants Establishing new brands in Uppsala is important include SMHI, Vivo Media and Projektengagemang.” for retail development and provides the energy Is there anything else you want to showcase? to address urban issues. “It’s exciting to see how Celsius in Uppsala Science Rent levels for offices continued to increase in Park is growing. The Swedish National Food 2019 and are significantly higher than the last Agency will move in to 8,000 square metres when few years. Top rents for offices have exceeded the building is completed in the end of 2020. The SEK 3,400 per square metre.” new building will be a significant contribution to Ground was broken in October for Magasin X, the area’s appeal and the development of one of Sweden’s first office building in wood. Sweden’s most innovative areas. How did that feel? The solar park that we’re building on land we own “Accomplished and pleased, but primarily quite in Fyrislund is also exciting. This will double our own relieved. We’re immensely proud that we’ve come solar electricity production and contribute to a so far and can start construction on the project. renewable power grid. Plans are for the park to It’s been a long journey and, in many ways, a differgo into operation in spring 2020. It encompasses ent kind of project. Building with a frame entirely 24,000 square metres and the estimated annual in wood was a bit of uncharted territory. electricity production is 4.2 GWh. This is around There has been a great deal of interest from the the amount needed to provide 210 average-sized market and at the beginning of the project the houses with heat and electricity for an entire year.” Swedish Tax Agency and White Arkitekter signed What is the main challenge in 2020? agreements for 3,500 and 1,000 square metres, “Conducting climate-neutral projects, primarily. We respectively. This means the project has reached want to minimise the negative environmental impact an occupancy rate of 65%, which of course is of renovations and new builds through our choices of exciting. We’ll also move in with our own office material and transportation, and through recycling and establish Arena in the building. and reusing. We’ve started on this project in different It will be exciting to see when the building starts ways. Now’s the time to take the next step.” 58 R EG I O N U PP S A L A JUVELEN, a shimmering and gem-like triangular building is the first thing visitors see when the train rolls into Uppsala. 8,600 square metres of lettable area in Uppsala’s best location. Acquired by Vasakronan from Skanska in 2019 for SEK 563 million. 59 R EG I O N U PP S A L A Year of Environ­ construction/ Lettable mental most recent area excl. Share certifi­ Name of property Street address redevelopment garage sq. m. Offices Retail cation1) 1 Boländerna 7:4 Säbygatan 3/Östunagatan 1 1937/1999 1,710 – 2 Dragarbrunn 14:5 Svartbäcksgatan 8/S:t Persgatan 6 1972 5,140 – 3 Dragarbrunn 18:1 Gamla Torget 5 1990/2001 1,435 LS 3 Dragarbrunn 18:3 Gamla Torget 7/S:t Persgatan 5/Svartbäcksgatan 6 1977/2010 5,135 – 4 Dragarbrunn 18:2, 18:7 Gamla Torget 1–3/Östra Ågatan 25–27 1973/1991 6,131 LS 5 Dragarbrunn 18:9 Stora Torget 4/Svartbäcksgatan 4 1978/2001–04 6,026 LG 6 Dragarbrunn 19:10 Dragarbrunnsgatan 35/Påvel Snickares Gränd 1 1966/2005 4,198 – 7 Dragarbrunn 19:11 Svartbäcksgatan 1B–5/S:t Persgatan 7/Påvel Snickares Gränd 3 1918/1978 9,173 LG 8 Dragarbrunn 20:3 Dragarbrunnsgatan 38–40/Vaksalagatan 8 1966/1999 3,433 LC 9 Dragarbrunn 23:4 Dragarbrunnsgatan 39/Vaksalagatan 5 1961/2006 2,716 LC 10 Dragarbrunn 24:5 Vaksalagatan 7–13/Dragarbrunnsgatan 42–44/Kungsgatan 49 1974/2000 15,352 LG 11 Dragarbrunn 26:3 Bredgränd 4/Kungsängsgatan 5 B/Kungsängsgatan 7 1962/2006 4,261 LG 12 Dragarbrunn 26:4 Kungsängsgatan 3–5A/Smedsgränd 3 1962/1994 4,998 – 13 Dragarbrunn 28:5 Kungsgatan 53–55/Bredgränd 14–18/ 1895/2011 21,041 LP Dragarbrunnsgatan 46–48 14 Dragarbrunn 31:1 Dragarbrunnsgatan 50–52/Bangårdsgatan 10–28/ 1860/2011 19,852 LG Bredgränd 15–19/Kungsgatan 57 A–D 15 Fålhagen 1:39 Stationsgatan 21–29/ Strandbodgatan 2016 8,629 LP 16 Kronåsen 1:1 Dag Hammarskjölds väg 10–14, 26–54, 58–60 1910/2017 69,851 LG & LP 17 Kungsängen 1:25 Kungsgatan 79/Dragarbrunnsgatan 78/Samaritergränd 5/ 2006 10,974 LG Strandbodgatan 10 18 Kungsängen 14:1 Fjalars gränd 4 – – – 18 Kungsängen 14:2 Suttungs gränd 3 1885/2008 1,747 LS 18 Kungsängen 14:5 Suttungs gränd 3A – – – 19 Kungsängen 16:6 Hamnesplanaden 1–5/Kungsängsgatan 43/Strandbodgatan 2–4/ 1975/2008 30,650 – Ebba Boströms gata 7 20 Kungsängen 4:4 Bangårdsgatan 5–9/Kungsängsgatan 18 A/ 1972/2013 6,728 LG Dragarbrunnsgatan 51–53 21 Kvarngärdet 1:19 Ljusbärargatan 2 1959/1990 5,160 LG 22 Årsta 11:233 Haeggströmsgatan 1 – – – 23 Årsta 64:1 Haeggströmsgatan 1 – – – Total Region Uppsala 244,340 1) LP=LEED Platinum LG=LEED Gold LS=LEED Silver LC=LEED Certified 60 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 15 JUVELEN Across the tracks from our own development property Magasin X, close to Uppsala central station, is Juvelen. 8,600 square metres of new construction acquired from Skanska for underlying prop21 erty value of SEK 563 million. 2 8 3 6 10 7 5 9 13 4 14 12 11 20 18 15 1 17 22 23 19 16 18 MAGASIN X Vasakronan’s first, and Sweden’s largest, office property 16 CELSIUS with a frame made entirely of 10,000 square metres of wood. Construction started offices and advanced laborain 2019 and the occupancy tory environments. The largrate was already 65%, with est tenant is the Swedish the Swedish Tax Agency and National Food Agency, which White Arkitekter signing is leasing around 8,000 agreements for 3,500 and square metres. Occupancy 1,500 square metres, is planned for the transition respectively. around the end of 2020. 61 A FLIRT with Garnisonen’s brutalist architecture. That is how Happy Socks’ new colourful head office spread over 2,300 square metres at Karlahuset could be described. Signature patterned carpets and wallpaper are mixed with neon lights, and a mix of modern and retro furnishings. And it is all framed by visible concrete pillars and ceilings. 62 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES Administration Report 64 Consolidated income statement incl. comments 66 Consolidated balance sheet incl. comments 70 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 73 Consolidated cash-flow statement incl. comments 74 Parent Company financial statements 76 Proposed appropriation of profits 78 NOTE 1 GENERAL INFORMATION AND ACCOUNTING POLICIES 1.1 General information 79 1.2 Accounting policies 79 NOTE 2 REVENUE, INCOME AND EXPENSES 2.1 Segment reporting 80 2.2 Rental revenue 81 2.3 Costs 81 2.4 Employees, personnel costs and remuneration to the Board 82 2.5 Financial income and expenses 85 NOTE 3 TAX Tax 85 3.1 Summary of tax expense/income 86 3.2 Deferred tax 86 3.3 Market value of deferred tax 86 3.4 Depreciation 86 NOTE 4 ASSETS 4.1 Intangible assets 87 4.2 Investment properties 87 4.3 Equipment 88 NOTE 5 OPERATING RECEIVABLES AND LIABILITIES 5.1 Accounts receivable 89 5.2 Other current receivables, prepaid expenses and accrued income 89 5.3 Other current liabilities, accrued expenses and deferred income 89 NOTE 6 FINANCING AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE 6.1 Goals for financial operations 89 6.2 Breakdown of funding sources, share of total loan portfolio 90 6.3 Financial risks 91 6.4 Derivatives 92 6.5 Financial instruments 93 6.6 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities 93 6.7 Adjustment for non-cash items 93 NOTE 7 GROUP STRUCTURE 7.1 Shares and participations in subsidiaries 94 7.2 Shares and participations in joint ventures 96 7.3 Related parties 96 NOTE 8 PARENT COMPANY 8.1 Intra-Group transactions 97 8.2 Profit from participations in subsidiaries 97 8.3 Appropriations and untaxed reserves 97 NOTE 9 DIVIDEND PER SHARE Dividend per share 97 NOTE 10 EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE-SHEET DATE Events after the balance-sheet date 97 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 63 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R EP O R T Administration Report The Board of Directors and CEO of Vasakronan AB (publ), corporate registration number 556061-4603, hereby present the 2019 Annual Report for the Group and Parent Company. Rental market Operations Trends in the regional rental markets in which Vasakronan operates Vasakronan owns, manages and develops centrally located office and were characterised in 2019 by continued rising rent levels mainly retail properties in Stockholm, Uppsala, Gothenburg and Malmö. At driven by the prevailing strong economy and high demand for modern year end, the property portfolio comprised 174 properties (174) with office premises in prime locations. The highest market growth over a total lettable area of 2.3 million sq. m. (2.4). Of the total area, 85% the year was primarily recorded in offices in central Stockholm, (85) was environmentally certified, of which 72% (69) had certificaincluding the CBD, followed by offices in Gothenburg. tions of LEED Gold or higher. The total market value of the properties For central locations in Vasakronan’s markets, office vacancies at year end amounted to SEK 156 billion (139), and the ten largest remained relatively still at low levels during the year, rising from 3% to properties accounted for 29% of the value. not quite 5%. Malmö is the exception, where office vacancies were approximately 9%. Contracted rent by Contracted rent by Property market property type geographic market The property market in Sweden has performed well over the last few years due to the economic boom, low interest rates and good access to capital. Interest in properties in the Swedish market remains strong and 2019 was a record year in terms of transaction volumes. Aside from the development of the economy and employment, there are primarily three trends that affect the property market: digitisation, expanding e-commerce and new office solutions such as co-working. Parallel to these three aspects, the sector – along with Offices, 74% Stockholm, 63% society as a whole – is also affected by a greater focus on sustainability Retail, 18% Gothenburg, 19% topics, first and foremost driven by the increasingly obvious effects of Other, 8% Malmö, 10% ongoing climate change. Increasing interest and awareness of health Uppsala, 8% issues, not least how employees’ health is affected by workplace conditions and environment, is also having greater influence on how The occupancy rate was 94.1% (93.1) on 31 December 2019. Of total property companies plan premises and the surrounding urban envivacancies, 1.6 percentage points (2.5) were attributable to ongoing ronment. projects and development properties. At year end, Vasakronan had During the year, completed transactions amounted to SEK 229 bilproperty projects encompassing new construction, extensions or lion, compared with SEK 165 billion in 2018. Of this volume, residenredevelopments valued at SEK 14.4 billion (10.6). of which SEK 6.8 biltial property was the largest segment followed by office properties, lion (3.9) was capitalised. The occupancy rate for major projects was and most of the transactions were completed in Stockholm. 69% (41) at the end of the year. The market is still characterised by continued healthy access to Vasakronan improves its property portfolio by buying and selling capital and low interest rates. In 2019, market requirements for yields properties, which creates the preconditions for an increased longcontinued to be adjusted downward in all of Vasakronan’s sub-markets, term return. During the year, the Fålhagen 1:39 (Juvelen) and Sejen 3 but the increase in value was mainly attributable to higher market (Aura) properties were acquired for a total of slightly more than rents. In the CBDs of Stockholm and Gothenburg, the requirements SEK 1.0 billion in parallel with the divestment of properties to a value for yields are 3.4% and 3.6% respectively, and in Stockholm’s inner of SEK 1.6 billion. suburbs, Malmö and Uppsala from 4.0–4.3%. 64 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R EP O R T Personnel Sustainability reporting At 31 December 2019, the number of employees was 304 (309). In accordance with Chapter 6, Section 11 of the Annual Accounts Act, Vasakronan endeavours to be a company where the diversity of Vasakronan has chosen to prepare its Sustainability Report separately society is reflected in the composition of its personnel. All employees from its Annual Report. The Sustainability Report can be found on and job applicants will be treated equally, and no discrimination will pages 116–134 of this Annual Report. be accepted. Further information related to staff composition can be found on pages 131–132 of this Annual Report. Appropriation of profit A dividend of SEK 6 billion has been proposed to the General Meeting. The Board finds that the proposed dividend is justifiable in terms of the assessment criteria stipulated in Chapter 17, Section 3, second Distribution, women and men and third paragraphs of the Swedish Companies Act regarding operaAll employees Management Team Board of Directors tions, scope and risks as well as consolidation requirements, liquidity and general position. Refer to page 78. Future performance The assessment at the end of 2019 was that the rental market would remain strong during 2020 with robust demand in prime locations, which would provide excellent prerequisites for a positive net operating income trend and a somewhat higher occupancy rate. The targets for 2020 are an increase in net operating income in comparable propWomen, 45% (46) Women, 46% (46) Women, 67% (56) erty holdings of 4.5% and an occupancy rate of not less than 95% at Men, 55% (54) Men, 54% (54) Men, 33% (44) year end. A healthy rental market also creates favourable prerequisites for the continued development of Vasakronan’s property portfolio. Planning of additional projects is in progress, and the assessment is that approximately SEK 5 billion will be invested in 2020. After the balance-sheet date, the global economy slowed dramatically as a result of the spread of the novel coronavirus in large parts of the world, with resulting disturbances in the financial markets. Vasakronan is following market developments carefully. The company has a strong financial position and considerable liquidity reserves. The earnings forecast and objectives for 2020 were not updated after year end. VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 65 FI N A N CI A L S TAT EM EN T S CO N S O L I DAT ED I N CO M E S TAT EM EN T Consolidated income statement Amounts in SEK million 2019 20181) Note Rental revenue 7,040 6,718 2.1–2 Operating expenses –682 –711 Repairs and maintenance –119 –108 Property administration –377 –357 2.3 Property tax –655 –527 Ground rents and land leases – –146 Total property expenses –1,833 –1,849 2.3 Operating surplus 5,207 4,869 Central administration –113 –101 2.3 Result from participations in joint ventures 1,105 159 Financial income 4 3 2.5 Financial expenses –1,135 –1,046 2.5 Interest expenses, ground rents and land leases –147 – Profit before value changes and tax 4,921 3,884 Change in value of investment properties 13,270 10,651 4.2 Depreciation of land lease agreements –7 – Change in value of financial instruments –881 13 6.5 Divested/impaired goodwill –74 –62 4.1 Profit before tax 17,229 14,486 Current tax –230 –120 3.1 Deferred tax –3,090 –1,464 3.1 Profit for the year 13,909 12,902 Of which, attributable to non-controlling interests –2 – Total profit attributable to the Parent Company shareholders 13,911 12,902 Other comprehensive income Items that may not be reclassified2) Pensions, revaluation –41 –18 2.4 Restriction for surplus in pension plan with asset cap 5 8 2.4 Income tax on pensions 7 2 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of tax –29 –8 TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ATTRIBUTABLE TO 13,882 12,894 THE PARENT COMPANY SHAREHOLDERS3) Key metrics Surplus ratio, % 74 73 Interest coverage ratio 4), multiple 4.6 4.7 1) Comparison figures have not been restated according to IFRS 16. 2) Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss. 3) The absence of any potential shares means there is no dilutive effect. 4) Calculations for the current period have been made according to previous accounting policies. 66 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R EP O R T FI N A N CI A L S TAT EM EN T S Comments on the consolidated income statement Rental revenue Even distribution of rents to maturity Rental revenue increased during the period to SEK 7,040 No. of Annual rent, million (6,718). In comparable property holdings, the contracts SEK m % of total increase was 7% (5) and was mainly attributable to higher 2020 1,311 1,185 16 gross rents from new lettings contracted and from renego2021 875 1,184 16 tiated leases as well as from raised property tax supple2022 804 1,348 19 ments as a result of new property tax rates. New lettings ≥2023 1,163 3,121 43 corresponding to 220,000 square metres (146,000) and Total 4,153 6,838 94 annual rent of SEK 982 million (510) were contracted, of Residential 1,175 101 2 which 12% (20) impacted on revenue in 2019. Changes in Garage – 254 4 new lettings between the years was primarily attributable Total 5,328 7,193 100 to the major new lettings to the Swedish Tax Agency in Nya Maturity structure for contracted rent. Kronan in Solna and to Handelsbanken in Tre Vapen in Stockholm, which were completed during the first quarter, as well as the letting to the game developer King at SergelWidely distributed over many tenants huset in the third quarter. Notice of termination was Share in % received during the period (tenant will be vacating) correSwedish Police Authority 3 sponding to annual rent of SEK 557 million (491), whereby Ericsson 3 net lettings amounted to SEK 426 (19) million. H&M 3 Renegotiations and lease extensions of 306,000 square Swedish Prison and Probation Service 2 metres (324,000) during the period corresponded to Försäkringskassan (Social Insurance Agency) 2 annual rent of SEK 1,030 million (990), resulting in an Swedish National Courts Administration 1 increase on the previous rent payable of 12% (12). Of all Åhléns 1 the contracts up for renegotiation over the last 12 months, Handelsbanken 1 70% (69) of the tenants decided to extend their contracts. KPMG 1 The result of renegotiations for the period for leases The Riksdag Administration 1 related to retail amounted to 1.9% (5.3). Total 18 Contracted rent at the end of the year amounted to Largest tenants, share of contracted rent SEK 7,193 million (6,854) and the average remaining maturity was 3.9 years (4.2). The closing occupancy rate was 94.1% (93.1). Of total vacancies, 1.6 percentage points (2.5) were attributable to ongoing projects and development properties. Public sector comprises Rising rental revenue Improved occupancy rate largest share of tenants SEK m SEK/m² % 7,000 5,000 95 6,000 4,000 93 5,000 3,000 91 4,000 2,000 89 3,000 1,000 87 Public sector, 24% Finance, 6% 2,000 0 85 Services, 22% Telecom, 3% 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Consumer goods, 18% Industry, 3% Rental revenue, SEK m At 31 December IT, 9% Other, 15% Rental revenue SEK/sq. m. Breakdown by sector, January–December share of contracted rent VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 67 FI N A N CI A L S TAT EM EN T S A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R EP O R T Property expenses ratio increased to 74% (73), a result of the transition to Property expenses amounted to SEK 1,833 million IFRS 16. (expense: 1,849) for the period. The year-on-year decrease For comparable property holdings, the increase in net was primarily due to the transition to IFRS 16, where SEK operating income1) was 6% (6). 154 million pertaining to ground rents and land leases for 2019 were reclassified from property expenses to depreciAdministration ation of land lease agreements and interest expenses. Property administration costs were SEK 377 million For comparable property holdings, with a comparable (expense: 357) and central administration costs were SEK treatment of ground rents and land leases, the increase in 113 million (expense: 101). The increase was primarily due property expenses was slightly more than 9% (4). The to higher staff and IT costs. increase in comparable property holdings was largely due to the rise in property tax. In the third quarter, the properties Result from participations in joint ventures were assigned new taxation values that apply retroactively The result from participations in joint ventures totalled from 1 January 2019. The taxation values rose for most SEK 1,105 million (159) and the increase was due to positive properties, resulting in a consequent increase in property value changes, both realised and unrealised, for development tax, of which just over 90% was invoiced on to tenants. rights owned by Vasakronan’s associated companies, Järva­ Excluding property tax, property expenses rose slightly staden and Stora Ursvik. The value changes were primarily more than 3% for comparable property holdings. due to detailed development plans that entered force and the sale in December of the development rights in Stora Operating surplus Ursvik. The potential development rights for Järvastaden The operating surplus increased during the period to and Stora Ursvik respectively encompass a gross floor area SEK 5,207 million (4,869), primarily due to increased rental (GFA) of around 600,000 square metres, with the majority revenue. The operating surplus has also increased SEK 154 designated for housing. million as a result of the transition to IFRS 16. The surplus 1) Net operating income corresponds to operating surplus adjusted for IFRS 16. Sensitivity analysis Change Impact on profit before tax, SEK m Economic occupancy rate +/–1% +/–92 Rental revenue +/–1% +/–70 Price change for renegotiated leases expiring in 2019 +/–1% +/–11 Property expenses +/–1% –/+18 Net interest with current fixed-interest tenors and changed interest +/–1 percentage point –/+224 Value of interest-rate derivatives if average interest rates change1) +/–1 percentage point –/+1,591 Market value of properties2) +/–1% +/–1,560 1) The unrealised appreciation in value of interest-rate derivatives can be realised to meet the effect of cash flow from increased borrowing expenses. 2) The market value is in turn impacted by other factors, refer to the sensitivity analysis on page 88. Increased surplus ratio Stable interest coverage ratio SEK m % Multiple 5,000 100 5 4,000 80 4 3,000 60 3 2,000 40 2 1,000 20 1 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Operating surplus, SEK m Surplus ratio, % January–December January–December 68 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R EP O R T FI N A N CI A L S TAT EM EN T S Net financial items Change in value of financial instruments Net financial items amounted to an expense of SEK 1,131 The value change in derivatives amounted to negative million (expense: 1,043). The change is attributable to larger SEK 881 million (positive: 14), which was due to lower long borrowings and slightly higher interest rates during the market interest rates during the year. year. The average interest rate for loans and derivatives Derivatives are primarily used to adjust the maturity amounted to 1.7% (1.6) at the end of the period. structure in the loan portfolio and to hedge borrowings in The LTM interest coverage ratio decreased to a multiple foreign currencies. At the end of the period, the derivative of 4.6 (4.7). The policy for the interest coverage ratio does portfolio amounted to SEK 73,000 million (62,088), of which not permit it falling below a multiple of 2.0 over a rolling SEK 54,936 million (51,621) comprised interest-rate deriva12-month period. tives and SEK 18,064 million (10,467) cross-currency As a result of the transition to IFRS 16, as of 1 January derivatives. 2019 a portion of the ground rent and land leases is recog­ nised as an interest expense and amounted to SEK 147 milTax lion for the period. Interest expenses pertaining to leaseThe Group reported a total tax expense of SEK 3,320 milholds and land leases are not included in net financial items. lion (expense: 1,584). Of the tax expense, SEK 230 million (expense: 120) was current tax and SEK 3,090 million Profit before value changes and tax (expense: 1,464) was deferred tax resulting from tempoProfit before value changes and tax amounted to SEK 4,921 rary differences primarily attributable to investment propmillion (3,884), corresponding to a 27% increase. Adjusted erties and financial instruments. for the result from participations in joint ventures, the The effective tax rate for 2019 amounted to 19.3% (10.9). increase was just over 2%. The difference between the actual tax rate and the corporate tax rate of 21.4% was due to tax free sales of companies Change in value of investment properties during the year. At 31 December 2019, the entire property portfolio had been Vasakronan has a tax policy that has been established valued by external appraisers Cushman & Wakefield and by the Board to ensure that tax issues are managed in a Forum Fastighetsekonomi. Altogether, the change in the propsocietally responsible way. For more information on erty value amounted to SEK 13,270 million (10,651), which Vasakronan’s tax policy, please see Vasakronan’s website. corresponded to a 9.7% (8.5) increase in value. The increase At the end of the period, Vasakronan was not involved in was primarily due to higher market rents, primarily in Stockholm. any tax litigation. On average, the yield requirement for the portfolio was 4.2%, compared to 4.3% for corresponding properties at the end of 2018. Change in value by region Change in value, by category Contribution to Contribution to Change in value, change in value, Change in value, change in value, % percentage points % percentage points Stockholm 11.8 7.8 Investment properties 9.5 8.1 Gothenburg 6.8 1.2 Development properties 11.5 1.6 Uppsala 4.2 0.3 Transactions – – Malmö 4.1 0.4 Total 9.7 9.7 Total 9.7 9.7 Value change in the total portfolio Factors impacting value1) % 15 Value impact, % Yield requirement 3.5 12 Market rents 6.2 9 Total 9.7 6 1) The increase in value was also due to investments and other factors impacting value that have been allocated proportionally across yield requirements and market rents. 3 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 69 FI N A N CI A L S TAT EM EN T S CO N S O L I DAT ED B A L A N C E S H EE T Consolidated balance sheet Amounts in SEK million 2019 20181) Note ASSETS Non-current assets Intangible assets 2,024 2,089 4.1 Property, plant and equipment (PPE) Investment properties 156,071 138,934 4.2 Leaseholds and land leases 5,243 – Equipment 40 44 4.3 Total property, plant and equipment (PPE) 161,354 138,978 Financial assets Shares and participations in joint ventures 1,164 365 7.2 Receivables from joint ventures 130 165 Derivatives 642 214 6.4 Other non-current receivables 174 270 6.4 Total financial assets 2,110 1,014 Total non-current assets 165,488 142,081 Current assets Accounts receivable 35 29 5.1 Receivables from joint ventures 0 0 Derivatives 27 39 6.4 Other current receivables, prepaid expenses and accrued income 1,114 837 5.2 Cash and cash equivalents 3,515 2,215 6.3 Total current assets 4,691 3,120 TOTAL ASSETS 170,179 145,201 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity Share capital 4,000 4,000 Other contributed capital 4,227 4,227 Retained earnings 61,926 52,044 Non-controlling interests 3 – Total equity 70,156 60,271 Non-current liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 53,682 45,956 6.2 Liabilities, leaseholds and land leases 5,244 – Deferred tax liability 21,368 18,286 3.2 Derivatives 2,725 2,200 6.4 Other non-current liabilities 385 76 6.4 Provision for pensions 119 91 2.4 Total non-current liabilities 83,523 66,609 Current liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 12,956 15,131 6.2 Accounts payable 220 118 Liabilities joint ventures 12 151 Current tax liabilities 128 42 Derivatives 70 20 6.4 Other current liabilities, accrued expenses and deferred income 3,114 2,859 5.3 Total current liabilities 16,500 18,321 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 170,179 145,201 Key metrics Net interest-bearing liabilities, SEK m 63,123 58,872 Equity/assets ratio, % 41 42 LTV, % 38 41 1) Comparison figures have not been restated according to IFRS 16. 70 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R EP O R T FI N A N CI A L S TAT EM EN T S Comments on the consolidated balance sheet Intangible assets Vasakronan’s property valuation methodology is available Intangible assets primarily consist of goodwill. Goodwill has on page 87. arisen from the recognition of deferred tax on property at The Juvelen property in Uppsala was acquired and taken the nominal tax rate on the date of the business combination, possession of during the year. The Aura property in Malmö while the tax rate applied when calculating the purchase was purchased from Skanska for SEK 430 million and taken price for the acquisition was lower than the nominal rate. At possession of. At the same time, the Hyllie Connect devel31 December, goodwill was SEK 1,908 million (1,982), and opment rights were sold and vacated to Skanska for a propthe decline was primarily due to the sale of properties. erty value of SEK 85 million. The remaining portion of intangible assets comprised the Due to the application of IFRS 16 from 1 January, value of the Vasakronan brand, which amounted to SEK 100 Vasakronan’s ground rent agreements and land leases are million (100). SEK 16 million (7) invested in certain technical recognised as assets in the balance sheet. At 31 December, platforms was recognised as an intangible asset. right-of-use agreements totalled SEK 5,243 million. Comparison figures have not been restated. Investment properties Vasakronan has set high goals for environmental certifiAt 31 December 2019, based on external appraisals, the cation of its property portfolio. Our ambition is for the estimated market value of Vasakronan’s property portfolio share of properties certified in accordance with LEED Gold was SEK 156,071 million compared with SEK 138,934 million or higher to increase. At the end of the period, 85% (85) of at year-end 2018. The change in value during the period was our property portfolio was environmentally certified, of SEK 13,270 million (10,651) and net investments totalled which 72% (69) was rated LEED Gold or higher. SEK 3,867 million (1,443). A change in the yield requirement of +/– 0.25 percentage points would have a negative impact Higher property values of 5.3/5.9% on the value of the current property portfolio. SEK m 2019 2018 The valuations were performed pursuant to the RICS Opening value, 1 January 138,934 126,875 Red Book and apply the same methodology as previous Investments 4,440 3,335 valuations. Market value is influenced by property-specific Acquisitions, consideration 977 594 events, such as new and renegotiated leases, properties Sales, consideration –1,550 –2,521 being vacated and investments. Consideration has also Change in value 13,270 10,621 been taken for any assessed changes in market rents and Closing value, 31 December 156,071 138,934 yield requirements. A more comprehensive description of Large investments in property projects Share Area of Estimated Environ­ Total investCapitalised, capitalised, premises, completion Occupancy mental City Property ment, SEK m SEK m % sq. m. date rate, %1) certification Stockholm Sergelhuset 3,700 2,669 72 56,500 Dec 2021 492) LEED Gothenburg Platinum 2,600 1,052 40 53,700 Dec 2022 673) LEED Sundbyberg Kronan 1 1,680 350 21 42,700 Nov 2021 100 LEED Stockholm, Solna Strand Nöten 5 916 594 65 26,000 Dec 2020 55 LEED Stockholm Nattugglan, block 2 800 168 21 15,000 Jun 2022 80 LEED Malmö Priorn 5 530 444 84 13,200 Apr 2020 67 LEED Uppsala Magasin X 530 67 13 11,500 Dec 2021 514) LEED Uppsala Kronåsen 1:1 Celsius 420 287 68 10,200 Oct 2020 82 LEED Stockholm Sperlingens Backe 300 38 13 3,900 Dec 2021 47 LEED Stockholm Styrpinnen 15 290 242 83 3,700 Jun 2020 100 LEED Stockholm, Solna Diktaren 115 19 17 6,400 Aug 2021 100 LEED Total major property 11,881 5,930 50 69 projects Stockholm Sergelgatan 1,500 213 14 Mar 2023 –5) LEED Other projects 966 610 Total 14,347 6,753 1) Calculated based on area. 2) Including the lease to EY, the occupancy rate amounts to around 62%. 3) Including Vasakronan Arena, the occupancy rate amounts to 72%. 4) Including Vasakronan Arena and Vasakronan’s regional office, the occupancy rate amounts to around 77%. 5) Part of the property and the occupancy rate is not reported. VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 71 FI N A N CI A L S TAT EM EN T S A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R EP O R T Property projects tenors. As a result, the average fixed-interest tenor increased Ongoing property projects have a total investment volume and was 5.8 years (4.7) at year end. The proportion of loans of SEK 14,374 million (10,619), of which SEK 6,753 million with fixed-interest maturities within one year declined to (3,909) had been capitalised as of 31 December. The occu32% (43) and loans with fixed-interest maturities of five pancy rate for major projects was 69% (41) at the end of the years or more increased to 53% (47) of interest-bearing liaperiod. bilities. The average interest rate for loans and derivatives amounted to 1.7% (1.6) at the end of the period. Deferred tax At 31 December 2019, the deferred tax liability was SEK Green financing 21,368 million (18,286) and pertained primarily to investGreen financing broadens the investor base and provides ment properties. The main reason for the change was the access to financing from various markets. During the period, higher market value of the properties. the company issued bonds totalling SEK 13.4 billion (6.9) Deferred tax is calculated using a nominal rate of 20.6% distributed over six currencies: SEK, EUR, USD, JPY, NOK, on differences between the carrying amount and tax base and AUD. of assets and liabilities. Since Vasakronan issued the world’s first green corporate bond in 2013, the volume of green financing has increased Liabilities and cash drastically and several sources of green financing have Interest-bearing liabilities, net of cash and cash equivalents, come into being. In addition to funding operations under the increased to SEK 63,123 million (58,872) during the period. company’s framework for green financing, Vasakronan has Vasakronan strives to diversify borrowing by allocating green unsecured loans with the Nordic Investment Bank across several different sources of funding and markets. and the European Investment Bank that total SEK 4,827 Since spring 2018, Vasakronan has had a public rating of A3, million (4,827) and green secured bank loans of SEK 760 with a stable outlook, from the credit-rating agency million (–). Moody’s. The rating has opened access to advantageous The percentage of green funding consisting of green financing in new markets with longer tenors. bonds, green commercial paper and green loans increased As a result of the rise in long-term borrowing, the average during the period to 47% (35) of the total loan portfolio. loan-to-maturity increased to 5.2 years (3.9) and the average loan-to-maturity taking into consideration unutilised Breakdown of funding sources credit commitments increased to 5.6 years (4.4). Loans Nominal amount Carrying maturing within the next 12 months decreased to 19% (25) base currency, amount, of interest-bearing liabilities, at the same time as loans SEK m million SEK m Share, % maturing in five years or more rose to 37% (27). Commercial paper 7,235 11 To minimise financing risk and secure its access to capital, Bonds, SEK 24,909 37 the company has a credit facility with the First, Second, Bonds, NOK 9,720 10,361 16 Third and Fourth Swedish national pension funds that Bonds, EUR 437 4,584 7 amounts to SEK 18 billion. The agreement extends until furBonds, JPY 10,000 861 1 ther notice with a notice period of two years. Cash and cash Bonds, AUD 80 526 1 equivalents of SEK 3,515 million (2,215) and the unutilised Bonds, USD 185 1,732 3 credit facility together correspond to 166% (134) of loans Secured bank loans 11,603 17 maturing over the next 12 months. Of cash and cash equivaNIB and EIB 4,827 7 lents, SEK 321 million (94) comprises deposits under CSAs. Total 66,638 100 During the period, the company’s borrowings in foreign currencies increased. The company issued the equivalent of SEK 15.2 billion (11.8) in total, distributed as follows: Green financing under the framework SEK 7.5 billion (8), JPY 10 billion (–), NOK 300 million (3,300), Amounts in SEK million EUR 407 million (30), USD 185 million (–) and AUD 80 milGreen commercial paper 560 lion (–). Of the total liability at the end of the period, 27% (17) consisted of borrowings in currencies other than SEK. Green bonds, SEK 18,673 Borrowing in foreign currencies is hedged through currency Green bonds, NOK 684 interest-rate derivatives, which eliminates currency risk. Green bonds, EUR 2,809 During the period, secured bank loans with long maturities Green bonds, JPY 835 totalling SEK 1.3 billion (2) were obtained and bank loans Green bonds, AUD 530 outstanding secured against mortgage deeds amounted to Green bonds, USD 1,672 7% (9) of the Group’s total assets at the end of the period. Total volume of Green Finance Instruments 25,762 To reduce interest-rate risk, Vasakronan has entered into Total volume of Green Assets – Green Pool 33,318 new interest-rate derivatives during the period with longer Remaining approved borrowing capacity 7,555 72 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T CO N S O L I DAT ED S TAT EM EN T O F C H A N G E S I N EQ U I T Y FI N A N CI A L S TAT EM EN T S Consolidated statement of changes in equity Total equity Other attributable to Non-­ contributed Retained Parent Company controlling Total Amounts in SEK million Share capital capital earnings shareholders interests equity Equity, opening balance at 1 Jan 2018 4,000 4,227 43,150 51,377 – 51,377 Profit for the year – – 12,902 12,902 – 12,902 Other comprehensive income – – –8 –8 – –8 Comprehensive income for the year – – 12,894 12,894 – 12,894 Dividend – – –4,000 –4,000 – –4,000 Equity, closing balance at 31 Dec 2018 4,000 4,227 52,044 60,271 – 60,271 Equity, opening balance at 1 Jan 2019 4,000 4,227 52,044 60,271 – 60,271 Profit for the year – – 13,911 13,911 –2 13,909 Minority share – – – – 5 5 Other comprehensive income – – –29 –29 – –29 Comprehensive income for the year – – 13,882 13,882 3 13,885 Dividend – – –4,000 –4,000 – –4,000 Equity, closing balance at 31 Dec 2019 4,000 4,227 61,926 70,153 3 70,156 Equity Equity increased during the period to SEK 70,156 million (60,271) due to positive comprehensive income of SEK 13,911 million (12,894). The equity/assets ratio was 41% (42) and the loan-to-value ratio was 38% (41). During the year, Vasakronan invested in two partially owned companies, which means that equity contains shares attributable to minority owners. Loan-to-value (LTV) ratio Equity/assets ratio % % 50 50 40 44 43 43 40 41 42 41 38 38 38 39 30 30 20 20 10 10 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 At 31 December At 31 December VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 73 FI N A N CI A L S TAT EM EN T S CO N S O L I DAT ED C A S H F LO W S TAT EM EN T Consolidated cash-flow statement Amounts in SEK million 2019 20181) Note Operating activities Operating surplus 5,207 4,869 Central administration –113 –101 Add back amortisation and depreciation 12 12 Adjustment for other non-cash items –13 –9 6.7 Cash flow from operating activities before interest and tax 5,093 4,771 Interest paid2) –1,194 –1,069 Interest received 3 3 Taxes paid –147 –138 Cash flow before changes in working capital 3,755 3,567 Increase (–)/decrease (+) in operating receivables –213 –190 Increase (+)/decrease (–) in operating liabilities 287 258 Cash flow from operating activities 3,829 3,635 Investing activities Investments in existing property –4,440 –3,335 4.2 Property acquisitions –977 –634 4.2 Property divestments 1,550 2,526 Other PPE, net –3 –9 Acquisition of intangible assets –12 –7 Dividends from joint ventures 309 162 Cash flow from investing activities –3,573 –1,297 Cash flow after investing activities 256 2,338 Financing activities Dividends and Group contributions –4,000 –4,000 7.3 Raised debt: interest-bearing liabilities 35,874 34,908 Repayment of debt: interest-bearing liabilities –30,709 –32,223 Change in collateral 214 253 Redemption of financial instruments –335 –484 Cash flow from financing activities 1,044 –1,546 Cash flow for the period 1,300 792 Opening balance, cash and cash equivalents 2,215 1,423 Cash flow for the period 1,300 792 Closing balance, cash and cash equivalents 3,515 2,215 6.3 1) Comparison figures have not been restated according to IFRS 16. 2) Interest paid includes ground rents paid and land leases. 74 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R EP O R T FI N A N CI A L S TAT EM EN T S Comments to the consolidated cash-flow statement Cash flow from operating activities before interest and Stable cash flow from operating activities taxes increased SEK 322 million to SEK 5,093 million (4,771) SEK m due primarily to higher rental revenue and the transition to 4,000 IFRS 16. Cash flow from operating activities before changes 3,000 in working capital was SEK 3,755 million (3,567). Investments in existing properties rose during the period 2,000 to SEK 4,440 million (3,335) as a result of increased invest1,000 ments in projects. Cash flow from the purchase and sale of properties amounted to SEK 573 million (1,892). Cash flow 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 after investing activities thus amounted to SEK 256 million (2,338). Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital In total, net borrowing for the period amounted to SEK Cash flow after investing activities 5,165 million (2,685). Altogether, cash and cash equivalents January–December increased SEK 1,300 million (792) and totalled SEK 3,515 million (2,215) at the end of the year. Property divestments 2019 Property City Buyer Purchase price, SEK m Transfer date Nya Vattentornen 2 and 4 Lund Wihlborgs 1,259 February 2019 Järva 2:7 Stockholm Sporthallen i Solna 2 April 2019 Telefonfabriken 7 Stockholm Einar Matsson Projekt 210 May 2019 Regndroppen Malmö Skanska 85 Dec 2019 Total property value 1,556 Transaction costs, as well as deduction for deferred tax –6 Total purchase price 1,550 Agreed divestments to be completed Property City Buyer Purchase price, SEK m Transfer date Smedjan 13 and 15 Malmö Trianon 88 Dependent on detailed development plan Total purchase price 88 Property acquisitions 2019 Property City Seller Purchase price, SEK m Occupancy Juvelen Uppsala Skanska 563 Dec 2019 Aura Malmö Skanska 430 Dec 2019 Total property value 993 Transaction costs, as well as deduction for deferred tax –16 Total purchase price 977 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 75 FI N A N CI A L S TAT EM EN T S PA R EN T CO M PA N Y FI N A N CI A L S TAT EM EN T S Parent Company financial statements INCOME STATEMENT BALANCE SHEET Amounts in SEK million 2019 2018 Note Amounts in SEK million 2019 2018 Note Net sales 503 484 ASSETS Operating expenses –639 –605 2.3–4 Non-current assets Capital gain on sales 3 341 4.2 Equipment 7 11 4.3 EBIT –133 220 Shares and participations 37,635 30,660 7.1 in subsidiaries Financial items Receivables from subsidiaries 37,093 9,820 Profit from participations in subsidiaries 6,982 7,192 8.2 Shares and participations 1 1 7.2 in joint ventures Result from participations in joint ventures 0 0 Receivables from joint ventures 130 165 Interest income 841 67 2.5 Deferred tax assets 459 137 3.2 Interest expense –1,260 –1,107 2.5 Derivatives 642 214 6.4 Profit before value changes 6,430 6,372 and tax Other non-current receivables 169 267 6.4 Total non-current assets 76,136 41,275 Change in value of financial instruments –881 13 6.5 Appropriations –300 – 8.3 Current assets Profit before tax 5,249 6,385 Accounts receivable 0 0 5.1 Receivables from subsidiaries 4,565 32,448 Tax –84 –109 3.1 Receivables from joint ventures 0 0 Profit for the year 5,165 6,276 Current tax assets 0 78 Derivatives 27 39 6.4 STATEMENT OF Other current receivables, 615 470 5.2 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME prepaid expenses and accrued income Profit for the year recognised 5,165 6,276 Cash and cash equivalents 3,506 2,212 6.3 in profit or loss Total current assets 8,713 35,247 Other comprehensive income – – Total comprehensive income 5,165 6,276 TOTAL ASSETS 84,849 76,522 for the year CHANGE IN EQUITY Retained Total Amounts in SEK million Share capital1 earnings equity Equity, opening balance at 1 Jan 2018 4,000 5,200 9,200 Profit for the year – 6,276 6,276 Comprehensive income for the year – 6,276 6,276 Dividend – –4,000 –4,000 Equity, closing balance at 31 Dec 2018 4,000 7,476 11,476 Equity, opening balance at 1 Jan 2019 4,000 7,476 11,476 Profit for the year – 5,165 5,165 Comprehensive income for the year – 5,165 5,165 Dividend – –4,000 –4,000 Equity, closing balance at 31 Dec 2019 4,000 8,641 12,641 1) 40,000,000 shares with a quotient value of SEK 100 per share. 76 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T PA R EN T CO M PA N Y FI N A N CI A L S TAT EM EN T S FI N A N CI A L S TAT EM EN T S BALANCE SHEET CASH-FLOW STATEMENT Amounts in SEK million 2019 2018 Note Amounts in SEK million 2019 2018 Note EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Operating activities Equity EBIT –133 220 Restricted equity Add-back of amortisation, depreciation Share capital 4,000 4,000 and impairment 5 4 4,000 4,000 Adjustment for other non-cash items –5 –342 6.7 Unrestricted equity Cash flow from operating activities before interest and tax –133 –118 Retained earnings 3,476 1,200 Interest paid –1,161 –1,117 Profit for the year 5,165 6,276 Interest received 840 67 8,641 7,476 Taxes paid –33 –138 Total equity 12,641 11,476 Cash flow before changes in working capital –487 –1,306 Untaxed reserves 486 186 8.3 Increase (–)/decrease (+) Non-current liabilities in operating receivables 2,950 –1,584 Interest-bearing liabilities 53,682 45,956 6.2 Increase (+)/decrease (–) in operating liabilities 244 –565 Liabilities to subsidiaries 728 – Cash flow from Derivatives 2,725 2,200 6.4 operating activities 2,707 –3,455 Other non-current liabilities 383 72 6.4 Provision for pensions 6 7 Investing activities Total non-current liabilities 57,524 48,235 Acquisitions of equipment –2 –1 Divestments of equipment 3 3 Current liabilities Acquisition of shares in subsidiaries 0 0 Interest-bearing liabilities 12,956 15,131 6.2 Divestment of shares in subsidiaries 1,210 328 Accounts payable 3 7 Dividends received from subsidiaries 5,616 5,463 Current tax liabilities 84 – Shareholders’ contributions paid –9,284 – Liabilities to subsidiaries 391 790 Cash flow from investing activities –2,457 5,793 Derivatives 70 20 6.4 Cash flow after investing activities 250 2,338 Other current liabilities, accrued expenses and deferred income 694 677 5.3 Total current liabilities 14,198 16,625 Financing activities Dividends and Group contributions to Parent Company –4,000 –4,000 7.3 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 84,849 76,522 Raised debt: interest-bearing liabilities 35,874 34,908 Repayment of debt: interest-bearing Parent Company liabilities –30,709 –32,223 The operations of the Parent Company, Vasakronan AB Change in collateral 214 253 (publ), consist of Group-wide functions and providing an Redemption of financial instruments –335 –484 organisation for the management of properties owned by Cash flow from financing activities 1,044 –1,546 subsidiaries. The Parent Company does not directly own Cash flow for the period 1,294 792 any properties. The Parent Company’s revenue for the period was SEK Opening balance, cash and 503 million (484), which primarily consists of the Parent cash equivalents 2,212 1,420 Company’s invoices to the subsidiaries for services rendered. Cash flow for the period 1,294 792 The profit from participations in Group companies amounted Closing balance, cash and cash equivalents 3,506 2,212 6.3 to SEK 6,982 million (7,192) and pertained to dividends. The change in the value of financial instruments amounted to negative SEK 881 million (positive: 13) due to lower long market interest rates. Profit before tax was SEK 5,249 million (5,165). Closing cash and cash equivalents amounted to SEK 3,506 million (2,212). VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 77 FI N A N CI A L S TAT EM EN T S PRO P O S ED A PPRO PR I AT I O N O F PRO FI T S Proposed appropriation of profits The consolidated income statement and balance sheet and the Parent Company’s income statement and balance sheet will be subject to adoption by the AGM on 4 May 2020. The following profit is at the disposal of the AGM: The Board proposes that the earnings be appropriated as follows: Retained earnings SEK 3,476,433,583 Dividend to shareholders, SEK 150 per share SEK 6,000,000,000 Profit for the year SEK 5,165,128,432 To be carried forward SEK 2,641,562,015 Total SEK 8,641,562,015 Total SEK 8,641,562,015 A dividend of SEK 6 billion has been proposed to the General Meeting. The Board finds that the proposed dividend is justifiable in terms of the assessment criteria stipulated in Chapter 17, Section 3, second and third paragraphs of the Swedish Companies Act regarding operations, scope and risks as well as consolidation requirements, liquidity and general position. 78 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T N OT E S FI N A N CI A L S TAT EM EN T S Notes Notes, pertaining to the Group and Parent Company. All amounts are given in SEK million, if not otherwise stated. NOTE 1 General information and Joint ventures All joint arrangements are classified as joint ventures since the agreeaccounting policies ment terms or the entities’ legal forms entitle the participants to the net assets of the related arrangement. Joint ventures are companies where, 1.1 General information through partnership agreements with one or more parties, Vasakronan The Vasakronan Group’s operations comprise the ownership, manageshares controlling influence with one or more parties. ment and development of properties with the aim of providing owners Holdings in joint ventures are recognised using the equity method. with a high and stable long-term return. The Parent Company Vasa­ This means that the consolidated carrying amount of the holding is kronan AB (publ) has personnel employed to manage and administer adjusted with Vasakronan’s share of profit for the year and any dividends the Group’s properties. The Parent Company’s assets mainly comprise received, and accordingly, the Group’s participation in joint ventures is shares and participations in the companies that own the properties. thus recognised in the consolidated income statement. When losses in a joint venture exceed the Group’s share, the Group does not recognise Parent Company domiciled in Stockholm; Vasakronan AB (publ) further losses unless it has incurred obligations or made payments on Corp. Reg. No: 556061-4603. Address: Mäster Samuelsgatan 56, behalf of the joint venture. Box 30074, SE-104 25 Stockholm, Sweden Intra-Group gains and losses as a result of transactions with these companies are eliminated in relationship to the Group’s holding. AdjustVasakronan AB is owned by Vasakronan Holding AB, corporate registraments have been made where the accounting policies of joint ventures tion number 556650-4196, which is owned in turn in equal shares by do not correspond with those of the Group. the First, Second, Third and Fourth Swedish National Pension Funds. The annual accounts and consolidated accounts were approved by Leases the Board for publication on 23 March 2020 and will be submitted to Until 31 December 2018, leases of assets where the Group comprised the Annual General Meeting for adoption on 4 May 2020. the lessee were essentially classified as operating leases. Payments made under operating leases were charged to profit or loss on a straight-line 1.2 Accounting policies basis over the period of the lease. Due to the transition to IFRS 16 from This section provides an overview of the policies applied in the prepara1 January 2019, all material leases that extend for more than 12 months tion of these financial statements. Refer to the respective note for inforare recognised as right-of-use assets and financial liabilities. For Vasa­ mation about specific items. All amounts are stated in SEK million, unless kronan these leases comprise land leases and ground rent agreements. otherwise stated. Amounts pertain to the 1 January to 31 December Lease payments are allocated between amortisation and interest, with period for income-statement items and 31 December for balance-­ the interest recognised in profit or loss over the lease period pursuant sheet items. to the effective interest method. Ground rent agreements are treated as perpetual rental agreements Basis for preparation of the financial statements that are given market valuations and, therefore, are not written down. The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accorThe market values are calculated by discounting future fees using a disdance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as count rate corresponding to between 3.25 and 3.5%. For land leases, determined on 31 December 2019 and as adopted by the EU together present values are calculated over the term of the contract by discountwith the interpretations issued by the IFRS Interpretations Committee ing future land leases by the market interest rate with a corresponding (IFRIC), and in accordance with the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s tenor to the contract. recommendation RFR 1, Supplementary Accounting Rules for CorpoPayments associated with short-term leases for equipment or vehicles, rate Groups and the Annual Accounts Act. These policies were consisand all leases of low-value assets are recognised expenses in profit or loss. tently applied for all years presented, unless otherwise stated. The areas involving a higher degree of complexity, or areas where assumpProvisions tions and estimates are significant, are disclosed in more detail in the Provisions comprise reliable estimates of amounts that reflect formal respective note. or constructive obligations for the Group as a result of earlier events. Provisions are classified as current liabilities if payment can be Consolidated accounts deferred for up to 12 months after the balance-sheet date, otherwise The consolidated financial statements have been prepared applying a provisions are classified as non-current liabilities. historical cost convention, except for the measurement of investment properties, and certain financial assets and liabilities, which are meaCritical judgements in applying the Group’s accounting policies sured at fair value. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally Group companies are entities over which Vasakronan exercises a accepted accounting principles requires that the management and controlling influence. Subsidiaries are companies owned directly by Board make judgements and assumptions that affect the amounts Vasakronan AB (publ). A “controlling influence” entails that the Parent recognised for assets, liabilities, income and expenses, as well as other Company is exposed to, or is entitled to, variable returns from its investinformation disclosed. These judgements are based on experience and ment, and can also affect the returns from the subsidiary by means of assumptions that are considered reasonable in view of the prevailing its influence. Group companies are consolidated from the date on which circumstances. The most significant in preparing the company’s financontrolling influence is transferred to the Group, and they are deconcial reports are as follows: solidated from the date that control ceases. • Fair value of investment properties, Note 4.2 on pages 87–88 Initial recognition of Group companies in the consolidated financial • Criteria for business combinations and asset acquisitions, page 79 statements follows the acquisition method. Any surplus comprising the • Recoverable amount for goodwill, Note 4.1 on page 87 difference between compensation paid and the fair value of the Group’s share of identifiable acquired net assets is recognised as goodwill. New or amended accounting standards When a company is acquired, the acquisition meets the criteria for From 1 January 2019, IFRS 16 Leases replaces the previous standard either an asset acquisition or a business combination. A transaction IAS 17. Under this new standard, assets and liabilities must be recognised qualifies as an asset acquisition if it pertains to properties, with or within the balance sheet for all leases unless the lease term is 12 months or out leases, but excluding an organisation and the administrative proless or the underlying asset has a low value. This means that future lease cesses required for property management. Other acquisitions are busifees are discounted over the term of the contract and recognised as lianess combinations. The management determines for each acquisition bilities and assets, respectively. The Group’s material leases pertain to which criteria have been met. The assessment is that all acquisitions in land leases and ground rent agreements. From 1 January 2019, each of 2019 and 2018 were asset acquisitions. these leases will be recognised as an asset together with a correspondIntra-Group transactions, balances, and any unrealised gains and ing liability. losses arising from intra-Group transactions are eliminated in preparing There are no other IFRSs or IFRIC interpretations that are not yet effecthe consolidated financial statements. tive that would be expected to have a material impact on the Group. VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 79 FI N A N CI A L S TAT EM EN T S N OT E S NOTE 2 Revenue, income and expenses 2.1 Segment reporting § Accounting policies – segment reporting Segmentation is based on how the management and the chief The management is responsible for allocating resources and assessoperating decision-maker (CODM) monitor and control operations. ing the performance of the operating segments. Vasakronan has Vasakronan conducts operations in four regions: Stockholm, determined that the CODM is the CEO of the Parent Company and Gothenburg, Malmö and Uppsala, which correspond to the operatthe Group’s management collectively as the Management Team. ing segments reported. The allocation of results by segment is conducted down to net operating are not allocated by segment. Items directly attributable to investment income level, and thereafter only items pertaining directly to investment properties are also segmented in the balance sheet. Other assets, and properties. Other revenue and costs are assessed as Group-wide and equity and liabilities, are assessed as essentially Group-wide. Stockholm Gothenburg Malmö Uppsala Group-wide Total Income statement 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Rental revenue 4,464 4,156 1,325 1,280 692 761 559 521 – – 7,040 6,718 Operating expenses –406 –414 –105 –108 –102 –120 –69 –69 – – –682 –711 Repairs and maintenance –73 –63 –19 –16 –15 –15 –12 –14 – – –119 –108 Property administration –198 –178 –75 –75 –58 –63 –46 –41 – – –377 –357 Property tax –441 –342 –121 –98 –60 –61 –33 –26 – – –655 –527 Ground rents and land leases – –129 – –9 – –8 0 0 – – – –146 Property expenses –1,118 –1,126 –320 –306 –235 –267 –160 –150 – – –1,833 –1,849 Operating surplus 3,346 3,030 1,005 974 457 494 399 371 – – 5,207 4,869 Central administration – – – – – – – – –113 –101 –113 –101 Result from participations in joint ventures – – – – – – – – 1,105 159 1,105 159 Financial income – – – – – – – – 4 3 4 3 Financial expenses – – – – – – – – –1,135 –1,046 –1,135 –1,046 Interest expenses, ground rents and land leases –138 – –2 – –7 – – – – – –147 – Profit before value changes and tax 4,921 3,884 Change in value of investment properties 10,704 7,625 1,721 2,231 490 380 355 415 – – 13,270 10,651 Depreciation of land lease agreements – – –7 – – – – – – – –7 – Change in value of financial instruments – – – – – – – – –881 13 –881 13 Divested/impaired goodwill – –36 – –10 –74 –16 – – – – –74 –62 Profit before tax 17,229 14,486 Stockholm Gothenburg Malmö Uppsala Group-wide Total Balance sheet 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Investment properties 105,113 91,617 28,149 25,630 13,010 13,196 9,799 8,492 – – 156,071 138,935 of which, investments during the year 3,000 2,004 801 731 242 412 397 188 – – 4,440 3,335 of which, acquisitions/ sales during the year –208 –990 –3 –1,020 –918 –263 556 345 – – –573 –1,928 Ground rent agreements and land leases 4,945 – 52 – 246 – – – – – 5,243 – Goodwill 1,047 1,047 435 435 346 420 80 80 – – 1,908 1,982 Other assets – – – – – – – – 6,957 4,284 6,957 4,284 Total assets 111,105 92,664 2 8,636 26,065 13,602 13,616 9,879 8,572 6,957 4,284 170,179 145,201 80 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T N OT E S FI N A N CI A L S TAT EM EN T S 2.2 Rental revenue 2.3 Costs The Group’s costs mainly encompass direct property expenses and administration costs. § Accounting policies – rental revenue The Group’s revenue primarily consists of rental revenue and Group additional rental charges, which are invoiced in advance and alloCosts recognised in profit or loss 2019 2018 cated over a straight line so that only the portion that falls due during the period is recognised as revenue. IFRS 15 – Revenue Property expenses excl. admin. –1,456 –1,492 from Contracts with Customers entered force 1 January 2018. Property administration –377 –357 The Group’s revenue is essentially rental revenue, which is recCentral administration –113 –101 ognised pursuant to IAS 17 Leases. Vasakronan has chosen to view media, property tax and other expenses as an integrated Total –1,946 –1,950 part of rental revenue, since they are not independent services. In those cases where Vasakronan acts as the tenant’s representaGroup tive, the services are invoiced for separately. When applicable, Expenses allocated by category 2019 2018 recognised revenue is reduced by the cost of incentives. Larger rent discounts are allocated in a straight line over the term of the Repairs and maintenance –119 –108 agreement. Surrender premia paid by tenants in conjunction with Property tax –655 –527 vacating leases prior to lease expiry are recognised as revenue in Ground rents – –146 conjunction with the termination of the agreement and when no commitments remain for Vasakronan, which generally arises on Other direct property expenses –676 –706 vacation of the premises. Personnel costs –422 –415 Depreciation –11 –12 Other external expenses –63 –36 Rental agreements classified as operating leases and properties leased out under operating leases are included in investment properties. Total –1,946 –1,950 Change in the Group’s rental revenue The operations of the Parent Company consist of Group-wide functions Income statement 2018 6,718 and management of properties owned by other Group companies. The property management costs are invoiced to the property-owning Group Change in comparable property holdings 376 companies as property administration. Central administration costs are Development properties 3 recognised in the Parent Company and relate to the costs associated Acquired properties 16 with the Group management, property investments, financing and central marketing. Properties sold –73 Income statement 2019 7,040 Group Administration 2019 2018 Personnel costs –291 –289 Lease portfolio expiry structure No. of contracts Annual rent Procured services –88 –79 Expires within 1 year 1) 2,482 1,283 IT –56 –43 2021 879 1,186 Marketing –18 –14 2022 802 1,349 Depreciation, equipment –5 –7 2023 402 1,004 Other –32 –26 2024 155 550 Total –490 –458 More than 5 years 608 1,821 Total 5,328 7,193 Group/ Parent Company 1) Of which, 1,175 residential leases with annual rents amounting to SEK 101 million. Auditors’ fees 2019 2018 Audit engagement 1.4 1.4 At year end, the average remaining term to maturity for the lease portfolio was 3.9 years (4.2). Of contracted rents, 95% (95) pertained to Audit activities other than the audit engagement 0.3 0.3 commercial leases and 5% (5) to leases for residential and parking facilTax advice 0.1 0.1 ities. There are some 4,150 commercial leases (4,250) allocated across Other 0.3 0.4 tenants in a number of different industries, no single tenant accounts for more than 3% of rental revenue. Public sector tenants account for Total 2.1 2.2 24% (24) of contracted rents. Credit loss exposure is reduced through analysis of tenants’ credit ratings for new lettings and on an ongoing The audit engagement refers to the statutory audit required of the basis; when needed, requirements are set for collateral. auditors in order to be able to submit an auditors’ report. VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 81 FI N A N CI A L S TAT EM EN T S N OT E S 2.4 Employees, personnel costs and remuneration to the Board § Accounting policies – employee compensation Remuneration of employees as vested and comprises salaries, The recognised commitment for defined-benefit obligations is paid holiday, paid sick leave and other benefits as well as pensions. calculated by an independent actuary at the present value of future Pensions are based on defined-contribution or defined-benefit pendisbursements discounted by the interest rate on high-quality mortsion plans. For defined-contribution pension plans a fixed premium gage bonds with corresponding maturities to the term of the actual is paid to a separate legal entity and the Group expenses the resultpension obligation. Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in other ing cost as the benefit is vested. For defined-benefit pension plans, comprehensive income in the period in which they arise. the employee is guaranteed an amount on retirement. Vasakronan applies IAS 19 for these. Employees Group/ All of the Group’s staff are employed by the Parent Company, Salaries, other benefits Parent Company Vasakronan AB. In 2019, the average number of employees was and social security costs 2019 2018 308 (313), of these 139 (143) were women and 169 (170) men. More Senior executives 32 30 details regarding the number of employees is available in the Group’s sustainability reporting. Other employees 196 194 Vasakronan’s senior executives refers to the 12 individuals who, Total salaries and benefits 228 224 together with the CEO, comprise the Management Team, refer to page Pension costs 88 88 109. At the balance-sheet date, the gender breakdown of the Group’s senior executives was as follows: 6 (6) women and 7 (7) men, and for Social security costs 96 95 the Board: 6 (5) women and 3 (4) men. Total 412 407 Salaries and other benefits Remuneration to the Board Salaries and other benefits for the CEO and other senior executives Remuneration to the Board is determined by resolution of the AGM. consist only of fixed salaries. Variable compensation can be paid to From the 2018 AGM, Board fees are paid as salary, previously it was other employees based on the operational focus areas, which for 2019 possible for Board members to invoice as a sole trader or through their were net operating income, occupancy rate, area let, major projects and companies. Board members employed at one of the Swedish national customer satisfaction. The Group has a standardised model for variable pension funds or at Vasakronan receive no Board fees. compensation, whereby the maximum outcome is capped at two months’ salary. A provision has been made in the annual accounts for an estimated outcome corresponding to one month’s salary and was established on an individual basis in Q1 2020. Variable compensation for the 2018 financial year was distributed during the year and was also capped at two months’ salary. The average outcome corresponded to 1.2 months’ salary. Basic salary/Board Senior executives 2019 (SEK 000) and committee fees1) Other benefits2) Pension costs Total Chairman of the Board Ulrika Francke 770 – – 770 Other Board members Jan-Olof Backman3) 133 – – 133 Ann-Sofi Danielsson 380 – – 380 Christel Kinning 280 – – 280 Rolf Lydahl4) 164 – – 164 Magnus Meyer5) 140 – – 140 Kia Orback Pettersson6) 140 – – 140 2,007 2,007 Chief Executive Officer Johanna Skogestig 1 Nov–31 Dec 776 6 196 978 Chief Executive Officer Fredrik Wirdenius 1 Jan–31 Oct 5,492 51 2,337 7,880 1 Nov–31 Dec 1,070 10 468 1,548 Other senior executives 22,798 415 12,047 35,260 30,136 482 15,048 45,666 Total 32,143 482 15,048 47,673 82 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T N OT E S FI N A N CI A L S TAT EM EN T S Basic salary/Board Senior executives 2018 (SEK 000) and committee fees1) Other benefits2) Pension costs Total Chairman of the Board Ulrika Francke7) 359 – – 359 Mats Wäppling8) 348 – – 348 Other Board members Jan-Olof Backman 265 – – 265 Ann-Sofi Danielsson 291 – – 291 Christel Kinning 265 – – 265 Rolf Lydahl 328 – – 328 1,856 1,856 Chief Executive Officer Fredrik Wirdenius 6,310 57 1,791 8,158 Other senior executives 21,963 373 11,060 33,396 28,273 430 12,851 41,554 Total 30,129 430 12,851 43,410 1) Remuneration to employees pertains to remuneration paid in 2019, while remuneration to the Board pertains to Board fees as adopted by the AGM. 2) Other benefits pertain primarily to costs for group health insurance and group life insurance. 3) Pertains to fees paid in 2019. Jan-Olof Backman stepped down from the Board in conjunction with the May 2019 AGM. 4) Pertains to fees paid in 2019. Rolf Lydahl stepped down from the Board in conjunction with the May 2019 AGM. 5) Magnus Meyer was elected to the Board at the May 2019 AGM. Board fees amount to SEK 280,000 per year. 6) Kia Orback Pettersson was elected to the Board at the May 2019 AGM. Board fees amount to SEK 280,000 per year. 7) Ulrika Francke was elected to the Board at the May 2018 AGM. Board fees amount to SEK 660,000 per year, Audit Committee fees to SEK 26,000 per year and fees as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee to SEK 32,000 per year. 8) Pertains to fees paid in 2018. Mats Wäppling stepped down from the Board in conjunction with the May 2018 AGM. Pensions executive is entitled to severance pay of 12 months’ salary, unless the The pension rights of salaried employees are covered pursuant to the executive is aged over 50 at the time, in which case severance pay is defined-benefit BTP pension plan (the occupational pension plan for increased to 18 months’ salary. Swedish bank employees), which is financed through payments to SPP If the CEO or other senior executives receive remuneration from and, according to a statement from the Swedish Financial Reporting other employment, the severance pay is reduced by a corresponding Board UFR 10, this comprises a multi-employer plan. amount. If the employment is terminated by the CEO or other senior The following applied for the CEO until 31 October 2019: The CEO’s executive, no severance pay is due. employment contract extended until the age of 62. The pension terms and conditions adhered to the defined-benefit BTP plan, and were calcuProvision for pensions lated based on a pension age of 65. During the contracted employment The pension solutions primarily encompass retirement, disability period, a supplementary and defined-contribution pension provision and survivors’ pensions, and are held in either defined-contribution was also made. If the provision amounted to less than 30% of pensionor defined-benefit pension plans. Defined-contribution pension plans able monthly salary, a supplementary payment was made up to that consist of BTPK and ITPK, and defined-benefit plans comprise BTP level. Settlement was carried out by the end of February, the year after which is secured through insurance with SPP, as well as a number of the settlement year. retirement and survivors’ obligations secured with Skandia. The following applied for the CEO from 1 November 2019: PensionWhen Vasakronan was founded as a company in 1993, it took over able salary consists of the applicable base salary and holiday pay. The the defined-benefit pension obligations from Byggnadsstyrelsen, which pension provision is 30% of pensionable salary with a pension age of 65. were administered by the National Government Employee Pensions Other senior executives have a “10-pointer” pension solution through Board (SPV) and have mainly been secured with KPA. Moreover, the BTP plan, and are calculated based on a retirement age of 65. Vasakronan has a defined-benefit ITP secured through insurance with Alecta, which is recognised in accordance with the Swedish Financial Terms and conditions Reporting Board’s statement UFR10 as a defined-contribution pension. The following applied for the CEO until 31 October 2019: A notice The obligation in Alecta has been agreed previously and no new premiperiod of six months. In the event that notice was given by the company, ums or fees were paid. At the end of the financial year, Alecta had a the notice period was 12 months and the CEO would then receive consolidation ratio of 148 (142). severance pay corresponding to 12 months’ salary. Under IAS 19, all defined-benefit pension rights are vested on a The following applied for the CEO from 1 November 2019: In the straight-line basis over the period of employment. This means that the vent of termination of employment, a mutual notice period of six pension costs in the consolidated income statement consist of an estimonths applies. In the event of notice being given by the company, or mated value which could differ from the actual paid-up pension premidue to some other reason for immediate dismissal, further severance ums recognised in the Parent Company. The present value of pension pay corresponding to 12 months’ salary is due in addition to the beneobligations and the fair value of plan assets are recognised net in the fits during the notice period. consolidated balance sheet. Other senior executives are subject to a mutual notice period of six months. If employment is terminated by the company, the senior VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 83 FI N A N CI A L S TAT EM EN T S N OT E S Group Parent Company Pension costs in the income statement 2019 2018 2019 2018 Pension costs, defined-contribution 67 70 35 38 Pension costs, defined-benefit 15 13 53 50 Separate payroll tax on pension costs 20 18 22 20 Total pension costs in the income statement 102 101 110 108 Of which recognised as property administration 82 80 Of which recognised as central administration 20 21 Pension costs in other comprehensive income, excl. tax Actuarial gains(–)/losses(+), incl. payroll tax 41 18 Restriction for surplus in pension plan with asset cap, incl. payroll tax –5 –8 Total pension costs in other comprehensive income, excl. tax 36 10 Group Net debt defined-benefit pensions, Group 2019 2018 Change in the defined-benefit obligation Present value of the pension obligation, opening balance 433 419 Pension rights vested through service1) 14 12 Interest on pension obligation1) 9 9 Pension disbursements –17 –19 Actuarial gains(–)/losses(+) on pension obligations2) 56 12 Present value of the obligation, closing balance3) 495 495 433 433 Change in plan assets Fair value of plan assets, opening balance –377 –370 Interest income1) –8 –8 Paid-in premiums –22 –20 Pension disbursements 16 19 Return on plan assets excluding interest income2) –22 2 Fair value of plan assets, closing balance –413 –413 –377 –377 Restriction for surplus in pension plan with asset cap 8 11 Other pension obligations 7 6 Separate payroll tax on net pension debt 22 18 Net debt, defined-benefit pensions 119 91 1) Recognised in profit or loss. 2) Recognised in other comprehensive income. 3) Expected weighted-average duration for the obligation’s present value at 31 December 2019 is 18.57 years (17.21). The plan assets mainly comprise shares, interest-bearing securities Net actuarial gains and losses after tax amounted to SEK 29 million (8) and participations in funds. and were recognised in other comprehensive income under the alterThe difference between the actual and the expected return native rule in IAS 19. amounted to SEK 22 million (negative: 2) and was recognised as the The Group’s payments to defined-benefit plans are expected to return on plan assets excluding interest income. amount to SEK 21 million in 2020. Actuarial and financial assumptions (%): Group 2019 2018 Discount rate 1.5 2.1 Inflation 2.0 2.0 Expected annual wage growth 3.5 3.5 Expected annual increase in pension disbursements 2.0 2.0 Expected annual increase in income base amount 3.0 3.0 The discount rate corresponds to the interest rate on mortgage bonds rate would, for example, result in a SEK 81 million change in the present and is the single assumption that has the largest impact on the size of value of the pension obligation. the pension obligation. A 1 percentage point change in the discount 84 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T N OT E S FI N A N CI A L S TAT EM EN T S 2.5 Financial income and expenses Net financial items § Accounting policies – financial income and expenses Net financial items is not affected by the market values of contracted Financial income encompasses interest income on bank funds, interest-rate derivatives, which are used to adjust fixed-interest perireceivables, financial investments and dividend income. Expenses ods, since they are recognised as changes in value under their own consist of interest expense and other costs arising in conjunction item. Refer to Note 6.4 for more information. with borrowing, such as arrangement fees and administrative expenses. The net effect of exchange-rate differences on financial items is recognised as an income or expense depending on the outcome. Financial income and expenses are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they arise. Financial expenses pertaining to major new construction, extensions or redevelopments are capitalised in the balance sheet as investments during the production period. Group Parent Company Financial income and expenses 2019 2018 2019 2018 Interest income 4 3 4 3 Interest income from subsidiaries – – 837 64 Other financial income 0 0 0 0 Total financial income 4 3 841 67 Interest expense –1,194 –1,042 –1,192 –1,041 Interest expense to subsidiaries – – –20 – Capitalised interest 107 62 – – Other financial expenses –48 –66 –48 –66 Total financial expenses –1,135 –1,046 –1,260 –1,107 Net financial items –1,131 –1,043 –419 –1,040 The average interest rate for the loan portfolio over the period is used for capitalising interest expense. In 2019, the average interest rate was 1.8% (1.7). NOTE 3 Tax § Accounting policies – tax The tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred tax. Deferred tax is recognised according to the balance sheet method, Tax is recognised in the income statement, except where the underand deferred tax liabilities and tax assets are recognised in the lying transaction is recognised in other comprehensive income or balance sheet for all temporary differences that arise between the directly in equity, in these cases the accompanying tax effect is also carrying amount and the tax base of an asset or liability. The carryincluded. ing amounts for deferred tax assets and tax losses are tested at each The current income tax charge is calculated on the taxable income reporting date and reduced if it is no longer likely that sufficient taxfor the period and recognised as an expense or income in profit or able profits will be available to be utilised fully or in part. loss. Taxable income differs from profit in the form of adjustments Deferred income tax is calculated based on tax rates and tax laws for non-taxable income and non-deductible items. that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance-­ Current tax is tax that is to be paid or received in the current year sheet date and, which are expected to apply when the related adjusted with any current tax attributable to previous periods. deferred tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled. The temporary difference that arises from the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in an asset acquisition is not recognised as deferred tax. Group Parent Company Tax on profit for the year 2019 2018 2019 2018 Current tax –230 –120 –196 0 Deferred tax –3,090 –1,464 112 –109 Total tax on profit for the year –3,320 –1,584 –84 –109 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 85 FI N A N CI A L S TAT EM EN T S N OT E S 3.1 Summary of tax expense/income Group Parent Company Tax expense 2019 2018 2019 2018 Recognised profit before tax 17,229 14,486 5,249 6,385 Tax on profit according to current tax rate, 21.4% (22.0) –3,687 –3,187 –1,123 –1,405 Tax attributable to previous fiscal years 6 0 0 0 Tax effect of: Non-taxable sale of subsidiaries 182 323 –1 102 Divested goodwill –16 –13 – – Non-taxable dividend 119 35 1,202 1,202 Impairment of participations – – –109 0 Non-deductible interest expenses –53 – –49 – Other non-taxable income/non-deductible costs 0 –1 0 –1 Effect of lowered tax rates on deferred tax – 1,259 – –7 Effect as a result of lowered tax rates on deferred tax 129 – –4 – Other adjustments 0 0 0 0 Tax expense recognised –3,320 –1,584 –84 –109 Effective tax rate, % 19.3 10.9 Current tax for 2019 has been calculated based on a nominal tax rate Properties can be divested directly or indirectly through the divestof 21.4%, while deferred tax has been calculated using a lower corpoment of the property-owning subsidiary. Gains from the sale of proprate tax rate of 20.6% in accordance with the government’s decision to erty are taxable while gains from the sale of companies are in most change the corporate tax rate from 1 January 2019. In 2018, the calcucases free of taxes. lation of current tax was based on a tax rate of 22% and the calculation of deferred tax was based on a tax rate of 20.6%. 3.2 Deferred tax Recognised in Recognised Opening balance profit or loss directly in equity Closing balance Deferred tax liability 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Group Derivatives –347 –480 –112 133 – – –459 –347 Investment properties 18,550 17,247 3,083 1,303 – – 21,633 18,550 Untaxed reserves 80 53 69 27 – – 149 80 Tax losses –1 –1 –7 0 – – –8 –1 Other temporary differences 4 5 57 1 –7 –2 54 4 Total deferred tax 18,286 16,824 3,090 1,464 –7 –2 21,368 18,286 Parent Company Derivatives –347 –480 –112 133 – – –459 –347 Investment properties 210 234 – –24 – – – 1) 210 Total deferred tax –137 –246 –112 109 – – –459 –137 1) The change for the year pertained to deferred tax attributable to wholly owned general and limited partnerships divested to other Group companies. 3.3 Market value of deferred tax 3.4 Depreciation The deferred tax liability is calculated in the balance sheet using a Vasakronan recognises investment properties at fair value in the nominal tax rate and in the case of a market valuation of the deferred consolidated accounts. However, tax legislation permits depreciation tax liability would probably result in a lower value than the carrying of 2–5% for buildings, 5% for land improvements and 20–30% of the amount in the balance sheet. When calculating the EPRA triple net fixtures and fittings of a building or of the type of land improvement asset value (NNNAV), the fair value is calculated at 30% of the nominal that constitutes the building and land inventory. Land may not be tax rate of 20.6%, in other words 6.2%, which results in deferred tax of depreciated. SEK 6,421 million. For more guidance, refer to the key metrics on page 146 and the definition for NNNAV on page 148. 86 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T N OT E S FI N A N CI A L S TAT EM EN T S NOTE 4 Assets 4.1 Intangible assets § Accounting policies – intangible assets Goodwill Other intangible assets The goodwill that arises when preparing the consolidated accounts In addition to goodwill, the Group’s intangible assets include brands comprises the difference between any consideration paid and the acquired through business combinations that are valued at fair value fair value of the net assets acquired. The Group’s goodwill mainly at the acquisition date as well as investments during the year in certain arose from business acquisitions performed by Vasakronan and is new technical platforms. recognised in accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations. In the Group, goodwill is mainly attributable to the difference between Impairment testing nominal and calculated tax for business combinations and is thus The useful lives for goodwill and the brand have been assessed as entirely linked to the deferred tax. This item changes if a property indefinite and therefore not subject to amortisation. Instead, their with goodwill is divested. When a property is sold, or alternatively if values are tested annually or on any indication of a need for impaira need for impairment arises, goodwill attributable to the property ment. Goodwill arising on acquisitions that are not considered asset is eliminated and recognised as “divested/impaired goodwill.” acquisitions is tested for each property or balance-sheet item for which goodwill was allocated at the acquisition date. Goodwill Other intangible assets The value of goodwill is tested each quarter to ensure the carrying The value of the brand is tested annually or on any indication of amount for the property does not exceed the recoverable amount. a decline in value to identify any need for impairment and to then The recoverable amount is mainly impacted by the assessed market recognise the brand at cost less any accumulated impairments. value of deferred tax. The company management bases its assessment mainly on observable market data for completed transactions. When establishing the fair value for goodwill at the end of 2019, deferred tax has been measured at an average of 6.2% (6.2). Group Other intangible Goodwill assets Total Intangible assets 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Opening balance 1,982 2,045 107 100 2,089 2,145 Divested/impaired goodwill –74 –62 – – –74 –62 Acquisitions for the year – – 11 7 11 7 Amortisation for the year – – –2 –1 –2 –1 Closing balance 1,908 1,983 116 106 2,024 2,089 Goodwill decreased SEK 74 million (62) in conjunction with the sale of properties and companies in 2019. 4.2 Investment properties § Accounting policies – investment properties Vasakronan’s properties are held to generate rental revenue and On initial recognition, property is recognised at cost, including capital appreciation, and are therefore classified as investment propdirectly attributable transaction costs, and thereafter at fair value erties. The term investment properties includes land and buildings, at each reporting date. land improvements, building and land installations, and ongoing Subsequent expenditure is capitalised when it is probable that projects. Investment properties are recognised at fair value in the future economic benefits associated with the expenditure will accrue balance sheet, which is determined by the management based on to the Group, in other words, when the expenditure adds value. the properties’ market values. Changes in the fair value are recognised Other repairs and maintenance costs are expensed when incurred. as realised and unrealised value changes in profit or loss. Vasakronan In the case of major new construction, extensions or redevelopapplies IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement – Level 3 Unobservable ments, interest expense during the production period is capitalised inputs for the asset or liability. in accordance with IAS 23 Borrowing Costs, see Note 6.2. Measurement Valuation assumptions Fair value comprises the market value based on the most likely outcome The market values are assessed using a yield-based valuation method of a sale with a normal marketing period in the open property market. that utilises cash-flow statements with a horizon of at least ten years. To establish the properties’ fair value at each reporting date, market The cost of capital and requirements for yields are based on the valvaluations are conducted for all properties. The valuation process is uers’ experience-based assessments of market return requirements governed by a valuation policy under which all properties are valued by for comparable properties. The projections of future cash flows take external parties at year end and mid year, and valued internally at the into consideration the use of the object, its age and maintenance status. end of the first and third quarters. If an agreement has been signed Rent payments are based on existing rental contracts and on their expiry, regarding the purchase and sale of a property, the agreed property rent levels at market rates are assumed. Cost for operation, maintenance value is used as the market value in the next quarterly accounts. and administration are based on actual costs in combination with projecExternal valuations are conducted pursuant to RICS Valuation – tions and experience from comparable objects. Future investments have Global Standards (the Red Book). In parallel with the external valuation, been assessed based on actual requirements. The external valuers an internal control of the reasonableness of this valuation is carried out. inspect each property every three years. In 2019, the external valuation was conducted by Cushman & Wakefield in Gothenburg and Stockholm, and by Forum Fastighetsekonomi in Malmö and Uppsala. VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 87 FI N A N CI A L S TAT EM EN T S N OT E S 2019 Group Valuation assumptions Average Change in value of investment properties 2019 2018 Inflation assumption 2.0% Development properties 2,136 834 Cost of capital – cash flow 5.97% Transactions 47 369 Cost of capital – residual value 6.17% Investment properties: Yield requirement – residual value 4.15% Changed yield requirement 4,538 2,219 Long-term vacancy rate 4.72% Change in market rents 6,549 7,229 Operating and maintenance costs, year 1 SEK 410 sq. m. Total change in value 13,270 10,651 Investments, year 1 SEK 2,003 sq. m. The properties sold in 2019 are detailed on page 75. The total rental Market rent (at zero vacancies) SEK 3,506 sq. m. value for properties sold was SEK 114 million. Over the year, sales in a corporate wrapper have resulted in a gain of SEK 3 million (341) in the Parent Company. Yield requirement – residual value per sub-market Interval Average Group Central Stockholm 3.25–5.25 3.85 Investment properties 2019 2018 Stockholm’s inner suburbs 3.95–7.00 4.87 Opening balance 138,934 126,875 Gothenburg 3.65–4.30 4.05 Investments 4,440 3,335 Malmö 4.10–5.45 4.67 Acquisitions, consideration 977 594 Uppsala 4.60–5.60 4.99 Sales, consideration –1,550 –2,521 Change in value 13,270 10,651 Closing balance 156,071 138,934 Fiscal values 47,887 46,234 Sensitivity analysis The following table illustrates the effects on the market value of changes in each factor. Sensitivity analysis Change in assumption Value impact, SEK m Value impact, % Yield requirement and cost of capital +1 percentage point –29,250 –18.7 Yield requirement and cost of capital –1 percentage point 47,807 30.6 Long-term vacancy rate +/–1 percentage point –/+1,710 –/+1.1 Operating and maintenance costs +/– SEK 25 sq. m. –/+1,247 –/+0.8 Market rents +/– SEK 50 sq. m. +/–2,494 +/–1.6 Undertakings 2019 2018 Capital expenditure investment properties 7,238 6,325 4.3 Equipment § Accounting policies – equipment Equipment mainly comprises office equipment, which is recognised Assets that are subject to depreciation are reviewed for impairment at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses. whenever an indication arises that the carrying amount may not be Equipment is depreciated using the straight-line method over a fiverecoverable. The impairment is established as the difference between year period and residual values are assessed as negligible and not the carrying amount and the recoverable amount. The recoverable taken into consideration. Depreciation is calculated from the time amount is the higher of an asset’s fair value less costs of disposal and the asset is taken into use. value in use. Group Parent Company Equipment 2019 2018 2019 2018 Cost: Opening balance 131 124 66 70 Acquisitions 8 12 2 1 Sales and disposals –10 –5 –9 –5 Closing balance – cost 129 131 59 66 Depreciation: Opening depreciation –87 –78 –55 –51 Depreciation for the year –11 –12 –5 –7 Sales and disposals 9 3 8 3 Closing balance – depreciation –89 –87 –52 –55 Closing balance 40 44 7 11 88 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T N OT E S FI N A N CI A L S TAT EM EN T S NOTE 5 Operating receivables and liabilities NOTE 6 Financing and capital structure Accounts receivable are recognised net after provisions for doubtful 6.1 Goals for financial operations receivables and the amount reflects the sum expected to be recovered Owning and developing properties is a capital-intensive business. based on the circumstances known at the balance-sheet date. The payInterest expense is one of the Group’s major cost items and access to ment period for accounts receivable is short and fair value corresponds cost-efficient financing is strategically important. Vasakronan finances to amortised cost less accumulated impairment. its activities through owners’ capital or through external borrowing, Other current receivables, prepaid expenses and accrued income the division being decided by weighting the requirements for returns are recognised at carrying amounts as the payment period is short. and financial stability. Vasakronan’s financial objective is, within set frameworks and with Parent restrictions, to diversify its financing structure in terms of tenors and Group Company financing sources to thereby secure its required funding at the lowest 5.1 Accounts receivable 2019 2018 2019 2018 possible cost. Tenant receivables 50 60 0 0 Credit rating Provision for doubtful receivables –15 –31 0 0 In May 2019, Moody’s confirmed the rating of A3 with a stable outlook. Closing balance 35 29 0 0 The rating is based on the high quality of the property portfolio, healthy financial metrics and the links to the company’s owners, the First, Second, Third and Fourth Swedish National Pension Funds. The Group reported losses of SEK 1 million (12) for the impairment of tenant receivables. § Accounting policies – financial instruments 5.2 Other current receivables, Parent Financial instruments prepaid expenses and accrued Group Company Financial instruments are defined as any form of agreement or income 2019 2018 2019 2018 contract that gives rise to a financial asset or liability. Financial Accrued interest income 240 173 240 173 assets in the balance sheet are: accounts receivable, receivables from joint ventures, cash and cash equivalents, and derivatives. Accrued rent discounts 86 103 – – Financial liabilities comprise: accounts payable, borrowings and Deposit account 298 271 298 271 derivatives. VAT adjustment 12 18 – – The Group’s financial assets are assigned the following cate­ gories in accordance with IFRS 9: Prepaid operating expenses 21 37 – – • Equity instruments: measured at FVTOCI Other items 457 235 77 26 • Derivatives: measured at FVTPL Closing balance 1,114 837 615 470 • Debt instruments: measured at FVTPL, or through the other comprehensive income alternative, in accordance with the cost, since the aim of the instrument is the basis for its classification 5.3 Other current liabilities, Parent accrued expenses and deferred Group Company Fair value estimation income 2019 2018 2019 2018 The fair value of financial instruments traded on an active market Prepaid rental revenue 1,235 1,206 – – is based on market valuations obtained from current market data. The bid price is used for financial assets and the put price for Accrued interest expense 481 324 481 324 financial liabilities. Accrued expenses for ongoing projects 509 394 – – Method and decision data VAT 162 197 11 12 • Derivatives are calculated by discounting future contracted cash flows with the actual market interest rate for the respecDeposits 300 271 – 1 tive tenor Accrued operating expenses 31 43 – – • Financial liabilities are calculated by discounting future conProperty tax 81 36 – – tracted cash flows at the current market interest rate • Accounts receivable and accounts payable are based on their Vacation pay, social security nominal values, in other words, consideration is taken to any expenses and employee estimated credits withholding taxes 53 50 53 50 Other items 262 338 149 290 Closing balance 3,114 2,859 694 677 Financial risks and reporting Financing and financial risks are managed pursuant to guidelines set by Vasakronan’s Board. The Group is exposed to financing risk, interest-­ rate risk, credit risk and currency risk in its financing operations. VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 89 FI N A N CI A L S TAT EM EN T S N OT E S Financial policy Goals, governing principles and allocation of responsibilities across action. Authority to conclude business transactions is regulated treasury operations are set in Vasakronan’s financial policy. The policy through powers of attorney with the respective counterparty. The regulates the risk mandate and the principles for calculating, reporting, financial policy is evaluated on an ongoing basis and adopted each following up and controlling financial risks. In accordance with the policy, year by the Board. the duality principle applies in conjunction with transactions in so far as All financial operations are conducted by a central finance function the individual who conducts and registers a transaction does not have to ensure efficient management and control of the company’s financial authority to control and administer the funds pertaining to the transrisks and to enable the utilisation of economies of scale. Summary, compliance with financial policy Policy 31 Dec 2019 Financing risk Loan-to-maturity min. 2 years 5.2 Loans maturing, 12 months max. 40% 19% Credit commitments and cash/loans maturing 12 months at least 100% 166% Interest-rate risk Interest coverage ratio min. 2.0x (LTM) 4.6 Fixed-interest period min. 2 years 5.8 Fixed-interest maturity within 12 months max. 55% 32% Currency risk Currency exposure with no foreign currency assets No exposure met Currency exposure with foreign currency assets max 1% of total assets met Credit risk Counterpart’s rating min. A–, or BBB+ with CSAs met 6.2 Breakdown of funding sources, share of total loan portfolio Nominal amount Amount Loan limit base currency utilised Share, % Commercial paper 25,000 7,235 11% Bonds, SEK 62,9991) 24,909 37% Bonds, NOK – 9,720 10,361 16% Bonds, EUR – 437 4,584 7% Bonds, JPY – 10,000 861 1% Bonds, AUD – 80 526 1% Bonds, USD – 185 1,732 3% Secured bank loans 11,603 11,603 17% NIB and EIB 4,827 4,827 7% Credit facility from owners 18,000 – – Total 66,638 100 1) The amount corresponds to EUR 6 billion and encompasses all currencies. Repayment Summary of liabilities arising from Opening Loan New premiums/ Exchange-rate Closing financing activities — Group balance repayments borrowings discounts differences balance Commercial paper 6,157 –18,288 19,366 – – 7,235 Bonds, SEK 26,729 –9,325 7,500 5 – 24,909 Bonds, NOK 10,162 –529 325 – 403 10,361 Bonds, EUR 305 – 4,280 – –1 4,584 Bonds, JPY – – 835 – 26 861 Bonds, AUD – – 529 – –3 526 Bonds, USD – – 1,770 – –38 1,732 Secured bank loans 12,907 –2,567 1,269 –6 – 11,603 Unsecured bank loans 4,827 – – – – 4,827 Total 61,087 –30,709 35,874 –1 387 66,638 Exchange-rate differences and repayment premiums/discounts are non-cash items. Loan terms and conditions • A greements for commercial paper and bank loans contain an owner• Unsecured loan agreements also include covenants stating that the ship covenant that allows lenders to terminate the loan and require LTV may not exceed 65% repayment unless the First, Second, Third and Fourth Swedish • The bond is subject to a covenant that covered financing may not National Pension Funds collectively or separately own at least 51% of exceed 40% of the Group’s total assets Vasakronan. A similar ownership covenant is included in bond agreements whereby the bondholder can require repayment if a change in Carrying amount ownership, as above, should lead to a downgrade of the company’s Interest-bearing liabilities are recognised at amortised cost, which is rating by at least one level reported in the above tables. • The bank loan agreements also contain a covenant specifying that the interest coverage ratio may not fall below a multiple of 1.5 90 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T N OT E S FI N A N CI A L S TAT EM EN T S 6.3 Financial risks Currency risk Cash and cash equivalents are recognised at nominal values and Currency risk pertains to unfavourable changes in exchange rates that include cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks and other shortimpact the Group’s financial position. When borrowing, all currency term highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less. risk is to be eliminated and the exchange rate for interest payments Liquidity risk pertains to Vasakronan’s risk of having insufficient cash and loan repayments of foreign currency loans hedged using currency funds or credit to meet its payment obligations. The risk is balanced swaps. Where assets in foreign currency exist, currency exposure (net since the relationship between credit commitments, cash funds and of assets and liabilities in foreign currencies) is permitted correspondloans maturing within 12 months must be not less than 100%. ing to a maximum of 1% of the company's total assets. The maturity analysis is based on amounts for future undiscounted At 31 December 2019, borrowing in foreign currency amounted to cash flows related to financial receivables and liabilities, including interNOK 9,720 million (9,700), EUR 437 million (30), JPY 10,000 million (–), est, allocated over the period until the contractual maturity date. The AUD 80 million (–) and USD 185 million (–). closing interest rates for the respective loans and derivatives form the basis for estimating future cash flows for all liabilities. The closing Financing and liquidity risk exchange rate is used for currency derivatives. Financing risk pertains to the long-term risk that fulfilling the Group’s capital requirements and refinancing loans outstanding becomes more Interest-rate risk difficult or expensive, for example through limitation to several different Changes in market interest rates and credit margins influence borrowtypes of financing sources. This risk is limited since the average remaining expenses. Vasakronan’s finance function limits the risk by maintaining tenors for interest-bearing liabilities may not be less than two years. ing an average fixed-interest tenor of at least two years. Interest-rate Vasakronan has a credit facility that extends indefinitely from the First, risk is reflected by the interest coverage ratio which, pursuant to the Second, Third and Fourth Swedish National Pension Funds, whereby financial policy, should always exceed a multiple of 2.0 over the last the owners commit to supply the company with liquidity. The agree12 months. ment has a volume of SEK 18 billion and a notice period of 24 months. Liquidity risk – maturity analysis Group 2019 2018 0–1 year 1–2 years 2–5 years >5 years 0–1 year 1–2 years 2–5 years >5 years Assets Accounts receivable 35 – – – 29 – – – Other receivables 1,114 – – – 837 – – – Cash and cash equivalents 3,515 – – – 2,215 – – – Total 4,664 – – – 3,081 – – – Liabilities1) Bonds –5,978 –9,623 –15,786 –16,994 –8,349 –7,543 –17,120 –6,494 Bank loans –661 –698 –7,811 –8,164 –1,209 –619 –7,209 –9,465 Commercial paper –7,235 – – – –6,155 – – – Interest-rate derivatives –553 –555 –1,534 –1,504 –587 –610 –1,856 –2,053 Currency derivatives — inflows 1,308 224 1,639 8,881 786 1,282 4,149 6,540 Currency derivatives — outflows –1,184 –118 –1,344 –8,431 –611 –1,143 –3,752 –5,927 Accounts payable –220 – – – –118 – – – Total –14,523 –10,770 –24,836 –26,212 –16,243 –8,633 –25,788 –17,399 1) Excl. Liabilities, leaseholds and land leases. Group Parent Company Cash and cash equivalents 2019 2018 2019 2018 Cash and cash equivalents 3,515 2,215 3,506 2,212 Closing balance 3,515 2,215 3,506 2,212 Group/Parent Company Maturity structure current and non-current interest-bearing liabilities Fixed-interest Loan-to-maturity in the Group and Parent Company Amount Share, % Amount Share, % 0–1 21,062 32 12,956 19 1–2 652 1 9,050 14 2–3 3,201 5 8,516 13 3–4 1,800 3 6,954 10 4 years or more 39,923 59 29,162 44 Closing balance 66,638 100 66,638 100 of which Interest-bearing liabilities – floating rate 19,833 Interest-bearing liabilities – fixed rate 46,805 1) T he credit facility from owners of SEK 18,000 million and cash and cash equivalents of SEK 3,515 million corresponded to a total of 166% of loans maturing in the next 12 months, see page 72 for more information. VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 91 FI N A N CI A L S TAT EM EN T S N OT E S 6.4 Derivatives Counterparty risk – derivative contracts Derivatives are recognised in the balance sheet at the contract date As part of managing counterparty risks in derivative contracts, the and are measured on an ongoing basis at fair value pursuant to Level 2 Group has entered into credit support annexes (CSAs) to International in IFRS 13. All derivatives are recognised as assets when fair value is Swaps and Derivatives Association (ISDA) agreements. The annexes are positive and as liabilities when negative. Gains or losses arising from mutual and both parties undertake to post cash collateral for deficit and changes in value are recognised in profit or loss. Derivatives may only surplus values in derivative contracts outstanding. As of 31 December be used for risk management within the framework of the financial 2019, the Group has received and posted such collateral. policy and the electricity trading policy, and are used primarily for controlling fixed-interest tenors and balancing the following risk areas: Parent Group Company Risk area Derivative contracts Non-current receivables 2019 2018 2019 2018 Interest-rate risk Interest-rate swaps, inflation-linked swaps Deposits, CSAs 113 213 113 213 Currency risk Currency swaps Other non-current receivables 61 57 56 54 Price risk – electricity Electricity forwards Closing balance 174 270 169 267 Parent Derivative contracts in the consolidated and Group Company Parent Company balance sheets Other non-current liabilities 2019 2018 2019 2018 Deposits, CSAs 326 19 326 19 Derivatives – financial assets 2019 2018 Liabilities to subsidiaries – – 728 – Interest-rate swaps, currency swaps 664 220 Other non-current liabilities 59 57 57 53 Electricity derivatives 5 33 Closing balance 385 76 1,111 72 Closing balance 669 253 Derivatives – financial liabilities 2019 2018 Interest-rate swaps, currency swaps, inflation-linked swaps –2,795 –2,220 Closing balance –2,795 –2,220 Net Derivatives –2,126 –1,967 To reflect counterparty risk, derivatives are adjusted to fair value through the CVA (Credit Value Adjustment) and DVA (Debt Value Adjustment) components. The CVA shows Vasakronan’s credit risk in the event of the counterparty defaulting while the DVA reflects the company’s own risk of default. Calculation of the valuation adjustment is based on the expected exposure, probability of default and recovery rates for exposed credits. At 31 December 2019, the net value was SEK 38 million (24) and is included in the value of interest-rate swaps. Credit risk Credit risk pertains to the risk that Vasakronan’s counterparty is unable to discharge its commitments in conjunction with liquidity management and using financial derivatives. This risk is limited by working with a number of different counterparties. The financial policy also states that: • Derivative agreements are signed with counterparts that have a credit rating of at least A– on Standard & Poor’s rating scale or BBB+ with CSAs • Cash and cash equivalents may only be invested with selected counterparties that have a credit rating of at least BBB on Standard & Poor’s rating scale or alternatively Baa2 on Moody’s rating scale • The duration of liquidity investments may not exceed six months • ISDA agreements are required that allow offsetting of payables and receivables from the same counterparty 92 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T N OT E S FI N A N CI A L S TAT EM EN T S 6.5 Financial instruments Fair value corresponds to carrying amounts for the following financial margin, which currently results in a lower interest rate than that coninstruments: accounts receivable, accounts payable, derivatives and tracted for the loan. Recognition at fair value would increase the Group’s cash and cash equivalents. Fair value for other financial instruments liabilities by SEK 1,048 million and reduce equity by SEK 824 million. All is established using the current yield curve along with a borrowing investments in financial instruments are intended to be held till maturity. Loans and Total accounts Financial assets/ Other financial carrying Classification of financial receivable liabilities at FVTPL liabilities amount Fair value instruments, Group 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Financial assets Accounts receivable 35 29 – – – – 35 29 35 29 Deposits, CSAs 113 213 – – – – 113 213 113 213 Derivatives – – 669 253 – – 669 253 669 253 Cash and cash equivalents 3,515 2,215 0 0 – – 3,515 2,215 3,515 2,215 Total 3,663 2,457 669 253 – – 4,332 2,710 4,332 2,710 Financial liabilities Bonds – – – – 42,973 37,196 42,973 37,196 43,722 37,401 Bank loans – – – – 16,430 17,734 16,430 17,734 16,730 17,895 Commercial paper – – – – 7,235 6,157 7,235 6,157 7,234 6,153 Liabilities, leaseholds and land leases – – – – 5,244 – 5,244 – 5,244 – Accounts payable – – – – 220 118 220 118 220 118 Deposits, CSAs – – – – 326 19 326 19 326 19 Derivatives – – 2,795 2,220 – – 2,795 2,220 2,795 2,220 Total – – 2,795 2,220 72,428 61,224 75,223 63,444 76,271 63,806 Group/ Parent Company Change in value of financial instruments 2019 2018 Interest-rate derivatives –518 470 Early settlement of derivatives –335 –484 Valuation allowances for foreign currency loans –387 38 Valuation allowances for currency derivatives 387 –38 Electricity derivatives –28 27 Total –881 13 6.6 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities Property deeds are pledged as collateral for the Group’s interest-­ Group’s general and limited partnerships in which the Parent Company bearing liabilities. is a partner. Vasakronan is a limited partner in Stora Ursvik KB and its responsiFor the Järvastaden AB joint venture, Vasakronan has issued surety bility for the company’s undertakings is limited to an amount equivalent of SEK 241 million (241) for the performance of the implementation to the invested capital of SEK 46 million (46). The Parent Company’s agreement with Svenska Kraftnät. contingent liabilities of SEK 0 million (488) pertain to liabilities at the Group Parent Company Pledged assets and contingent liabilities 2019 2018 2019 2018 Property deeds 11,625 13,049 None None Contingent liabilities 287 287 None 488 6.7 Adjustment for non-cash items Group Parent Company Adjustment for non-cash items 2019 2018 2019 2018 Estimated defined-benefit pension costs –8 –8 – – Sales/discontinuation of Group companies – – –3 –341 Result from participations in joint ventures –2 – – – Equipment sales –3 –1 –2 –1 Total –13 –9 –5 –342 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 93 FI N A N CI A L S TAT EM EN T S N OT E S NOTE 7 Group structure 7.1 Shares and participations in subsidiaries Parent Company Shares and participations in subsidiaries 2019 2018 Opening balance 30,660 30,610 Shareholders’ contributions 9,284 – Acquisitions 0 – Settlement of earnings shares –593 35 Sales –1,206 13 Impairment –512 – Reversed impairment 2 2 Closing balance 37,635 30,660 Of which, assets 37,635 30,660 Share of Carrying amount Shares/ equity, in Parent Company Companies in the Vasakronan AB Group participations1) %2) 2019 2018 Civitas Holding AB, 556459-9164, Stockholm 500 100 30,106 24,685 Vasakronan Fastigheter AB, 556474-0123, Stockholm 500 100 – – Vasakronan Holdingfastigheter AB, 556611-6850, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Vasakronan Inom Vallgraven 22:3 AB, 556879-7012, Malmö 500 100 – – Vasakronan Malmöfastigheter AB, 556376-7267, Stockholm 5,000 100 – – Handelsbolaget Gotic, 969622-2844, Trelleborg 100 100 – – Ankarspik 115 AB, 559122-1519, Stockholm 500 100 – – Fastighets AB Luxor, 556059-7139, Stockholm 2,000 100 – – Vasakronan IC AB, 556497-7279, Stockholm 50 100 – – Vasakronan Vattenled A, 556577-9088, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Vasakronan Priorinnan 5 AB, 559073-2151, Stockholm 500 100 – – Mabrabo AB, 556339-0227, Stockholm 10,000 100 – – Vasakronan Kista Science Tower AB, 556649-8043, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Kymlinge Utvecklings AB, 556647-7583, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Vasakronan Kista Science Tower KB, 969660-7820, Stockholm 100 100 – – Vasakronan Uppsalafastigheter AB, 556651-1092, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Kungspinnen I AB, 556701-4278, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Frösunda Hus I AB, 556704-9183, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Frösunda Hus II AB, 556704-9175, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Frösunda Hus III AB, 556704-6213, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Vasakronan Priorinnan 2 AB, 556675-2423, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Vasakronan Ängen AB, 556637-3550, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Vasakronan Hakberget AB, 556745-5695, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Vasakronan Trähus AB, 556715-4850, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Vasakronan Hammarby Gård 12 AB, 556766-4007, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Vasakronan Boländerna 7:4 AB, 556297-1696, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Vasakronan Fålhagen 1:39 AB, 556876-3204, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Vasakronan Sejen 3 AB, 556837-6742, Stockholm 500 100 – – Vasakronan Fastighetsutveckling AB, 556532-9108, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Järvatorget AB, 556548-5546, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Vasakronan Utvecklings AB, 556611-6900, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Vasakronan Ullevifastigheter Holding AB, 556718-7884, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Vasakronan Ullevifastigheter AB, 556718-6704, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Ullevi Park Holding 1 i Göteborg AB, 556718-6688, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Ullevi Park 1 i Göteborg AB, 556718-6621, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Vasakronan Skånegatan AB, 556870-5791, Stockholm 500 100 – – Vasakronan Hekla AB, 559088-2196, Stockholm 500 100 – – Vasakronan Hekla Fastigheter AB, 559091-2340, Stockholm 500 100 – – Vasakronan Markholding AB, 556675-1771, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Vasakronan Diktaren 1 AB, 556943-7584, Stockholm 500 100 – – Ankarspik 41 AB, 556761-8763, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – 1) Pertains to the Group’s total number of shares and participations. 2) Pertains to the Group’s total share of equity. 94 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T N OT E S FI N A N CI A L S TAT EM EN T S Share of Carrying amount Shares/ equity, in Parent Company Companies in the Vasakronan AB Group participations1) %2) 2019 2018 Fastighets AB Gesimsen Grön, 556011-7698, Stockholm 50,000 100 1,892 1,778 Fastighets AB Svava, 556268-6658, Uppsala 500,000 100 – – Vasakronan Uppsala City AB, 556057-0896, Uppsala 75,000 100 – – Aktiebolaget Nepos, 556238-9105, Uppsala 500 100 – – Uppsala Science City AB, 556250-5346, Uppsala 300,000 100 – – Uppsala Science Park KB, 916512-8126, Uppsala 200 100 – – Vasakronan Blåmannen AB, 556825-9302, Stockholm 500 100 1,110 3 Vasakronan Stockholmsstuten AB, 556820-7798, Stockholm 500 100 611 0 Vasakronan Kaninen 30 AB, 556740-3604, Stockholm 1,000 100 473 15 Vasakronan Bassängkajen AB, 556696-1362, Stockholm 1,000 100 367 214 Fastighets Aktiebolaget Telefonfabriken, 556577-4535, Stockholm 1,000 100 360 322 Vasakronan Inom Vallgraven 22:16 AB, 556865-4163, Stockholm 500 100 333 180 KB Positionen 2, 969666-7485, Stockholm 1,000 100 278 278 RTB Reval KB, 969635-4886, Stockholm 200 100 – – Ankarskruv 1 AB, 556339-0839, Stockholm 1,000 100 251 98 Agilia Förvaltnings AB, 556651-1852, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – KB Inom Vallgraven 22:15 Göteborg, 916445-7039, Stockholm 200 100 – – Arkaden Göteborg KB, 969646-3448, Stockholm 200 100 – – Allmänna Pensionsfondens Fastighets nr 53 KB, 969646-3836, Stockholm 200 100 – – Fastighets AB Skjutsgossen nr 8 & Co KB, 916502-7971, Stockholm 105 100 – 550 Nisseshus Nr 1 HB, 916587-3424, Stockholm – 100 – 310 Allmänna Pensionsfondens Fastighets nr 63 KB, 969646-7522, Stockholm 200 100 – 173 Förvaltningsbolaget Alvikshus HB, 916501-8004, Stockholm – 100 – 147 Fastighetsbolaget Brödtorget & Co KB, 989200-4418, Stockholm 100 100 – 63 Allmänna Pensionsfondens Fastighets nr 12 KB, 969646-4016, Stockholm 200 100 – 61 Vasakronan Nordstaden 10:20 AB, 556865-4205, Stockholm 500 100 214 99 Fastighets Aktiebolaget Bodega, 556031-4246, Stockholm 3,000 100 213 213 Fastighets AB Gesimsen, 556482-7318, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – KB Radio Östra, 916625-7007, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Vasakronan Kaninen 32 AB, 556740-3612, Stockholm 1,000 100 173 97 AB Studentskrapan, 556611-6868, Stockholm 1,000 100 171 95 Position Stockholm AB, 556577-3818, Stockholm 1,000 100 158 120 Vasakronan Värtan Exploatering AB, 556984-3963, Stockholm 500 100 – – Vasakronan Stapelbädden 3 AB, 556740-2614, Stockholm 500 100 151 75 Vasakronan Magasinet 1 AB, 556692-9146, Stockholm 1,000 100 151 151 Vasakronan Inom Vallgraven 20:14 AB, 556865-4361, Stockholm 500 100 135 59 Vasakronan Heden 22:19 AB, 556859-5291, Stockholm 500 100 113 113 AP Fastigheter AB, 556417-5858, Stockholm 100,000 100 98 593 Vasakronan Ankarspik 47 AB, 556772-0676, Stockholm 1,000 100 – – Vasakronan Magasin X AB, 559016-1450, Stockholm 500 100 – – Ankarspik 100 AB, 559016-1427, Stockholm 500 100 – – Vasakronan Nordstaden 21:1 AB, 556875-2918, Stockholm 500 100 90 52 Vasakronan Jungmannen 1 AB, 556646-7089, Stockholm 1,000 100 88 50 Allmänna Pensionsfondens Fastighets AB, 556355-6835, Stockholm 500 100 60 60 Vasakronan Starkströmmarna AB, 556771-7920, Stockholm 1,000 100 39 4 Allmänna Pensionsfondens Fastighets nr 59 KB, 969646-4032, Stockholm 200 100 – – Nacka Strand Förvaltnings Aktiebolag, 556034-9150, Stockholm 500 100 0 2 Gotic AB, 556708-2101, Stockholm 50,000 100 0 0 Vasakronan Nedo AB, 556772-2805, Stockholm 500 100 0 0 Vasakronan Invest AB, 559172-8950, Stockholm 500 100 0 – Idun Real Estate Solutions AB, 559016-1245, Stockholm 1,012 51 – – Beyond Us AB, 559016-1559, Stockholm 500 100 – – Tmpl Work AB, 556761-8961, Stockholm 1,000 60 – – Total 37,635 30,660 1) Pertains to the Group’s total number of shares and participations. 2) Pertains to the Group’s total share of equity. VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 95 FI N A N CI A L S TAT EM EN T S N OT E S 7.2 Shares and participations in joint ventures Group Parent Company Shares and participations in joint ventures 2019 2018 2019 2018 Opening balance 366 368 1 1 Settlement of earnings shares 798 –3 0 0 Sales 0 – – – Closing balance 1,164 365 1 1 Share of Shares/ Carrying Joint ventures Corp. Reg. No. Reg. office equity, % participations amount Other owners Companies that pursue the long-term development of development rights at Järvafältet Järvastaden AB 556611-6884 Solna 50 500 771 Skanska Ursvik Exploaterings AB 556611-6892 Stockholm 50 5,000 0 Bonava Stora Ursvik KB 969679-3182 Stockholm 50 50 392 Bonava Companies for property development at Värtahamnen Värtan Fastigheter AB 556678-0267 Stockholm 50 1,000 0 Fabege Värtan Fastigheter KB 969601-0793 Stockholm 50 1 1 Fabege Total 1,164 7.3 Related parties Related parties Transactions Parent Company An ordinary dividend of SEK 4,000 million was paid to the Parent Company. Parent Company The First and Third Swedish national pension funds lease premises under market terms and conditions. Vasakronan shareholders has a subscription commitment from the First, Second, Third and Fourth Swedish National Pension Funds for its commercial paper, refer to page 72. At the end of 2019, the Third Swedish National Pension Fund had bond holdings with Vasakronan of SEK 90 million. Board of Directors Refer to Note 2.4 for details of remuneration. No Board member has participated directly or indirectly in any business transaction with Vasakronan. The Board is presented on page 108. Management Team Refer to Note 2.4 for details of remuneration. No senior executive has participated directly or indirectly in any business transaction with Vasakronan. The management are presented on page 109. Subsidiaries Specified in Note 7.1 Group companies Specified in notes 7.1 and 8.1. Joint ventures Specified in Note 7.2 96 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T N OT E S FI N A N CI A L S TAT EM EN T S NOTE 8 Parent Company NOTE 9 Dividend per share The Parent Company applies the same accounting policies as the Group The dividend distributed in 2019 for the previous year amounted to in accordance with RFR 2, Accounting for Legal Entities. This means SEK 4,000 million (SEK 100 per share). that the IFRS are applied together with the deviations presented in the At the AGM on 4 May 2020, the Board will propose a dividend of Parent Company’s accounting policies. SEK 6,000 million, corresponding to SEK 150 per share. • The Parent Company’s functional currency is Swedish krona (SEK), which is also the reporting currency for the Parent Company and the Group. NOTE 10 Events after the balance-sheet date • Shares in subsidiaries are recognised using the cost method. Should the carrying amount exceed the consolidated fair value of the subsidiaries, impairment is charged to profit or loss. Investment properties After the balance-sheet date, the global economy slowed dramatically are measured at fair value when calculating the consolidated value, as a result of the spread of the novel coronavirus in large parts of the refer to Note 4.2. Earlier impairment is reversed when it is no longer world, with resulting disturbances in the financial markets. Vasakronan justified. Carrying amounts are tested each quarter against the subis following market developments carefully. The company has a strong sidiaries’ equity. financial position and considerable liquidity reserves. The earnings • Dividends are recognised when the entitlement to receive payment forecast and objectives for 2020 were not updated after year end. is considered certain. • Income from the sale of subsidiaries is recognised when the risks and benefits associated with the holding in the subsidiary have transferred to the buyer. • Group contributions paid to the owner Vasakronan Holding AB are treated as dividends and are recognised in equity. • Group contributions received and paid from and to subsidiaries are recognised as profit from participations in subsidiaries in profit or loss. 8.1 Intra-Group transactions Of the Parent Company’s purchases during the financial year, 3% (5) pertained to purchases from Group companies. Intra-Group costs mainly comprised rent. Of the Parent Company’s sales during the financial year, 99% (99) pertained to sales to Group companies. Intra-Group revenue comprises the property management costs invoiced by the Parent Company to the property-owning Group companies. 8.2 Profit from participations in subsidiaries Parent Company Profit from participations in subsidiaries 2019 2018 Group contributions received and paid 1,875 1,037 Dividends from participations in subsidiaries 5,616 5,463 Profit from participations in subsidiaries – 689 Impairment and reversal of impairment in participations in subsidiaries –509 3 Total 6,982 7,192 Profit from participations in subsidiaries pertains to earnings generated by general and limited partnerships owned by Vasakronan AB. 8.3 Appropriations and untaxed reserves Parent Company Appropriations and untaxed reserves 2019 2018 Appropriations Provision to tax allocation reserve –300 – Total –300 – Untaxed reserves Tax allocation reserve, 2015 fiscal year 44 44 Tax allocation reserve, 2017 fiscal year 142 142 Tax allocation reserve, 2019 fiscal year 300 – Total 486 186 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 97 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R EP O R T R I S K S A N D R I S K M A N AG EM EN T Reasonable and desirable levels for risk assumption Vasakronan has been tasked by its owners with delivering a high and stable, long-term return. At the same time, the operations should take people, ethics and the environment into consideration. To best achieve these goals, all the opportunities and risks that impact operations must be managed. All business operations are associated with Ultimately, it is the Board’s responsibility to CEO, comprises the CFO, General Counsel risks, which when managed correctly can give establish appropriate and effective systems and Group controllers. The steering commitrise to opportunities. When managed incorfor risk management and internal control. tee’s responsibilities include follow up and rectly, risks can have considerable negative The Board has delegated day-to-day responongoing development of internal control. consequences in the form of lower revenue, sibility to the CEO and has established guideVasakronan’s day-to-day risk efforts involve higher costs or reduced credibility. Efforts to lines in terms of how to conduct these efforts. all employees and follow a structured process. identify, analyse, manage and follow up risks The CEO is supported by a steering commitare therefore a prioritised area at Vasakronan. tee for internal control that, in addition to the Risk management process Risk inventory Risk assessment Risk management Follow-up An inventory is made of The Management Team Allocation of responsibility, Ongoing follow-up by new and existing risks by assesses the risks included priorities and proposed the Management Team. conducting workshops and in the inventory based on remedial measures. PreparaYearly reporting of interviews with representalikelihood and impact. tion of overall action plans. risk efforts to the Audit tives from various parts of Material risks are reported Risks are broken down to Committee and Board. the organisation. to the Audit Committee unit level and business and the Board. plans are coordinated across all levels. Vasakronan has divided identified risks into four categories: MARKET AND BUSINESS RISKS FINANCIAL RISKS AND REGULATORY COMPLIANCE Risks related to external factors and market developments that Risks related to our funding, our financial reporting and inadequate Vasakronan is unable to directly influence, but still needs to relate to, compliance with ordinances, laws and regulations. and where the negative effects can be mitigated. OPERATIONAL RISKS SUSTAINABILITY AND REPUTATIONAL RISKS Risks in operating activities that result from insufficient or inadequate Risks connected with environmental impact, climate change, work internal processes or routines, human error or system error. environment and reputation. All of the risks are ranked based on their impact on operations and the likelihood of the risk occurring. A description of the risks and their rankings is presented in the tables on pages 99–101. 98 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T R I S K S A N D R I S K M A N AG EM EN T A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R EP O R T MARKET AND BUSINESS RISKS Vasakronan’s Risk description Analysis and exposure Management assessment Political decisions Political decisions and regulatory changes are • Competitive intelligence and monitoring Impact Political decisions can lead to changed generally outside Vasakronan’s control, but could of developments in the areas that concern Likelihood prerequisites for Vasakronan’s operations, negatively impact future investment opportuniVasakronan both positive and negative. For example, this ties, value growth, returns and cost levels. The • Participate in debate via appropriate forums Priority could pertain to decisions regarding new tax effects can be limited through proactive monitor• Analysis of the effects and of possible proaclegislation, the relocation of government ing of plausible decisions, analysis of consequences tive measures agencies or energy-related decisions. and action plans for the various alternatives. • Dialogue with the Board and owners about impact and actions Value decline in properties In the short term, the single largest impact on the • Competitive intelligence and close dialogues Impact Negative market trend due to raised yield company’s financial performance is from changes with tenants Likelihood requirements, lower market rents, increased in the value of the properties, even if it does not • Clear strategy for each property vacancies and higher property expenses directly affect cash flow. Vasakronan has chosen • Structured process for decisions regarding Priority leading to a downturn in property values. to concentrate its portfolio in markets with strong new construction, extensions or redevelopeconomic growth. The long-term assessment is ments that these properties have the best prerequisites • Portfolio focused on central and desirable for generating a favourable value trend even if, in locations the short term, they may be the most volatile in • Keeping at the forefront in terms of sustainterms of yield. ability and technical developments • Quarterly valuations of the property portfolio Property investments Through its size and focus, Vasakronan has excel• Continuous analysis of market conditions Impact Investments are made through new lent market knowledge of the regions and sub-­ • Clear investment strategy subject to con­ Likelihood construction, extensions or redevelopments markets in which it operates. Long lead times tinuous evaluation as well as through the acquisition of existing apply when starting larger new or redevelopment • Clear decision process in terms of risk and Priority properties. Risk exists of investing in unprofprojects, which always entail market risk. Howopportunities itable projects or properties as a result of ever, Vasakronan never starts new projects in • Highly skilled in property investment and incorrectly assessing the preconditions in weaker sub-markets without having first leased market analysis terms of the market and condition of the out the majority of the premises. • Active dialogues with municipalities property. • Continuous evaluation of the portfolio The acquisition of existing properties always includes a risk of the property not generating the desired yield due to a poorer than expected location, condition or tenant structure. Vasakronan’s market insight and its experience and expertise in property acquisitions means such risks are minimised. Changing macro environment Vasakronan aims to be at the forefront as regards • Competitive intelligence Impact The pace of technical development is rapid. the use of modern technical solutions, and of ser• Organisation structure that focuses on Likelihood Digital solutions are replacing old technology, vice and product offerings. This requires the comand promotes change and development new participants are entering the market with pany to diligently monitor the market to identify • New innovative energy solutions Priority a wider offering and customers are demandtrends and demand as well as to be bold enough • Collaboration with relevant parties ing new solutions and services. Those who to develop and try new and unproven solutions. • Increased flexibility in the customer offering are unable to adapt their operations and Vasakronan strives to ensure it has the right skills offerings to these new conditions risk losing in combination with close partnerships with cuscustomers, suppliers and employees. tomers, suppliers and other companies. Structural changes in retail Lower demand for Vasakronan’s store space will • Competitive intelligence Impact Changed consumption patterns, such as result in lower rental revenue and higher vacancy • Offer flexible solutions Likelihood increased e-commerce and environmental rates. Vasakronan’s portfolio mainly comprises • Plan for each property and ongoing evalu­ awareness, result in fewer purchases in stores in central locations with considerable ation of alternative uses for premises Priority physical stores, which will lead to stores natural flows of people. Vasakronan believes • Follow-up and analysis of sales statistics closing, entering receivership or demanding demand will remain firm for these types of propreported by store tenants smaller premises. erties, even for other uses, which will reduce • Close dialogues with existing tenants the negative effect of the decline in shopping. • Clear concepts for shopping precincts Access to the right skills The continued development of operations and re• Strong brand and industry market leader Impact Employees are the company’s most importmaining relevant for the market requires that the • A sustainable company in every dimension Likelihood ant assets, since they create and nurture the company continuously adds new skills in the form • Development plans for personnel company’s culture and develop its operations. of further training and new recruitments. Compe• Collaboration with universities Priority If it is not possible to keep the right employees tition is fierce for the best employees. Vasakronan • Succession planning for key personnel or sufficient employees, the business will actively strives to be an employer that attracts • Strong corporate culture that promotes underperform. qualified personnel. The strong brand together with curiosity, diversity and flexibility the innovative, values-driven corporate culture engender considerable interest in the company. Low impact, likelihood or priority Medium impact, likelihood or priority High impact, likelihood or priority VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 99 A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R EP O R T R I S K S A N D R I S K M A N AG EM EN T OPERATIONAL RISKS Vasakronan’s Risk description Analysis and exposure Management assessment Rental revenue Rental revenue is affected by many different • Good market knowledge Impact Negative trend for rental revenue as a result factors such as economic downturns with lower • Focused holding at central locations in Likelihood of lower market rents or higher vacancies demand, lower willingness to pay, increased insolgrowth areas leading to lower profitability and poorer cash vencies and as a consequence, higher vacancies. • Mix of sectors, tenants, lease durations Priority flow, which would negatively impact the Rental revenue can also be negatively impacted and premises types in each property/area value of properties. by excessive supply in the market, a dated prod• Close, proactive dialogues with tenants uct or dissatisfied customers. Vasakronan’s ambiand the market to understand customers’ tion is to always offer products that are in demand needs, both today and in the future. in the market and to continuously broaden its offer• Structured procurement process for ing. Vasakronan also strives to limit exposure to accepting new tenants any one sector or tenant in combination with an • Annual Customer Satisfaction Index – even spread of lease durations. measurement Property expenses Property expenses are impacted, inter alia, by the • Structured and focused efforts to optimise Impact Risk linked to property expenses pertains consumption of electricity and water, the price and reduce energy consumption Likelihood mainly to increases that Vasakronan cannot trends for goods and services, and the utilisation • Maintenance plans for all properties offset through rent increases, index adjustlevel of resources. Active efforts are ongoing at • Optimise property administration Priority ments or onward invoicing. The risk primarily Vasakronan to optimise and streamline operations • Terms and conditions for green financing resides in those costs that the company has at each property from both a sustainability and linked to energy consumption limited ability to influence, such as ground a cost perspective. • Actively negotiate with municipalities rents or unforeseen costs, mainly related to regarding ground rents repairs and maintenance. Vasakronan has a number of ground rent agree• Profit sharing linked to net operating income ments. The company actively drives negotiations with municipalities to limit the negative effects of ground rent increases. Project management Vasakronan has substantial project volumes. • Quality assurance of internal processes Impact Redevelopments, extensions and new conMost of the projects are complex, extend over including risk analysis, project reviews and Likelihood struction projects are associated with risk a long period of time and involve many different exchanging experiences across all phases, and risks increase in line parties. Calculation errors, delivery delays or • Structured evaluations are conducted during Priority with complexity. The main risks associated increased expense due to unforeseen events or the project period with all parties involved with these projects are financial, technical carelessness can lead to substantial negative • Highly skilled project organisation and time-related. financial consequences. • Contractual agreements with partners • Code of conduct for suppliers • Clear and proactive supplier procurement process • Frequent dialogue between the project organisation and the letting organisation Information and data security If critical information is lost or falls into the wrong • Continuously follow developments by Impact In pace with increasing property sector digihands as a result of a computer crash, data hackparticipating in seminars, etc. Likelihood talisation, there is an accelerating need for ing or inadequate IT security, the financial conse• IT and communication policy well-functioning information and data secuquences could be considerable and the company’s • High degree of awareness of IT security-­ Priority rity. Development in these areas is rapid and credibility may be damaged. Vasakronan has prirelated risks through, inter alia, internal and is becoming increasingly complex. oritised this issue highly and actively monitors external courses developments in the area. • Ongoing information via internal channels FINANCIAL RISKS AND REGULATORY COMPLIANCE Vasakronan’s Risk description Analysis and exposure Management assessment Financing Vasakronan has an LTV of 38% and a strong finan• Use several different sources of finance Impact Property is a capital intensive industry and cial position. The company’s rating from Moody’s • The average maturity of interest-bearing Likelihood it is important to secure access to borrowed provides wider access to more sources of finance liabilities is not permitted to be lower than capital to ensure the survival of the operaas well as financing with longer tenors. In combitwo years Priority tion. When capital is scarce, risk arises that nation with a stable owner structure, this reduces • Not more than 40% of interest-bearing the cost of new financing or refinancing will refinancing risk. liabilities are permitted to mature within be high or impossible. the next 12 months. • Rating A3 from Moody’s • Strong balance sheet Interest-rate risk Vasakronan has long fixed-interest periods of • Financial policy with conservative goals for Impact Interest on borrowed capital is a large cost 5.8 years. The share of fixed-interest maturities interest coverage ratio, fixed-interest tenors Likelihood item in profit or loss and a change in interest within one year was 32% (43) of interest-bearing and fixed-interest maturities rate can have a considerable impact. liabilities, which limits exposure to interest-rate • Interest-rate derivatives aimed at achieving Priority changes. If the interest rate increases 1 percentthe desired fixed-interest structure age point, the company’s interest expense would • Credit facility from owners rise by SEK 224 million. 100 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T R I S K S A N D R I S K M A N AG EM EN T A D M I N I S T R AT I O N R EP O R T Financial reporting Awareness of financial reporting risks is created • Policies with clear allocation of responsibility Impact Financial reporting comprises important by discussion between the employees concerned. and authorities Likelihood decision-data and shortcomings can lead to The risk of errors in the financial reporting are • Good internal control with preventive and erroneous decisions for Vasakronan, as well limited due to Vasakronan having a centralised follow-up controls Priority as for external parties such as lenders and accounting and finance function with clear alloca• External audit investors. tion of responsibility and follow-up. • Highly skilled accounting and finance function • Continuous monitoring and analysis of regulatory changes Counterparty risk Vasakronan is exposed to counterparty risk in • Structured procurement process for suppliImpact All business relationships entail a risk of the terms of its suppliers, tenants and transaction ers and accepting new tenants, including Likelihood counterparty not meeting its obligations. counterparties. To limit risk, diligent evaluations credit checks and taking references are always conducted prior to entering into • Consequences from non-delivery are Priority contracts. contractually regulated • When necessary, a deposit is required Regulatory compliance Regulations can be complex to interpret and • Continuously follow developments in terms Impact Vasakronan has to adapt to numerous comply with. Vasakronan continuously strives of laws, rules and regulations in relevant areas Likelihood different rules, regulations and laws. Non-­ to stay updated vis-à-vis current regulations as • Proactive analysis of the possible effects of compliance with regulations can lead to well as regulatory changes to ensure regulatory changes in rules and acting with the above in Priority economic consequences, sanctions or compliance. mind damaged confidence. • Active participation in debates to the extent possible in the relevant forums • Dialogue with politicians or other influential individuals, for example SUSTAINABILITY AND REPUTATIONAL RISKS Vasakronan’s Risk description Analysis and exposure Management assessment Climate changes Vasakronan’s single largest asset comprises • Follow research and development in sustainImpact Global climate change is leading to higher properties. Climate change poses new demands ability and the consequences of climate Likelihood temperatures, extreme weather events and on Vasakronan’s properties, which the company change rising sea levels. For property companies, has to address when making investments. • Make an inventory of the entire portfolio Priority this means increased risk of property damIf Vasakronan does not work proactively and to identify where any risk of a major impact age due to temporary flooding, of buildings/ monitor climate issues, there is a considerable exists and to prepare action plans material not coping with the new weather risk that, in the future, some properties will be • Risk analyses for new construction and conditions or temperature changes. In areas unusable and/or the cost of rectifying the acquisitions, preventive measures that are close to the sea, this also entails damage will be high. permanent risks in the long term. Negative environmental impact Vasakronan has a goal of delivering a high and • High environmental ambitions permeate all Impact The property sector has a high environ­ stable long-term return, but never at the cost operations Likelihood mental impact and accounts for slightly of the environment. Environmental initiatives • Clear targets for reducing Vasakronan’s and more than 30% of society’s energy conshould not be seen as an isolated are but rather its customers’ energy consumption and waste, Priority sumption, 21% of climate impact and as a natural and integral part of business activiincreasing recycling of materials and reducing creates a lot of waste. ties. The company has a high percentage of green environmental impact from transportation funding (also refer to page 32), which sets strin• Increased share of self-produced electricity gent requirements on sustainability work. • Environmental certification of properties • Preparation and review of a sustainability report Reputation As Sweden’s largest property company, there • Active valuation efforts involving all Impact Decreased confidence in Vasakronan among is considerable public interest in Vasakronan’s employees Likelihood the company’s stakeholders due to unethical operations. Any failure to comply with laws and • Policies with clear allocation of responsibility behaviour or breaches of laws and regularegulations, occurrences of bribery or corruption, and authorities Priority tions, both internal and external, could lead poor work conditions or negative environmental • Codes of conduct for employees and for to financial harm and damage the brand. impacts at Vasakronan or any of its business partsuppliers ners could lead to declines in confidence among • Supplier audits tenants and suppliers as well as owners and inves• Whistle-blower function tors. In turn, this could lead to substantial economic damage in the form of lost business or partnerships. Work environment The employees’ occupational health is a strategi• Collaboration between employees, safety Impact All activities are associated with risk for both cally important issue for Vasakronan. An unsafe officers, managers, company management Likelihood physical and mental injury. The construction work environment and a negative work climate and suppliers industry is particularly closely associated lead to an ineffective organisation. Vasakronan • Training in physical and mental health Priority with major occupational health risks. works actively to minimise the risk of employees, • Clear goals linked to worksite accidents and contractors or tenants suffering physical or menmental health as well as their follow-up tal injury in and around Vasakronan’s offices, • Wellness measures projects or properties. • Codes of conduct for employees and suppliers • Whistle-blower function • Work climate that provides the prerequisites and takes responsibility for a healthy working life VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 101 CO R P O R AT E G OV ER N A N C E R EP O R T Clear structure provides control Corporate governance comprises the founImportant external regulations: Important internal regulations: dation for how a company should be owned and controlled. Good corporate governance • The Swedish Companies Act • The Articles of Association ensures that the business is run sustainably, • Accounting policies, legislation and • The Rules of Procedure for the Board responsibly and as efficiently as possible to recommendations of Directors and committees, and the be able to realise the company’s strategies • Nasdaq Stockholm Rule Book for Issuers CEO’s Instruction and to create maximum value and returns for • The Issuer Rules for Oslo Børs • Internal guidelines and policies that its stakeholders. Vasakronan’s corporate cover all Vasakronan’s employees and • Euronext Dublin’s Rule Book for Issuers governance is based on external and internal are characterised by business values regulatory frameworks, clearly formulated • The Prospective Directive under Irish law such as a financial policy, decision-­ goals and strategies as well as sound values. • The EU Market Abuse Regulation (MAR) making and delegation processes, To support the operations, appropriate con• The Swedish Corporate Governance Code an anti-corruption policy, an environtrols and continuous follow-up are in place. mental policy and a Code of Conduct • UN Global Compact • Framework for green financing The Swedish Corporate Governance Code Vasakronan AB is a public limited company. In view of the general interest in the company’s Deviations from the Code operations, and since the company’s bonds As a consequence of its small group of owners, Vasakronan deviates from the Code in two regards: are listed on the Stockholm stock exchange, the Nomination Committee’s proposals for Board members, and notices of General Meetings and the Swedish Corporate Governance Code minutes from General Meetings are not published on the company’s website. None of the members of the Nomination Committee are independent in relation to the owners. has been applied. The company also has bonds listed on the Oslo Stock Exchange and Euro­ next Dublin, and has chosen Ireland as its home Member State. Accordingly, the Central Bank of Ireland is responsible for supervision pursuant to the Transparency Directive. Governance structure Appoints Nomination Committee Election of auditor Shareholders through Nomination 5 Auditor 1 2 General Meeting Committee Examines the company’s Proposes Board of Elects Board financial reporting, Directors and auditors for coming year of Directors administration and internal control Audit and Remuneration 3 Board of Directors 4 Committees Goals, strategies, responsibility for the company’s organisation and administration CEO and Steering group 6 Management Team Support for the CEO, for internal control tasked with developing the work on corporate governance, internal control and risk. 7 102 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T CO R P O R AT E G OV ER N A N C E R EP O R T 1 Shareholders and General Meeting The most recent AGM was held on 7 May 2019 meetings in 2019. No fees were paid to the at Vasakronan’s head office in Stockholm. All Nomination Committee in 2019. Vasakronan is owned in equal shares by the shares were represented and the auditors First, Second, Third and Fourth Swedish were present. 3 Board of Directors national pension funds. Shareholders exercise their influence through participation in the 2 Nomination Committee Composition of the Board annual general meetings (AGMs), which are The Articles of Association stipulate that the the highest decision-making body. Under the Vasakronan’s Nomination Committee comBoard is to comprise at least three and at Articles of Association, the AGM of shareprises representatives of the respective ownmost ten members, excluding any employee holders must be held within six months of the ers and is tasked with presenting proposals representatives. The owners can, but do not end of the financial year. The Companies Act ahead of the AGM regarding: need to be, represented on the Board. In and the Articles of Association regulate what • The number of Board members addition to the owner representatives, the is to be resolved at the AGM. Extraordinary • The election of Board members and ambition of the owners is that the Board of general meetings are held if any of the ownChairman of the Board Directors also consist of members who are ers so request, or if the Board of Directors • The fees for the Board of Directors independent in relation to the company and considers there is reason to do so. and members of the Board Committees the owners. The independent members will • The auditors and auditors’ fees. supplement the Board with specific industry The tasks of the AGM include: • The instruction for the Nomination competence. The CEO is not a member of the • Adopting the income statements and Committee Board, but is present at all Board meetings. balance sheets for the Parent Company The AGM on 7 May 2019 elected two new and the Group In the Committee’s work on producing promembers of the Board: Magnus Meyer and • Discharging the Board members and posals for Board members, an equal gender Kia Orback Pettersson. They replaced Rolf CEO from liability distribution must be taken into account, and Lydahl and Jan-Olof Backman, who both • Resolving on the proposed distribution that the Board in general should be characdeclined re-election. In September, Mikael of profit terised by diversity based on competence, Angberg was elected to the Board as the • Resolving on fees for the members of experience and background. Ahead of its owner representative for the First Swedish the Board and the committees, as well as tasks, the Nomination Committee studies the National Pension Fund. Mikael Angberg the auditors internal evaluation of the work of the Board, succeeds Johan Magnusson, who stepped • Electing Board members, members of the Chairman’s account of the work of the down from the Board. the Audit and Remuneration committees, Board and the company’s strategy, and interand auditors views individual Board members as part of Tasks and responsibilities of the Board • Establishing principles for remuneration its work. The goal of the Committee is to proThe overall task of the Board is to be responand other employment terms and condipose a composition of Board members that sible for organisation and administration of tions for senior executives complement each other as regards experioperations, and financial reporting. It also ence, personalities and knowledge, in order to decides on the company’s strategy, establishes thereby create the best value for Vasakronan. financial, social, and environmental targets, The Nomination Committee held four minuted and is responsible for establishing efficient Composition of the Board ATTENDANCE Indep. of Indep. of Board and Committee Board Audit Remuneration Elected company major owners fees, KSEK meetings Committee Committee Ulrika Francke 2018 Yes Yes 770 11/11 5/5 4/4 Mikael Angberg1) 2019 No No No remuneration 3/3 Jan-Olof Backman2) 2011 Yes Yes 133 3/3 Ann-Sofi Danielsson 2017 Yes Yes 380 11/11 5/5 Niklas Ekvall 2016 No No No remuneration 11/11 2/2 Eva Halvarsson 2006 No No No remuneration 11/11 5/5 Kerstin Hessius 2004 No No No remuneration 9/11 Christel Kinning 2014 Yes Yes 280 11/11 Rolf Lydahl2) 2007 Yes Yes 164 3/3 2/2 Magnus Meyer3) 2019 Yes Yes 140 7/8 Johan Magnusson4) 2008 No No No remuneration 8/8 2/2 Kia Orback Pettersson3) 2019 Yes Yes 140 8/8 1) Elected September 2019 2) Stepped down May 2019 3) Elected May 2019 4) Stepped down September 2019 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 103 CO R P O R AT E G OV ER N A N C E R EP O R T Governance structure Standing items on the Board’s agenda comprise market and business conditions, ongoing projects and transactions, market valuations, financing, ongoing disputes and reporting from the Audit and Remuneration Committees. In addition to these items, the following items were addressed at the past year’s Board meetings. Scheduled Board Meeting Decision amending the financial policy, information regarding the Scheduled Board meeting proposed new auditors, decision on investment in Sperlingsbacke. Decision on the strategic plan, report from auditors on the year’s audit, decisions on year-end report, review of risk Extraordinary Board Meeting inventory, report from the Compliance Officer, remuneration Decision on authorised signatory. Dec Jan review for CEO and management. Nov Feb Extraordinary Board Meeting Scheduled Board Meeting Decision on adoption of the 2018 Annual Report. Decision on Q3 interim report. Oct Q4 Q1 Mar Extraordinary Board Meeting Information about the departure of the CEO. Sep Q3 Q2 Apr Annual General Meeting Ratification of income statement and balance sheet, decisions Aug May on appropriation of profit and discharge of Board and CEO Scheduled Board meeting from liability, establishment of remuneration for Board and Review of Board’s risk assessment, decision to revise Jul Jun auditor, election of Board and auditor. the financial policy, decision on new CEO. Statutory Board Meeting Scheduled Board meeting Decisions on authorised signatories, establishment of Rules of Decision on Q2 interim report. Procedure for the Board of Directors, reports from the Remuneration and Audit Committees, and the Instructions for the CEO. Scheduled Board meeting Decision to update the EMTN programme. Focus on Region Scheduled Board meeting Malmö and study trip visiting parts of the Malmö portfolio. Decision on Q1 interim report, focus area projects Platinan and Sergelhuset. and appropriate systems for governance, and Property Development participate as tory. Extra Board meetings were also held internal control and risk management. The needed, presenting reports on particular during the year. work is regulated through rules of procedure cases. Extraordinary Board meetings are held In addition to the Board meetings, the that are established at the statutory Board when needed. Primarily in the case of urgent Board also conducted one strategy confermeeting every year. These rules include business decisions that require Board approval. ence that was held together with the Maninstructions on the Board’s areas of responsiThe scheduled Board meetings follow a agement Team. For more information, refer bility and limitations in relation to the comfixed agenda on which the CEO’s information to the section CEO and Management Team. mittees and the CEO. on general operations are a standing point. In The Chairman of the Board monitors the cases where committee meetings have been Evaluation of the Board of Directors Board’s performance of its tasks. The Chairheld, the chairpersons of the respective comAccording to the Rules of Procedure, the man also monitors operations in dialogue mittees report on their work. Vasakronan’s Board of Directors must conduct an annual with the CEO and is responsible for ensuring Compliance Officer (the company’s General evaluation of its work. In 2018, this was conthe other members receive the information Counsel) reports annually to the Board on ducted using a written survey prepared by an necessary to maintain a high level of quality in cases that have come in to the company’s external party. This was followed up in 2019 discussions and decisions. The Chairman is whistle-blower function. The external audithrough interviews conducted by the Nomialso responsible for evaluating the work of tors attend the Board meeting where the nation Committee of each individual Board both the Board and the CEO. year-end report is adopted. member. The purpose of the evaluation is to Issues of strategy and risk management ensure that the Board is focused on the corWork of the Board of Directors in 2019 are always high on the Board’s agenda. Over rect area, that the Board has the correct comThe work of the Board of Directors follows an the past year, the primary focus has been on petence and that it is correctly composed. annual cycle of scheduled meetings on fixed technological developments and developThe results of the evaluation are also used dates, adjusted for such matters as the Board ments in retail. Considerable focus was also as the basis for the Nomination Committee’s needing to adopt the financial reporting. dedicated to Vasakronan’s larger ongoing work with bringing forward new candidates The CEO, CFO and General Counsel (in new construction and redevelopment projfor the Board of Directors and as a basis for the capacity of the secretary of the Board) ects, as well as progress on projects such improving the Board’s work. attended the scheduled meetings. Other peras new lettings at the properties. sons from the organisation such as regional In total, the Board held eight scheduled Remuneration to the Board Senior Vice Presidents and SVPs for Finance meetings in 2019, one of which was statuThe AGM passes resolutions on remunera104 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T CO R P O R AT E G OV ER N A N C E R EP O R T tion to the Board. Board fees are not paid to and risk and corporate governance issues were addressed within the Committee. At members who represent any of the owners. • Evaluating the audit work and preparing least once each year, the Committee meets For the period until and including the 2020 the election of an auditor with the auditor without the participation of General Meeting, the AGM resolved that the • Issuing guidelines concerning the advance company management. Chairman will receive SEK 680,000 and the approval of non-audit related services perother independent members SEK 280,000 in formed by the elected external auditor Remuneration Committee fees. For the Audit Committee, it was resolved The Board of Directors has appointed a that a fee to its Chairman of SEK 100,000 The Audit Committee receives continual Remuneration Committee consisting of two and to independent members of SEK 50,000 information about the orientation, scope and Board members. The Committee’s areas of would be paid, and a fee of SEK 40,000 to the results of the audit. This take place through responsibility are regulated in a rules of proChairman of the Remuneration Committee. the Committee studying the auditor’s written cedure established by the Board and consists reporting and the auditor being present at primarily of: 4 The committees certain Committee meetings. • Preparing the work of the Board of DirecFor 2019, the Audit Committee consisted tors on remuneration for senior executives In order to enhance the efficiency of its work, of Ann-Sofi Danielsson, who was also the and in the profit-sharing programme for the Board has established an Audit CommitChairman, Eva Halvarsson and Ulrika Francke. other employees tee and a Remuneration Committee. The priRolf Lydahl was Chairman of the Audit Com• Monitoring and evaluating compliance mary task of these committees is to prepare mittee until the AGM in May 2019, when he with the “Guidelines for Terms of Employthe decisions of the Board in these two areas. stepped down from the Board. All members ment for Senior Executives in state-owned have the competence in accounting required Companies” that Vasakronan is to comply Audit Committee under the Companies Act. with as regards remuneration and other The Board of Directors has appointed an The Committee held five meetings during terms of employment for company manAudit Committee consisting of three Board the year. The company’s auditor was present agement (refer to Point 6 below for more members. The Committee’s areas of responat two of them to report on the audit. Moreinformation) sibility are regulated in the rules of procedure over, the Committee discussed, inter alia, the established by the Board. The overall responcompany’s financial statements and the work In 2019, the Remuneration Committee sibilities of the Audit Committee include: of the Management Team on risk and internal consisted of Ulrika Francke as Chairman • Preparing the work of the Board on quality control as well as the procurement of exterand Niklas Ekwall. Niklas replaced Johan assurance of the financial reporting, which nal auditors. The CEO, the CFO and SVP for Magnusson on his departure from the Board. in turn includes addressing material Group Control (the secretary of the commitDuring the year, the Committee held four accounting issues tee) participated in the meetings. Over the meetings at which issues of remuneration for • Monitoring the work of company manageyear, the Committee also evaluated its work senior executives and principles for profit-­ ment on internal control, tax management with the aim of ensuring the right questions sharing for other employees were primarily Organisation CEO Business development Property investments Business support Property development Region Gothenburg Region Malmö in Stockholm Technology, Services Region Stockholm Region Uppsala and Development VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 105 CO R P O R AT E G OV ER N A N C E R EP O R T discussed. The January meeting addressed he was succeeded by Johanna Skogestig, purpose is to ensure that operations are purthe work of the Committee and which issues previously Head of Real Estate Investments sued efficiently and sustainably, that external were priorities. The CEO and the SVP for at the company. reporting maintains a good level of quality, Human Resources, who is the secretary of The CEO has formed a Management Team and that applicable laws and regulations are the Committee, participated in all the meetthat, in addition to the CEO in 2019, consisted observed. ings and the company’s auditors submitted of twelve directly subordinate Senior Vice Planning, governance and monitoring of their report from the review of remuneration Presidents; refer to the presentation on Page operations follows the organisational strucfor senior executives at the meeting in May. 109. The Management Team meets regularly ture, with a clear delegation of responsibiliin order to handle Group-wide and strategic ties and authorisations. The business plan5 External audit issues. 11 meetings were held in 2019. At four ning conducted every year creates clear, of them, the interim reports and operational well-supported plans for how operations are In accordance with the Articles of Associamonitoring were discussed, and two were to be pursued in all sections of the company. tion, the general meeting must appoint at longer strategy meetings. One strategy meetVasakronan’s business planning process least one and at most two authorised public ing is held in the spring, and focuses on the starts with the Management Team’s strategy accountants with an equal number of deputies. trends and operating environment factors days in the spring and concludes with the If an auditing company is appointed as auditor, that impact the company. The other strategy Board of Directors deciding on the strategy deputies will not be appointed. The auditor is meeting is held in the autumn, and the strateplan at its December meeting. In between, elected for one year at a time. The Board of gic portion of the business plan is developed business plans are developed for both underDirectors has decided that the selection of an with focus areas and key issues for operations. lying units and for the company as a whole. auditor will be preceded at least once every The principles of remuneration for the CEO The plans formulate both shortand longfour years by a procurement to be prepared and the Management Team are decided by the term financial, environmental and social by the Audit Committee. AGM. Salaries and other benefits for the Mangoals. The business plan is thereafter moniIn addition to issuing the Auditors’ Report, agement Team, including the CEO, consist tored continually during the subsequent year. the selected auditor examines the annual only of fixed salaries with no variable remunerA risk inventory and risk assessment are accounts, the consolidated financial stateation. Vasakronan applies the Government’s conducted every year in conjunction with ments and accounting records, the Board’s “Guidelines for Terms of Employment for business planning. The material risks identiand the CEO’s administration of the company Senior Executives in state-owned Compafied are managed in the business plans for and the annual accounts of the subsidiaries. nies” as regards remuneration and other the units. The work on risk management is The auditor also conducts limited assurance terms of employment for company managedescribed in more detail on pages 98–101. engagements of Vasakronan’s Sustainability ment. The company can, however, deviate A framework of guidelines, policies and Report and its Impact Report. The audit and from the guidelines if there is reason to do so. instructions established by the Board of the limited assurance engagements are conVasakronan deviates from the Government’s Directors and the CEO govern the organisaducted in accordance with the Companies Act, guidelines in two aspects. The CEO’s period tion and its employees for the purpose of international auditing standards and generof notice totals twelve months instead of the ensuring long-term value creation. The ally accepted auditing principles in Sweden. six indicated by the guidelines, and remunerframework is to be followed by all employees, At the 2019 AGM, Pricewaterhouse­ ation for the Management Team, exclusive of and monitoring is conducted continuously. Coopers was elected as auditor for the comremuneration for the CEO, is not reported at As support for the CEO, a special steering ing year, with Helena Ehrenborg as Auditor the individual level in the Annual Report. group has been established in order to develop in Charge. In addition, Daniel Algotsson was Vasakronan’s operations are organised in the work on corporate governance, internal elected as auditor. More information about four regions, with a separate unit for propcontrol and risk. In addition to the CEO, the the auditors can be found on page 108. Inforerty development in Stockholm. Technology, group consists of the General Counsel, the mation about the auditors’ fees can be found Services and Development is organised sepCFO and the SVP for Group Control. The in Note 2.3 on page 81. arately, with central support functions and work in the group is conducted in close collocal staffing. As support for the organisalaboration with the Audit Committee, which 6 CEO and Management Team tion, there are central units for property is responsible for monitoring the quality of investments and business support, which internal control. Since existing structures The CEO is appointed by the Board of Direcincluded finance, communications and IT, for evaluation and monitoring have so far tors and is responsible for daily operations in legal and HR. A Head of Sustainability has been deemed sufficient to provide a basis Vasakronan, in accordance with the Board’s been appointed to govern and monitor the for evaluation by the Board, no separate unit instructions established each year. The CEO company’s work on sustainability topics. for internal auditing has been established. is responsible for keeping the Board continuThe decision is, however, taken up annually ally updated on operations and ensures that 7 Governance and control for re-examination. the Board is provided with the necessary basis for decisions in order to take well-founded The Board of Directors is responsible for the decisions. Fredrik Wirdenius was the CEO company having satisfactory and relevant of Vasakronan until 1 November 2019, when risk management and internal control. The 106 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T CO R P O R AT E G OV ER N A N C E R EP O R T Internal control of financial reporting This report was prepared in accordance with Based on the steering documents that conand that laws and external requirements are the Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish cern accounting and financial reporting, the observed. Corporate Governance Code, and is limited CEO is responsible for formulating internal to describing how internal control regarding processes and for establishing policies and Information and communication financial reporting is organised. Vasakronan’s instructions. Employees’ understanding of Vasakronan’s goals for internal control regarding financial The CFO is responsible for guidelines for risk situations is an important part of the work reporting are to make it relevant and efficient, financial reporting and ensuring that they of internal control. Awareness of the risks in that is results in reliable reports, and that it are prepared in accordance with applicable the financial reporting is created through disensures that relevant laws and regulations accounting standards, and the legal and listcussion and dialogue with employees being are observed. The report contains no stateing requirements in force. a natural element both in annual business ments on how well internal control functioned and operations planning and in routine work. during the past financial year, and it has not Risk assessment This communication is facilitated by a been audited by the company’s auditors. As part of business and operations planning, centralised finance function, with which Vasakronan annually conducts an overall risk employees are in close contact on a daily Control environment evaluation. Risks in all the company’s key probasis. Guidelines and instruction of essential The basis for internal control in Vasakronan cesses are then evaluated based on likelihood importance for financial reporting are rouconsists of a control environment with a clear and impact. For more detailed information on tinely updated and communicated to the organisation, clear decision-making paths the company’s risk evaluation process, refer employees concerned. All the routine and a clear allocation of responsibilities. to page 98. In addition, risks are continually descriptions and tools needed are available Vasakronan’s Board of Directors has overall assessed based on the company’s income on Vasakronan’s intranet together with responsibility for internal control of financial statement and balance sheet, where every Group-wide policies and instructions. reporting. The Board annually ratifies a numitem is evaluated based on its existence, ber of steering documents such as the Rules appraisal and completeness. Monitoring of internal control of Procedure for the Board of Directors, Risks linked to tax, legal issues or other The Board of Directors of Vasakronan has instructions for the CEO, and financial policy non-­current transactions are evaluated regoverall responsibility for monitoring internal in order to establish and clarify the allocation ularly for preventive purposes. These risks control. The Audit Committee has particular of responsibilities and authorisations in the are described separately on pages 99–101 responsibility for preparing quality assurance organisation. The Board has also appointed in the Annual Report. Risks are built on manby the Board of the financial reporting. Monian Audit Committee with particular responagement’s best assessment of impact and toring of the financial reporting takes place sibility for preparing quality assurance by likelihood. The risks in the financial reporting continually through the controls and analythe Board of the financial reporting as well are routinely discussed with the company’s ses performed by the Board of Directors, as monitoring the work of company manageauditors. the Audit Committee, management and the ment on internal control. The control environfinance function. These controls and analyment also encompasses the culture and values Control activities ses also capture the need for measures or that both the Board and company manageControl activities are formulated based on the proposals for improvements. Monitoring also ment communicate and work from as confindings of risk assessments. At Vasakronan, takes place through the audit performed by veyed by such documents as Vasakronan’s there are controls built into all key processes the company’s external auditors. The obserCode of Conduct, which is ratified yearly by through standardised system solutions, docvations from this audit are reported to the the Board of Directors. A whistle-blower umented and well-established routines and Board of Directors, the Audit Committee and function has been established to which the a clear allocation of responsibilities in a cencompany management as well as to the company’s employees or other stakeholders tralised financial function. Control activities employees concerned. can turn with suspicions of improper conduct comprise a mix of preventive and monitoring The company’s external auditors regularly or crime. A Compliance Officer (Vasakronan’s functions, which can be both manual and report back on the results of their audit to the General Counsel) is tasked with managing automatic. CFO and to the Audit Committee. issues of improper conduct and deficient The financial reporting process is concompliance with regulations in the company. stantly reviewed. The finance function has a Reporting to the Board of Directors takes clear responsibility for adapting the process place annually. as needed to ensure quality in the reporting VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 107 CO R P O R AT E G OV ER N A N C E R EP O R T The Board of Directors and auditors Ulrika Francke Christel Kinning Chairman, since 2018. Board member since 2014. Born: 1956 Born: 1962 Education: University studies Education: Economics and marketing Other assignments: Board assignments at Other assignments: Own operations. Board Knightech, Hexagon, SIS (Swedish Standards member of Stadium, Reima, Zoundindustries, Institute), IVA Avd. III and Formas’ research Venue Retail Group, Björn Borg and Lagerhaus. programme Sustainable Spatial Planning. Previous experience: CEO of Polarn O. Pyret, Previous experience: President and CEO CEO of RNB Retail and Brands and executive of Tyréns AB, CEO SBC (Sveriges Bostadspositions at Kellermann Scandinavia. rättscentrum AB), Director of AdministraIndependent: Independent in relation to tion and City Commissioner City of Stockthe owners, the company and company holm, President and CEO of Fastighets AB management. Ulrika Francke Ann-Sofi Danielsson Brommastaden. Independent: Independent in relation to the owners, the company and company Magnus Meyer Board member since 2019. management. Born: 1967 Education: Licentiate of Engineering in Ann-Sofi Danielsson Real Estate Economics and M.Sc. in Civil Board member since 2017. Engineering. Born: 1959 Other assignments: CEO WSP Europe. Education: M.Sc. Economics Board member of Kinnarps and Slättö Other assignments: CFO Bonava. Board Förvaltning. member of Pandox AB. Previous experience: Technical attaché in Previous experience: CFO and other execuLos Angeles, various management positions tive positions at the NCC Group. at the Ljungberg group and GE Real Estate Independent: Independent in relation to and Tengbom. the owners, the company and company Independent: Independent in relation to management. the owners, the company and company Niklas Ekvall Eva Halvarsson management. Niklas Ekvall Board member since 2016. Kia Orback Pettersson Born: 1963 Board member since 2019. Education: Ph.D. Financial Economics and Born: 1959 M.Sc. Industrial Engineering Education: M.Sc. Economics Other assignments: CEO, Fourth National Other assignments: Board assignments at Pension Fund. Board member of the Hans Friskis&Svettis, Knowit, Karolinska Sjuk­ Dalborg Stiftelse för Bankoch Finansforskhuset and the Karl Adam Bonnier Stiftelse. ning, the KVA Investment Committee and Previous experience: Marketing Director Polhem Infra. Dagens Nyheter, Deputy CEO Guldfynd and Previous experience: CEO of Nordea CEO Sturegallerian. Investment Management; deputy CEO, Independent: Independent in relation to Third National Pension Fund; executive the owners, the company and company positions in Nordea, Carnegie and Handelsmanagement. banken. Kerstin Hessius Christel Kinning Independent: Not independent in relation Johan Temse to the owners. Board member since 2020. Born: 1973 Eva Halvarsson Education: M.Sc. Engineering Board member since 2006 and member Other assignments: Head of Real Assets, of the Audit Committee since 2008. First National Pension Fund. Board member Born: 1962 of Willhem, Cityhold, Aros Bostadsutveckling, Education: M.Sc. Economics Secore, Agore, Urbanea, Ellevio, Polhem Other assignments: CEO, Second National Infra and First Australia Farmland. Pension Fund. Board member of UN-PRI, the Previous experience: Aberdeen Asset Swedish Royal Opera, IWF Sweden, FinansManagement, Standard & Poor’s and DTZ. KompetensCentrum and WIN WIN Award. Independent: Not independent in relation Previous experience: Tax auditor and head to the owners. of State ownership administration. Independent: Not independent in relation to the owners. Magnus Meyer Kia Orback Pettersson AUDITORS Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Kerstin Hessius Board member since 2004. Born: 1958 Helena Ehrenborg Auditor in charge Education: M.Sc. Economics Born: 1965 Other assignments: CEO, Third National Other important assignments: Auditor at Pension Fund. Board member of Hemsö, Jan-Olof Backman Stepped down from Pandox, Jernhusen, HSB and Akademiska Hus. Trenum, Handelsbanken, SVEDAB and the Board of Directors, 7 May 2019 Øresundsbro Konsortiet. Rolf Lydahl Stepped down from the Board of Directors, 7 May 2019 Previous experience: CEO of the Stockholm Daniel Algotsson Stock Exchange, Deputy Governor of SwedAuthorised Public Accountant Johan Magnusson Stepped down from ish Central Bank, executive positions at Born: 1982 the Board of Directors, 5 September 2019 Östgöta Enskilda Bank and Alfred Berg. Other important assignments: Auditor at Mikael Angberg Stepped down from the Independent: Not independent in relation Altor, FCG Fonder, Catella and Proventus. Board of Directors, 10 February 2020 to the owners. Johan Temse 108 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T CO R P O R AT E G OV ER N A N C E R EP O R T Senior executives Johanna Skogestig Kristina Pettersson CEO Post Born: 1974 SVP, Gothenburg Region Employed: 2015 Born: 1964 Joined Management Team: 2015 Employed: 1993 Education: M.Sc. Surveying Joined Management Team: 2011 Previous experience: AP Fastig­ Education: M.Sc. Civil Engineering heter, Sveafastigheter and Areim. Previous experience: ByggnadsOther assignments: Board memstyrelsen. ber of CIBUS and Idun Real Estate Other assignments: Board memSolutions. ber of Nordstands Samfällighet, Trophi Fastighets AB, CMB Anders Ahlberg Chalmers, Swedish Property Johanna Skogestig Anders Ahlberg Ronald Bäckrud Acting SVP, Chief Investment Federation Gothenburg, the nonOfficer profit organisation Göteborg Born: 1957 citysamverkan and Beyond Us. Employed: 2000 Joined Management Team: 2019 Anna Stenkil Education: M.Sc. Surveying SVP, Malmö Region Previous experience: LänsBorn: 1968 styrelsen i Stockholm, HyresEmployed: 2011 bostäder Eskilstuna, ByggnadsJoined Management Team: 2016 styrelsen, Hifab, Jaeger & J:son, Education: Graduate studies in Catella and AP Fastigheter. Economics Previous experience: Proffice, Ronald Bäckrud Newsec and Wihlborgs. SVP, Stockholm Region and acting Other assignments: Board memSVP Uppsala Region ber of Fastighetsägarna Syd. Born: 1958 Sheila Florell Jan-Erik Hellman Christer Nerlich Employed: 1995 Cecilia Söderström Joined Management Team: 2008 SVP, Human Resources Education: M.Sc. Civil Engineering Born: 1962 Previous experience: J&W, Employed: 2008 Vattenbyggnadsbyrån, Skandia Joined Management Team: 2008 and Arne Johnson Förvaltning. Education: Graduate studies in Other assignments: Board mempersonnel and labour market ber of Byggherrarna. Previous experience: Svenska Spel and Ericsson. Sheila Florell Other assignments: Board memSVP, General Counsel ber of Almega Fastighetsarbets­ Born: 1965 givarna and Almega tjänsteförEmployed: 2005 bunden. Joined Management Team: 2006 Education: Law degree and Estate Nicklas Walldan Agent exam SVP, Technology, Services and Kristina Pettersson Post Anna Stenkil Cecilia Söderström Previous experience: If Skade­ Development försäkring and Association of Born: 1971 Swedish Real Estate Agents. Employed: 2001 Other assignments: Board memJoined Management Team: 2008 ber at SSM Holding, Tmpl Work Education: M.Sc. Civil Engineering and Beyond Us. Previous experience: Tyréns. Other assignments: Board memJan-Erik Hellman ber of Svensk Byggtjänst and SVP, Property development Samhällsbyggnadslänken at KTH Stockholm Royal University of Technology. Born: 1975 Employed: 2010 Peter Östman Joined Management Team: 2017 SVP, Corporate Communications Education: M.Sc. Surveying Born: 1961 Other assignments: Board memEmployed: 1998 ber of Citysamverkan AB. Joined Management Team: 1998 Nicklas Walldan Peter Östman Previous experience: JLL and ICA Education: M.Sc. Economics Fastigheter. Previous experience: Storstaden and Ecuro Förvaltning. Christer Nerlich Other assignments: Board memSVP, CFO ber of Idun Real Estate Solutions, Born: 1961 Accessy and Tmpl Work. Employed: 1995 Joined Management Team: 1998 Education: M.Sc. Economics Previous experience: Newsec and FastighetsRenting. Fredrik Wirdenius Stepped down as CEO, 1 November 2019 Other assignments: Board member and Chairman of the Treasury Anna Nyberg Previously SVP Property Development, left the Management Team on 28 January 2020 and Audit Committee of AkadePer Thiberg Previously SVP Business Development, left the Management Team on 28 January 2020 miska Hus. VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 109 FI N A N CI A L S TAT EM EN T S B OA R D O F D I R EC TO R S ’ S I G N AT U R E S Signing by the Board of Directors The Board and CEO affirm that the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and RFR2, and provide a fair and accurate overview of the Parent Company’s financial position and results. The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU and provide a fair and accurate overview of the Group’s financial position and results. The Administration Report for the Group and Parent Company provides a fair and accurate overview of the Group and Parent Company’s operations, position and results, and describes material risks and uncertainties faced by the Parent Company and the companies included in the Group. Stockholm, 23 March 2020 Ulrika Francke Ann-Sofi Danielsson Niklas Ekvall Chairman of the Board Board Member Board Member Eva Halvarsson Kerstin Hessius Christel Kinning Board Member Board Member Board Member Magnus Meyer Kia Orback Pettersson Johan Temse Board Member Board Member Board Member Johanna Skogestig Chief Executive Officer Our Auditors’ Report was submitted on 23 March 2020 Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Helena Ehrenborg Daniel Algotsson Authorised Public Accountant Authorised Public Accountant Auditor in Charge 110 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T AU D I TO R S ’ R EP O R T FI N A N CI A L S TAT EM EN T S Auditor’s report To the general meeting of the shareholders of Vasakronan AB (publ), corporate identity number 556061-4603 Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsiOpinions bilities in accordance with these requirements. This includes We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated that, based on the best of my (our) knowledge and belief, no accounts of Vasakronan AB (publ) for the year 2019 except prohibited services referred to in the Audit Regulation for the corporate governance statement on pages 102–109. (537/2014) Article 5.1 have been provided to the audited The annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the comcompany or, where applicable, its parent company or its pany are included on pages 64–101 and 110 in this document. controlled companies within the EU. In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. all material respects, the financial position of parent company as of 31 December 2019 and its financial performance and cash Audit scope flow for the year then ended in accordance with the Annual Vasakronan is the leading property company in Sweden with Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts have been prepared investment properties valued at SEK 156 billion. The compain accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, ny’s strategy is to manage and develop commercial investment in all material respects, the financial position of the group as of properties in Stockholm, Gothenburg, Uppsala and Malmö. 31 December 2019 and their financial performance and cash Our audit has a group approach which includes audits of flow for the year then ended in accordance with International all the significant investment properties within the group. Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, This group approach means that the significant business and the Annual Accounts Act. Our opinions do not cover the processes for the financial reporting in the group, such as corporate governance statement on pages 102–109. The rental income, purchasing, payroll and valuation process is statutory administration report is consistent with the other audited centrally from a group perspective even though parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. the investment properties legally is in several legal entities. We therefore recommend that the general meeting of As 96% of the group assets consist of investment properties shareholders adopts the income statement and balance that are valued at fair value, the audit’s main focus is to evalsheet for the parent company and the group. uate if the Annual report reflects the investment properties’ Our opinions in this report on the annual accounts and book value according to the company’s valuation principles consolidated accounts are consistent with the content of and that these principles are according to IFRS. the additional report that has been submitted to the parent We designed our audit by determining materiality and company’s audit committee in accordance with the Audit assessing the risks of material misstatement in the consoliRegulation (537/2014) Article 11. dated financial statements. In particular, we considered where management made subjective judgements; for example, in Basis for Opinions respect of fair value of investment properties that involved We conducted our audit in accordance with International making assumptions and considering future events that are Standards on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also addressed standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those stanthe risk of management override of internal controls, includdards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities ing among other matters consideration of whether there section. We are independent of the parent company and the was evidence of bias that represented a risk of material misgroup in accordance with professional ethics for accountants statement due to fraud. Our audit approach Materiality Overall group materiality: SEK 850 million, representing 0.5% of Materiality the group’s total assets. Scope Our audit has a group approach. In this approach, we focus on the central Scope business processes and on the audit of the valuation of investment properties from a group perspective. The overall purpose of the audit is to evaluate that Vasakronan’s financial statements have been prepared and presented Key audit according to IFRS. matter Key Audit Matter Valuation of investment properties. VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 111 FI N A N CI A L S TAT EM EN T S AU D I TO R S ’ R EP O R T We tailored the scope of our audit in order to perform suffiOverall group materiality SEK 850 million cient work to enable us to provide an opinion on the consoliHow we determined A threshold representing 0.5% of the dated financial statements as a whole, taking into account this level Group’s total assets. the structure of Vasakronan, the accounting processes and Rational for the We chose total assets as the benchmark controls, and the industry in which the group operates due to the fact that, in our view, this is materiality benchmark the benchmark against which the perapplied formance of a group, over time, is most Materiality commonly measured. We have chosen The scope of our audit was influenced by our application of 0.5% of total assets and this is a generally accepted benchmark and is in our view materiality. An audit is designed to obtain reasonable assuran acceptable overall materiality level. ance whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. Misstatements may arise due to fraud or We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report error. They are considered material if individually or in to them misstatements identified during our audit above aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence 50 MSEK as well as misstatements below that amount that, the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of the in our view, warranted reporting for qualitative reasons. consolidated financial statements. Based on our professional judgement, we determined certain Key audit matter quantitative thresholds for materiality, including the overall Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our group materiality for the consolidated financial statements as a professional judgment, were of most significance in our whole as set out in the table below. These, together with qualaudit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of itative considerations, helped us to determine the scope of our the current period. These matters were addressed in the audit and the nature, timing and extent of our audit procecontext of our audit of, and in forming our opinion thereon, dures and to evaluate the effect of misstatements, both indithe annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole, vidually and in aggregate on the financial statements as a whole. but we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. KEY AUDIT MATTER HOW OUR AUDIT ADDRESSED THE KEY AUDIT MATTER Valuation of investment properties Amongst other things, our audit has focused on the company’s internal control and We refer to the Administration Report and the description of the Vasakronan quality assurance as regards the externally executed valuations as at 31 Decemgroup’s summary of important accounting and valuation principles in Note 1.2, ber 2019. The audit team, including our valuation specialists, have obtained copas well as referring to Note 4.2, Changes in the values of investment properties. ies of and examined a selection of the valuation reports and have ensured that the As at 31 December 2019, The value of the investment properties totaled SEK valuations comply with Vasakronan’s guidelines for valuations and with the cor156,1 billion. Investment properties comprise a significant portion of the balance rect valuation methods. sheet and the valuation of these properties is inherently subjective and is the obThe external valuers’ work are based on the same calculation model as applied by ject of company management’s judgements as regards, for example, the location Vasakronan, which implies that the company’s quality assurance of the external of the specific property, its condition and future rental income. Valuation objects valuations is facilitated. We have assessed the external valuers’ competence and incurring a major degree of uncertainty in terms of their market value assessment experience and have also studied the groups’ valuation agreements with the exare comprised of ongoing development projects properties. ternal valuers to determine if there are any circumstances in the agreements which The valuation of all of the investment properties is executed at the end of each could impact the valuers’ objectivity or if there are any limitations to their work. year and every six months by external valuers, Cushman & Wakefield and Forum In addition, we have tested, on a sample basis, company management’s input data Fastighetsekonomi. At the end of the other quarters, the properties are valued registered in the valuation models and taken from the company’s systems. This internally. The valuations are executed on the basis of The Royal Institute of was done to ensure that the information for the investment property valuations Chartered Surveyors’ (”RICS’ ”) valuation standards and processes which are applied in the external valuations is correct and fair. based on an adopted, established valuation policy. In addition, Vasakronan has an We have had meetings with the individuals responsible for the valuations in which internal process for the quality assurance of the external valuations as at year-end important assumptions and judgments have been discussed. Our work has foand after the first six months of the financial year. These internal quality assurance cused on the largest investment properties in the portfolio, development project processes include an analysis and control of the data taken from the company’s properties and on the properties incurring the largest variations in value comsystems and registered in the valuation models as regards, for example, rental pared with previous quarters. We have assessed the applied yield requirements levels, surface area, vacancy levels and also includes an overall analysis of the value used by the external valuers by comparing the estimated intervals of the exdevelopment of each property. These valuations are assessed both centrally and pected yield requirements and thresholds with the available market data for the in consultation with the respective property managers. current markets. We have also assessed the reasonableness of other assumpIn determining the fair value of the properties, the valuers consider current informations which are not directly comparable based on available public data. In the case tion regarding the specific property, such as the rental agreements in place, rental the assumptions and parameters have been outside our initial expectation, these income and operating costs. In order to achieve a final valuation, the valuers apply deviations have been discussed with representatives of the company and addiassumptions and undertake judgements on future yields, net operating expenses tional audit evidence has been obtained as support for the applied assumptions. and estimated market rents, and these assumptions and judgments are impacted The valuations are based on assessments and incur, inherently, a degree of uncerby the direct yield requirements in place and by comparable market transactions. tainty. Based on our audit, it is our assessment that the assumptions applied by The significance of the estimations and judgments applied in establishing the fair Vasakronan are within a reasonable interval. Based on our audit, we have not value of the investment properties, together with the fact that the amounts are identified any significant observations to report to the Audit Committee. significant, implies that the valuation of the investment properties comprises a Key Audit Matter in the audit. 112 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T AU D I TO R S ’ R EP O R T FI N A N CI A L S TAT EM EN T S Other information than the annual accounts Auditor’s responsibility and consolidated accounts Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about This document also contains other information than the whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as annual accounts and consolidated accounts and is found on a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due pages 1–63, 102–109, 115–134, 136–140, 142–149. The to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responincludes our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a high level sible for this other information. of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing accounts does not cover this other information and we do standards in Sweden will always detect a material misstatenot express any form of assurance conclusion regarding this ment when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or other information. error and are considered material if, individually or in the In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence consolidated accounts, our responsibility is to read the inforthe economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these mation identified above and consider whether the informaannual accounts and consolidated accounts. tion is materially inconsistent with the annual accounts and A further description of our responsibility for the audit consolidated accounts. In this procedure we also take into of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts is availaccount our knowledge otherwise obtained in the audit and able on the Swedish Inspectorate of Auditor’s website assess whether the information otherwise appears to be www.revisorsinspektionen.se/revisornsansvar. This materially misstated. description is part of the auditor’s report. If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, conclude that there is a material misstatement of Report on other legal and regulatory requirements this other information, we are required to report that fact. Opinions We have nothing to report in this regard. In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, we have also audited the administration Responsibilities of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director of and the Managing Director Vasakronan AB (publ) for the year 2019 and the proposed The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. responsible for the preparation of the annual accounts and We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders consolidated accounts and that they give a fair presentation that the profit be appropriated in accordance with the proin accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and, concernposal in the statutory administration report and that the ing the consolidated accounts, in accordance with IFRS as members of the Board of Directors and the Managing adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors and the ManagDirector be discharged from liability for the financial year. ing Director are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of Basis for Opinions annual accounts and consolidated accounts that are free We conducted the audit in accordance with generally from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s accounts, The Board of Directors and the Managing DirecResponsibilities section. We are independent of the parent tor are responsible for the assessment of the company’s and company and the group in accordance with professional eththe group’s ability to continue as a going concern. They disics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our close, as applicable, matters related to going concern and ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. using the going concern basis of accounting. The going conWe believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is cern basis of accounting is however not applied if the Board sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. of Directors and the Managing Director intends to liquidate the company, to cease operations, or has no realistic alterResponsibilities of the Board of Directors native but to do so. and the Managing Director The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for Board of Director’s responsibilities and tasks in general, appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. At the proamong other things oversee the company’s financial reportposal of a dividend, this includes an assessment of whether ing process. the dividend is justifiable considering the requirements VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 113 FI N A N CI A L S TAT EM EN T S AU D I TO R S ’ R EP O R T which the company’s and the group’s type of operations, The auditor’s examination of size and risks place on the size of the parent company’s and the corporate governance statement the group’s equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity The Board of Directors is responsible for that the corporate and position in general. governance statement on pages 102–109 has been prepared The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. organization and the administration of the company’s affairs. Our examination of the corporate governance statement This includes among other things continuous assessment of is conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard the company’s and the group’s financial situation and ensurRevU 16 The auditor’s examination of the corporate govering that the company’s organization is designed so that the nance statement. This means that our examination of the accounting, management of assets and the company’s financorporate governance statement is different and substantially cial affairs otherwise are controlled in a reassuring manner. less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with The Managing Director shall manage the ongoing adminisInternational Standards on Auditing and generally accepted tration according to the Board of Directors’ guidelines and auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examinainstructions and among other matters take measures that tion has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. are necessary to fulfil the company’s accounting in accorA corporate governance statement has been prepared. dance with law and handle the management of assets in a Disclosures in accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the secreassuring manner. ond paragraph points 2-6 of the Annual Accounts Act and chapter 7 section 31 the second paragraph the same law are Auditor’s responsibility consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, consolidated accounts and are in accordance with the and thereby our opinion about discharge from liability, is to Annual Accounts Act. obtain audit evidence to assess with a reasonable degree of assurance whether any member of the Board of Directors Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB was elected auditor or the Managing Director in any material respect: of Vasakronan AB by the general meeting of the sharehold• has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission ers on the 7 May 2019 and has been the company’s auditor which can give rise to liability to the company, or since the 28 April 2016. • in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. Stockholm 23 March 2020 Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed approÖhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB priations of the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to assess with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. Helena Ehrenborg Daniel Algotsson Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is Authorized Public Authorized Public not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with Accountant Accountant generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always Lead Partner detect actions or omissions that can give rise to liability to the company, or that the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss are not in accordance with the Companies Act. A further description of our responsibility for the audit of the administration is available on the Swedish Inspectorate of Auditors’ website: www.revisorsinspektionen.se/ revisornsansvar. This description is part of the auditor’s report. 114 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T IN MAY 2019, & Other Stories opened the doors to its first establishment in Gothenburg. The store encompasses 900 square metres in two storeys in the historic Meethshuset, a building dating back to the early 1900s and, even then, with a focus on exclusive ladies fashion. VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 115 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y About Vasakronan’s sustainability report 2019 The sustainability report follows the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) resentatives distributed among the various stakeholder categories guidelines and is prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: took part. The aim was to identify which sustainability topics stakeCore option. In addition to GRI Standards, Vasakronan has chosen holders expect Vasakronan to report on. Based on the stakeholders’ to recognise the sector-specific indicators that were previously recexpectation inventory and on external trends monitoring, an internal ognised in accordance with GRI G4. prioritisation of which sustainability topics were considered material The goal is to run the entire business in a sustainable way. Consewas performed. When setting priorities, Vasakronan took into quently, reporting of our sustainability agenda has been integrated account the actual impact on people, the environment, economy and into the company’s annual report. The GRI index on pages 118–119 society, and consideration was also given to Vasakronan’s vision and contains references to where the information can be found in the business strategy. Prioritised sustainability topics were then validated annual report. In individual cases, all of the information the GRI by Vasakronan’s Management Team. The sustainability topics framework requires could not be reported. These exceptions are deemed material are as follows: economic performance, anti-corruppresented in the GRI index. tion, materials, energy, water, climate impact through emissions, Information on boundaries, responsibility, monitoring and goverwaste, safe work environments at suppliers, occupational health and nance for each material sustainability topic can be found in the sussafety, diversity, tenants’ safety and security, public transport and tainability notes on pages 123–134. The information is described local services, and customer satisfaction. in accordance with Standard 103, and all standards used were pubIn 2019, the materiality analysis was evaluated to assess whether it lished in 2016. was still relevant. The evaluation indicated that all the sustainability The sustainability report has been prepared pursuant to the provitopics identified last year are still material and that the climate impact sions in the Swedish Annual Accounts Act Chapter 6 Section 11. Part of emissions and economic performance are the areas deemed to of the information submitted pursuant to these provisions is have the highest materiality. At the same time, the evaluation showed described in other sections of the annual report. A description of the that certain issues had increased in significance compared with previcompany’s business model can be found on pages 8–9, and informaous years, including security and safety, safe work environments at tion on risk management can be found on pages 98–101. suppliers and climate-adapting properties. The sustainability report is produced once per year, and 2019 was its eleventh year of publication. The report is reviewed in summary by Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB, and their limited assurance Sustainable development is defined by the UN as “development that report can be found on page 135. The sustainability report covers the meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of Parent Company and all wholly owned subsidiaries. Joint venture future generations to meet their own needs.” In September 2015, UN companies co-owned by Vasakronan are not covered, and are not member countries adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Develconsidered to constitute a significant part of operations. Nor does the opment, a universal agenda with 17 goals for economically, socially sustainability report cover operations controlled by individual tenants and environmentally sustainable development. The purpose of the or suppliers. goals is to address poverty, peace and justice as well as inequality, Planning, governance and monitoring of sustainability efforts follow and to solve the climate crisis by 2030. the organisational structure, with a clear delegation of responsibilities Even if the goals are set on an international level, it is important and authorisations via a management system consisting of policies, for us as a company to analyse whether and how we can contribute guidelines, general measurable targets and detailed action plans. to the goals. Operations have the largest positive impact on Goal 7 There are also a number of external laws, guidelines and regulations “Affordable and clean energy,” Goal 9 “Industry, innovation and including the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). infrastructure,” Goal 11 “Sustainable cities and communities” and Goal 12 “Responsible consumption and production.” Stakeholder dialogue and prioritised areas The challenges in operations connected to the 2030 Agenda goals Surveying and analysing stakeholder expectations for the operations include Goal 8 “Decent work and economic growth,” primarily related is a prerequisite for creating sustainable value. Ongoing discussions are to work environment accidents at our construction sites. For more therefore conducted with our most important stakeholders. The forms information about our efforts and which goals are relevant to our for the continual dialogue are illustrated in the image on page 117. operations, see pages 123–134. In addition to the continuing dialogue with our stakeholders, a workshop was conducted as recently as 2017, in which some 30 rep116 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y STAKEHOLDER EXPECTATIONS DIALOGUE OPPORTUNITIES • Long-term asset management that offers ­premises that provide good service and a good • Customer meetings work environment • Customer satisfaction survey • Collaboration aimed at minimising negative ­environmental impact Tenants • Customer service and ongoing dialogues regarding property management • Low energy consumption in the buildings • Theme lectures • Access to public transportation and local service • During procurement processes for suborder • Circular material use and selection agreements, when placing orders and in meetings with suppliers • Specifier of requirements concerning the supplier’s work conditions and work environment Suppliers • Regular reviews/audits • Collaboration for greater sustainability • Contract meetings • Factory visits • Long-term and stable financial management • Individual meetings with banks and investors • Customer satisfaction in the capital market • Climate change adaptation Lenders • Financial statements • Low energy consumption in the buildings • Capital market and investor presentations • Responsible and ethical business practices • Employee dialogue meetings • Stable, long-term employer that offers good • Employee survey employment terms Employees • Workshops • Good work environment • Business planning • Engagement in local communities • Advocate more eco-system services in • Attending and participating in meetings with the planning phase and in the operations stakeholders and industry organisations as well • Circular material use and selection Communities as other forums • Transportation and emissions • Network meetings • A long-term stable yield where consideration • Board meetings, one of which each year is a is given to people, ethics and the environment strategy meeting • Transparent reporting Owners • Meeting with owner representatives for specific • Customer satisfaction discussions on corporate governance VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 117 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y GRI Standard Disclosure Page Comments 102-1 Name of the organisation. Front cover of the Annual Report 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services. Page 1 102-3 Location of headquarters. Page 79 102-4 Location of operations Vasakronan only conducts operations in Sweden. 102-5 Ownership and legal form Inside front cover; page 79 102-6 Markets served Inside front cover 102-7 Scale of the organisation Pages 32–36, 41, 82 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Pages 131–132 102-9 Supply chain Page 130 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain No significant changes during the year. 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach The precautionary principle forms the basis of how environmental work is designed. 102-12 External initiatives Page 102 102-13 Membership of associations Page 21 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Pages 5–7 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour. Pages 8, 20 102-18 Governance structure Pages 102–107 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Page 117 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Page 131 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Pages 116–117 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Page 117 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Page 117 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Pages 94–95, 105 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Page 116 102-47 List of material topics Page 116 102-48 Restatements of information No corrections have been made to previous reports. 102-49 Changes in reporting No significant changes. 102-50 Reporting period Cover 102-51 Date of most recent report The report for 2018 was published in March 2019. 102-52 Reporting cycle Published annually in connection with the release of the Annual Report. 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Anna Denell, Head of Sustainability 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards Page 116 102-55 GRI content index Page 118 102-56 External assurance Page 116 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary Pages 123–134 103-2 The management approach and its components Pages 123–134 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Pages 123–134 118 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y Material topic Disclosure Page UN SDGs Comments Economic topics Economic performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Page 123 17 Economic performance 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and Pages 120–122 13 opportunities due to climate change Fiscal management1) – Page 123 17 Anti-corruption 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and Page 123 16 actions taken Environment Materials 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Pages 24, 124, 142 3, 8, 12 Information on the amount of material in improvement work on the premises is not available, and is therefore estimated. Work is in progress on being able to gather and report this information over the long term. Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation Pages 18, 124, 142 7 CRE 1 Building energy intensity Water 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Page 125 6 CRE2 Building water intensity Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Pages 18, 20, 11, 12, 13 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 126–127, 142 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions CRE 3 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity from buildings Waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Pages 18, 24, 11, 12 The amount is based partly on 128, 142 estimations owing to absence of data. Work is under way to be able to eventually gather this information. Product labelling, CRE8 Number of sustainability certified buildings Pages 16, 129, 142 environment1) Supplier environmental 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using Pages 20, 130, 142 3, 7, 8, assessment environmental criteria 11, 12 Social Occupational health 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment and Pages 20, 24, 3, 8 Reporting covers sick leave and and safety incident investigation 133–134, 143 accidents concerning Vasakronan’s employees as well as accidents on major projects that were completed during the year. Diversity and equal 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Pages 82–83, 5, 8, 10 opportunity 108–109, 131–132, 143 Supplier social 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using Pages 20, 133, 143 3, 5, 8 assessment social criteria Customer health 416-A Measures taken to maintain a high level of Pages 20, 24, 134, 143 5, 10, and safety safety and security in and around properties 11, 16 Public transportation Measures taken to create opportunities for public Pages 18, 134 9, 11 and local services ­transportation to and from our properties and proximity to local services Customer satisfaction Results of customer surveys Pages 16, 134 1) Areas that have not been prioritised in the materiality analysis but are still deemed important to report based on stakeholder expectations. VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 119 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y Vasakronan’s climate work in 2019 Vasakronan realised as early as ten years ago that the business Strategies needed to be reorganised and more consideration given to the enviVasakronan is a long-term actor. It is therefore important that the ronment and climate. Through enhancing energy efficiency in various company’s strategy also monitors areas that have a significant effect ways, and the transition to renewable energy sources, since 2006 in the long run, including the climate. A strategic plan is determined Vasakronan has reduced its Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions annually. It includes the operating environment factors that have the and air travel by 99%. Climate responsibility has historically been a most impact on the company and the strategies assessed as approprisuccess factor, both driving and meeting demand from the market for ate for the new conditions. Vasakronan has long focused on the operclimate-smart solutions. The reduction in energy consumption has ations’ climate impact. The company increased its focus during the also led to considerable improvements in net operating income, year by supplementing the strategic plan with a climate strategy that increased property values and an overall improvement in profitability. will be part of Vasakronan’s work going forward. This means that the company will continue to set ambitious climate targets that affect our TCFD guidelines own decisions as well as those of our tenants, suppliers and partners. The Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Climate issues are also a central part of future investments. The exist­recommendations are directed both to companies and to investors. ing portfolio will be continuously reviewed and adapted based on cliThe aim is primarily to provide investors with information about the mate impact. risks and possibilities that a transition to a society with lower carbon Vasakronan supports Sweden’s national goal of becoming climate emissions and a changing climate entails. They are also intended to neutral by 2045. But to improve our competitive ability and to remain provide a description of the company’s governance and strategy profitable over the long term, we need a more ambitious target, which regarding climate issues. This is the second year that the climate is why we decided to be climate neutral by 2030. Vasakronan has been agenda has been described based on the TCFD recommendations climate neutral for years when it comes to direct emissions and emisand the aim is to follow them to the greatest extent possible. The sions related to energy consumption at properties. To reach climate description helps stakeholders understand how the business will be neutrality across the entire value chain, emissions related to construcaffected by climate changes. tion and tenant use of premises need to be drastically reduced. TCFD’s recommendations are categorised into four areas: goverBusiness plans and longand short-term targets are set so we know nance, strategy and risk management as well as metrics and targets. what to focus on in the coming year. In 2020, the climate will be one of A description of efforts in these four areas is given below. For more the company’s focus areas. The aim is for the climate to be an integral information on TCFD, visit www.fsb-tcfd.org/. part of every decision taken. For more information about climate targets, refer to page 142. Governance To ensure that efforts to reduce our climate impact are sufficient The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for managing cliand in line with the requirements specified by the Paris climate agreemate-related risks and establishes a strategic plan for the company ment’s goal to limit global warming to two degrees, we have engaged every year. The strategic plan includes a description of the climate the Science Based Targets (SBT) initiative to evaluate our climate tarstrategy that is expected to form the basis for the operations and the gets. The Science Based Targets initiative is a collaboration between longand short-term environmental targets. An annual review is also the World Wide Fund for Nature, the United Nations Global Comconducted of the Board of Directors’ work to reduce the operational pact, the Carbon Disclosure Project and the World Resources Instiimpact on the climate and to adapt operations to climate changes. tute. The goal is to ensure that the climate goals set by companies have Vasakronan is owned in equal shares by the First, Second, Third and a scientific basis. Vasakronan’s target was approved by SBT in DecemFourth Swedish national pension funds. Stringent requirements from ber 2018, deeming it to be well under the two-degree target. the owners mean that the return must be long-term stable and generated with consideration for people and the environment. They also Risks and opportunities expect climate issues to be an integrated part of operations. The progEfforts to identify, analyse, manage and follow up risks are prioritised ress report to owners is made by owner representatives on the Board at Vasakronan. The day-to-day risk efforts involve all employees and of Directors as well as through ongoing dialogues with the sustainabilfollow a structured process that starts with an inventory of existing ity departments at each Swedish national pension fund. and new risks. This includes conducting workshops and interviews Responsibility for daily operations with climate issues such as planwith representatives from various parts of the organisation. The Manning, governance and monitoring follows the organisational structure, agement Team assesses the risks included in the inventory based on with a clear delegation of responsibilities and authorisations. Climate likelihood and impact. Material risks are then presented to the Audit issues are included as part of the business plans developed for the Committee and the Board. underlying units as well as for the company as an entirety and include the targets set for both the short and long term. The targets are monitored on a quarterly basis by management and the Board of Directors. 120 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y According to the TCFD’s recommendations, climate-related financial Climate targets 2020 risks can be divided in two primary categories: transition risks and physical risks. Transition risks refers to the political, regulatory and DEVELOPMENT/ACQUISITION OPERATION TENANTS technological risks that a transition to a society with lower carbon emissions can entail. The physical risks can be acute or chronic and can include direct damage to assets or indirect damage such as interruptions to the supply chain. For information about Vasakronan’s risk management and climate-related risks, see pages 98–101 as well as the “Transition risks” and “Physical risks” sections below. • Waste generated • Decrease purchased • Food waste from project developenergy by 5% collection offered Scenario analysis ment activities must • 65% of the buildings at all properties Climate scenarios help us understand what our climate will look like in decrease should have an energy • Recycled material intensity of less than the future, depending on several global issues like politics, technology, used in all projects 100 kWh/sq. m. and the economic and changes in society. By analysing the possible effects year • At least 75 solar different climate scenarios would have on operations, the strategy for photovoltaic systems the future can be adapted. This means preparing for financial, legislain operation tive and social development with low carbon emissions and for the • We have completed at least three projects physical effect of the changed climate on properties, tenants and supthat have led to pliers’ operations. ­reduced power During the year, Vasakronan investigated the possible effects of cli­requirements mate changes on the portfolio up until 2100, with the help of various climate scenarios. These were based on RCP1) of 2.6, 4.5 and 8.5. The above image shows the short-term environmental targets set for 2020. Read more on page 142. An RCP of 2.6 represents a strong climate policy with reduced emissions, negative emissions by 2100 and a global temperature increase of 0.5–1.5 degrees. An RCP of 8.5 represents instead a weak climate In the lower temperature intervals, the operations are not deemed policy, continued high emissions and a global temperature increase of at risk of any immediate risks that cannot be managed. However, we 3.5–5.0 degrees. The investigation also included other factors, such are convinced that our long-standing focus on reducing climate as precipitation amounts and rising sea levels, in the analysis. Results impact and the adaptation measures already planned or taken mean of the study will be integrated into the different processes of operathat the operations will continue to develop positively despite climate tions and management, projects and portfolio planning. changes. In the scenario with the higher temperature intervals, however, there are risks that would have significant financial affects, priTransition risks marily in the form of properties and areas that would be permanently Vasakronan identified climate change as an important operating enviflooded. ronment factor as early as ten years ago, thus comprehensive efforts have already been made to reduce energy consumption and carbon Opportunities dioxide emissions, primarily in management activities. Efforts to The transition to a low carbon dioxide society can also entail opportureduce emissions from project operations began a few years ago. This nities for operations. By only using renewable energy, increasing the means that, to a great extent, operations have already been adapted share of own-produced electricity and improving energy efficiency, to any transition risks that may arise. greenhouse gas emissions and operating expenses are reduced. An increased focus on material use and on increasing material recyPhysical risks cling, costs for materials in project development decrease. An increased Another part of the climate agenda includes being more resilient focus on waste management will also have positive financial effects. against physical climate risks, such as flooding, rising sea levels and The measures that have been carried out so far to reduce climate heat waves. When the climate becomes warmer and damper, properimpact have also had a clear contribution to profitability. The work has ties must still provide a comfortable indoor environment for tenants led to decreased energy costs and higher revenue due to increased as well as avoiding flooding during extreme precipitation. Properties demand in the rental market. This has also entailed higher property are therefore continuously evaluated in terms of technical perforvalues due to lower requirements for yields for buildings with low climance and improvements are planned in conjunction with ordinary mate impact and lower financing costs. For the long term, the assessmaintenance and renovations. Development projects ensure that the ment is that demand for resilient buildings with a low carbon footprint design and planning of properties takes into account the needs of will continue to increase and that Vasakronan’s portfolio can meet today and of the coming decades. these expectations. 1) RCP = radiative forcing expressed in W/sq. m. High levels of greenhouse gasses lead to high levels of radiative forcing. VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 121 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y Continued efforts Goals and measurements During 2020, the theme for the operations will be the climate, A summary of Vasakronan’s greenhouse gas emissions from 2015 to further increasing the focus on efforts to reduce climate impact. 2019 is in the sustainability disclosures 305-1 to 305-3 on page 126. Several activities are planned and a great deal of focus will continue A description of the environmental targets set for 2019 can be found to be on taking tangible measures to reduce emissions from construcon pages 121 and 142. tion projects and strengthening collaboration with tenants to reduce The table below reflects table 5 in the TCFD’s recommendations their climate impact. and shows the climate-related financial impact on the income state When it comes to climate adaptation, the portfolio will be further and balance sheet. For more information about how we measure, surveyed and analysed based on potential physical risks. The goal is to steer and monitor environmental data, see pages 124–134. have a concrete action plan by the end of the year. Financial category Climate-related category Unit of measure Outcome 2019 Reference Income Adaptation and mitigation Income from sales of on-site Possible income from the sale of on-site produced Disclosure 302-1, produced renewable energy, renewable energy from solar photovoltaics is estipages 124–125 SEK m/year mated at approximately SEK 0.5 million for 2020. Income Adaptation and mitigation Rental revenue from environRental revenue from environmentally certified propDisclosure CRE 8, mentally certified properties, erties amounted to SEK 6,350 million, representing page 129 SEK m and percent 90% of the total rental revenue. Costs Energy Total energy consumption, Total energy consumption (heating, cooling and Disclosure 302-1, GWh and SEK m/year landlord electricity) in the portfolio amounted to pages 124–125 249 GWh, equivalent to approximately SEK 277 ­million. Costs Energy Total fuel consumption, GWh Total fuel consumption amounted to 0.01 GWh Disclosure 302-1, and SEK m/year (0.1), equivalent to approximately SEK 0.07 million. pages 124–125 Costs Energy Energy intensity in the portfolio, Energy intensity in the portfolio averaged 92 kWh/ Disclosure CRE 1, kWh/sq. m. sq. m. at the balance-sheet date. pages 124–125 Costs Water Water consumption in areas Total water consumption in Uppsala1 amounted Disclosure 303-1, with declared water shortages1), to 121,615 m3, equivalent to approximately page 125 m3 and SEK m/year SEK 3 million. Costs Emissions Emissions intensity, Scope 1 Scope 1 and 2 emissions intensity after climate Disclosure CRE 3 and 2 after climate compensacompensation amounted to 0 kg/sq. m. page 127 tion, kg/sq. m. Costs Emissions Climate compensation paid, In 2019, a total of SEK 93,000 was paid in climate Disclosure CRE 3 SEK/year compensation for scope 1 and 2 emissions. page 127 The amount pertains to climate compensation for emissions from 2018. Assets Adaptation and mitigation Total area in environmentally At the end of 2019, 85% (85) of the property Disclosure CRE 8, certified properties in relation portfolio’s total lettable area was environmentally page 129 to the area for the entire propcertified. erty portfolio, at the balance-­ sheet date, per cent Assets Adaptation and mitigation Market value for environmenAt the end of 2019, properties with a total market Disclosure CRE 8, tally certified properties in relavalue of SEK 132,841 million were environmentally page 129 tion to market value for the certified. That represents 85% of the portfolio’s ­entire property portfolio, at the ­total market value. balance-sheet date, per cent Assets Adaptation and mitigation Investment in low-carbon In 2019 a total of approximately SEK 60 million was Pages 16, 18, ­alternatives, SEK/year invested in low-carbon alternatives to reduce 124–125 energy consumption in the portfolio. Assets Adaptation and mitigation Investments in new construcIn 2019 a total of SEK 400 million was invested in Impact Report for tion and redevelopment projnew construction and redevelopment projects that green financing, ects that meet the criteria for meet the criteria in the green framework. pages 136–141 financing according to Vasa­ kronan’s green framework, SEK m/year 1) Information from the Swedish Meteorological and Hydrological Institute was used to determine which areas had declared water shortages. 122 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y Financial responsibility 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed  Taking financial responsibility for our operations and having stable, sound finances Economic value distributed are fundamental to be able to deliver on the assignment of long-term, stable returns to our owners. This is also important to be able to act with a long-term horizon and meet the financial expectations of stakeholders. Owners, 33% (36) Boundaries Suppliers, 42% (37) The reporting only covers the economic value created at Vasakronan. The value is Public sector, 13% (15) impacted partly by factors that Vasakronan controls but also by external factors such as the state of the market and interest rates, as well as our owners’ decisions Lenders, 10% (10) about the distribution of the dividend. Employees, 2% (2) Responsibility and monitoring Vasakronan’s CEO and Management Team have overall responsibility for steering operations toward the financial targets. The outcome is monitored on a quarterly basis in connection with interim reports and through internal steering parameters Taxes established for the operations. Tax is a statutory expense in our operations that affects the return, and at the same time it is also a responsibility issue that can impact the company’s reputaGovernance and objectives tion and standing. Tax is defined as income tax, VAT, property tax, stamp duty, The overall financial objective is a return that, in relation to risk, is greater than the advertising tax, energy tax and withholding tax. The Board of Directors has overall return our owners could obtain from other comparable investment alternatives. responsibility for managing taxes. The Board of Directors has established a tax The overall financial objective is a total yield of at least 6.5% per year. In addition, policy to ensure tax issues are managed in alignment with fulfilling the requirement the total yield must be at least 0.5 percentage points higher than the outcome for of achieving a high return, and of the company meeting the requirements set for the rest of the industry, measured as the average according to the MSCI Swedish being a responsible social actor. For more information on the company’s tax policy, Property Index (excluding Vasakronan). The average outcome is evaluated over visit www.vasakronan.se. rolling ten-year periods, together with monitoring and analysis of the outcome for Vasakronan’s operations are conducted only in Sweden. Country-by-country each individual year. In addition, a number of key financial indicators are set for the reporting of taxes paid is therefore not applicable. Vasakronan is not currently the coming year. These are monitored on a quarterly basis in connection with internal subject of any tax cases. More information about recorded taxes can be found on review and in the quarterly reports to the Board of Directors. For more informapages 85–86. tion, refer to page 142. Donations and sponsorship Outcome During the year, voluntary contributions and investments in the community in Detailed information on Vasakronan’s financial position can be found in the the form of gifts and donations were presented to various organisations. The two company’s financial reports on pages 66–77. The economic value created totalled largest contributions in 2019 were made to Löparakademin and Mitt Liv, totalling SEK 24.8 billion (20.7) in 2019 and comprises rental revenue, investments and SEK 650,000 (350,000). changes in the values of properties. The value distributed to the owners pertains to the dividend presented to the owners, which is also to be regarded as a value to Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals the public. The “Public sector” item includes property tax, ground rent and VAT. In Through partnerships with different volunteer organisations and supporting 2019, property tax was an expense of SEK 655 million (expense: 527), of which SEK their activities with donations, we are contributing to Goal 17 and its target 17.17, 588 million (491) was invoiced to tenants. The remaining value totalled SEK 12.5 “Encourage and promote effective partnerships.” billion (9.6). 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Corruption in the Swedish property and construction industries, in which a large Governance and objectives amount of products and services is sold every year, is regarded as being widespread Internally, operating activities are governed by policies and guidelines for purchasand extensive. We must therefore have a process that eliminates the risk of corruping, communication, equal treatment and the environment, among other factors. tion in all situations. Our policies, routines and training work together with our Code of Conduct to counteract all forms of corruption and improprieties. All of Vasakronan’s employBoundaries ees and suppliers are expected to comply with the internal regulations as well as The anti-corruption work pertains firstly to our efforts to prevent corruption withwith the laws in force. All employee-related policies are available on the intranet, in the company, but we also set requirements on our suppliers having a systematic and the organisation is monitored continually to ensure compliance. The goal is process to counteract corruption in their operations. zero tolerance for all forms of corruption. Responsibility and monitoring Outcome The efforts toward counteracting corruption and bribery are being led by the comThree suspicions of corruption were reported in 2019 but none of them were pany’s General Counsel in the capacity of Compliance Officer. Violations are not confirmed. Measures were nonetheless taken during the year to minimise the risk acceptable and may result in disciplinary measures, termination or legal proceedof corruption. ings. There is also a whistle-blower function to make it easier for employees and those outside the company to report suspicions of corruption or other impropriety. Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals By striving to keep all of our business relationships free from corruption, we are contributing to Goal 16 and its target 16.5, “Substantially reduce corruption and bribery in all their forms.” VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 123 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y Environmental responsibility 301-1 Materials by weight or volume  Large amounts of materials are used in new construction, redevelopment and construction materials. That is checked both through internal audits and supplier leasehold improvements of properties. The materials used in projects give rise to audits. The requirement for using the Byggvarubedömningen system is also found major environmental impact when they are extracted and produced, and in addiin the majority of lease agreements, which is important since tenants sometimes tion they generate considerable transportation needs. That is why it is important renovate under their own management. to reduce the amount of material used and to use renewable raw materials, and Vasakronan’s goal for a number of years has been for all new construction and recycled or reused material to much greater extents. In addition, we need to ensure redevelopment projects to report their material use upon completion. Another goal that the materials used do not contain hazardous substances that are spread into was set for 2019 for reused material to be used in at least ten leasehold improveindoor environments or into ecosystems outside our buildings. That is why all the ments during the year. For information on objectives and target attainment, refer construction material used in our buildings is always evaluated and documented. to page 142. The Byggvarubedömningen system is applied in this work. Outcome Boundaries The new construction project Hilton was completed in Stockholm during the year. The reporting covers the material used in new construction and redevelopment Material used in the project amounted to 18,202 tons, equivalent to 1,124 kg/sq. m. projects, as well as leasehold improvements. The impact lies primarily with our supOf the material used, around 3% consisted of renewable raw material and the pliers, since they are the ones purchasing and using the materials when they perform remaining 97% of non-renewable raw material. The use of materials in Hilton was services for us. The materials Vasakronan purchases and uses internally — office based on actual measurements taken over the course of the entire project and in equipment and consumables, as well as construction material for operational and cooperation with the research institute RISE. The use, for example, of concrete, maintenance work, for example — have been deemed to be without significance. rebar, steel and wood is based on the actual amounts reported. No redevelopment projects were completed during the year. Responsibility and monitoring Material use in leasehold improvements is based on an estimate, and during the The Regional SVPs are responsible for the materials used in project development. year totalled SEK 249 million (299), corresponding to SEK 1,183/sq. m. (1,369). This responsibility covers how much, and what type, of material is used and for The year-on-year decline is the result of work conducted within the organisation to using the Byggvarubedömningen system in all projects. decrease costs for leasehold improvements, which also resulted in lower material The amount of materials used is monitored during each project and is reported costs. when the project is completed. Used material per square metre, the proportion The audits conducted during the year show that the Byggvarubedömningen of renewable and non-renewable raw materials, and the proportion of recycled system was used in all major projects. material are then all compiled. The proportion of reused material is also monitored. This monitoring is performed on a quarterly basis. Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals By reducing the risk of construction material containing substances that are hazardGovernance and objectives ous to people’s health or to the ecosystem, we are contributing to Goal 3 and its tarThe environmental impact of the project is governed by the environmental certiget 3.9, “Substantially reduce the number of deaths and illnesses from hazardous fication scheme, and the “Miljöprogram för projekt” (Environmental Programme chemicals and contamination.” for Projects) an internal policy document, which is followed by all project designers By reducing the amount of material, and using renewable, recycled or reused and contractors. The programme states that we must use materials efficiently, only material to greater extents, we are contributing to Goal 8 and its target 8.4, use materials that are possible to reuse or recycle, and to design proactively and as “Improve global resource efficiency in consumption and production.” flexibly as possible to reduce the need for future redevelopment. Environmental We are also contributing to Goal 12 and its targets 12.1, “Implement the 10certification of the project also steers towards reduced use of materials and a larger year framework of programmes on sustainable consumption and production,” proportion of reused and recycled material. The Environmental Programme also 12.2 “Sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources” and 12.4 prescribes using the Byggvarubedömningen system for selecting and documenting “Environmentally sound management of chemicals and all wastes.” 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation CRE 1 Building energy intensity  The property sector accounts for just over 30% of society’s energy consumption. Energy consumption is monitored on a monthly basis at the property, regional, and Therefore, Vasakronan’s efforts to decrease energy consumption and only use renewcompany level by an energy monitoring system in which all the values measured able energy is an important environmental issue. Low energy consumption is also a are recorded and processed. Energy consumption for new construction and major prerequisite for environmentally certifying buildings with high ratings, something that redevelopment projects is monitored against calculated values in connection with is in demand by many tenants and is a prerequisite for being able to issue green bonds. a project being finalised and occupied. Boundaries Governance and objectives As a property owner, Vasakronan can impact the energy consumption in properThe energy efforts are governed by the company’s energy strategy and envities, for example through the investments made in HVAC-systems and in the buildronmental policy. For major new construction projects, the goal is to come in at ing envelope of the properties. Another part of the impact comes from tenants, least 25% under the BBR requirements (National Board of Housing, Building and and is determined by the type of operation they conduct and their preferences as Planning’s regulations for new construction). For major renovations not covered regards indoor climate, for example. by the BBR requirements, the aim is to halve energy consumption compared with The reporting covers energy consumption from the whole portfolio of properties, prior to the renovation. and fuel used in vehicles owned by Vasakronan. Only landlord-related energy conReducing energy consumption in existing buildings also requires close collabosumption is reported (i.e. energy consumption related to heating, air conditioning and ration with our tenants. Since 2017, there is a clause in all rental agreements that the building’s electrical needs). Tenants’ own electricity consumption is not included, entails, inter alia, collaboration with tenants around reduced energy consumption but an estimate of that is taken into account when reporting our Scope 3 emissions. and mutual reporting of energy data. This also requires tenants to procure renewable energy if tenants have their own energy supply contracts. Responsibility and monitoring Vasakronan only purchases electricity from renewable resources (hydro and The technical organisation is responsible for the energy consumption of the existwind power), and in all our agreements with suppliers of district heating and dising buildings and type of energy source. The regions are responsible for designing trict cooling there are requirements for renewable and/or climate neutral energy. for low energy consumption in the development projects. Ahead of 2019, a target was set to reduce energy intensity by 3%, which cor124 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y responds to an energy intensity of 100 kWh/sq. m. Moreover, a target was set to The fuel used during the year consisted primarily of petrol and diesel in company-­ increase the number of solar photovoltaic systems to 70 by the end of the year. The owned vehicles, and totalled 0.01 GWh (0.1). Fuel consumption is not included outcome and comments on the targets are available under “outcome” on page 142. in energy intensity data, but in the climate calculations (Scope 1). Tenants’ own energy consumption is not included in energy intensity, but is included in the climate Outcome impact reporting (Scope 3). For definitions of energy intensity and temperate area, refer to page 148. Energy consumption In 2019, an additional 9 solar photovoltaic systems (6) were put into operation in the property portfolio; in total, 3,211 MWh (2,944) of electrical energy were GWh 2019 2018 produced from our solar photovoltaic systems. A total of 63 solar photovoltaic Cooling 34.1 49.2 systems (55) were in operation at year end and these are estimated to generate a total of 4,181 MWh (3,700) per year. The installations are located throughout the Landlord electricity 78.9 86.0 entire property portfolio; Stockholm has the most with 28 installations followed by Heating 135.6 154.9 Uppsala with 19, Malmö with 9 and Gothenburg with 7. Vehicle fuel consumption 0.0 0.1 Total 248.6 290.2 Energy from solar photovoltaic systems MWh 5,000 Energy intensity 4,181 kWh/sq. m. 4,000 3,669 150 3,185 3,000 120 2,336 112 110 100 103 2,000 92 1,656 90 1,000 60 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 30 0 Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 By reducing energy consumption and transitioning to renewable energy sources we are contributing to Goal 7 and its target 7.2, “By 2030, increase substantially In 2019, energy intensity averaged 92 kWh/sq. m. (103), compared to the target of the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix” and 7.3, “By 2030, double a maximum of 100 kWh/sq. m. The improvement over last year is due to favourable the global rate of improvement in energy efficiency.” weather but also operating optimisations, power demand response efforts and energy investments. 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource CRE 2 Building water intensity  Water consumption is an important issue from a global perspective. Over the last during planning — low flush lavatories and low flow fixtures, for example. Any few years, even in Sweden, access to drinking water has been restricted in certain landscaping adjacent to the buildings is planned to reduce the need for irrigation. parts, including Uppsala where Vasakronan owns properties. Vasakronan uses Water use is monitored on a monthly basis at the property, regional, and company water from municipal systems, and even though a shortage has only arisen in one level via an operations monitoring system in which all the values measured are of the locations where we operate, we are working continually on monitoring and recorded and processed. on cost-efficient measures to reduce consumption. Low water use is a prerequisite for environmentally certifying buildings with high ratings. Governance and objectives Water use is governed by the company’s environmental policy, and is included as a Boundaries requirement in environmental certification of buildings. As a property owner, we have a great opportunity to impact the amount of water used in our buildings, since we are the ones who decide and make investments in Outcome technical systems. This impact consists primarily of our tenants, the type of operaThe total amount of water consumed during 2019 amounted to 1,109,087 cubic tions they conduct and how they choose to act. metres (1,162,908), equivalent to a water intensity of 0.5 m3/sq. m. per year (0.5). The reporting covers water use in all properties. It does not cover any water use where tenants have their own water supply contracts. Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals By reducing the water consumption we are contributing to Goal 6 and its target Responsibility and monitoring 6.4, “By 2030, substantially increase water-use efficiency across all sectors” The technical organisation has primary responsibility for the water use of the existing properties. The regions are responsible for designing all new construction and redevelopment so that their water use is low. Water efficient equipment is selected VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 125 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y 305-1 – 305-3 and CRE 3 Direct and indirect emissions  Buildings use large amounts of energy in the operations phase, which may result Outcome in emissions of greenhouse gases. In addition, our operations generate emissions Vasakronan has been reporting its greenhouse gas emissions since 2006, which from own vehicles, business travel and commuting. Operations also generate large is the base-line year for our reporting. Total greenhouse gas emissions from 2006 amounts of indirect emissions from the use of construction material, waste and and 2015–2019 are given in the table on page 127. Since the base year, emissions construction-related transportation. have decreased approximately 99% (comparable emissions, i.e. Scope 1, Scope 2 and emissions from air travel). The tremendous decrease is due to reduced energy Boundaries consumption and a transition to renewable or climate-neutral energy sources. Climate impact within our own organisation (Scope 1) is marginal, since we do not Over the past few years, a gradual improvement of data — as well as amended have central heating boilers in the buildings and since the majority of vehicles we accounting principles — have led to an increase in the scope of which emissions are own are electric cars. What we can largely impact is energy consumption in the included in the reporting. Since 2012, the reports relate not only to emissions of properties as well as what type of energy source we choose. Owing to low average carbon dioxide but to all greenhouse gases that impact the climate. energy consumption and contracts on renewable and/or climate-neutral energy, During the year, Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions decreased 36%. The largest the indirect emissions from energy consumption (Scope 2) have already been decreases took place in the categories of district heating and electricity. One decreased drastically. We have therefore chosen to focus our work on emissions reason is that all district heating suppliers have switched to climate neutral fuels, that occur outside our own organisation, indirect emissions (scope 3). We are and that the proportion of property electricity not purchased via Vasakronan has primarily trying to reduce emissions from tenants’ own electricity contracts and decreased. waste. We also strive to reduce emissions from our construction activities, where In Scope 3, part of the report is based on actual data and part on estimated values. construction material, waste and transportation to and from construction sites are The emissions from waste, transportation and material use in new construction the greatest contributors. and redevelopment projects includes construction projects that were completed Our greenhouse gas reporting covers the aspects identified as material based on during the year. scope of the emissions and our ability to influence. Emissions from the production and distribution of energy fuel decreased during the year. These emissions are based on actual data, and the decrease is explained Responsibility and monitoring by changes in the shares of wind and hydro power over the year. The responsibility for the materials used, energy consumption and waste forms the Emissions from construction waste refers to waste from new construction and basis for the responsibility for our emissions. In addition, the management team is redevelopment projects that were completed during the year and from leasehold responsible for creating the conditions and guidelines for reducing emissions from improvements. In 2019, emissions from construction waste totalled 1,104 tons, employees’ business travel and commutes. of which emissions from new construction and redevelopments amounted to 158 Annual monitoring of greenhouse gas emissions is conducted under the GHG tons. Emissions from new construction and redevelopments refers to emissions protocol, and in 2019 the greenhouse gas report was prepared by the consultants from actual waste measured from the new construction on the Hilton block 2050 AB. just outside Stockholm. Emissions from waste from tenants and from leasehold improvements is partially based on estimated values. For more information about Governance and objectives how we measure waste, refer to page 128. Efforts to reduce the company’s emissions are mainly governed through sysEmissions from transportation for construction projects includes transportation tematic work to reduce our material and energy consumption, waste from our for new construction and redevelopment projects and leasehold improvements. tenants and our own construction waste. A decision was taken ahead of 2019 to Emissions from transportation to and from the new construction on Hilton are reduce climate impact from transportation by phasing out the remaining vehicles based on actual measurements and total 296 tons. The remaining transportation powered by fossil fuels in the operations. At the end of the year there was only one emissions are from transportation to and from leasehold improvements completed remaining, which will be phased out in early 2020. Vasakronan’s internal steering during the year. These are based on estimated values. documents have stipulated for some time that only renewable fuel be used for Emissions from the material used during the construction of the Hilton property transportation in project development for Board-approved projects. totalled 8,399 tons. For more information about material use in the Hilton project, In 2018, we analysed our climate goals in accordance with Science Based Tarrefer to page 124. Emissions from leasehold improvements are based on estimated gets. The analysis showed that our goals are well below the level we need to reach values and were on a par with last year. by 2030, if our operations are to be deemed in line with the requirements of the Vasakronan undertakes climate compensation for the remaining direct emisParis climate agreement. sions – as well as certain indirect emissions – by purchasing shares in compensation projects. All amounts in the table on the next page refer to tons, if not otherwise stated. Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals By reducing the climate impact of the entire value chain, we are contributing to Goal 11 and its target 11.6, “Reduce the adverse per capita environmental impact of cities.” We are also contributing to Goal 12 and its targets 12.2, “Sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources” and 12.4 “Environmentally sound management of chemicals and all wastes.” 126 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y All amounts in the table below refer to tons, if not otherwise stated. Base year 20061) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Scope 1 Oil 3,335 0 0 0 0 0 Own vehicles 67 11 21 20 22 11 Private vehicles used for business and service vehicles 236 2 16 11 10 4 Refrigerants – 371 280 256 215 170 Total Scope 1 3,638 384 317 287 246 185 Scope 22) District heating 25,740 187 189 182 69 0 District cooling 606 179 121 4 6 0 Electricity3) 30 626 415 314 164 127 Total Scope 2 26,376 992 725 500 239 127 Climate compensated Scope 3 emissions Air travel 303 201 118 130 206 121 Rail travel – 0 0 0 0 0 Taxis – 0 6 6 3 3 Hotels – 4 7 2 4 4 Commutes – 181 157 159 118 90 Production and distribution of vehicle fuels (in Scope 1) – 3 9 7 6 3 Production and distribution of energy fuels (in scopes 1 and 2) 4) – 1,131 1,451 862 922 874 Total Climate compensated Scope 3 emissions 303 1,521 1,748 1,166 1,259 1,095 Other Scope 3 emissions5) Waste from tenants – 2,523 1,727 1,840 1,649 1,288 Waste in construction projects6) – 598 1,157 1,795 1,329 1,104 Transportation in construction projects6) – 1,853 1,013 596 393 547 Materials in construction projects6, 7) – 59,031 30,175 37,602 28,055 26,312 Electricity consumed by tenants8) – 41,047 24,830 25,294 19,472 12,155 Total Other Scope 3 emissions – 105,052 58,901 67,127 50,898 41,406 Sum total of compensated emissions – 2,896 2,791 1,954 1,744 1,407 Sum total of emissions (scopes 1, 2 and 3) 30,318 107,948 61,693 69,080 52,642 42,812 Emissions intensity, scopes 1 and 2 (kg per lettable sq. m.) 8.14 0.55 0.38 0.32 0.2 0.1 Emissions intensity, scopes 1 and 2 (after climate compensation) 8.14 0 0 0 0 0 1) Including AP Fastigheter’s emissions before the merger with Vasakronan. Only scopes 1 and 2 and air travel, and only CO2. 2) When calculating scope 2 emissions, the specific emissions factor was used, which pertains to the agreement Vasakronan has with each energy utility where consideration is given either to its origin, specific ­allocation or climate compensation made by the utility. 3) As of 2012, temporary agreements without certificate of origin are included. 4) This category includes emissions that occur upstream of production of hydro power, wind power, biopower, other power, district heating and district cooling and the extraction, refinement and distribution of oil. 5) New categories since 2014 for waste, construction material and transportation and since 2015 for tenants’ electricity use. 6) Emissions for entire construction projects, for projects concluded during the reporting year. 7) As of 2016, new methods are applied for calculating emissions from leasehold improvements. The equivalent emissions for 2015 have been re-calculated using the same method. However, corrections further back in time have not been made. 8) Electricity procured by tenants themselves. For 2018, comparative figures were restated after taking into consideration the area of vacant projects when estimating tenant electricity consumption. In this year’s report, the outcome for 2018 has been corrected since the number of leases with clauses regulating the purchase of renewable energy was miscalculated. VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 127 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method  Large amounts of waste arise in new construction and redevelopment projects, Outcome and a large portion of that waste currently goes to incineration or landfill. MoreIn 2019, tenant waste totalled 8,206 tons (10,113), of which 45% (43) could be over, there is a national target that by 2020, 70% of all construction and demolition recycled. The breakdown into different fractions is set out in the following diagram. waste should be reused or recycled. In addition to construction waste, we also take care of large amounts of waste from our tenants’ operations. Most of the time, we are the ones who determine Tenant waste, 2018–2019 how well the waste is sorted since we are responsible for the waste recycling facilities in the buildings. Tons 5,000 Boundaries 4,321 4,058 Our influence is mainly exercised outside the organisation at our construction 4,000 3,661 contractors, who do the work in our construction projects, and at our tenants when 3,389 they conduct operations at our properties. The waste that arises owing to our own 3,000 administrative operations is not deemed to be material in relation to the waste from development projects and tenant waste. Since we are tenants at our own properties, 2,000 the reporting also covers our own waste from operations, included in the tenant’s 1,446 waste. 1,000 1,000 Reporting covers the waste that we help our tenants take care of, but not any waste for which the tenant is responsible for removal. This could encompass haz154 98 119 42 15 16 0 ardous waste and confidential papers, for example. Construction waste includes 18 19 18 19 18 19 18 19 18 19 18 19 the waste that arises in direct connection with construction work at the construction site. Recycling Landfill Energy recovery/incineration Hazardous waste Responsibility and monitoring The technical organisation is responsible for meeting the tenant's waste target. Composting/biogas production Destruction without heat production The regional SVPs are responsible for meeting our construction waste target. Tenant waste and construction waste are monitored annually in connection with Construction waste totalled 3,320 tons (3,955). Of the total construction preparing the sustainability and impact reports. The construction waste monitored waste, 524 tons, equivalent to 32 kg/sq. m., was from new construction on the pertains to new construction and redevelopment projects that were concluded Hilton block in Stockholm. There are no comparable figures for 2018, as no new during the current year as well as leasehold improvements. construction projects were completed that year. The next comparable project is Hubben, which was completed in 2017 and resulted in 38 kg of waste per square Governance and objectives metre. The remaining portion pertained to waste from completed leasehold imThe EU waste hierarchy governs our waste policy. Vasakronan strives to minimise provements. The outcome for 2018 totals 2,143 tons, equivalent to 77 kg/sq. m., waste, to increase the proportion that is recycled or reused, and minimise the share from the three redevelopment projects that were completed in 2018. The breakthat goes to landfill or incineration. Vasakronan’s long-term goal is that neither our down into different fractions is set out in the following diagram. own nor our tenants’ operations should generate waste that cannot be recycled or In 2019, the amount of reused materials was 62 tons (51). No redevelopment reused. projects were completed during the year. To reach this long-term goal, Vasakronan collaborates with tenants and suppliers to: 1. Reduce the total amount of waste by resource efficiency practises Construction waste, 2018–2019 2. Create conditions for reuse of waste 3. Manage waste so that it goes from being waste to being a new resource Tons 4. Hazardous waste that arises will be properly taken care of 3,000 Reporting the amount of waste generated by us and our tenants is built partly on 2,261 2,213 estimates. Part of the waste in the category of tenant waste (‘household’ waste 2,000 or comparable thereto) may only be collected by contractors appointed by the respective municipalities. It is often difficult, and sometimes even impossible, to get data from the municipalities on how much waste is collected in each building. Portions of the waste have therefore been estimated, based on key metrics per 1,000 823 763 square metre from the actual information that could be obtained. 586 484 Waste from new construction and redevelopment projects is based on the actual measurements summarised in waste reports upon completion. Waste 51 0 57 36 from leasehold improvements is estimated by calculating a key metric per krona 0 18 19 18 19 18 19 18 19 18 19 invested, based on a smaller number of reference projects with actual data. Work is under way to be able to eventually conduct actual measurements in leasehold Recycling Biogas improvement projects. All major new construction and redevelopment projects should conduct waste Energy recovery/incineration Landfill minimising workshops to decrease the amount of waste and setting tangible waste Hazardous waste reduction targets for the project. Ahead of 2019, a goal was set for the company to reduce the amount of combustible tenant waste, reduce waste in project developContribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals ment and to use recycled material in at least ten leasehold improvement projects. By reducing waste, we are contributing to Goal 11 and its target 11.6, “Reduce The outcome and comments on the target are available on page 142. the adverse per capita environmental impact of cities.” We are also contributing to Goal 12 and its target 12.5, “Substantially reduce waste generation.” 128 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y CRE 8 Type and number of sustainability certification, rating and labelling schemes for new construction, management, occupation and redevelopment Environmental certification of both existing and new construction projects is imEnvironmental certifications portant from several perspectives. It is proof from a third party that our properties have low environmental impact, which means we can meet our tenants’ growing % environmental requirements. 100 Environmental building certification is also a prerequisite for our green financing. 84 85 85 80 77 71 Boundaries Many aspects are assessed when environmentally certifying buildings, and we 60 cannot always have full control over some of them. However, it is always the organisation that takes decisions on which buildings will be certified, which certification 40 will be chosen and which rating we will have as an objective. Reporting covers all properties. 20 Responsibility and monitoring 0 Responsibility for environmentally certifying our new construction and major 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 redevelopment projects lies with the regional SVPs; responsibility for existing buildings lies with the Technology, Services and Development Unit. Share of total area. Governance and objectives The environmental intensity of the project is governed by the environmental Area, thoucertification scheme chosen and the “Miljöprogram för projekt” (Environmental sand sq. m. Share, % Programme for Development Projects), an internal policy document. The enviBREEAM Excellent 28 1 ronmental programme for the project indicates that all projects are to be certified LEED Platinum 492 21 under LEED, with the goal of reaching Platinum certification. Information on the choice of certification and the level set as a goal must also be indicated in the deciLEED Gold 1,153 50 sion memoranda produced for the respective projects. LEED Silver 253 11 Almost all existing properties have been certified. In some cases we have choLEED Certified 54 2 sen to wait with certification since the building was awaiting a major renovation or other extensive measures. Instead, the work now aims to recertify all existing 1,980 85 buildings, since certification normally expires after five years. The technical organTo the extent the property is environmentally certified under several systems, isation is responsible for certification work with the existing properties. it has been counted as LEED certified in the table above. For 2019, the goal was to increase the proportion of environmental certifications rated LEED Gold or higher. The outcome and comments on the target are available under the heading “outcome” below. Outcome At the end of 2019, 85% (85) of our property portfolio was environmentally certified. In 2019, the development property Hilton in Stockholm was certified and 31 properties were re-certified. The share of properties certified in accordance with LEED Gold or higher increased to 72% (69) and the share certified LEED Platinum increased to 21% (5). Vasakronan counts only BREEAM, LEED and Miljöbyggnad as satisfactory certifications; GreenBuilding is excluded as it only encompasses the environmental topic energy. VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 129 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y 102-9 Supply chain 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria  In order to successfully conduct our operations, we need to engage suppliers of Outcome various types. Each purchase must be conducted with professional correctness, The total number of suppliers engaged directly by Vasakronan totals 2,568 (2,587). objectivity and honesty while observing good business practice. Additionally, In turn, these suppliers often have subcontractors. The number of subcontractors purchasing must take place through competitive procurements where suppliers is difficult to estimate, since the number per supplier varies drastically. The suppliand tenders are assessed and prioritised based on how well they meet the reers that are primarily engaged are contractors (mainly construction contractors), quirements set, taking into consideration competence and efforts toward quality, consultants (technical consultants and architects, for example), utility suppliers sustainability, and health and safety as well as risk function, performance, design (electricity, district heating and district cooling), and service suppliers. and price. Since a large part of our environmental impact arises in the supply chain, Since Vasakronan conducts operations exclusively in Sweden, our suppliers assessing suppliers based on how they conduct their environmental work is of most often are also based in Sweden. great importance. Vasakronan’s Code of Conduct for suppliers is applied to all new supplier agreements, and is now included in all supplier agreements signed by the purchasing Boundaries division. We ourselves are the ones who determine which requirements we will set for our In 2019, a total of ten (two) major supplier audits were conducted. Additionally, suppliers. Whether the requirements are met is determined by our suppliers. 27 (8) audits were conducted in conjunction with contract meetings with suppliers Reporting covers the supplier agreements signed by the purchasing department. and 43 (–) suppliers were evaluated via questionnaires taken by Vasakronan project managers regarding their assessment of suppliers’ efforts regarding environResponsibility and monitoring mental issues and work environments. The outcomes of these audits show that the The work on signing agreements with our suppliers is managed by a central audited suppliers met our environmental requirements in a satisfactory manner. purchasing division. The Purchasing Director reports to the SVP for the technical organisation. The purchasing division is responsible for purchases meeting strict Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals requirements for quality and sustainability and that they take place at the lowest Through its Code of Conduct for suppliers, Vasakronan sets requirements for its possible cost, and for procurement of new suppliers. Prior to every tender, an evalsuppliers regarding knowledge of and control over their environmental impact in uation of potential suppliers is conducted based on several criteria. The purchasing several areas. This includes requirements regarding the material used, how the division continually monitors the proportion of new suppliers who have signed supplier manages waste, improving energy consumption and actively working to the Code of Conduct for suppliers. Vasakronan works continually to reduce the reduce emissions. By setting these requirements, Vasakronan is contributing to number of suppliers engaged and to have all supplier agreements managed directly the goals based on indicators for material, waste, energy and emissions. by the purchasing division. Governance and objectives Environmental requirements for our suppliers — environmental programmes for development projects, for example — are placed in specific appendices to the agreement. General environmental requirements are summarised in our environmental policy and in our Code of Conduct for suppliers. The agreements with new suppliers always include the Code of Conduct for Vasakronan’s suppliers; as of 2017, all new suppliers under framework and service agreements will be evaluated as regards the environment, working conditions and human rights. Ahead of 2019, a goal was set for the company to evaluate at least 50 of our suppliers with respect to compliance with our Code of Conduct. Refer below to the heading “Outcome” for more information on how the target was met. Audits are conducted to check that our suppliers are living up to their commitments in the Code and additional specifications, if any. Selection for audit takes into consideration how much we buy from the supplier, as well as particular risks and focus areas. 130 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y Social responsibility 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees We want to be a company that reflects the society we operate in. We believe we Outcome will be more successful if we avoid entirely overly homogeneous groups, since At 31 December 2019, the number of employees was 304 (309), of which 300 groups with a more heterogeneous composition are often more innovative, solving (308) were permanent employees and the remainder on time-limited contracts. problems more efficiently. Two employees in the organisation had part-time contracts. All employees are covered by collective agreements. All employees were salaried employees and Boundaries none were employed under a collective agreement at year end. The impact within our own organisation occurs only in connection with recruitment At the end of the year, around 240 (230) consultants were employed in operof new employees. Reporting covers only individuals employed at Vasakronan, and ations. Of these, about half were hired in as external project managers in new not individuals who perform work under conditions similar to employment. construction and redevelopment projects. Other consultants were hired primarily as replacements for existing personnel, for example in connection with parental Responsibility and monitoring leave or sick leave. In addition to the consultants hired in, contractors are engaged The work on diversity and equal treatment is managed by the company’s SVP for for project operations. As the extent of these contractors varies markedly over Human Resources, but responsibility for creating groups marked by diversity and time, no estimates have been made of their proportions. for no employees being discriminated against lies with the respective directors. From the 2019 salary survey, it emerged that women earned 95% (90) of what Any cases of discrimination are captured by one of the following channels: men earned. Moving forward, efforts will increasingly focus on identifying unwaremployee surveys, immediate supervisors, the HR division, union parties, the ranted pay differences and taking actions. company’s Compliance Officer or our external whistle-blower function. To ensure that no unreasonable differences in pay occur at Vasakronan, wage Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals surveys are conducted annually. The survey is performed by a third party to ensure By engaging with diversity and equal treatment, we are contributing to Goal 5 and the highest possible level of objectivity. its target 5.5, “Ensure women’s full and effective participation and equal opportunities for leadership at all levels of decision-making in political, economic and public Governance and objectives life.” We are also contributing to Goal 8 and its target 8.5, “By 2030, achieve full All employees and job applicants will be treated equally, and no discrimination is and productive employment and decent work for all women and men, including for permissible. Women and men must be given equal opportunities for development young people and persons with disabilities, and equal pay for work of equal value” and advancement, as well as equal pay for equal work. The purpose and goal of as well as Goal 10 and its target 10.2, “By 2030, empower and promote the social, efforts around equal treatment are summarised in an equal treatment policy that economic and political inclusion of all, irrespective of age, sex, disability, race, clearly explains that all the company’s operations must be free from discrimination ethnicity, origin, religion or economic or other status.” and harassment. In addition, there is an internal Code of Conduct for employees and Board members. Prior to 2019, a target was set for the entire operation that all employees should know how to prevent discrimination and harassment. Targets for increasing the number of employees with non-Swedish backgrounds were also set. See more information on targets and fulfilment on page 143. VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 131 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y Age distribution Distribution, women and men, on balance-sheet day All employees Management Team Board <29, 6% (7) Women, 45% (46) Women, 46% (46) Women, 67% (56) 30–49, 53% (54) Men, 55% (54) Men, 54% (54) Men, 33% (44) >50, 41% (39) Age distribution among all employees. Distribution, women and men Stockholm Gothenburg Malmö Uppsala Women, 47% (47) Women, 33% (38) Women, 40% (46) Women, 48% (53) Men, 53% (53) Men, 67% (62) Men, 60% (54) Men, 52% (47) At the end of the year, the number of At the end of the year, the number of At the end of the year, the number of At the end of the year, the number of employees in Stockholm was 196. employees in Gothenburg was 45. employees in Malmö was 30. employees in Uppsala was 33. Share of employees with a non-Swedish background, 2018 Share of employees with a non-Swedish background, 2019 % % 50 48 50 49 40 37 37 40 37 38 38 36 29 30 30 30 20 20 16 16 16 12 13 13 10 10 7 4 6 4 0 0 Stockholm Gothenburg Malmö Uppsala Total Stockholm Gothenburg Malmö Uppsala Total Vasakronan 2018 Population, aged 20–67 Vasakronan 2019 Population, aged 20–67 Share of employees with a foreign background in Vasakronan 2018 compared Share of employees with a foreign background in Vasakronan 2019 compared with non-Swedish background in the population (20–67) in the same locations. with non-Swedish background in the population (20–67) in the same locations. Source: Statistics Sweden Source: Statistics Sweden 132 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria  In order to successfully conduct our operations, we need to engage suppliers of varTo reinforce the opportunity for employees or external parties to anonymously reious types. Each purchase must be conducted with professional correctness, objecport suspicions of breeches of laws and regulations regarding working conditions or tivity and honesty while observing good business practice. Additionally, purchasing human rights, there is a whistle-blower function. Vasakronan’s Compliance Officer must take place through competitive procurements where suppliers and tenders (who is also the General Counsel) receives and investigates the reports that come are assessed and prioritised based on how well they meet the requirements set, in. Since 2015, there has also been an external whistle-blower function to provide taking into consideration competence and efforts toward quality, sustainability, and the opportunity for reporting suspicions of any impropriety to an external party. health and safety as well as risk function, performance, design and price. Audits are conducted to check that our suppliers are living up to their commitments in the Code and additional specifications, if any. Selection for audit takes Boundaries into consideration how much we buy from the supplier, as well as particular risks We ourselves are the ones who determine which requirements we will set for our and focus areas. suppliers. Whether the requirements are met is determined by our suppliers. Reporting covers the supplier agreements signed by the purchasing department. Outcome Vasakronan’s Code of Conduct for suppliers is applied to all new supplier agreements, Responsibility and monitoring and is now included in all supplier agreements signed by the purchasing division. The work on signing agreements with our suppliers is managed by a central In 2019, a total of ten (two) major supplier audits were conducted. Additionally, purchasing division. The Purchasing Director reports to the SVP for the technical 27 (8) audits were conducted in conjunction with contract meetings with suppliers organisation. The purchasing division is responsible for purchases meeting strict and 43 (–) suppliers were evaluated via questionnaires taken by Vasakronan project requirements for quality and sustainability and that they take place at the lowest managers regarding their assessment of suppliers’ efforts regarding work environpossible cost, and for procurement of new suppliers. Prior to every tender, an ments, inter alia. The outcomes of these audits show that the audited suppliers met evaluation of potential suppliers is conducted based on several criteria. our work environment and human rights requirements in a satisfactory manner. The purchasing division continually monitors the proportion of new suppliers who No suspicions of deviations from laws or regulations regarding working condihave signed the Code of Conduct for suppliers. A number of agreements are not signed tions or human rights were reported in 2019. by the purchasing division, however, which is why it is difficult to estimate how many agreements and suppliers have the relevant environmental requirements in their Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals contracts. Vasakronan works continually to reduce the number of suppliers engaged By setting requirements for suppliers regarding decent work and human rights, we and to have all supplier agreements managed directly by the purchasing division. are contributing to Goal number 3 and target 3.4, “Reduce by one third premature mortality from non-communicable diseases and promote mental health and Governance and objectives well-being.” We are also contributing to Goal 5, primarily its target 5.5, “Ensure Through its Code of Conduct for suppliers, Vasakronan sets requirements for its women’s full and effective participation and equal opportunities for leadership at suppliers regarding such aspects as working conditions and human rights. The all levels of decision-making” and to Goal 8 and its target 8.8, “Protect labour rights agreements with new suppliers always include the “Code of Conduct for Vasa­ and promote safe and secure working environments for all workers.” kronan’s suppliers;” as of 2017, all new framework and service agreement suppliers will be evaluated as regards the environment, working conditions and human rights. 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation  The health and safety of our employees is of the greatest importance, since sick Outcome leave leads both to direct costs in the form of sick pay and to indirect costs in the Total sick leave in 2019 amounted to 2.1% (1.9); the distribution by region and genform of loss of output and unnecessary human suffering. der is shown in the diagram below. In 2019, a total of four accidents were reported for Vasakronan’s employees, of which two were near misses, which mean that no Boundaries injury was sustained. None of the reported injuries resulted in any absentee days. It is the employers’ responsibility to ensure a good physical and psychosocial work A total of 16 accidents were reported for the entire Hilton project, which was environment. Therefore, a lot of impact arises within the organisation. The greatest completed during the year. In these cases, no information has been provided by the impact from the perspective of accidents occurs outside the organisation at the contractors regarding any absentee days the accidents may have led to. construction work sites in our project activities. Reporting covers sick leave and accidents concerning persons employed at Sick leave 2019 and 2018 Vasakronan. Efforts have also begun on reporting accidents at our work sites and a uniform system for this reporting is being prepared. % 6 5.7 Responsibility and monitoring 5 The SVP for Human Resources is responsible for providing access to measures that 4.2 4.2 promote health and the opportunity for rehabilitation. The respective directors 4 are responsible for reviewing employees’ work situations, since a portion of sick 3.7 3.1 leave is related to burnout syndrome. The regional SVPs are responsible for the 3 2.6 2.5 company’s project development, and thereby also for the working environment for 2.4 the contractors operating at our construction work sites. The equivalent responsi2 bility for operation and maintenance contracts lies with the technical organisation. 1.4 1.5 1.2 Monitoring of sick leave and long term illness absence is conducted monthly, 1 0.9 0.9 0.9 1.1 over a rolling twelve months. The number of workplace accidents is monitored on 0.3 0 a yearly basis. 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 Stockholm Gothenburg Malmö Uppsala Governance and objectives Great emphasis is placed on activities that promote health, such as preventing Women Men workplace accidents and rehabilitating people on long-term sick leave. Vasakronan offers health insurance to all its employees. Incidents and accidents are reported in the “Kris och incidenter” (Crisis and Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals incident) tool, which currently covers only Vasakronan’s employees. Through occupational health and safety efforts, we are contributing to Goal 3 As regards the contractors operating on our construction work sites, requirements and target 3.4, “Reduce by one third premature mortality from non-communicable for work environment and safety are set in our contractor agreements. In addition, diseases and promote mental health and well-being” and Goal 8 and its target 8.8, work is in progress on improving the routine for reporting accidents and in 2019, “Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working environments for all it was included as a company-wide goal. Refer to page 143 for more information. workers.” VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 133 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y 416-A Measures taken to maintain a high level of safety and security in and around properties It is important for everyone to feel safe and secure in their local surroundings. ute to the safety, security and health of our tenants. Ahead of 2019, the goal was to As employers, our tenants want to ensure that their employees have a safe workcarry out at least another 50 measures to create security in our properties and our place and a safe commute. This is becoming an increasingly important issue when development projects. selecting premises. Outcome Boundaries Over the year, 52 measures were implemented to increase security in and around Impact occurs within the organisation as a result of the fact that this indicator perthe properties. Examples of measures taken in the existing portfolio include tains to measures we ourselves have taken. Reporting covers only the measures improved lighting, increased security patrols, evaluating access to the properties, Vasakronan takes. increased safety inspections, music in garages and graffiti removal. Purple Flag certification continued during the year of the areas Fredstan, Responsibility and monitoring Nordstan and Lilla Bommen in Gothenburg. Purple Flag is a collaboration with the The responsibility for ensuring that day-to-day safety routines in and around the Swedish Property Federation that aims to showcase sites that have successfully properties is maintained lies with the technical organisation. worked to improve safety and access, and that also offer a diverse selection at In connection with project development, responsibility lies with the respective night. In Stockholm, awareness is being raised by the management organisation regions for taking action at the start, during the planning of new construction and with the “Tryggare Sverige” (Safer Sweden) foundation to spread knowledge about redevelopment projects. how property owners like Vasakronan can make our premises more secure. For information about how our ongoing safety and security are progressing in Governance and objectives project operations, see page 24. Vasakronan continually takes measures to create a safe, secure environment in and around our properties. An important part of this work is creating a mix of Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals offices, commerce and leisure, thereby creating a more lively environment during By maintaining a safe and secure environment in and around our properties, we are the evenings as well. In addition, measures are taken in administration to increase contributing to Goal 5 and its target 5.2, “Eliminate all forms of violence against all lighting in darker areas such as parking, or in the area around our development women and girls,” Goal 10 and its target 10.2, “Empower and promote the social, properties. Other measures include reviewing security alarms, introducing safer economic and political inclusion of all,” Goal 11 and its target 11.7, “Provide univerentry systems and improving lighting. sal access to safe, inclusive and accessible, green and public spaces,” and Goal 16 Vasakronan’s long-term objective is for the design of our properties to contriband its target 16.1, “Significantly reduce all forms of violence.” Measures taken to increase accessibility to public transportation and local services  As a property owner, being able to offer premises with good connections to public Governance and objectives transportation and proximity to various types of social services is important. It We work continually on ensuring that the properties we own are located so that facilitates daily life for our tenants and contributes to a reduced climate impact, public transportation is already good, or where there are plans to expand it. We which will be increasingly important when choosing location. are also working actively on trying to improve public transportation with regard to frequency and locations of stops. Boundaries Many of our properties are located in city centres where the level of local Impact occurs within the organisation as a result of the fact that this indicator services is often already high. We also own properties in more peripheral locations, pertains to measures we ourselves have taken. where we work actively on ensuring that there is a varied offering of restaurants Reporting covers only the measures Vasakronan takes. and cafés, gyms, hairdressers and other types of services that our customers demand in proximity to their workplaces. We also offer access to dry cleaners and Responsibility and monitoring shoemakers in many of our properties. The organisations for project development in the respective regions are responsible for ensuring during the planning phase that we choose to develop properOutcome ties with good public transport links and create conditions for a mix of different In Stockholm, Vasakronan participated in planning and financing the redevelopment operations in the property. The transaction division is responsible for including of portions of Kungsgatan. The project aims to streamline bus traffic on Kungsgatan access to public transportation and local services when considering any potential and to improve safety for cyclists. In Frösunda, just outside Stockholm, Vasakronan acquisition. The regions are responsible for ongoing dialogue with municipalities offered tenants electric buses during rush hour in the autumn and winter. and public transportation companies in terms of factors such as tour frequency In Gothenburg, Vasakronan had a dialogue with the City of Gothenburg about and locations of stops. ensuring effective public transport to Lilla Bommen. New bicycle storage was Monitoring of the effect of the measures occurs in continual dialogue with our implemented for Läppstiftet and Meethshuset. tenants and through the surveys of travel habits performed in conjunction with environmental certification of our properties. Contribution to the UN Sustainable Development Goals By increasing access to public transport and proximity to local services, we are contributing to Goal 9 and its target 9.1, “Develop quality, reliable, sustainable and resilient infrastructure,” and Goal 11 and its target 11.2, “Safe, affordable, accessible and sustainable transport systems for all.” Customer satisfaction To succeed at the task of a high level of return over the long term, a high level of areas for improvement. This occurs primarily through Vasakronan’s own customer customer satisfaction is a must. The more satisfied the customers, the greater their survey, Tyck om Vasakronan, which is conducted at the beginning of every year, loyalty towards us. and also using event-governed customer surveys. Boundaries Governance and objectives The results of customer surveys pertain to our own evaluation of our tenants’ To have satisfied customers, good customer relations are needed. This work satisfaction. includes routines for communication, meetings and surveys for monitoring. Responsibility and monitoring Outcome Customer initiatives are managed by the company’s four regions, and the regional The latest survey was conducted at the beginning of 2020, where the outcome was SVPs have overall responsibility for customer satisfaction. Customer satisfaction a score of 77 (76) for offices and 76 (73) for shops. The scale of the survey is from surveys are carried out regularly to monitor how we are perceived and to identify 1 to 100, where a score of at least 80 corresponds to a grade of Very good. 134 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report on Vasakronan AB’s Sustainability Report and Opinion on the Statutory Sustainability Report This is a translation of the original report in Swedish To the general meeting of the shareholders of Vasakronan AB (publ), corporate identity number 556061-4603 Introduction The firm applies ISQC 1 (International Standard on Quality Control) We have been engaged by Group Management of Vasakronan AB to and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control undertake a limited assurance of Vasakronan AB’s Sustainability including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance Report for the year 2019. The company has defined the scope of the with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal sustainability report on page 116 in this document which also constiand regulatory requirements. We are independent in relation to tutes the statutory sustainability report. Vasakronan AB according to generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden and have fulfilled our professional ethics responsibility Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and Group Management according to these requirements. The Board of Directors and Group Management are responsible for The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement preparing the Sustainability Report, including the Statutory Sustainand review according to RevR 12 do not allow us to obtain such ability Report, in accordance with applicable criteria and the Annual assurance that we become aware of all significant matters that could Accounts Act. The criteria are described on page 116 of the Sustainhave been identified if an audit was performed. The stated conclusion ability Report, and consist of the parts of the framework for sustainbased on a limited assurance and review in accordance with RevR 12, ability reports published by GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) that therefore, does not have the security that a stated conclusion based are applicable to the sustainability report, as well as the accounting on an audit has. and calculation principles that Vasakronan AB has developed. This Our procedures are based on the criteria defined by the Board of responsibility also includes the internal control which is deemed Directors and the Group Management as described above. We connecessary to establish a sustainability report that does not contain sider these criteria as suitable for the preparation of the Sustainability material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Report. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and Responsibilities of the Auditor appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion below. Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the sustainability report based on o the limited assurance procedures we have perConclusion formed and to provide an opinion on the statutory sustainability Based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed, nothreport. Our assignment is limited to the historical information that is ing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Suspresented and thus does not include future-oriented information. tainability Report is not, in all material respects, prepared in accorWe conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance dance with the criteria defined by the Board of Directors and Group with ISAE 3000 Assurance engagements Other than Audits or Management. A Statutory Sustainability Report has been prepared. Reviews of Historical Financial Information. A limited assurance engagement consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report, and applying Stockholm, March 23, 2020 analytical and other limited assurance procedures. We have conducted our review regarding the statutory sustainability report in Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB accordance with FAR’s recommendation RevR 12, the Auditor’s Opinion on the Statutory Sustainability Report. A limited assurance engagement and a review according to RevR 12 have a different focus Helena Ehrenborg Fredrik Ljungdahl and a considerably smaller scope compared to the focus and scope of Authorised Public Sustainability Expert an audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and Accountant member of FAR generally accepted auditing standards. VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 135 I M PAC T R EP O R T – G R EEN FI N A N CI N G Impact Report – green financing Vasakronan issued the world’s first green corporate bond in November 2013, environmental impact both from construction waste and our tenants’ waste. The and remains the largest issuer of green corporate bonds in Sweden. Since goal is to minimise landfill and incineration and to increase the proportion that is 2018, Vasa­kronan’s framework has included all debt instruments, rather than recycled or reused. just bonds. The framework has been reviewed by the Center for International Reducing water consumption is an important issue from a global and a local perClimate Research (CICERO) with the highest rating, Dark Green. Vasakronan spective. Vasakronan uses municipal water. In Uppsala, one of our four operating issued the world’s first green commercial paper in 2018. areas, the municipality has indicated that there is a water shortage. That is why we are working continuously, in Uppsala as well as in our other areas, with monitoring Properties account for just over 30% of energy consumption in Sweden. Continuing and implementing cost-effective measures to reduce consumption. Low water the work on reducing energy consumption in our properties is therefore self-evident consumption is also a prerequisite for environmentally certifying buildings with to us. Through investments and close collaboration with our tenants, we have manhigh ratings. aged to halve our energy consumption since 2009 and moreover, by providing our A company-wide business plan is developed every year, with financial, environproperties with renewable or climate-neutral energy we have reduced our carbon mental and social targets. It also provides specific plans and goals for each unit and dioxide emissions in scopes 1 and 2 and emissions from air travel by 99% since 2006. is followed up continuously during the year. For more information on our environLarge amounts of construction materials are used in new construction, redemental targets for 2019 and how well we achieved them, refer to page 142 in the velopment and leasehold improvements of properties. The materials used in our 2019 Annual Report. construction projects cause a high degree of environmental and climate impact when they are extracted and produced, and the need for transportation is considGreen financing erable. Therefore, it is essential to reduce the amount of materials and to opt for In 2019, Vasakronan issued SEK 13.4 billion in green bonds. The total volume of reused materials or materials produced from renewable or recycled products to a green bonds and commercial paper outstanding at year end was SEK 25.8 billion larger extent. In addition, we need to ensure that the materials used do not contain (16.8), equivalent to 39% (28) of the total interest-bearing liabilities. Green bonds hazardous substances that are spread into indoor environments or into ecosystems are now issued in six currencies: SEK, NOK, EUR, JPY, AUD and USD. At year end, outside our buildings. That is why all the materials used in our buildings are always green assets amounted to SEK 33.3 billion, providing SEK 7.6 billion in remaining evaluated and documented. The Byggvarubedömningen system is used in this work. green borrowing capacity. New construction and redevelopment projects lead to considerable construcIn addition to financing under the framework, Vasakronan had green unsecured tion and demolition waste. A great deal of it is not recycled but goes straight to loans with the Nordic Investment Bank and the European Investment Bank that incineration or landfill. As property owners, we also take care of large amounts of totalled SEK 4.8 billion at the end of the year. In 2019, the first green secured bank waste from our tenants’ operations. Frequently, we are the ones who determine loan was signed for SEK 0.8 billion. Green financing, including green bank loans how well the waste can be sorted since we are responsible for the waste recycling that are financed outside the framework, represents 47% (35) of Vasakronan’s facilities in the buildings. The EU’s waste hierarchy guides our work to reduce total borrowings. Green financing growth SEK m 35,000 560 30,000 5,587 25,000 1,971 25,203 20,000 4,827 15,000 14,865 10,000 3,386 4,673 445 5,000 3,800 8,035 1,300 5,219 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Green bonds Green bank loans Green commercial paper Energy intensity Reduced CO2-emissions kWh/sq. m. Tons 150 2,000 120 1,576 112 110 1,500 100 103 92 1,161 90 1,000 918 60 691 500 433 30 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 In 2019, energy intensity averaged 92 kWh/sq. m. Pertains to scopes 1 and 2 and emissions from air travel in Scope 3. 136 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T I M PAC T R EP O R T – G R EEN FI N A N CI N G Criteria under the framework Approved investment amount green bonds, What can be financed with the proceeds from Green Finance Instruments is described in a framework that has been reviewed by the Center for International Cli31 Dec 2019, SEK m mate Research (CICERO), a Norwegian climate research institute. Since 2017, Vasakronan’s framework allows for investments in new construction and redevelopEligible investments in ongoing projects 977 ment projects as well as in existing properties. Existing properties 32,341 The financing of new construction and redevelopment projects requires that – of which previously new construction and redevelopment projects 7,860 they be certified according to LEED for new construction or redevelopment at Platinum level, or BREEAM-SE at Outstanding level, and have an energy intensity Total approved investment amount 33,318 25% below the National Board of Housing, Building and Planning’s requirements Volume outstanding, green bonds 25,203 (BBR requirements). Volume outstanding, green commercial paper 560 The criteria to be met for financing an existing property is that the building must be certified according to LEED for existing buildings on a Gold level or higher and Total volume outstanding 25,763 have an energy intensity below 100 kWh/sq. m. per year. The framework and Remaining approved investment amounts 7,555 CICERO’s report can be found at www.vasakronan.se. Vasakronan has a special account for transactions attributable to the issue of green debt instruments. If the approved investment amount is less than the volume of green debt instruments outstanding, Vasakronan has undertaken to place a corresponding amount in this special account. At year end, the approved investment amount exceeded the volume of green debt instruments outstanding, and the account balance was therefore zero. Emissions Emissions 9,192 tons 692 tons Reduction of climate impact Avoided emissions from new builds and from existing properties (annual). redevelopment projects (annual). Other information tween 2009 and 2019 (see the table on page 140), the property’s metered energy The Impact Report has been prepared in accordance with the criteria in the frameconsumption at 31 December 2009 was compared with the metered energy work for Green Finance Instruments. The framework was produced in accordance consumption at 31 December 2019. For properties that have previously gone with the Green Bond Principles, and has been reviewed by CICERO, the indepenthrough redevelopment, the highest permitted energy consumption under the dent climate and environmental research institute. The framework is available at BBR requirements at the completion date has been applied. www.vasakronan.se. The environmental data reported was produced in accordance Climate impact reduction reported for the existing properties pertains to the with the same principles and methods as the Sustainability Report and is shown on difference between the annual GHG emissions that the property would have had page 116 in the 2019 Annual Report. in 2019, without improvement to the energy intensity or contracts for renewable/ Investments in new construction and redevelopment projects corresponded climate neutral energy, and the property’s actual emissions in 2019 (based on to the amount that as of the balance-sheet date had been invested in the actual measured energy consumption in 2019 and taking into account Vasakronan’s property. Existing properties are recognised at market value. The market value is renewable/climate neutral energy agreements). updated mid-year and at the end of the year in connection with external evaluaWhen calculating the estimated reduction in energy consumption in ongoing tions being performed. Reporting of market value and amounts invested follows new construction and redevelopment projects (see the table on page 139), the the accounting policies indicated on page 87. forecast energy intensity is compared with the highest permitted energy intensity The Existing properties category also includes properties that previously under the BBR requirements. The assessed emissions avoided from new construcunderwent new construction or renovation, and were financed over the course of tion and redevelopment projects pertain to the difference between the annual the project in accordance with the criteria for new construction and redevelopment GHG emissions that the property would have had if it had been built in accordance projects. In connection with the completion of new construction or redevelopment, with the BBR requirements and without renewable/climate neutral energy conan evaluation was conducted against the criteria set for investment in existing proptracts, and emissions from the property’s forecast energy intensity and taking into erties. Reclassifying a property from new construction and redevelopment projects account Vasakronan’s renewable/climate neutral energy contracts. to the category for existing properties requires that the new build or redevelopment Some of the existing properties that are financed under the framework are is reported to the Board of Directors and that final certification has been obtained. also financed with green bank loans. To make sure that the calculated reduction in climate impact will only have an effect on green financing under Vasakronan’s Calculation approach framework, the portion pertaining to green bank loans has been deducted. To deThe emissions reported for existing properties pertain to those attributable to termine the size of that portion, the proportion of the green loan in relation to the energy consumption in buildings after taking into consideration the agreements property’s market value was used. In cases where the existing property is pledged contracted by Vasakronan with the respective energy utilities. Tenant electricity for green secured loans outside the framework, the proportion of the mortgage (energy for which the tenant has their own contract) is not included in energy condeeds in relation to the property’s market value is used. For more information sumption and the emission calculations. about which properties are partially financed through green loans, see the table When calculating reduced energy consumption in the existing properties be“Existing properties forming basis for investment” on page 140. VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 137 I M PAC T R EP O R T – G R EEN FI N A N CI N G NEW CONSTRUCTION Hilton Construction on the Hilton block in Solna began in 2016 and was completed in 2019. The building is nearly 10,000 square metres, housing primarily offices but also a coffee shop. The top two storeys, out of nine total, are built in wood, reducing the climate impact from construction. The top floor has a large terrace and the rest of the roof has been planted with sedum, which retains storm water, contributes to bio­ diversity and insulates the building’s roof. • Environmental certification LEED, Platinum • Energy intensity of 49 kWh/sq. m., which is 39% lower than the regulatory requirement • Electric bus to and from Solna station • Abundant bicycle parking and locker rooms for cyclists • Electric vehicle charging stations NEW CONSTRUCTION Magasin X Magasin X, next to Uppsala central station, will be Sweden’s largest office property with a frame made entirely of wood. Using wood as a construction material significantly reduces carbon dioxide emissions per produced square metre. Trees also capture carbon dioxide through photosynthesis which means that the building, as long as it stands, is a carbon dioxide sink. The building, which will encompass 11,300 square metres, is expected to be ready for occupancy in 2021. • Environmental certification LEED, target Platinum • Energy intensity of 27 kWh/sq. m., which is 67% lower than the regulatory requirement • Solar photovoltaics on the roof and integrated into the facade • Borehole heat exchangers for heating and cooling • Fuel cell facilities for long-term storage of solar electricity • Abundant bicycle parking and locker rooms for cyclists EXISTING PROPERTY Tre Vapen 2 Tre Vapen 2 is an approximately 38,000 square metre office property in the Östermalm neighbourhood of Stockholm. It was originally built for the University of Arts, Crafts and Design and was completed in September 1959. The City of Stockholm has deemed the building culturally significant, meaning it cannot be drastically changed. Thanks to investments in new technology and systematic energy savings efforts, together with tenants we have reduced energy consumption 33% since 2009. The first solar photovoltaics were installed as early as 2007. The PV installation was expanded in 2015, becoming nearly eight times as large. • Environmental certification LEED, Platinum • Energy intensity 77 kWh/sq. m. • Solar photovoltaics on the roofs • Abundant bicycle parking and locker rooms for cyclists • Electric vehicle charging stations 138 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T I M PAC T R EP O R T – G R EEN FI N A N CI N G EXISTING PROPERTY Dragarbrunn 31:1 Dragarbrunn 31:1, Svava is an entire block in Uppsala with buildings from the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. It houses residences, hotels, offices and stores. Thanks to investments in new technology and systematic energy savings efforts, together with tenants we have reduced energy consumption 33% since 2009. Solar photovoltaics were installed on the roof in 2016. • Environmental certification LEED, Gold • Energy intensity 83 kWh/sq. m. • Solar photovoltaics on the roof • Electric vehicle charging stations • Car pool for tenants SANDRA JONSSON, TECHNOLOGY & DEVELOPMENT MANAGER, STOCKHOLM AND UPPSALA Power demand Reducing our power demand has been an important task for Sandra Jonsson, Technology & Development Manager in Stockholm and Uppsala. Power demand is a measure of how much energy is needed to do something at a given point in time, for example to run a ventilation system at full capacity. By not running all of the installations at their highest setting at the same time, the power demand can be lowered. Many energy suppliers try to help their customers reduce their peak loads and have therefore tied their fees to the highest load. Reducing power demand thus provides both a reduced cost and a reduced environmental impact. For more information, refer to page 21 in the 2019 Annual Report. Ongoing new construction and redevelopment projects forming basis for investment, with an eligible investment of SEK 977 million Estimated Estimated Energy Energy reduction emissions intensity (F), intensity BBR2), in energy avoided Waste, Materials, Property Location Certification kWh/sq. m. kWh/sq. m. consumption, % (annual), tons kg/sq. m. kg/sq. m. Abbedissan 2 (previously Priorn 5) Malmö LEED Platinum (F) 32 45 28 107 – – Hilton 71) Stockholm LEED Platinum 49 80 39 91 32 1,124 Kungsängen 14:5 (Magasin X) Uppsala LEED Platinum (F) 27 80 67 238 – – Kronåsen 1:1 (Celsius) Uppsala LEED Platinum (F) 33 96 66 255 – – Total – – – 692 – – 1) The project is financed in part by green bank loans with the NIB. 2) Maximum permitted energy intensity under National Board of Housing, Building and Planning guidelines. (F) = Forecast Waste and materials are not reported for the Abbedissan 2, Kronåsen 1:1 (Celsius) and Kungsängen 14:5 (Magasin X) projects, as these were not completed as of 31 Dec 2019. VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 139 I M PAC T R EP O R T – G R EEN FI N A N CI N G Existing properties forming basis for investment, with an approved investment amount of SEK 32,341 million Energy intensity, Energy intensity, Reduction in enReduction in Water intensity, kWh/sq. m. kWh/sq. m. ergy consumption climate impact m3/sq. m. Property Location Certification at 31 Dec 2009 at 31 Dec 2019 2009–2019, % (annual), tons at 31 Dec 2019 Lorensberg 45:16 Gothenburg LEED Platinum 126 77 39 95 0.25 Gullbergsvass 16:1 Gothenburg LEED Gold 113 86 24 286 0.30 Gullbergsvass 1:16 Gothenburg LEED Platinum 81 57 30 481 0.31 Heden 42:4 Gothenburg LEED Gold 125 82 34 320 0.88 Heden 46:1 Gothenburg LEED Gold 100 87 14 151 0.13 Inom Vallgraven 20:14 Gothenburg LEED Gold 135 73 46 108 0.46 Heden 22:19 Gothenburg LEED Gold 102 54 47 472 0.25 Inom Vallgraven 11:6 Gothenburg LEED Gold 114 77 32 296 0.63 Inom Vallgraven 33:10 Gothenburg LEED Gold 102 69 33 51 0.37 Inom Vallgraven 59:14 Gothenburg LEED Gold 104 94 10 150 0.43 Inom Vallgraven 61:11 Gothenburg LEED Gold 108 85 22 153 0.48 Gasklockan 3 Malmö LEED Gold 98 84 14 415 0.57 Kaninen 32 Malmö LEED Gold 124 53 58 131 0.37 Magnus Stenbock 4 Malmö LEED Platinum 119 79 34 129 0.20 Björnen 1 Malmö LEED Gold 122 81 34 103 0.29 Bylgia 1 Malmö LEED Platinum 125 59 53 189 0.12 Abbedissan 1 (previously Priorn 2)2) Malmö LEED Gold 124 92 26 94 0.61 Jungmannen 1 Malmö LEED Gold 133 54 59 79 0.17 Nereus 1 Malmö LEED Platinum 124 68 45 354 0.21 Sejen 3 4) Malmö LEED Platinum – – 4) – – – Kurland 11 Stockholm LEED Gold 127 85 33 42 0.48 Uggleborg 121) Stockholm LEED Platinum 127 60 53 633 0.57 Tre Vapen 22) Stockholm LEED Platinum 115 77 33 303 0.27 Rosenborg 1 Stockholm LEED Gold 179 93 48 120 0.20 Rosenborg 31) Stockholm LEED Platinum 105 50 52 344 0.33 Hekla 1 Stockholm LEED Gold 62 39 37 198 0.29 Riga 2 Stockholm LEED Gold 104 43 59 412 0.54 Modemet 1, Bldg. 81) Stockholm LEED Platinum 105 34 68 587 0.35 Hammarby Gård 12 Stockholm LEED Platinum 94 70 26 70 0.38 Albydal 3 Stockholm LEED Gold 89 71 21 109 0.20 Skjutsgossen 8 Stockholm LEED Gold 111 67 40 102 0.41 Kvarngärdet 1:19 Uppsala LEED Gold 189 67 64 260 0.22 Dragarbrunn 28:5 Uppsala LEED Platinum 80 58 28 412 0.42 Dragarbrunn 31:12) Uppsala LEED Gold 125 83 34 443 1.03 Dragarbrunn 18:9 Uppsala LEED Gold 168 78 54 292 0.26 Fålhagen 1:394) Uppsala LEED Platinum – – 4) – – – Hubben1)3) Uppsala LEED Platinum 115 48 59 271 0.62 Dragarbrunn 24:5 Uppsala LEED Gold 145 88 39 537 0.46 Total 117 70 37 9,192 0.39 1) Properties that underwent new construction or renovation, and were financed over the course of the project in accordance with the criteria for new construction and redevelopment projects. After the project was completed, the property was reclassified to the existing properties category. As of 31 December 2019, these properties comprised SEK 7.9 billion out of a total SEK 33.3 billion. For further information, see Other information and methods. 2) The property is financed in part by a green bank loan. For further information, see Other information and methods. 3) The property is financed in part by a green bank loan with the NIB. For further information, see Other information and methods. 4) The property was acquired in December 2019 and therefore twelve months of data is missing. Included in the green pool based on forecast energy intensity. For Sejen 3 the forecast energy intensity was 70 kWh/sq. m. and for Fågelhagen 1:39 it was 42 kWh/sq. m. 140 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T I M PAC T R EP O R T – G R EEN FI N A N CI N G Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report This is a translation of the original report in Swedish To the general meeting of the shareholders of Vasakronan AB (publ), corporate identity number 556061-4603 Introduction including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance We have been engaged by the Group Management of Vasakronan AB with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal (“Vasakronan”) to undertake a limited assurance engagement of and regulatory requirements. We are independent towards Vasakronan Vasakronan’s Impact Report – green financing (“the Report”) for the in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and year 2019. The Report consists of the pages 136–140 in the Annual have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with Report. these requirements. The procedures performed consequently do not enable us to Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and Group Management obtain assurance that we would become aware of all significant matThe Board of Directors and Group Management are responsible ters that might be identified in a reasonable assurance engagement. for the preparation of the Report in accordance with the applicable Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable assurance conclusion. criteria, as explained on page 136 of the Annual Report and consists of Our procedures are based on the criteria defined by the Board of the parts of Vasakronan’s Green Finance Framework which are appliDirectors and Group Management as described above. We consider cable to the Report, as well as the accounting and calculation principles these criteria suitable for the preparation of the Report. that the Company has developed. This responsibility includes the We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and internal control relevant to the preparation of an impact report that is appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion below. free from material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error. Conclusion Responsibilities of the Auditor Based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed, Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the the selected information specified above based on the procedures selected information disclosed in the Report has not been prepared, we have performed and the evidence we have obtained. in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria. We have conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with ISAE 3000 Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information issued by IAASB. A limited assurance engagement consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the selected information Stockholm, March 23, 2020 in the Report, and applying analytical and other limited assurance procedures. The procedures performed in a limited assurance engageÖhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB ment vary in nature from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement conducted in accordance with IAASB’s Standards on Auditing and other generally accepted auditing standards. Helena Ehrenborg Fredrik Ljungdahl The firm applies ISQC 1 (International Standard on Quality Control) Authorised Public Sustainability Expert and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control Accountant member of FAR VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 141 TA RG E T S A N D F U L FI L M EN T Financial targets 2019 Target fulfilment 2019 Targets 2020 A total yield of at least 6.5% per The total yield was 13.4% for 2019, and 11.5% on year and on average over a rolling average over the latest ten-year period. • A total yield of at least 6.5% per year ten-year period. Read more on page 39. and on average over a rolling ten-year period A total yield of at least 0.5 perThe total yield for the industry was 9.9% for 2019, centage points higher than the and 9.9% on average over the latest ten-year period. • A total yield of at least 0.5 percentage industry per year and on average Read more on page 39. points higher than the industry per year over a rolling ten-year period. and on average over a rolling ten-year period An increase in net operating inNet operating income for comparable property come for comparable property holdings was 6.3%. Read more on page 68. • An increase in net operating income holdings of 6% compared with for comparable property holdings of 2018. 4.5% compared with 2019 An occupancy rate of at least The occupancy rate was 94.1% at the end of the • An occupancy rate of at least 95% at 94.0% at the end of 2019. year. Read more on page 67. the end of 2020 A 10% decrease in the percentThe percentage of premises with long-term • A 10% decrease in the percentage of age of premises with long-term vacancies was on par with last year. premises with long-term vacancies vacancies. • The cost of leasehold improvements The cost of leasehold improveThe cost of leasehold improvements in conjunction in conjunction with new office lettings ments in conjunction with new with new office lettings declined to less than SEK should average less than SEK 2,900 per office lettings should average less 2,872 per square metre. square metre than SEK 2,900 per square metre. • Price changes in conjunction with Price changes in conjunction with Price changes in conjunction with renegotiations renegotiations should exceed 9.5% renegotiations should exceed 9.5%. totalled 11.8% (12.4). Environmental targets 2019 Target fulfilment 2019 Targets 2020 Energy intensity to be improved In 2019, average energy intensity improved to 3% compared with the results for 92 kWh/sq. m. (103). Read more on page 18 and pages • Decrease purchased energy by 5% 2018. 124–125. • 65% of the buildings should consume 60% of the buildings should have At the end of the year 63% (47) of the buildings had less than 100 kWh/sq. m. an energy intensity of less than an energy intensity below 100 kWh/sq. m. 100 kWh/sq. m. and year. • Over 75 solar photovoltaic systems by the end of the year At the end of the year, at least 70 At the end of the year, 63 (55) solar photovoltaic solar photovoltaic systems systems were in operation. Read more on page 125. • Reduce water consumption at propershould be in operation. ties by 2% • We have completed at least three projWe have completed at least eight Ten projects were completed during the year that ects that have led to a reduction in enprojects that have led to a reducled to reduced power requirements. Read more on ergy consumption tion in energy consumption. page 139. • Waste generated from project developThe share of tenant waste sent The share of tenant waste sent for incineration dement decreased for incineration has decreased. creased 15% compared to 2018. Read more on page 128. • We offer food waste collection to all of Decrease the amount of project Project waste totalled 3,320 tons (3,955) and our tenants development waste generated. pertained to the construction projects concluded during the year as well as to waste from leasehold • We used recycled material in all projects improvements. • We developed a new green debt instruWe have used recycled material Recycled material was used in some 15 leasehold ment tied to climate neutrality by 2030 in at least 10 leasehold improveimprovement projects. Read more on page 24. ment projects. • Better ranking in the global sustain­ ability survey, GRESB We have set requirements for the Requirements for the reporting of the share of reporting of the share of renewrenewable fuel used for transportation for all new able fuel used for transportation in Board-approved projects during the year. all new Board-approved projects. All Board-approved new conAll new construction and redevelopment projects struction and redevelopment that started in 2019 have begun to report on their projects report their use of builduse of materials in the project. ing materials. At least half of financing should The share of green financing increased to 47% (35). be green. Read more on page 32. The share of properties certified The share of properties certified in accordance with in accordance with LEED Gold or LEED Gold or higher increased to 72% (69). higher should have increased. Better ranking in the global susVasakronan had a better ranking in the global sustainability survey, GRESB. tainability survey, GRESB. 142 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T TA RG E T S A N D F U L FI L M EN T Social targets 2019 Target fulfilment 2019 Targets 2020 All employees act in accordance The year’s employee survey showed that 97% of the with our values and comply with employees can identify with the company’s values. • All employees identify with our values our internal Code of Conduct. and comply with our internal Code of Conduct Our employees feel that stress The year’s employee survey showed that 78% of the levels at work are reasonable and employees would say that they have a reasonable • Our employees feel that stress levels at that they have an opportunity to work load and 79% would say that they have enough work are reasonable and that they have recover between workdays. time to recover between workdays. an opportunity to recover between workdays All employees perceive that This year’s employee survey shows that 94% of • All employees perceive that our workour workplaces are free from employees perceive that our workplaces are free places are free from discrimination and discrimination. from discrimination. harassment We have completed another Some 52 security and safety measures were • We have completed another 50 secu50 security measures in our carried out at our properties and projects during rity measures in our properties and properties and projects. the year. Measures implemented included projects improved lighting, removing recesses in garages, • We have assessed at least 100 of our more frequent security patrols and increased suppliers with respect to compliance camera surveillance. Read more on page 134. with our Code of Conduct We have assessed at least 50 In 2019, a total of ten (two) major supplier audits • The percentage of employees with forof our suppliers with respect to were conducted. Additionally, 27 (8) audits were eign backgrounds has increased compliance with our Code of conducted in conjunction with contract meetings Conduct. with suppliers and 43 (–) suppliers were evaluated • Reduced number of worksite accidents via internal questionnaires. on projects Uniform accident reporting Efforts continued in 2019 with the implementation at our major projects. of an accident reporting methodology and will continue in 2020. Increase the percentage of The percentage of employees with a foreign employees with foreign backbackground was 13% (13) at the end of the year. grounds. Read more on page 132. VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 143 Q UA R T ER LY OV ERV I E W Quarterly overview Amounts in SEK million Q4 2019 Q3 2019 Q2 2019 Q1 2019 INCOME STATEMENTS Rental revenue 1,808 1,793 1,715 1,724 Operating expenses and property administration –280 –244 –254 –281 Maintenance costs –31 –24 –31 –33 Property tax –165 –229 –130 –131 Operating surplus 1,332 1,296 1,300 1,279 Central administration –36 –22 –29 –26 Result from participations in joint ventures 218 –4 892 –1 Financial income 1 1 1 1 Financial expenses –271 –299 –316 –249 Interest expenses, ground rents and land leases –39 –37 –35 –36 Profit before value changes and tax 1,205 935 1,813 968 Change in value of investment properties 6,501 2,143 3,908 718 Depreciation of land lease agreements –2 –1 –2 –2 Change in value of financial instruments 832 –445 –641 –627 Divested/impaired goodwill – – – –74 Profit before tax 8,536 2,632 5,078 983 Tax –1,842 –447 –864 –167 Profit for the period 6,694 2,185 4,214 816 Of which, attributable to non-controlling interests –2 – – – Total profit attributable to the Parent Company shareholders 6,696 2,185 4,214 816 BALANCE SHEETS Investment properties 156,071 147,385 144,215 139,381 Equity 70,156 63,487 61,302 61,088 Interest-bearing liabilities 66,638 64,971 65,423 64,090 Total assets 170,179 162,068 158,266 154,832 KEY METRICS Property-related information Closing area, thousand sq. m. 2,322 2,328 2,318 2,324 Closing number of properties 174 173 173 174 Closing market value of property, SEK m 156,071 147,385 144,215 139,381 Net investments, SEK m 3,867 1,682 926 –274 Closing economic occupancy rate, % 94.1 93.1 93.1 93.5 Surplus ratio, % 74 74 76 74 Financial metrics Closing average interest rate, % 1.7 1.8 1.8 1.8 Average fixed-interest tenor, years 5.8 6.2 5.7 5.1 Interest coverage ratio for the period, multiple 5.6 4.4 3.9 4.9 Closing equity/assets ratio, % 41 39 39 39 Other metrics Closing number of employees 304 309 309 314 144 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T FI V E-Y E A R OV ERV I E W Five-year overview Amounts in SEK million 2019 20181) 20171) 20161) 20151) INCOME STATEMENT Rental revenue 7,040 6,718 6,490 6,251 6,009 Operating expenses and property administration –1,059 –1,068 –993 –981 –998 Maintenance costs –119 –108 –110 –105 –106 Property tax –655 –527 –544 –544 –474 Ground rents and land leases – –146 –165 –162 –157 Operating surplus 5,207 4,869 4,678 4,459 4,274 Central administration –113 –101 –97 –87 –88 Result from participations in joint ventures 1,105 159 –3 –3 –1 Financial income and expenses, net –1,131 –1,043 –1,165 –1,152 –1,121 Interest expenses, ground rents and land leases –147 – – – – Profit before value changes and tax 4,921 3,884 3,413 3,217 3,064 Change in value of investment properties 13,270 10,651 7,973 12,056 10,212 Depreciation of land lease agreements –7 – – – – Change in value of financial instruments –881 13 468 –764 598 Divested/impaired goodwill –74 –62 –26 –18 –71 Profit before tax 17,229 14,486 11,828 14,491 13,803 Tax –3,320 –1,584 –2,559 –3,019 –2,859 Profit for the year 13,909 12,902 9,269 11,472 10,944 Of which, attributable to non-controlling interests –2 – – – – Total profit attributable to the Parent Company shareholders 13,911 12,902 9,269 11,472 10,944 BALANCE SHEETS Investment properties 156,071 138,934 126,875 115,922 103,894 Equity 70,156 60,271 51,377 46,117 41,245 Interest-bearing liabilities 66,638 61,087 58,421 55,240 50,750 Total assets 170,179 145,201 132,283 122,056 109,786 KEY METRICS 2019 2018 1) 2017 1) 2016 1) 20151) Property-related information Closing area, thousand sq. m. 2,322 2,372 2,430 2,426 2,509 Closing number of properties 174 174 179 179 180 Closing number of apartments 1,175 1,169 1,168 1,161 1,164 Closing market value of property, SEK m 156,071 138,934 126,875 115,922 103,894 Closing market value, SEK/sq. m 58,573 52,212 47,783 41,409 Net investments, SEK m 3,867 1,407 –2,980 –28 1,753 Property acquisitions, SEK m 977 594 1,049 58 916 Property divestments, SEK m –1,550 –2,521 –612 –2,121 –1,387 Investments in existing projects, SEK m 4,440 3,335 2,543 2,035 2,224 Closing rental value, SEK m 7,403 7,190 6,949 6,783 Closing economic occupancy rate, % 94.1 93.1 93.1 94.2 92.6 Closing surplus ratio, % 74 73 72 71 71 Environmental certification at closing date, % 85 85 84 77 71 Energy intensity on closing date, kWh/sq. m. 92 103 100 110 112 Yield, total holdings, % 3.5 3.8 3.9 4.1 4.5 Value change in the total portfolio, %2) 9.6 8.5 6.9 11.7 11.1 Total yield, total holdings, % 13.4 12.5 11.0 16.3 16.0 1) Comparison figures have not been restated according to IFRS 16. 2) Outcome in accordance with MSCI Swedish Property Index. VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 145 FI V E-Y E A R OV ERV I E W five-year overview (cont.) Amounts in SEK million 2019 20181) 20171) 20161) 20151) Financial metrics Closing average interest rate, % 1.7 1.6 1.7 2.0 2.1 Average fixed-interest tenor, years 5.8 4.7 4.5 4.3 4.3 Interest coverage ratio2), multiple 4.6 4.7 3.9 3.8 3.7 Closing equity/assets ratio, % 41 42 39 38 38 Closing NAV, SEK m, 1. NAV, SEK m 91,742 78,542 68,581 61,333 53,416 Closing NNNAV, SEK m, 2. NNNAV, SEK m2) 82,363 70,823 60,872 55,083 47,927 Closing debt/equity ratio2), multiple 0.9 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.2 Return on equity, % 21.3 23.1 19.0 26.3 28.7 Cash flow metrics Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital, SEK m 3,755 3,567 3,383 3,137 2,855 Cash flow from operating activities, SEK m 3,829 3,635 3,468 3,439 3,210 Cash flow from investing activities, SEK m –3,573 –1,297 –2,985 23 –1,775 Cash flow from financing activities, SEK m 1,044 –1,546 –1,207 –3,616 –891 Cash flow for the year, SEK m 1,300 792 –724 –154 544 Other metrics Average number of employees 308 313 345 338 348 Closing number of employees 304 309 349 339 346 Basis for key metrics 1. NAV, SEK m Equity 70,156 60,271 51,377 46,117 41,245 Add back goodwill –1,908 –1,982 –2,045 –2,071 –2,088 Add back derivatives 2,126 1,967 2,426 2,925 2,903 Add back recognised deferred tax 21,368 18,286 16,824 14,362 11,356 91,742 78,542 68,581 61,333 53,416 2. NNNAV, SEK m Equity 70,156 60,271 51,377 46,117 41,245 Add back goodwill –1,908 –1,982 –2,045 –2,071 –2,088 Add back recognised deferred tax 21,368 18,286 16,824 14,362 11,356 Deferred tax at fair value –6,4215) –5,465 4) –4,933 4) –3,2193) –2,5333) Adjustment of interest-bearing liabilities to fair value –832 –287 –351 –106 –53 82,363 70,823 60,872 55,083 47,927 3. EBITDA, SEK m Operating surplus 5,207 4,869 4,678 4,459 4,274 Central administration –113 –101 –97 –87 –88 Cash flow from dividends from joint ventures 309 162 – – – Ground rents and land leases –154 – – – – 5,249 4,930 4,581 4,372 4,186 4. EBITDA margin, % Rental revenue 7,040 6,718 6,490 6,251 6,009 EBITDA 5,249 4,930 4,581 4,372 4,186 75 73 71 70 70 1) Comparison figures have not been restated according to IFRS 16. 2) Calculations for the current year have been adjusted for IFRS 16. 3) Calculated on the basis of a 25% current tax rate, i.e. 5.5%. 4) Calculated on the basis of a 30% current tax rate, i.e. 6.6%. 5) Calculated on the basis of a 30% current tax rate, i.e. 6.2%. 146 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T FI V E-Y E A R OV ERV I E W Amounts in SEK million 2019 20181) 20171) 20161) 20151) 5. Interest coverage ratio, multiple EBITDA 5,249 4,930 4,581 4,372 4,186 Net financial items –1,131 –1,043 –1,165 –1,152 –1,121 4.6 4.7 3.9 3.8 3.7 6. Closing debt/equity ratio, multiple Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 53,682 45,956 44,711 39,334 34,984 Current interest-bearing liabilities 12,956 15,131 16,824 15,906 15,766 Equity 70,156 60,271 51,377 46,117 41,245 0.9 1.0 1.2 1.2 1.2 7. Net interest-bearing liabilities, SEK m Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 53,682 45,956 44,711 39,334 34,984 Current interest-bearing liabilities 12,956 15,131 16,824 15,906 15,766 Total assets excl. leaseholds and land leases –3,515 –2,215 –1,423 –2,147 –2,301 63,123 58,872 60,112 55,093 48,449 1) Comparison figures have not been restated according to IFRS 16. VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 147 D EFI N I T I O N S Definitions Area, sq. m. Energy intensity kWh/sq. m. Average interest rate, % Lettable area, not including garages and parking The annual total for energy consumption, The volume-weighted interest rate on interspaces on the closing date. adjusted to the level of a normal year, from heatest-bearing liabilities and derivatives on the ing, comfort cooling and property electricity, closing date. Intended as an indication of the Return on equity, % divided by the temperate area (indoor area for company’s cost of capital. Earnings after tax divided by the average of all floors of a building that are heated to more opening and closing equity. Intended as an indithan 10°C). Reported energy intensity also Average fixed-interest tenor, years cation of the return on equity. includes some tenant electricity and process The volume-weighted remaining maturity on cooling which, for technical reasons, is not posfixed-interest rates on interest-bearing liabiliLTV, % sible to remove from the property electricity ties and derivatives on the closing date. Net interest-bearing liabilities divided by total calculation. Intended as an indication of the company’s assets. Intended as an indication of the compainterest-rate risk. ny’s financial risk. Property category The primary use of the property based on rental Average remaining term to maturity, years Central administration, SEK m revenue. The total contract value of commercial facilities Costs at the Group level that are not directly divided by contracted rent for commercial facilirelated to property management, such as costs Property acquisitions, SEK m ties. associated with the Group management team, Acquisition of investment properties. Intended property investments, financing and central as an indication of the company’s acquisitions Rental value, SEK m marketing. during the period. Contracted rent plus the assessed market rent for vacant premises. Yield, total holdings, % Property divestments, SEK m Net operating income as a percentage of the Divestment of investment properties. Intended Investments in existing projects, SEK m sum of the properties’ opening market value, as an indication of the company’s divestments Investments in ongoing projects. Intended as an plus half of the year’s investments and less half during the period. indication of the company’s investment volume. of net operating income during the year. Calculated according to the same method as the MCSI FFO/net debt, % Comparable property holdings Swedish Property Index and pertains to the Cash flow from operating activities before Properties included in holdings during the entire property portfolio including projects and change in working capital for the last 12 months entire reporting period, and during the entire transactions. Intended as an indication of the divided by average interest-bearing liabilities, comparison period. Properties that were classireturn on current earnings from the properties. net. It measures the portion of the company’s fied as development properties, or that were net liabilities that can be paid by its cash flow acquired or sold during the reporting period or Net operating income, SEK m from operating activities. comparison period are not included. Rental revenue less operating expenses, repairs and maintenance, property administration, Average loan-to-maturity, years Contracted rent, SEK m property tax and ground rent. Intended as an The volume-weighted remaining maturity on Total annual rent from contracts in effect as of indication of the current earnings in property interest-bearing liabilities and derivatives on the closing date. management activities. the closing date. Intended as an indication of the company’s financial risk. Financial Calendar Addresses and websites REPORTS VASAKRONAN AB REGION UPPSALA Interim report Jan–Mar 2020 4 May 2020 Box 30074, SE-104 25 Stockholm Box 1050, SE-751 40 Uppsala Mid-year report Jan–Jun 2020 10 July 2020 Street address: Mäster Samuelsgatan 56 Street address: Dragarbrunnsgatan 38 Interim report Jan–Sep 2020 4 November 2020 Tel: +46 8 566 20 500 Tel: +46 18 489 20 00 Year-end report 2020 4 February 2021 Annual Report 2020 March 2021 REGION STOCKHOLM REGION MALMÖ Box 30074, SE-104 25 Stockholm Box 334, SE-201 23 Malmö ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Street address: Mäster Samuelsgatan 56 Street address: Rådmansgatan 16 Annual General Meeting 4 May 2020 Tel: +46 8 566 20 500 Tel: +46 40 691 71 00 REGION GOTHENBURG WEBSITE www.vasakronan.se Box 11264, SE-404 26 Gothenburg Street address: Götgatan 15 CORP. REG. NO. 556061-4603 Tel: +46 31 743 42 00 148 VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T Contracted rent by property type Net lettings, SEK m Temperate area, sq. m. Contracted rent categorised according to the Contracted rent for new lettings during the Indoor area for all floors of a building that are assigned premises use, for each lease, broken period less contracted rent for leases where heated to more than 10°C. down as offices, retail and other. The category notice of termination for move-out was “other” includes residential space, parking and received during the period. Total yield, total holdings, % hotels. Sum total of yield and change in value, including Profit before value changes and tax, SEK m projects and transactions. Calculated according Cash and cash equivalents, SEK m Net operating income less central administrato the same method as the MSCI Swedish PropCash and bank balances, along with current tion, profit (loss) from participations in joint venerty Index. Intended as an indication of the investments with maturities of less than three tures and net interest. Intended as an indication return on total assets. months. Intended as an indication of the compaof current earnings in the operations. ny’s liquidity. Total contract value, SEK m Net interest-bearing liabilities, SEK m Contracted rent multiplied by the period of Environmental certification, % Interest-bearing liabilities less cash and cash maturity of the leases. Total area of properties that have obtained cerequivalents. Intended as an indication of the tification in accordance with BREEAM, LEED or company’s financial risk. Economic occupancy rate, % Miljöbyggnad, divided by the area for the entire Contracted rent divided by the rental value on property portfolio, on the closing date. Net interest, SEK m the closing date. Interest income less interest expenses. NAV (Net asset value), SEK m Value change in the total portfolio, % Recognised equity, adding back goodwill, derivInterest coverage ratio, multiple Value change in SEK, divided by market value atives and deferred tax. The metric shows the Net operating income plus central administrafor the entire property portfolio (i.e. including company’s EPRA NAV; refer to the calculation tion and profit (loss) from participations in joint projects and transactions at the start of the on page 146. ventures divided by net interest. Intended as an period). In the five-year overview, the value indication of the company’s sensitivity to fluctuchange is reported according to the same NNNAV (Triple net asset value), SEK m ations in interest rates. method as the MCSI Swedish Property Index. Recognised equity adding back goodwill and the Intended as an indication of the value change fair value of loans, and adjusted for estimated Debt/equity ratio, multiple in the property portfolio. actual deferred tax. Calculated on the basis of a Interest-bearing liabilities divided by equity. 30% current tax rate. The metric shows the Intended as an indication of the company’s Annual rent, SEK m company’s actual NAV, refer to the calculation financial risk. Base annual rent plus indexation and suppleon page 146. ments. Equity/assets ratio, % Net investments, SEK m Equity divided by total assets on the closing Surplus ratio, % The purchase price for property acquisitions, date. Intended as an indication of the company’s Net operating income divided by rental revealong with investments in property projects, financial stability. nue. Intended as an indication of the current less the consideration received from property earnings in property management activities. divestment. Intended as an indication of capital Capital employed, SEK m invested in properties. Total assets less non-interest-bearing liabilities. Production Cover Environmental certification Vasakronan and Springtime-Intellecta. Juvelen, a shimmering and gem-like triangular Photography: Gustav Kaiser, Martin Olson, building is the first thing visitors see when the train Gonzalo Irigoyen, Karin Taawo Bektasevic, rolls into Uppsala. 8,600 square metres of lettable Alen Cordic, Elite Studio, Johannes Berner, area in Uppsala’s best location. Acquired by Vasa­ Pär Söderman and Shutterstock. kronan from Skanska in 2019 for SEK 563 million. Vision images: Reflex Arkitekter, Tomorrow, Walk the room, White Arkitekter, BSK Arkitekter, Alma Arkitekter, EGA Erik Giudice Architects Tomorrow, Equator and Vasakronan/Sweco. Printing: Åtta45 2020. VA S A K RO N A N 2 019 A N N UA L R EP O R T 149 Address: Box 30074, SE-104 25 Stockholm Street address: Mäster Samuelsgatan 56 Tel: +46 8 566 20 500, Fax +46 8 566 20 501 www.vasakronan.se Corp. Reg. No. 556061-4603
