JUNCKERS CSR REPORT 2019 JUNCKERS.COM 1 HOTEL KONG ARTHUR, DENMARK CONTENT 3 1. MANAGEMENT DIRECTIVE 4 2. GENERAL 2.1 Description of Junckers as a company 2.2 Implementation of the UN Global Compact at Junckers 2.3 Anchoring and organising of CSR work 2.4 Relationship to existing structures at Junckers 9 3. STATUS FOR THE 10 PRINCIPLES 3.1 Principle 2 3.2 Principle 6 3.3 Principle 7 3.4 Principle 8 3.5 Principle 9 3.6 Principle 10 20 4. SUMMARY 2019 1. MANAGEMENT DIRECTIVE At Junckers Industries A/S, we are working on implementing Committing to the UN Global Compact principles is also well environmentally and socially responsible business practices in line with the company’s other work within the environment, as part of our daily operations. working environment and energy management (ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, ISO 50001 certified), as well as with its track Therefore, in 2011, Junckers entered as a signatory to UN record of using sustainable wood (PEFC™ and FSC® certified). Global Compact to support the 10 principles in the 4 main areas of: Human Rights, Labour Standards, Environment In addition to continuing to safeguard the progress of the Global and Anti-corruption. Since then, the company has described Compact principles that have already been implemented, the the progress of its work with the individual principles in the company’s energy consumption is still a focus area, due to company’s annual CSR report. CO2 emission and the major economic costs of energy. In 2019 focus has been on ensuring low energy consumption in the As a signatory to the Global Compact, Junckers support the new kiln drying facilities planned for end 2019 / beginning of work of the organisation and strengthen its own work within 2020. The conversion to electric forklifts from diesel and lpg corporate social responsibility. Junckers has been a workplace forklifts continues. It is however still challenging to replace for many people with different backgrounds and education for large machines but the outlooks are promising. more than 80 years and is still one of the largest companies in the timber industry in Denmark. Junckers has a responsibility Due to increasing demand to document Junckers products to society and its employees, both as a company and as an are meeting relevant requirements in the LEED, DGNB, and employer. Junckers’ aim is to be a company that society can BREAM certifications, Junckers together with Rambøll has be proud of and to have a workplace where employees look launched creation of Environmental Product Declarations forward to coming to work. (EPD) including Life Cycle Analysis (LCA). The EPD’s cover Junckers flooring program and will be verified by a 3rd party. The responsibility for implementing the principles into the everyday life of the company’s will be defined and delegated In October 2018 the privately owned industry investment by the organisation, and the employees will be informed about company Jysk Fynsk Kapital A/S (JFK) purchased the share the agreement and its significance. majority in Junckers. The management and owners confirm a continued support to UN Global Compact. Some of the principles have been integrated into the company’s operations in advance, as Junckers has already worked The annual CSR report (the COP) is prepared in accordance systematically with these areas for many years, following the with the requirements of section 99a of the Danish Financial implementation of its environmental and working environment Statement Act and will be published on www.junckers.com certifications. and will also be used when communicating with external stakeholders, among these, customers. Junckers envisage obvious benefits in adopting the Global Compact, as the company will become structured and made visible by the numerously good initiatives that have already been taken within CSR. This means that the company will be F. Junckers Industries A/S stronger on the market among the customers who emphasis Køge, Denmark April 2020 that their suppliers are also serious and trustworthy within CSR. Carsten Chabert Chief Executive Officer 3 2. GENERAL 2.1 Description of Junckers as a company 2.1.1 History Flemming Juncker was a young Danish graduate in forestry with foresight. The young forestry graduate knew that the economic viability of the Danish forests was in a bad condition. It was necessary to find new fields of application for the wood that had up until then, been used as firewood or simply left in the forests. Flemming Juncker started the sawmill in 1930 to produce an order of 40,000 railway sleepers from beechwood for DSB (The Danish State Railways). In order to do this, he rented 7,000 m² of ground from Køge Shipyard in Denmark and bought a frame saw in Sweden. The production of the railway sleepers was thought to be a one-off assignment. The remaining wood was sold to the Køge Timber Factory. When the collaboration ended, Juncker had to find other ways to dispose of the remaining wood. This was the beginning of the 2-strip beech parquet board. Two rows of staves assembled into one board on a “Lindermann machine”. The idea of the beech parquet floors was to drive the Swedish pinewood floors out of the Danish housing market. It worked, and the foundations for Junckers’ solid hardwood flooring were now in place. 2.1.2 Key figures, end of 2019 Number of employees, Køge:............................................... 290 Number of employees, Nørre Alslev:..................................... 23 Number of employees, foreign sales companies:.................. 33 Annual turnover:………............................................. DKK 441 m. (International sales account for approx. 70%). Consumption of logs for parquet, Køge:.................. 131,773 m³ Consumption of raw planks, Nørre Alslev:. .……………4,460 m3 Production of oil and lacquered products:...... ..1,223,000 litres 4 2.1.3 Production flow Junckers operates its production from two factories in Denmark: The factory in Køge produces the solid hardwood parquet flooring and the lacquered/oil products. Administration, technology, development, packaging and shipping operations etc. are also located here. The factory in Nørre Alslev produces solid hardwood plank flooring and subconstructions that are shipped via Køge. Parquet production is approx. 10 times greater than plank production, both in terms of production and resource consumption. Here is a short description of the parquet flooring production process: The process starts with the logs from the forest arriving at the log yard. The wood is transported to Junckers by lorry, train or ship. The logs are stored at the log yard until they are ready to be cut. The logs are sorted at the sawmill and cut into staves, which are subsequently dried in the chamber drying plant or pressure drying plant. Once dry, the staves are planed, sorted, labelled and assembled into floorboards. The floorboards are then polished and shaped. Grooves are cut on the back for the brackets used when the floor is laid. The last stage of the process is when the floorboards are treated with lacquer or oil. Besides being a manufacturer of solid hardwood flooring, Junckers is also the supplier of the Junckers Wood Care system. The system consists of lacquer, oil, lye and soap products for the treatment and maintenance of, e.g. floors, ceilings, furniture and wooden terraces. Junckers Wood Care system is available for both the retail and professional market, and is also used in-house for the treatment of Juncker’s wide range of wooden floors, which are finished at the factory before being delivered to the customers. Junckers Industrier A/S has sales companies in Great Britain, Germany, France, Italy, Spain and the United States. Junckers floors and Wood Care systems are sold worldwide through their wide network of distributors. The lacquer and oil products have been developed in Junckers own laboratory and are therefore specifically produced for the treatment of high quality wooden flooring. SLACK, USA 2.1.4 CSR challenges in Junckers’ history Junckers has undergone considerable development over the course of time, despite the fact that products and raw materials have basically been the same for the past many decades. Although some conditions haven’t changed much since the beginning, in spite of developments, the following significant changes and conditions can be singled out: » Environment: Up until the mid-1990s, the company would receive many complaints regarding dust, smell, noise, sewage etc. In addition to flooring, Junckers also produced pulp and MDFs (Medium density fibreboards), and these productions gave rise to a number of local environmental problems. The closure of pulp and MDF production resulted in a significant reduction of emissions from the company, and the introduction of environmental management, along with a number of technical improvements meant that the number of annual complaints from neighbours for approx. the past 5 years, are now in the region of 0-1. » Environment: Up until the mid-1990s, the company would receive many complaints regarding dust, smell, noise, sewage etc. In addition to flooring, Junckers also produced pulp and MDFs (Medium density fibreboards), and these productions gave rise to a number of local environmental problems. The closure of pulp and MDF production resulted in a significant reduction of emissions from the company, and the introduction of environmental management, along with a number of technical improvements meant that the number of annual complaints from neighbours for approx. the past 5 years, are now in the region of 0-1. » Working environment: Despite the introduction of robotics, visual systems, automatic sorting, etc., many manual functions are still used in the production of the flooring. The main problem, in terms of pure ergonomics, is the monotonous repetitive work (MRW), which, despite technological improvements, continues to occur, and in the long-term can cause muscle and joint injury. Rotational systems, where employees change workplace several times a day, have reduced the risk of health injuries significantly however. Junckers are trying to reduce the amount of MRW jobs on a constant basis, and the progress for this is positive. » Tropical wood: Junckers has previously experienced significant sales of market goods, such as Merbau and Jatoba. Despite meticulous purchasing work, it was not always possible to check the legality or sustainability of the wood, but Junckers sought to guide its suppliers in the right direction, which was more than many other companies were doing at that time. The sale of tropical wood today, only accounts for a very small part of Juncker’s revenue, and through certifications within the PEFC™ and FSC® and most recently with the introduction of the “European Union Timber Regulation” in 2013, all the wood purchased is legally harvested. 6 ABERDEEN MUSIC HALL, UNITED KINGDOM 2.2 Implementation of the UN Global Compact at Junckers Junckers supports all 10 principles within the Global Compact, and through its compliance with Danish legal requirements, the company also works with the principles every single day, albeit “subconsciously”. For simple reasons of resource, Junckers has chosen to thoroughly prepare and describe the ten principles separately in detail and gradually incorporate the principles so that the systematic work with CSR and the documentation of the work is built up gradually with the inclusion of the experiences gained along the way. Up until now, Junckers has therefore decided to concentrate on 6 of the principles: Area Principle Human rights Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Workers’ rights Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Relevance, progress, etc. of each principle is described in section 3. Matters relating to CSR are communicated internally to employees through the company’s intranet, at meetings, etc., and externally via sellers, subsidiaries and marketing material. A section on CSR and a link to the COP report can be found at www.junckers.com 2.3 Anchoring and organising of CSR work The CEO has the overall responsibility for implementing the principles of the Global Compact into the company. The dayto-day work of implementation, information, coordination, reporting, etc., is carried out in a collaboration consisting of: » The purchasing manager, who coordinates the literacy relating to CSR and manages contact with suppliers, e.g. risk screening and acceptance of the Supplier Code of Conduct. The purchasing manager is also responsible for describing the progress of the CSR work in the annual CSR report. » The technical manager, who as “system man”, is responsible for written documentation, reports and internal communication. » The marketing manager, who manages external communication for commercial purposes. 7 2.4 SUSTAINABLE BUILD: Reference to existing structures at Junckers As a resource partner, Junckers Industries A/S Junckers Industries in Denmark are certified in supports Sustainable Build, which was initiated by the accordance with: Danish Industry Foundation, the Danish Architecture Centre and Leaderlab. Sustainable Build promotes » ISO 14001:2015 (environment) growth in sustainable construction and is actualised in partnership with suppliers, companies and organisations » OHSAS 18001 (working environment) of the building industry, as well as the Green business development fund. » ISO 50001 (energy management) THE EU TIMBER REGULATION: » PEFC™ and FSC® (legal and sustainable wood) In connection with the implementation of the EU Timber There is no production within the foreign sales companies Regulation of 3 March 2013, Junckers has incorporated and they are therefore not covered by the productionthe use of a Supplier Code of Conduct as a part of Due related certifications. Diligence. Suppliers of wood-based products considered to be at risk of not complying with these legal requirements Junckers Industries A/S has been approved and granted must sign Junckers Supplier COC in order to minimise labelling authorisation in accordance with Dansk the risk of Junckers inadvertently buying wood-based Indeklimamærkning (Danish Indoor Climate Labelling). products of controversial or illegal origin. This ensures that there are no chemical substances in the flooring which adversely affect the air quality in the room. A comprehensive management system has been organised to cover all standards. The contents of the management PEFC/09-31-004 THE LABELLING INCLUDES: system are freely available for all employees. The Promoting Sustainable Forest Management www.pefc.org overall responsibility for the system lies with the head » Junckers oiled and lacquered wooden flooring of production. Compliance with the individual standards is audited by internal and external audits on an annual » Junckers water-based furniture and floor lacquer basis. » Junckers furniture, work top and floor oil Procedures, registrations, documentation, policies, etc. related to CSR are implemented in the environmental SUSTAINABLE CONSTRUCTION: management system on a constant basis and follow its overall methodology. Due to increasing demand to document Junckers products are meeting relevant requirements in the LEED, DGNB, and BREAM certifications, Junckers together with Rambøll has launched creation of Environmental Product Declarations (EPD) including Life Cycle Analysis (LCA). The EPD’s cover Junckers flooring program and will be verified by a 3rd party. » LEED (Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design) » BREEAM (Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Methodology) » DGNB (Deutsche Gesellschaft für Nachhaltiges Bauen (German Sustainable Building Council)) 3. STATUS FOR THE 10 PRINCIPLES As a signatory to the Global Compact agreement, Junckers expresses its support for all 10 principles of the organisation. Junckers’ implementations of the principles are being phased in gradually (see section 2.2). Therefore, below described are only the work and results for the principles, that the company has approached in detail until now. 3.1 are consolidated in Junckers’ “CSR Performance Evaluation Principle 2: Businesses should make sure Procedure.” Initially, it is currently suppliers from Asia and that they are not complicit in human rights Eastern Europe, who are considered to be relevant in terms of abuses signing our Supplier Code of Conduct. A program has been set in motion to audit whether the standards contained in the SCOC are being complied with. 3.1.1 An audit form, letter of intent and accompanying list of Relevance for Junckers documents to be displayed/delivered have been prepared Junckers and its sales companies are located in countries and will be updated at least once a year. Initially, the audits that have adopted agreements regarding the compliance will be conducted by Junckers themselves at the suppliers. of international human rights, and where human rights are The results of these audits will form the basis for assessing included as a fixed part of national legislation. Junckers whether it subsequently will be relevant to involve an external thus considers the risk of violating human rights within the auditing company in the process. company to be insignificant. Junckers has therefore chosen to focus on the risk of indirect violation that can occur through trade with suppliers who have 3.1.3 little respect for human rights. Junckers has less than 10 What did Junckers do last year? suppliers from countries outside the EU and North America. A review and evaluation of the Supplier Code of Conduct and the associated evaluation procedure was conducted – only minor changes were made. The planned followup audit with one supplier in Asia was rescheduled 3.1.2 for the third quarter of 2020. Junckers is not aware of How has the principle been implemented in breaches in the company concerning human rights in 2019 Junckers? As mentioned in section 3.1.1, Junckers considers the risk of violating human rights within the company to be insignificant due to their compliance with international rules and 3.1.4 conventions in this area. The principal is therefore “informally” Results achieved, incl. description of implemented at the present time. measurement/ calculation method, data sources and potential uncertainty The company has developed a Supplier Code of Conduct (SCOC), which specifies a specific The actions were re-scheduled for 2020 – see point 3.1.3. number of requirements made by the company to its suppliers. The requirements encompass a combination of the 10 principles contained in the Global Compact. 3.1.5 Plans for next year The SCOC has been approved by Junckers’ board of Directors A followup audit with one supplier in Asia is scheduled for the and is distributed to those who are considered to be at risk third quarter of 2020. in relation to the “Universal Declaration of Human Rights and Workers’ Rights, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, and the United Nations Convention against 9 Corruption”, which 3.2 As the risk of discrimination in the period of employment is Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the considered to be very small, especially in view of the company’s elimination of discrimination in respect of employment policy (as mentioned above), the primary focus is employment and occupation to ensure that there is no discrimination/ bullying on a daytoday basis. Part of the common framework is also an overall consequence 3.2.1 policy. This should be exerted in cases where an employee Relevance for Junckers feels harassed or bullied to an extent that cannot be accepted Junckers has a clearly defined employment policy that by the company. ensures principle 6 is complied with in the actual period of employment. It is therefore a primary objective for Junckers to The company has decided to train a number of employees as ensure that there is no discrimination/ bullying on a dayto“job satisfaction agents” to run in parallel with the proposal day basis for a job satisfaction policy. The work areas, tasks and competencies of the job satisfaction agents are described in a separate document. 3.2.2 How has the principle been implemented in Junckers? How has the principle been implemented in Junckers? Junckers has a clearly defined employment policy: “It is Junckers Industries aim to hire the applicant best qualified for any job within the given financial framework. The company’s core value is to aim for diversity at work so that all applicants are guaranteed equal opportunities; regardless of sex, age or ethnic background. A newly appointed employee must possess the qualifications that reflect the demands required for the job, as well as those of Junckers’ current standards of conduct and values. In addition to an applicant possessing professional and human requirements, basic language skills that are necessary for daily communication and compliance with the environmental management concept may be required. The company will encourage a potential applicant to acquire these attributes or actively contribute to a qualified applicant in gaining these qualifications. In addition to normal employment, Junckers also engages employees for short-term jobs, and has a positive attitude for engaging employees in job training if this is compatible with actual circumstances.” GREAT NOTHERN SPA, DENMARK The departments’ common framework for the implementation of job satisfaction work has been organised under four headings: Junckers’ job satisfaction policy: All employees at Junckers Industries in Denmark must contribute to create and maintain a workplace where the tone and behaviour towards fellow colleagues is both positive and respectful. Bullying, harassment and any other behaviour that can cause harm to others will not be tolerated.” 1. Acknowledgement 3. Communication » Acknowledge the experience and knowledge of » Communication should always be open and direct your colleagues. » Avoid irony and insinuations, especially if you are » Praise your colleagues when they deserve it. a leader. » Appreciate extraordinary effort it’s not to be » Avoid misunderstandings by adapting the taken for granted! communication to fit the recipient. » Simply say thank you. » Conduct regular departmental meetings – this also provides a sense of security! » Believe that your colleagues are doing their best. 4. Good tone 2. Security » Greet your colleague (this shows that » Respect agreements and confidentiality. you acknowledge them). » Be visible, accessible and present as a leader. » Politeness (always gratifying, never damaging!). » The work should, as far as possible, be planned so » Adapt your language and tone to avoid that it is predictable and transparent. upsetting others. » It is your rightful duty to put your foot down if you » Provide adequate instruction for new tasks. are offended by someone’s tone and behaviour. » A good atmosphere provides a sense of security. » Listen and try to understand the other person’s » Take responsibility and make sure that everyone point of view. is happy. » Respect each other’s personalities and work. » Friendly nicknames are OK but “nasty” nicknames are bullying! » Think before you speak! 11 3.2.3 Therefore, it has been decided not to make the same What did Junckers do last year? examination each year. The results from the 2017 During the course of the year, Junckers personnel examination has been addressed by the departments’ association arranged a number of events that contributed environmental groups and at information meetings to the team spirit and happiness of the workplace throughout the year. We believe that our efforts in 2019 have contributed to maintaining a good working environment in Junckers. 3.2.4 Results achieved, incl. description of measurement/calculation method, data 3.2.5 sources and potential uncertainty Plans for next year In 2017, an examination of the psychological working environment was carried out and the results were very Steps will be taken on an on-going basis, as and when the much like the results from previous years. need arises. 12 HATFIELD PLACE, UNITED KINGDOM 3.3 3.3.2 Principle 7: Businesses should support a How has the principle been implemented in precautionary approach to environmental Junckers? challenges The company’s environmental policy (which also includes the working environment and energy) has been implemented as follows (excerpts): 3.3.1 » Junckers complies with current Danish legislation, Relevance for Junckers as well as other requirements relating to company Environmental legislation in Denmark imposes great demands certifications, environmental approvals and binding on businesses in terms of environmental and resource obligations. Discrepancies that occur will be corrected. consumption in a company’s activities. The environmental » Implementation of prevention and improvement in the authorities issue industry companies of Junckers’ type and areas of environmental policy; including prevention of size with a detailed environmental approval containing the pollution, prevention of occupational injury and illness terms and conditions to be observed. The company is regularly and the reduction of energy consumption, is carried out by monitored by environmental authority (Køge Municipality for Junckers on an on-going basis. This work is documented. Junckers) inspections, and may be issued with an injunction and ban if conditions are not observed. When establishing » Junckers is part of an open and positive new facilities or buildings, an application seeking permission dialogue with relevant stakeholders in the areas must be sent to the authorities. Part of the application must of environmental policy, and wishes to influence contain a description and reference to environmental issues developments in these areas in a positive direction. and challenges, including in some cases, issues regarding the best use of available technology, risk assessment if facilities or new buildings are deemed to give rise to a specific risk, e.g. pollution or fire hazard, or a description of the anticipated consumption of resources (incl. energy). Junckers has a healthy and positive dialogue with the environmental authorities, and the cooperation is characterised by openness and transparency. The company’s certified environmental management system focuses on environment, resource consumption, responsible waste treatment and more, which today, is a natural part of the daily operation and planning. Junckers therefore unreservedly support the Global Compact’s principle of a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 13 3.3.3 What did Junckers do last year? Junckers’ emission of saw dust, fine particles and noise has met with the authority’s requirements for many years and as such, is no longer a direct focus area for significant improvements. Junckers has begun to further reduce noise impact in compliance with environmental approval, as Køge’s port area and city areas are under expansion and will bring neighbours closer. The “Noise Action Plan 2019”, was not completed, because of change in priority as the development of the neighbour areas regarding reduction of noise at the south end of the area have a higher priority. Therefore, a new plan is now under development. The company’s energy consumption is still a focus area, due to CO2 emission and the major economic costs of energy. In 2019 focus has been on establishing low energy solutions in the new kiln drying facilities under construction. The conversion to electric forklifts from diesel and lpg forklifts continues. It is still difficult to replace large machines but the outlooks are promising. 3.3.4 Results achieved, incl. description of measurement/calculation method, data sources and potential uncertainty The graphs on the right illustrate the progress in energy consumption. The company’s energy performance in general is considered to be satisfactory. Work on reducing energy consumption is still highly prioritised. Junckers is ISO 50001 certified, as well as entered into an agreement with the Danish Energy Agency on energy efficiency. 3.3.5 Plans for next year There will be continued focus on reducing heat and electricity consumption in 2020. Several major projects, which are expected to reduce energy consumption significantly, are being worked on. Brushed oak parquet The Biological House 15 KERNOW BY PURCELL, UNITED KINGDOM 3.4 Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 3.4.1 Relevance for Junckers Junckers has been environmentally certified according to the ISO14001 standard, since the end of the 1990s. An external audit company follows up on the progress of the environmental objectives every 12 months. Environmental consideration and environmental responsibility are therefore included as a fully integrated principle in the company’s operations together with the legal requirements. The new standard of ISO14001, introduced in 2015 has been fully integrated in the Junckers 3.5 management system. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of 3.4.2 environmentally friendly technologies How has the principle been implemented in Junckers? 3.5.1 The company has an environmental policy with associated Relevance for Junckers environmental objectives. The management evaluates the Junckers produces solid hardwood parquet and plank flooring. operation and proficiency of the environmental management The four main wood species used for the floors are beech, oak, system in relation to the policy on an annual basis. All maple and ash. The wood is purchased from neighbouring employees in the company are informed of environmental regions, i.e. Denmark, South Sweden, Germany and Poland. objectives and action plans. The administrative procedures A lesser amount is purchased in the USA and Canada, who are carried out by the environmental protection organization. are able to supply planks in specific dimensions and quality. Work with the environmental objectives is in progress on an Junckers also sells flooring manufactured from tropical wood ongoing basis throughout the year. species. 3.4.3 Junckers had a natural interest in having a good relationship What did Junckers do last year? with forest management since its inception, so the factory’s raw material (logs and raw planks) can still be delivered in Please refer to the company’s environmental report that can the right quality at a competitive price. The company has be downloaded at www.junckers.com been certified according to the internationally used PEFC™ standard since 2006, as well as the FSC® standard since 2010. 3.4.4 The certifications document the traceability of the flooring the Results achieved, incl. description of company sells as certified, so the customers are sure that measurement/calculation method, data the wood used for the flooring has been legally harvested and sources and potential uncertainty sustainably managed (PEFC™ and FSC®). Please refer to the company’s environmental report that can As Junckers Industrier A/S is based in the EU, it must comply be downloaded at www.junckers.com with the EU Timber Regulation, which was implemented on 3 March 2013. As a part of this regulation, it must have a Due 3.4.5 Diligence system, which, e.g. must cover these areas: Plans for next year Please refer to the company’s environmental report that can be downloaded at www.junckers.com 16 Information: The operator must have access to information PEFC™/FSC® audits: describing the timber and timber products, country of harvest, species, quantity, details of the supplier and information on The external PEFC™/FSC® surveillance audit No. 3 was compliance with national legislation. carried out by 3rd party certification body in August 2019. Besides the 3rd party auditor a representative from ASI Risk assessment: The operator should assess the risk of monitored the audit. illegal timber in his supply chain, based on the information identified above and taking into account criteria set out in the 2 minor non-conformances were raised during the audit and regulation. closed immediately after the audit. Risk mitigation: When the assessment shows that there is The auditor emphasised that we have well-implemented a risk of illegal timber in the supply chain that risk can be procedures in general and that we continuously improve our mitigated by requiring additional information and verification routines to reflect changes in the standards. from the supplier. An internal audit was conducted at our office/administration The risk assessment used in connection with PEFC™ and and external storage facility in the USA west coast FSC® standards has been added to the requirements of the warehouse in July. No nonconformances were recorded EU Timber Regulation. This means that we use only one risk and communication between office and storage facility were, assessment for the purchase of raw wood, which is therefore based on samples, assessed as being followed as described in included in Junckers Due Diligence system. Raw wood procedure I.5.8a. suppliers based outside the EU must sign Junckers’ “Supplier Code of Conduct” as part of the risk mitigation. An internal PEFC™/FSC® audit was conducted at the head office in Køge in August and no non-conformances were recorded. 3.5.2 How has the principle been implemented in Sale of wood-based waste products: Junckers? Junckers Industries A/S sells all of its waste from wood The company’s purchase policy includes that all raw wood, production to its neighbor, VEKS. VEKS has signed semi-finished goods (wood) and goods for resale (wood) purchased, must comply with the requirements of the EU an industry agreement that commits them to fulfill a Timber Regulation as a minimum and therefore be of legal requirement for a proportion of their procurement of biomass origin. Junckers procurement strategy also urges its suppliers to be documented as being sustainable via PEFC™, FSC® or to certify themselves according to PEFC™ or FSC® standards, SBP certifications – or by using “alternative” documentation. to be able to purchase the highest possible amount of purchased The requirement is valid from August 1st 2016 and the raw wood as being from sustainably managed forests. The proportion of biomass to be documented as sustainable will company therefore continues to pay a premium for certified be increased gradually as follows: wood. 2016: 40% Junckers actively participates in the dissemination of PEFC™ 2017: 60% certification and has, inter alia: been represented on the board 2018: 75% of PEFC™ in Denmark since 1999. 2019: 90% In 2019 Junckers has sold its waste products as sustainably 3.5.3 certified via PEFC™ and FSC® claims, as well as with What did Junckers do last year? “alternative” documentation The total amount of certified raw wood purchased in 2019 has been increased compared to the 2018 level. The increase can be attributed to minor changes in the purchasing pattern and geographical origin. (see paragraph 3.5.4). 17 3.5.4 Junckers therefore wish to continue to increase the amount Results achieved, incl. description of of purchased certified felled timber and pay, e.g. a higher measurement/calculation method, data price for certified raw wood in order to influence forest sources and potential uncertainty owners to become certified according to PEFC™ or FSC® standards. Amount of raw wood purchased as PEFC™ FSC® Total certified 3.6 2010 24 % 41 % 65 % Principle 10: Businesses should work 2011 37 % 28 % 65 % against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 2012 52 % 13 % 65 % 2013 52 % 29 % 81 % 2014 3.6.1 53 % 21 % 74 % Relevance for Junckers 2015 44% 21% 65% Sales companies in Europe and the USA represent Junckers 2016 40% 26% 66% outside of Denmark. The company collaborates with commercial agents in Eastern Europe/Russia, the Middle 2017 44% 29% 73% East, Asia and Oceania. Overall, this means that the company’s 2018 43% 33% 76% sellers operate in different cultures with major differences 2019 43% 34% 77% and tolerance to corruption and corruption-like transactions among them. Junckers has once and for all made it clear that 3.5.5 the company is against corruption, extortion and bribery, and Plans for next year that it is unacceptable for an employee to participate in this The internal PEFC™/FSC® audit for the headquarters in type of behaviour, be it as a giver or receiver. Køge is scheduled for the 2nd quarter of 2020 and the annual internal PEFC™/FSC® audit in the USA is scheduled for 2nd quarter of 2020. 3.6.2 An external PEFC™/FSC® re-certification audit is planned How has the principle been implemented in for the end of May 2020. Junckers? Junckers stance on corruption was published on their Circular and new guide on ensuring the use of sustainable homepage with the following wording: “We are against wood in the public sector in Denmark: corruption, extortion and bribery and it is not permitted for this to be offered, promised, given, accepted, tolerated, required or A circular and guide on ensuring the use of sustainable deliberately benefitted from.” wood in the public sector in Denmark came into force on 1 July 2014. The circular commits the state (administration Junckers has chosen to focus on the risk of indirect violation and directorates) to ensure that sustainable wood is used that can occur through trade with suppliers who have no for construction, furniture and paper. This was phased in respect for human rights. between 1 January 2015 and 1 January 2016. The circular came into force with regard to flooring on 1 January 2016. Junckers has prepared a Supplier Code of Conduct, which is sent to the suppliers that the company considers having the The purchase of PEFC™ and FSC® certified products is highest risk of failing to comply with Juncker’s requirements recognized by the Danish authorities as a method for public for, e.g. anti-corruption (see also section 3.1). purchasers to document they comply with the rules in the circular, as they are recognized by the authorities as being sustainable. A number of EU countries have already implemented similar rules for public procurement, and on this basis, a growing demand for PEFC™ and FSC ® certified products must be expected. A program has been set in motion to audit whether the 3.6.4 standards contained in the SCOC are being complied with. Results achieved, incl. description of measurement/calculation method, data An audit scheme, letter of intent and accompanying list of sources and potential uncertainty documents to be displayed/delivered have been prepared. The actions were re-scheduled for 2020 – see point 3.1.3. Initially, the audits will be conducted by Junckers themselves at the suppliers. The results of these audits will form the basis for assessing whether it will subsequently be relevant to 3.6.5 involve an external auditing company in the process. Plans for next year A followup audit with one supplier in Asia is scheduled for Junckers has prepared and implemented Due Diligence in the third quarter of 2020. accordance with the EU Timber Regulation applicable from 3 March 2013. A risk assessment for suppliers of wood-based products must be made as part of Due Diligence. Junckers uses the criteria from the FSC CW standard to assess the risk. Criteria related to illegal logging are used as primary indicators and sources of conclusion. The supplier must sign Junckers Supplier Code of Conduct if they are based in a country where there is a potential risk of, e.g. corruption. By signing Junckers Supplier Code of Conduct, suppliers we consider to be “at risk” in relation to corruption confirm, among other things, the following: “Suppliers shall not engage in any form of bribery, corruption, extortion or embezzlement in any business practices and transactions carried out by them or on their behalf by business partners. They will not offer, accept or countenance any payments, gifts in kind, hospitality, expenses or promises as such that may compromise the principles of fair competition or constitute an attempt to obtain or retain business from any person or to influence the course of the business or governmental decisionmaking process. The Supplier shall also refrain from offering funding, donations, lavish gifts and extravagant entertainment to any employee of Junckers Industries A/S or any other counterparts in Junckers Industries A/S in an attempt to influence business decisions.” 3.6.3 What did Junckers do last year? A review and evaluation of the Supplier Code of Conduct and the associated evaluation procedure was conducted – only minor changes were made. The planned follow-up audit with one supplier in Asia was rescheduled for the third quarter of 2020. Junckers is not aware of breaches in the company concerning corruption and bribery in 2019. 19 CARVANA, USA JUNCKERS INDUSTRIES A/S Værftsvej 4, 4600 Køge, Denmark · Tel. +45 70 80 30 00 · www.junckers.com AntiHuman rights Workers’ rights Environment corruption Principle Principle Principle 3 Principle 4 Principle 5 Principle 6 Principle 7 Principle 8 Principle 9 Principle 10 1 2 Separately + + + + + formulated policy Relevance for Junckers described + + + + + + in COP Direct financial benefit + + + + for the company Principle informal formal informal informal informal formal formal formal formal formal 4. SUMMARY 2019 implemented into daily operation Significant progress + + + + in 2019 Part of Supplier Code + + + + + + + + + + of Conduct Priority in 2020 + ++ + + + ++ ++ ++ + ++ Partnerships Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 20
