— DATE Dear Mr. Secretary-General, 11 August 2020 I respectfully write to reaffirm I.R. Consilium, LLC’s continued support of and — commitment to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact on Human TO Rights, Labor, Environment, and Anti-corruption. H.E. António Guterres Secretary-General In this annual Communication on Progress, I am pleased to share some of the United Nations New York, NY 10017 activities and initiatives that demonstrate our commitment to the Global Compact United States of America and its principles, as well as the Sustainable Development Goals. This promise is reflected in our business strategy, culture, and daily operations, is written within our Code of Conduct, and is discussed at team meetings. We work to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles not only within our internal operations, but also within the projects and partnerships we undertake. — FROM While there are numerous examples of how our work has furthered the aims of the I.R. Consilium, LLC 10913 Park Heights Ave. Global Compact, as well as the Sustainable Development Goals, I am pleased to Owings Mills, MD 21117 share a few with you: United States of America imralby@irconsilium.com We have continued to work to draw international attention to the urgent matter of the FSO Safer, a floating oil storage and offloading facility in the Red Sea, roughly five miles off the coast of Yemen. Building on the attention garnered by our reports and media coverage in 2019, and leveraging the relationships we have patiently built in our efforts to avert a major humanitarian and environmental catastrophe, we have continued to bring attention to the crisis, both through an additional report with the Atlantic Council on “Safeguarding the Red Sea amid the coronavirus: Preventing the spill of the FSO Safer” and through many engagements with such media outlets as the New York Times, the Washington Post, France 24, the Independent, the Telegraph, The Weather Channel, Marketplace, and Open Democracy. Our work has been instrumental in bringing the Safer crisis all the way to the United Nations Security Council as well as eliciting active support from stakeholder governments. The devastating impact of this situation on the marine environment (SDG 14), the livelihoods of coastal communities (SDG 1), food security in the Red Sea (SDG 2), conflict from lack of clean water thanks to the destruction of desalination plants (SDG 6), escalation of the famine in Yemen (SDG 2), the already fragile regional context (SDG 16), and the wider life in the Red Sea region (SDG 15) would last decades if this matter is not resolved. We will continue to do all we can to prevent such a crisis. 10913 Park Heights Ave. Owings Mills, MD 21117 United States of America T: +1 410 935 1745 We have also continued, through both new and established connections with coastal and archipelagic states around the world, to advance the causes of maritime security, environmental sustainability, and the Blue Economy. We have partnered with multiple technology providers to examine how sophisticated Maritime Domain Awareness (MDA) platforms can enhance the ability of states in the Gulf of Guinea and the Caribbean to govern, secure, and protect their precious marine resources. This work, which includes so far one article on “Maritime crime during the pandemic: unmasking trends in the Caribbean,” has focused on the protection of the marine environment from illegal activities (SDG 14) and the law enforcement responsibilities of a region’s states to counter crime in the maritime domain (SDG 16) as well as the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic on maritime criminal activities. We have also continued our ongoing work of identifying, mapping, and exposing illicit supply chains of different sorts, often tied to widespread criminality, violence, and sanctions busting (SDGs 3, 6, 11, 13, 15 and 16). In December 2019, we presented a briefing on illicit gold flows out of Venezuela at the WCO/OECD second annual meeting of the informal network on minerals-related crimes. We have since partnered with collaborators at the Colorado School of Mines, and in one instance with IMPACT Transform as well, to apply for grants to research, map, and devise countering strategies for illicit supply chains related to (1) wildlife, timber, and minerals in West Africa, and (2) gold and mercury in Peru, Colombia, and Kenya. We await word on the awarding of the grants. With the world’s leading credibility on the subject, we also continued our work in researching, reporting on, and advising on downstream oil theft and ways to combat illicit hydrocarbons activities (SDGs 7, 9, 11, 12 13 and 16). Under the aegis of the Atlantic Council, we completed a detailed, groundbreaking report on Downstream oil theft: Countermeasures and good practices; the report was workshopped at the Atlantic Council’s Global Energy Forum in January before its official launch in May through a global online event with over a hundred attendees. Other activities included a presentation to the global corporate audit team of an oil major on case studies highlighting enabling conditions for various modalities of fraud in the oil and fuel supply chain. 10913 Park Heights Ave. Owings Mills, MD 21117 United States of America T: +1 410 935 1745 In addition to these examples, we have spoken and published extensively on matters as diverse as the sustainable management of marine genetic resources (MGR), crisis response amid the pandemic or other natural disasters, and maritime engagement among African states. As proud contractors to the United Nations, we support the broader goals of the UN and the Global Compact specifically. We are honored to highlight our participation to the general public through our website and will continue to work to uphold and promote the Ten Principles. Please accept this annual report as a statement of our continued participation. We recognize and celebrate that in taking action implementing the Ten Principles and wider UN goals, we contribute to a safer, more secure, more peaceful, and more prosperous world. Respectfully yours, ___________________ Dr. Ian M. Ralby CEO, I.R. Consilium, LLC 10913 Park Heights Ave. Owings Mills, MD 21117 United States of America T: +1 410 935 1745
