COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Submission to the United Nations Global Compact February 2020 www.cardno.com/internationaldevelopment 2 Cardno > Australian owned and operated Introduction Cardno’s International Development Division (Cardno) is a social development and physical infrastructure firm dedicated to sustainable and inclusive value creation for over fifty years. We work with multilateral and bilateral agencies, businesses, governments, and communities to build and implement sustainable solutions to complex challenges. Strengthened by our geographic and market diversity in over 110 countries, we are committed to creating lasting change in emerging economies, with a focus on Asia, the Pacific, Africa, North America, and Australia. Communication on Progress | 2020 3 4 Cardno > Australian owned and operated Statement from the CEO At Cardno, we are committed to operating sustainably, responsibly, and in a way that produces positive impact for our stakeholders; including our clients, the communities we work in, employees, suppliers and our shareholders. This commitment flows from our core business where we deliver quality development programs in emerging markets across the globe. With over 50 years of successful implementation, we are skilled at creating effective, meaningful, and scalable programs and solutions in complex environmental, economic and social contexts. Across all of our projects, Cardno focuses on responsible, inclusive and sustainable operations. This agenda drives our association since 2018 with the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and our increasing alignment with the ten principles. With this context, I am pleased to reaffirm Cardno’s commitment to the United Nations Global Compact and the ten principles, and with it present our second annual Communication on Progress. We made considerable progress in 2019 against the four areas—human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption—and are pleased to provide detail in this report. Cardno is building on this momentum going into 2020 as we continue aligning our business strategy and daily operations with the ten principles. Reflecting on 2019, I am proud of what Cardno has achieved. But this is just the start; we will continue progressing our positive impact in the coming years. With best wishes, Marian Boreland CEO, Cardno International Development Communication on Progress | 2020 5 Human Rights Principles Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, policy and goals diversity and it ensures our workplaces promote As a fundamental way of doing business, Cardno respect, fairness and equity for all. respects and protects the human rights of people in Due Diligence Checklist for Partner Organisations the communities in which we live and work. This is requires all subcontractors and suppliers to complete challenging in emerging markets where risks can be a due diligence checklist to ensure they conform to all heightened, but after fifty years, we are practised at of Cardno’s policies and procedures. recognising and navigating these challenges. Cardno has developed an array of policies, procedures, and Putting People First Commitments drives Cardno’s monitoring and evaluation tools to uphold our human collaboration with the private sector and the United rights standards and protect our stakeholders. Kingdom’s Department for International Development to tackle sexual exploitation and abuse and sexual Implementation harassment in the international aid sector. Our commitment to human rights is embedded in our policies and procedures which we review and update Safeguarding Policy sets out the governing regularly to ensure accuracy and relevance with principles and safeguarding approach for our international best practice. All Cardno personnel must employees and independent consultants, and the commit and adhere to these policies and procedures, employees of our partners and suppliers. This protects which are listed below: the people and communities Cardno interacts with. Child Protection Policy and Procedure reflects Modern Slavery Policy articulates Cardno’s a zero-tolerance approach to all forms of child commitment to identifying and countering modern exploitation and abuse including those that constitute slavery in global supply chains. This aligns Cardno human rights abuses. All personnel including with the United Kingdom Modern Slavery Act and employees, contractors, subcontractors and suppliers is expanding to encompass the Australian Modern are required to undergo awareness training of child Slavery Act and other counter-slavery legislation. protection matters and commit to our Child Protection Policy and procedures, which also deals with how to Measurement of outcomes report incidents if they occur. Over the past year, we maintained our commitment to progressing our policies and procedures, with a Child Protection Risk Assessment requires all keen focus on disrupting and ending modern slavery. projects to undergo child protection risk assessments, In 2019, Cardno conducted both internal and external which are documented and submitted for review and reviews of our policies, procedures and supply chains retention. to identify potential modern slavery risks and build a Corporate Responsibility Policy reflects our roadmap towards a formalised response. commitment to behave transparently and ethically, Cardno sees combatting modern slavery as a contributing to equitable sustainable development core part of our human rights commitment and is within our workforce and the communities in which supporting the broader global movement amongst we live and work. governments, businesses and non-government The Cardno Way is our overarching Code of Conduct organisations to uncover and end modern slavery. Policy detailing our commitment to Cardno’s four core To this end, we are reviewing our subcontractor due values: safety, integrity, people and excellence. diligence assessment processes and considering methods to comprehensively train staff on modern Inclusion and Diversity Policy details Cardno’s slavery principles. Moreover, Cardno joined the ongoing commitment to celebrate and encourage Mekong Club—a leader in uniting and mobilising the 6 Cardno > Australian owned and operated private sector to disrupt and end modern slavery— Next steps and hosted the United Nations Global Compact This year, Cardno plans to continue its involvement Network Australia’s Community of Practice on in the United Nations Global Compact Network modern slavery. Community of Practice on modern slavery and continue to collaborate with non-government Cardno is a member and lead coordinator for the organisations and businesses across Asia via the Safeguards Lead Network in the United Kingdom Mekong Club. We will continue to improve our which develops measures to reduce sexual policies and procedures by building on our existing exploitation and abuse in the international aid framework of child protection, human rights, and sector. This network reports to the Department for fair employment policies. Cardno will also publish International Development and is overseen by the a Modern Slavery statement and produce annual Commons Inquiry Committee. Through this network, progress reports against it. Cardno co-develops measures to bolster a ‘people first’ aid environment for all stakeholders. Communication on Progress | 2020 7 Labour Principles Principle 3 Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment Policy and Goals to conform to Cardno’s policies and procedures Our strength as an impactful business lies with around labour. Training is mandatory for all employees our employees, which is why we champion strong and contractors and covers crucial issues including policies and procedures for a safe, inclusive and workplace behaviour, code of conduct, health, safety, equitable workplace. We support our employees’ right anti-bribery and child protection. Our training is to freedom of association and collective bargaining designed to equip personnel with the knowledge and and are rigorous in ensuring that everyone associated tools to recognise and report issues, incidents, or with Cardno’s business and daily operations is free concerns when they occur. from all forms of compulsory and forced labour We actively promote equal employment opportunity (see the Human Rights section on pages 6–7 for throughout every stage of the employment more detail about Cardno’s counter-modern slavery relationship. We do not discriminate and ensure all initiatives, which overlap with Principles 4 and 5). employees are treated fairly and equitably. Cardno has worked to align our labour policies and Below are some of the key policies and procedures procedures with internationally recognised labour that we implement relevant to the labour principles. standards. Additionally, we abide by all labour legislation where we operate and where there are Cardno International Development Gender legislative gaps we apply international standards. In Equality Commitment recognises the importance of doing so, Cardno takes care to safeguard against the gender equality and details Cardno’s commitments use of forced labour and child labour in our projects to achieving this across our organisation and within and operations. our programs to ensure we meet the internationally recognised gender equality standards. We aim to conduct our business in a way that protects our people, clients, visitors and members Workplace Behaviours Policy details Cardno’s of the public from harm on any worksite that we are commitment to providing a working environment involved in. We are dedicated to achieving our goal of that is safe and free from inappropriate and negative zero harm by continually improving our health, safety behaviours such as discrimination, workplace and environmental performance. harassment, workplace bullying, sexual harassment, vilification, workplace violence and any other form Inclusion and diversity are core to our corporate of victimisation. This policy provides guidance on identity. We celebrate that our global team comprises recognising these types of behaviours and reporting people from all walks of life, ages, races and religions; them if they occur. and speaks over 100 languages. We actively seek opportunities to improve our diversity in recruitment, Global Health, Safety and Environment work practices, flexible work arrangements, training Framework outlines our structured health, safety and development, and our pursuit of business which and environment program which is implemented leverages and encourages diversity. throughout all facets of the business to ensure we achieve our goal of zero harm on every job, every day. Implementation Employee Assistance Program assists the All employees, contractors, subcontractors and resolution of personal and work-related problems. suppliers must read and acknowledge a commitment Cardno offers a confidential and voluntary counselling 8 Cardno > Australian owned and operated Communication on Progress | 2020 9 service to our employees and their immediate family environment. Cardno aspires to be a global leader in members. terms of how women are engaged in the workforce. Global Privacy and Record Retention Policy for Employee Resource Group is a safe space for Employees articulates Cardno’s commitment to employees to share their experiences and challenges safeguarding the privacy of personal information we related to sexual orientation or gender identity in the gather concerning our prospective, current and former workplace. employees for management, human resources and Safeguarding Policy reflects our ‘people first’ payroll purposes. This policy applies to any worker commitments and sets out the governing principles engaged to perform work or services on behalf of and safeguarding approach for our employees and Cardno. independent consultants, and the employees of our Child Protection Policy and Procedure outlines partners and suppliers. Cardno’s commitment to preventing all forms of child Mental Health Policy Pilot to remove stigma around abuse and exploitation including those related to child mental health issues and promote healthy practices. labour. The procedure also provides a mechanism for This includes trainings and the designation of mental reporting violations of this policy where they occur. health focal points. The pilot’s successfulness is Inclusion and Diversity details Cardno’s ongoing being assessed to make needed adjustments and commitment to actively encourage and celebrate implement more broadly. inclusion and diversity and ensure our workplaces promote respect, fairness and equity for all. Measurement of Outcomes Cardno’s business-wide Inclusion and Diversity Purchased Leave Policy acknowledges Cardno’s Council was established to drive our 2019–2021 value for flexible working arrangements to enable strategy and deepen our commitment to diversity employees to strike a balance between work and inclusion. Flowing from this strategy, we revised responsibilities and personal commitments. This our Inclusion and Diversity Policy to increasingly Policy provides guidance for staff to purchase leave in encourage equal access to opportunities, targeted addition to their legislative leave requirements. recruitment and transparent communication. Domestic and Family Violence Leave Policy Cardno launched the Lesbian Gay Bisexual Trans recognises that domestic violence is a widespread Queer (LGBTQ) Employee Resource Group which issue that does not discriminate in who it can affect. reinforces our core value of ‘people’ and champions In addition to the support services provided through a supportive and inclusive work environment for our Employee Assistance Program, this Policy everyone. As part of this, Cardno offices around the enables staff affected by domestic violence to access world celebrated the vibrant and diverse LGBTQ additional leave if necessary. community in June as the internationally recognised Parental Leave Policy outlines the entitlements to Pride Month. parental leave for eligible Cardno employees, as well 2019 also saw Cardno launch our Reconciliation Action as the requirements for notification and application for Plan (RAP) to serve as our framework in support of parental leave. national reconciliation across Australia with Aboriginal Grievance Policy and Procedure provides a process and Torres Strait Islander peoples. The RAP lays out for employees to follow for employment related measurable action items to expand our existing grievances. Cardno actively strives to provide a relationships, promote respect and build opportunities workplace that is free from negative behaviours such within Cardno and our communities for Aboriginal and as discrimination, harassment, bullying and other Torres Strait Islander peoples. inappropriate behaviour which creates discomfort to On International Women’s day, Cardno released a employees, contractors or any person who associates Gender Equality Commitment founded on the Human with our organisation. Rights Framework and globally agreed principles. Women in Cardno is a program providing With it, Cardno makes clear that gender equality opportunities for women across the business to is a human right and fundamental to sustainable advance and grow their careers in a supportive and effective business practice. We are committed 10 Cardno > Australian owned and operated to taking up the challenge of championing social Cardno is a lead coordinator for the Safeguards inclusion and women’s rights within our business and Lead Network and signatory to the Putting People throughout the delivery of our programs, many of First Commitments which comes with stringent which have gender equality as a core focus. measures to mitigate sexual exploitation, abuse and harassment. In line with these commitments, Cardno Our commitment to gender equality is part of a longhas developed a Safeguarding Policy, Whistleblowing term process to reflect, learn and work differently Policy and Safeguarding Investigations Policy. We aim to transform gender and power relations through to operationalise all three this year. our business operations. Cardno commissioned a gender pay gap analysis which revealed little to no Similarly, Cardno plans to implement a Sexual gender pay gap. We identified three key areas where Exploitation, Abuse and Harassment Policy in 2020 a gender pay gap was most likely to be introduced— reflecting our ‘putting people first commitments’ and position definition and recruitment, merit review, and safeguarding our employees, contractors, community promotions—and developed strategies to maintain members and others associated with Cardno’s or improve our current levels. These strategies business. This policy, along with our child protection include unconscious bias training, salary banding and policy, will be integrated into Cardno’s learning benchmarking, and review of job classifications. management system this year. All Cardno employees, contractors and subcontractors will be required Next steps to complete this training module as a condition of As a major aid delivery partner, Cardno takes our working with Cardno. inclusion and diversity strategy as an opportunity to Additionally, Cardno is working with the United challenge ourselves to improve, take responsibility Kingdom Department for International Development and deliver on our commitments to create a more to develop three employment cycle initiatives: the Aid equitable workplace for everyone at Cardno. We will Worker Passport scheme, Project Soteria (strengthen continue to pursue positive gender equality outcomes criminal record checks and information sharing to help across our international development programs to ensure a more robust law enforcement response to meet our gender equality standards. We are also sexual predators abusing the most vulnerable people striving to better integrate gender equality across around the world) and the Misconduct Disclosure Cardno’s operational systems. scheme. Communication on Progress | 2020 11 Environment Principles Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment policy and goals Development and the United Kingdom’s Department At Cardno, we are committed to operating sustainably for International Development. When designing our and building a culture that respects and protects the aid programs, we ensure Cardno and our contractors environment. This is becoming increasingly urgent as follow a risk-based approach to avoid adversely Australia—and the world—faces a growing climate impacting the communities we operate in. We work emergency. Cardno is working to minimise our closely with our clients and advocate for responsible environmental footprint while maximising efforts to management of environmental impacts throughout protect and restore ecosystems in which we operate. project lifecycles. We support our clients to identify risks to the natural environment, develop plans to We do this by providing a complete portfolio of protect onsite resources and undertake restoration services designed to establish sustainable climate activities. change adaptation, mitigation, and integration measures. We deliver sustainable infrastructure, Our policies and procedures reflecting our development and transport projects that prioritise commitment to environmental sustainability are listed low carbon impact. Our international development below. specialists, environmental scientists, engineers Corporate Responsibility details our commitment and natural resource economists work to address to applying the principles of sustainable complex scenarios brought to the forefront of environmental management to how we work. It sets development by climate change. a corporate mission to behave transparently and Cardno’s work in emerging markets and resourceethically, contributing to equitable and sustainable dependent economies across Africa, Asia and the development within our workforce and the Pacific places us at the forefront of balancing human communities in which we live and work. Responsible development needs with environmental sustainability environmental stewardship is fundamental to our and the critical overlap between the two. mission. We are providing leadership in environmental management to preserve the natural ecosystem for Implementation future generations. The world is facing a climate emergency. Cardno Global Health, Safety and Environment is serious about operating sustainably and Framework and Management System highlights working with other organisations that share our Cardno’s commitment to protection of the environmental values. We actively abstain from environment and our full compliance with applicable working with partners and clients that fall outside environmental laws and regulations, in compliance of our environmental standards. As part of our due with ISO45001 and building towards ISO14001.The diligence procedures, we vet our contractors and health, safety and environment management system subcontractors against environmental blacklists. Any allows for the implementation of the Framework. companies or individuals who return positive matches will not be engaged by Cardno. Measurement of Outcomes We adhere to comprehensive environmental and Cardno’s reputation as an expert in sustainability and social safeguarding policies advanced by our clients, climate change is recognised by clients. For example, including the Australian Department of Foreign Affairs in 2018 the Cardno-managed Nauru Sustainable and and Trade, the United States Agency for International Climate Resilient Connectivity Project was awarded 12 Cardno > Australian owned and operated the Outstanding Sustainable Transport Project Award speaks to Cardno’s reputation in the region as by the Asian Development Bank. This project is part an experienced environmental management and of broader work to minimise climate impact and sustainability player. improve port operations in Nauru by building a wharf, breakwater, berth pocket and onshore port facilities. Next steps Cardno will continue to deepen our commitment Cardno manages a large-scale, five-year to environmental sustainability in 2020, both in environmental conservation and resilience program in our operations and our project design and delivery. Papua New Guinea to reduce threats to biodiversity We aim to more comprehensively define our in one of the world’s 17 ‘megadiverse countries’. many environmental sustainability initiatives into Nearly six per cent of the world’s animal and plant an overarching strategy to maximise and measure species are in Papua New Guinea; many do not exist their impact. To this end, Cardno will implement anywhere else. Through this program, Cardno will in 2020 a global Sustainability Policy focused work to enhance the capacity of Papua New Guinea’s primarily on environmental sustainability. Cardno public and private sectors to regulate and mitigate will also review and expand our health, safety and threats to biodiversity, including logging, mining, environment management system to further integrate unsustainable subsistence farming, commercial environmental considerations from ISO14001. agriculture and fishing, among others. This program Communication on Progress | 2020 13 Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment policy and goals to all forms of corruption. These are listed and Cardno is committed to ethical operations and takes summarised below. a zero tolerance approach towards corruption in all Whistle-blower Policy and hotline enables staff, forms, including fraud, bribery, and extortion. contractors, subcontractors, and suppliers to report Cardno’s personnel, contractors, and consultants suspected, probable, or certain acts of fraud or have an obligation to act in a diligent manner to corruption anonymously and safely. prevent fraud and ensure prompt reporting to senior Fraud Policy provides guidance and outlines management when fraud is detected or suspected. the obligations of all Cardno staff, contractors, Cardno escalates and investigates any reported subcontractors, and suppliers relating to the incidences in a confidential, respectful, private, prevention, detection, and reporting of fraud. professional, and prompt manner until resolved. Anti-Corruption Policy outlines Cardno’s zero Cardno’s commitment to anti-corruption is embedded tolerance approach to all forms of corruption and in our values and is a minimum requirement of many provides guidance on recognising and reporting of our core clients. We continue to maintain a zero corruption when it occurs. tolerance approach to all forms of corruption. Global Anti-Bribery Policy sets out Cardno’s Implementation responsibilities and those of our staff, contractors, Cardno focuses on ensuring all employees, subcontractors, and suppliers in observing and contractors, and subcontractors are equipped with upholding Cardno’s zero tolerance position on bribery the knowledge and tools needed to recognise fraud and corruption. and corruption if and when encountered. All Cardno Blocked Parties Screening Policy provides guidance personnel are required to undertake mandatory fraud for the proactive screening of all potential recipients and anti-bribery training on a yearly basis. The training of funds to ensure Cardno actively manages and is managed as part of Cardno’s learning management mitigates risk, and meets its contractual obligations system and is updated regularly to ensure relevancy with all donors, private and public sector clients and of content. charitable foundations. We have several reporting mechanisms in place that Due Diligence Checklist for Partner Organisations personnel can utilise, including our whistle-blower is Cardno’s due diligence checklist that all hotline where reports can be made anonymously and subcontractors and suppliers must complete to safely. This process is guided by our Whistle-blower ensure they conform to all of Cardno’s policies and Policy and accessible to all Cardno staff, contractors, procedures. and sub-contractors. Prior to engaging Cardno, all employees, contractors, Measurement of Outcomes and subcontractors must acknowledge acceptance Cardno’s company-wide compliance with mandatory of all of our policies including our anti-fraud and antianti-corruption training is reported on a monthly basis corruption policies. All of our contracts include robust to the board. In 2019, Cardno made this information anti-fraud and anti-bribery clauses. Failure to comply available company-wide to increase transparency with these requirements results in termination from for employees, allowing them to monitor progress Cardno and our programs. towards our goal of achieving 100 percent compliance. We have several policies and procedures in place to ensure compliance with our zero tolerance approach In addition to compliance reports, Cardno is undergoing regular internal and external audits in 14 Cardno > Australian owned and operated our financial and operational processes. Results In 2019, Cardno again achieved ISO9001 certification from these audits have indicated a high standard of for our quality management system, further reflecting commitment to anti-corruption. A recent due diligence the company’s high standards in compliance and risk audit conducted by a large client demonstrated high management. levels of professionalism around risk management and mitigating fraud and corruption. Additionally, Next steps Cardno received outstanding feedback on the level Robust and evolving fraud and corruption policies of knowledge displayed by Cardno personnel on and procedures are essential for Cardno because of our due diligence process and requirements for and our industry and operations in over 100 countries. In processes around managing fraud incidents. 2020, we aim to continually improve our operational systems and processes to effectively identify and Our stringent anti-corruption and compliance mitigate risks before they materialise. This involves standards create shared value in communities constant and thorough training to all Cardno staff and we operate in. For example, several of Cardno’s contractors, and continually advancing to our goal of infrastructure development partners in Pacific Island 100 per cent compliance with training modules. We countries report that adherence to Cardno policies will continue to audit and check ourselves against our and procedures has improved their systems and own policies, as well as the high standards imposed led to securing more contracts with other large by our primary clients. international firms. Communication on Progress | 2020 15 About Cardno Cardno is an international firm dedicated to the social, economic and physical development of communities. We engage in international development as a holistic, multidisciplinary and integrated process. Strengthened by our geographic and market diversity, we are committed to providing innovative and integrated solutions that create opportunities for significant, lasting change in emerging economies. Partnering with multilateral and bilateral donors, private clients, governments and communities to develop sustainable solutions to complex challenges, we work with local counterparts to achieve meaningful impact. 4000 employees worldwide 100 offices worldwide 50 Cardno’s commitment to zero harm Cardno’s goal is to always conduct our business in a way that protects our people, clients, visitors and members of the public from harm. In an effort to move toward the ultimate objective of zero harm, we are committed to implementing safety systems and awareness throughout our operations globally. Australia • Belgium • Canada • Colombia • Ecuador • Germany • Indonesia • Kenya • Myanmar • New Zealand • Nigeria • Papua New Guinea • Peru • Philippines • Singapore • Timor-Leste • United Kingdom • United States • Operations in over 100 countries international.development@cardno.com www.cardno.com/internationaldevelopment 16 Cardno > Australian owned and operated
