UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019–2020 Interactive document Chairman and Chief Executive 2019–2020 corporate 2019–2020 corporate Building a sustainable An open and support Helping lives to Ethical practice UN Sustainable We welcome your Officer Statement responsibility overview approach responsibility highlights future workplace thrive as standard Development Goal feedback Chairman and Chief Executive UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019–2020 | 2 Officer Statement More than ever, we recognise the need to address the UN Sustainable Development Goals and build resilience in our global markets, communities and environment.” Vincent Clancy Chairman and Chief Executive Officer The COVID-19 pandemic and resulting Despite the pandemic, we have made a I am resolute on using our size and influence recession have sent shockwaves across our significantly positive impact in the world to drive lasting sustainable change; address global markets and communities; irreversibly around us. Be that by reaching over 9,000 lives inequality, and work in partnership with our changing the way we think about and operate through our education and employment industry to build a world that can tackle future in the world around us. programmes or reducing our carbon emissions challenges head on. per employee by over 25% even before many ‘Doing business the right way’ has always been This report demonstrates our progress against of our markets went into some form of core to our success, but never before has this the UN SDGs and UN Global Compact Ten lockdown. felt more tangible. This year, the need to Principles which pave the way for our future address the UN Sustainable Development This is why I am particularly proud to be to ambitions. Goals (UN SDGs) and build resilience in our reaffirming Turner & Townsend’s commitment global markets, communities and environment to the UN Global Compact Ten Principles over over the long term has become evident. the year ahead. Chairman and Chief Executive 2019–2020 corporate 2019–2020 corporate Building a sustainable An open and support Helping lives to Ethical practice UN Sustainable We welcome your Officer Statement responsibility overview approach responsibility highlights future workplace thrive as standard Development Goal feedback 2019–2020 corporate responsibility UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019–2020 | 3 overview approach Community Great place Environmental Integrity in value to work stewardship industry n Deliver projects and programmes that build a n Empower our people to realise their potential. n Improve our environmental impact and n Maintain a strong ethical culture. prosperous society. n Promote a diverse and inclusive workplace. promote climate action. n Advance our industry to contribute to a more n C reate opportunities for children and young n Support our people’s wellbeing. n Support our clients to enable more prosperous society. people to achieve their potential. sustainable communities. UN Sustainable UN Sustainable UN Sustainable UN Sustainable Development Goals Development Goals Development Goals Development Goals Prioritised Additional Prioritised Additional Prioritised Additional Prioritised Additional UN Global Compact principles UN Global Compact principles UN Global Compact principles Human rights Environment Anti-corruption n P rinciple 1 – businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed n P rinciple 7 – businesses should support a n Principle 10 – businesses should work against human rights; and precautionary approach to environmental challenges; corruption in all its forms, including extortion and n Principle  2 – make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. n P rinciple 8 – undertake initiatives to promote greater bribery. environmental responsibility; and n P rinciple 9 – encourage the development and Labour rights diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. n Principle 3 – businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; n P rinciple 4 – the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; n P rinciple 5 – the effective abolition of child labour; and n P rinciple 6 – the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Chairman and Chief Executive 2019–2020 corporate 2019–2020 corporate Building a sustainable An open and support Helping lives to Ethical practice UN Sustainable We welcome your Officer Statement responsibility overview approach responsibility highlights future workplace thrive as standard Development Goal feedback 2019–2020 corporate UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019–2020 | 4 responsibility highlights Community Great place Environmental Integrity in value to work stewardship industry SDG 4: Quality Education SDG 5: Gender Equality SDG 11: Sustainable Cities SDG 9: Industry, Innovation & Communities & Infrastructure 9,089 33% 1.2 8.7 children and young people reached female employees average tonnes of carbon per employee average client care score 11,119 14% 54% 49% community volunteer hours increase in female Associate Directors and Directors reduction in CO2e per employee since 2014/15 net promoter score £505k 84% 5246 7.8/10 corporate and employee donations of our people scored us 7/10 for how fairly people from metric tonnes CO2e in total average score (out of ten) when asking our people all backgrounds are treated whether they are satisfied with our actions taken to be 37% 30 socially responsible 7.8 /10 our people volunteering average score (out of ten) when asking our people offices with ISO14001 1st ‘how likely it is that they would recommend Turner & in the Sunday Times Top Track 250 (UK) Townsend as a place to work’ Read more online: www.turnerandtownsend.com/corporate-responsibility Chairman and Chief Executive 2019–2020 corporate 2019–2020 corporate Building a sustainable An open and support Helping lives to Ethical practice UN Sustainable We welcome your Officer Statement responsibility overview approach responsibility highlights future workplace thrive as standard Development Goal feedback Building a UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019–2020 | 5 sustainable future Addressing the climate emergency We are proud to be a part of forward-thinking our teams have been deployed on a number of We have reduced our carbon dioxide emissions programmes that are changing the projects in Antarctica to support climate per employee by 54 percent since 2014/2015 sustainability landscape in the built change global research scientists in the and 30 of our offices are ISO 14001 accredited. environment. Natural Environment Research Council in their search for bio-renewable energy. Awareness of our sustainability commitments In the water sector, we are working in continues to grow amongst our people. This partnership with clients to overcome Links to policies and further information year, our environmental champion network has unprecedented pressures to provide safe n Annual review: our sustainable futures grown across our global regions, and we drinking water, and effectively collecting n W ebsite: Environmental stewardship n C ase study: Stellenbosch University – treated greywater increased the coverage of our environmental wastewater so it can be returned to the project, South Africa reporting coverage. environment. An example of this is our n C ase study: Plastic Energy TAC Plant, Netherlands involvement in delivering the largest greywater n Case study: Retrofit Accelerator Programmes, London, UK Recognising that drastic change is needed if we project in Africa for Stellenbosch University. n C ase study: Bracel Empreendimentos Imobiliários are to mitigate the worst effects of climate – Ed Jorge Salomão, Brazil change, our new sustainability strategy will be Across the globe, we have been instrumental n Case study: Antarctic infrastructure modernisation in Retrofit initiatives to accelerate the programme, Antarctica / UK announced later this year. renovation of existing stock and ensure it is fit This will translate our ambition to address the for the future. In São Paulo, our work on the climate emergency into a set of tangible and Ed Jorge Salomão office building included measurable actions. Our sustainability strategy improving waste disposal control, is being developed in alignment with the Paris implementing a reuse water system and Climate Agreement, and our priority United upgrading the air conditioning. Nations Sustainable Development Goals: 11 Sustainable Cities and Communities, We are committed to tackling the climate crisis 12 Responsible Consumption and Production, through our work head on. Our work in 13 Climate Action. renewable energy and liquefied natural gas worldwide has continued to grow the diffusion Driving sustainability in the built environment of alternative fuels while we are directly As a professional services company, the working with a number of energy and mining greatest impact we can have is through our clients executing transition strategies. In the work with clients. Over the past year, we have Netherlands, we are part of building a new British Antarctic continued to invest in our advisory capability plant which will use patented Thermal and digital offer to better meet the needs of Anaerobic Conversion (TAC) technology to Survey, our communities and surrounding environment through our work. create clean recycling materials by converting Antarctica end-of-life plastics into recycled oils. Lastly, Chairman and Chief Executive 2019–2020 corporate 2019–2020 corporate Building a sustainable An open and support Helping lives to Ethical practice UN Sustainable We welcome your Officer Statement responsibility overview approach responsibility highlights future workplace thrive as standard Development Goal feedback An open and UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019–2020 | 6 support workplace We are working towards a sustainable future, The health, safety and wellbeing of our people empowering our diverse talent to lead this has always been our top priority, but due to agenda. the uncertainty of 2020, we have quickly made this our number one issue. We have increased Listening to our people the number of awareness raising initiatives Our global team of nearly 7,000 people draws and access to support. Our trained mental on diverse thought, skills and experience to health first aiders’ programme is only one of help our clients address their challenges. many ways people can seek help. We We value our amazing blend of people. This recognise that poor mental health is an year, our new quarterly Peakon employee industry-wide problem which is why we survey provided another channel to help give became a premium supporter of Mates in Mind our people a voice. Obtaining this feedback this year. Our internal health, safety and #TT5000futures enables us to respond quickly to changing wellbeing strategy has secured us ISO 45001 accreditations in the UK, Ireland, Australia and Global employee needs. For example, our recent launch of “let’s talk…” employee round tables Singapore. In the UK, we were also recognised on diversity was developed in response to the as Health & Safety Team of the Year at the issues highlighted by the Black Lives Matter Safety and Health Excellence Awards in 2019. movement. Links to policies and further information Addressing our gender balance continues to be n Annual review: people: capacity and skills a key focus, in line with SDG 5: Gender n Website: People n Case study: The Bridge, North America Equality. We are on track to reach a 60:40 n Case study: Promoting better mental health among gender split across our business by 2025. We our people are proud of the programmes we have put in n Case study: Health, safety and wellbeing place to support women in our business and n Health, safety and wellbeing policy n Case study: Promoting innovative technology in the within our communities; particularly our career Middle East returners programme in the UK and The Bridge initiative in the USA. Female representation on our boards has grown over the last five years and we are Reconciliation seeing more women reach leadership positions Action Plan, across the globe. Australia Chairman and Chief Executive 2019–2020 corporate 2019–2020 corporate Building a sustainable An open and support Helping lives to Ethical practice UN Sustainable We welcome your Officer Statement responsibility overview approach responsibility highlights future workplace thrive as standard Development Goal feedback Helping lives to thrive UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019–2020 | 7 Investing in the next generation commitment to our mission of ‘not leaving anyone We address SDG 4: Quality Education through our behind’. commitment to social mobility, removing barriers The COVID-19 pandemic has intensified the to opportunity and raising aspirations among those vulnerability of those most in need in our society who need an extra helping hand. and our commitment to support vulnerable young This year, we closed our #TT5000futures campaign people to achieve their potential will not stop. In through which we reached over 15,000 children the years to come, we will continue to help even and young people across the globe since its launch more lives to overcome barriers to opportunity in 2018. During the campaign, an average of 32% through meaningful education and fulfilling of our colleagues dedicated a total of 19,000 careers. volunteering hours to support vulnerable young Links to policies and further information people to build a better future. We created n  nnual review: people: capacity and skills A impactful and locally focused partnerships with n Website: Community value over 150 schools and organisations, and donated n Case study: #TT5000futures, worldwide £1.1million to local charitable projects that n Case study: ACE Partnership, North America supported vulnerable young people to thrive. In the USA for example, we have not only continued Promoting inclusive growth our partnership with ACE Mentoring Program of We guard against discrimination in respect of America throughout lockdown but we are growing employment and occupation through clear our work with them into Canada. recruitment guidelines and polices. We regularly undertake unconscious bias training, an online In 2020, we continued to work with our regional version of which is now available to all employees. charity partners on a local level to support home This training helps our people be aware of and learning and address the challenges COVID-19 counteract their inherent preconceptions of others. presented to many. Across the globe, our mentoring programmes continued on new virtual We continue to grow our reconciliation journey in platforms, and we provided vital home learning Australia to acknowledge and include the Department of supplies. In Asia, not only did our people fundraise traditional owners of the land in our progress. This Trade and for and help build schools in Indonesia but they has seen us take positive action to support first Industry, also rolled out several fundraising events for key nation communities through our commercial South Africa worker accommodation. Our community projects, community outreach and talent pipelines. engagement achievements during this unprecedented time demonstrates our relentless Chairman and Chief Executive 2019–2020 corporate 2019–2020 corporate Building a sustainable An open and support Helping lives to Ethical practice UN Sustainable We welcome your Officer Statement responsibility overview approach responsibility highlights future workplace thrive as standard Development Goal feedback Ethical practice as standard UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019–2020 | 8 In South Africa, we continue to champion our and guidelines on corporate conduct when Our e-learning system will continue to help our enterprise and supplier development appropriate. people around the world keep up to date with programme that has enabled us to contribute developments, while our independent ABC Processes are underpinned by a strong culture to the creation of over 800 job opportunities. hotline helps them to raise concerns set by our leadership where ethics are Through this programme, we have supported anonymously. embedded in the way we do work. This enables the inclusion of youth and women from rural us to take proactive action against any Links to policies and further information areas into the workforce, and upskilled complicity in human rights abuses. Our risk n Anti-bribery and corruption policy black-owned small enterprises to compete and management and human resources teams n Ethics policy and code of conduct take part in South Africa’s mainstream guide and support people where needed. economy. Our overall approach to the UN SDGs Links to policies and further information We have continued to focus on four Global Human and labour rights n Annual review: people: capacity and skills Goals that are most material to our business: We are committed to eliminating any form of Ethics policy and code of conduct forced labour or human trafficking both in our n n Modern Slavery Act Statement SDG 4: Quality Education business and across our supply chain as clearly n Case study: Department of Trade and Industry, SDG 5: Gender Equality stated in our Modern Slavery Statement. South Africa n Case study: Reconciliation Action Plan, Australia SDG 9: Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure Commitments made in the UK are replicated across the globe as applicable and we are SDG 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities looking to build on progress made. Anti-corruption These represent the issues that we have the We have a zero-tolerance approach to bribery As well as prohibiting the use of forced or largest influence on and those that have and corruption. As a global business, Turner & compulsory labour, we meet all child labour impacted our industry and business the most Townsend is clear on what this means and laws globally and we do not employ anyone to date. works hard to communicate our expectations who does not meet minimum age of our people on these issues. We recognise the interconnected nature of the requirements. Global Goals, related issues and required Our anti-bribery and corruption (ABC) policy Our people are compensated fairly relative to solutions. We know that through our corporate and associated guidelines have been translated our industry and local markets. In addition, we responsibility programmes, operations and into ten global languages and clearly set out respect that all our people have the right to work with clients, we are impacting both our stance. freedom of association subject to local laws society and the environment beyond these and regulations. We follow applicable laws with Every employee is required to complete an prioritised SDGs. The table on the next page respect to salary, benefits and work hours. annual ABC declaration as well as carry out outlines how we contribute to additional SDGs ABC training when they join the company and through our corporate responsibility We require all of our employees to comply with a refresher every two years. programmes, operations and work with clients. our ethical standards and update our policies Chairman and Chief Executive 2019–2020 corporate 2019–2020 corporate Building a sustainable An open and support Helping lives to Ethical practice UN Sustainable We welcome your Officer Statement responsibility overview approach responsibility highlights future workplace thrive as standard Development Goal feedback UN Sustainable UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019–2020 | 9 Development Goal SDG 1: SDG 3: SDG 8: SDG 10: SDG 12: SDG 13: SDG 17: No poverty Good Health & Decent Work Reduced Responsible Climate Action Partnerships for Wellbeing and Economic Inequalities Consumption the Goals Growth and Production Our education and employment Whether in our offices or out We see that our people are As a business, we take a Through our work with clients, We continue to increase the We are collaborating across programmes have supported on site, the health, safety and compensated fairly for the holistic approach to diversity we create innovative and scope of our environmental our industry to achieve greater over 15,000 young people and wellbeing of our people is of industry and market they are in. and inclusion, ensuring equal sustainable solutions that reporting to include all our productivity and efficiency children from some of the most the utmost importance. Our We also have a robust training and opportunities are available to all generate resource efficiency permanent offices and are through our involvement disadvantaged communities HR policies, awareness-raising development programme and regardless of gender, ethnicity, of built assets over their entire currently using this information in industry bodies like the near our offices and operations. campaigns and training of a clear review process helping disability, age, sexual orientation, life cycle. Over the past year, to develop our new sustainability Royal Institution of Chartered By providing opportunities to Mental Health First Aiders people reach their full potential religion or social-economic we have invested both in our strategy. This will entail Surveyors, Association for those who need it most, we have help us to take care of our with us. Working with our clients, background. Our localisation sustainability advisory offer and sustainability commitments Consultancy and Engineering supported social mobility and people. In addition, we help our we help deliver much-needed programme means we actively in supportive technology to help that are grounded in the Paris or the UK government’s helped to break the cycle of clients embed strategies and public services and commercial recruit for talent within the clients making greener choices. Climate Agreement. Many of our Construction Leadership poverty over the long term. cultures which support effective assets on time and on budget, local communities in which we offices are ISO 14001 certified Council (CLC). We also actively operations that maintain safe and supporting long-term economic operate, helping to make sure and we have a growing global work in partnership with our healthy environments through growth. that nobody is ‘left behind’. network of environmental clients, supply chains and our dedicated consultancy champions who drive our local community organisations to teams. sustainability commitments and build a legacy that contributes initiatives across all levels of the to a fair society and sustainable organisation. future. In our community value efforts, we have worked with over 150 schools, charities and organisations to deliver locally relevant and impactful initiatives focused on education and entry into employment. Chairman and Chief Executive 2019–2020 corporate 2019–2020 corporate Building a sustainable An open and support Helping lives to Ethical practice UN Sustainable We welcome your Officer Statement responsibility overview approach responsibility highlights future workplace thrive as standard Development Goal feedback We welcome your UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019–2020 | 10 feedback I am proud of the progress we continue to make in our responsible business agenda and the impact we have had as a global team. This year has brought to the fore the important role companies must play in ensuring Please contact on cr@turntown.com @turnertownsend turnerandtownsend linkedin.com/company/ the resilience and protection of our turner-&-townsend people and planet. Events have given us a unique moment to consider what kind of company we want to be going forward, and I am very excited about the next steps we will be taking to contribute to the UN Sustainable Development Goals.’ Lydia Parnell Global Corporate Responsibility Manager At Turner & Townsend we’re passionate about making the difference. That means delivering better outcomes for our clients, helping our people to realise their potential, and doing our part to create a prosperous society. From a single quantity surveying partnership in the UK founded in 1946, we have grown to become a world-leading professional services company, with 111 offices around the globe. We offer independent advice, safeguarding the commercial interests of clients embarking on investment programmes across real estate, infrastructure and natural resources. © Turner & Townsend Limited. All rights reserved November 2020. This content is for general information purposes only and does not purport to constitute professional advice. We do not make any representation or give any warranty and shall not be liable for any losses or damages whatsoever, arising from reliance on information contained in this document. VN/02/05/A/143/1 Chairman and Chief Executive 2019–2020 corporate 2019–2020 corporate Building a sustainable An open and support Helping lives to Ethical practice UN Sustainable We welcome your Officer Statement responsibility overview approach responsibility highlights future workplace thrive as standard Development Goal feedback
