Sustainability Report 2019 Maersk Drilling Sustainability Report 2019 02 Table of contents 03 Introduction 18 Protecting people 03 Letter from the CEO 19 Relentless focus on safety 05 Maersk Drilling at a glance 06 Maersk Drilling and the oil and gas industry 07 Sustainability highlights 2019 22 Value to society 08 Our sustainability approach 23 Contributing to local societies Climate and energy, page 10 10 Climate and energy 26 Developing people 11 Meeting society’s demand for oil and gas 27 A people business in a responsible way 28 Towards more diversity 13 Removing inefficiencies from the value chain 14 2019 performance 30 Responsible operations 31 Ethical business practices around the world 16 Environmental management 32 Responsibility in the supply chain 17 Respecting the marine environment – Spills Developing people, page 26 – Chemical management 33 Data tables – Waste 33 Ambition and progress – Decommissioning 34 ESG performance data Statutory Report for 99a and 99b according to the Danish Financial Statements act Maersk Drilling Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction Climate and energy Environmental management Protecting people Value to society Developing people Responsible operations Data tables 03 Letter from the CEO It is with great pride that I introduce the 2019 on the environment. We work to reduce energy Keeping our people safe is the most important Maersk Drilling Sustainability Report, our first as consumption and emissions from our operations, thing we do as a company. The safety of people a separately listed company since our demerger and fully support the Paris Climate Agreement transcends commercial interests, and that is why from A.P. Moller Maersk. and regulation to ensure efficiency in the I am pleased to report a reduction in the frequency industry – thereby protecting our environment and severity of incidents in 2019. This is movement As we set out on this next phase of Maersk and climate. in the right direction to reach our target of zero Drilling’s history, we remain defined by our serious incidents. Safety is a continuous journey heritage and our Core Values. These are constant Our long-term presence in Norway, which has and we will never relent in our efforts. in a complex world. We actively prepare for some of the most stringent regulations on tomorrow with constant care and with humbleness sustainability, provides a testing ground for our Maersk Drilling seeks to do business in a – we listen, learn, share and give space to others. most advanced solutions such as shorepowered responsible and sustainable manner. Acting with Being upright requires that our word is our bond rigs and low emission hybrid rigs. As the energy integrity and high standards of business ethics, with customers, suppliers and partners and we put transition accelerates and the need for new respecting human rights and working against “This first year as a employees at the heart of the company, providing technologies increases, we will continue to work corruption is simply the right and best way to do the right environment for the right people. with our customers to develop solutions that business. This first year as a standalone, listed standalone, listed increase emissions efficiency. company has presented many new opportunities Our name is the sum of the values: the passion for our business in a rapidly changing industry. company has presented and pride for what we do and how we do it. As a standalone company, Maersk Drilling has We have an important role to play in the future many new opportunities Climate change is a significant challenge facing joined the UN Global Compact to emphasise our continued commitment to universal sustainability energy transition and as we continue to build on the sustainability efforts already integrated into for our business in society, and it will take time to develop new technologies to the efficiency and scale required principles and the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Our dedication to long-term value our operations, we remain committed to creating long-term value for our people, our customers, a rapidly changing to mitigate emissions from carbon-based energy. Even in the most rapid energy transition scenarios, creation for society is guided and inspired by the 10 principles of the Global Compact, the our shareholders and the communities in which we operate. industry.“ the world will continue to use oil and gas for many Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and years to come as a significant part of the energy the fundamental labour conventions of the mix. Maersk Drilling has an important role to play International Labour Organisation (ILO). in this transition, ensuring this demand is met with responsible operations that reduce our impact Jørn Madsen CEO, Maersk Drilling Maersk Drilling Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction Climate and energy Environmental management Protecting people Value to society Developing people Responsible operations Data tables 04 Maersk Drilling Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction Climate and energy Environmental management Protecting people Value to society Developing people Responsible operations Data tables 05 Maersk Drilling 2019 at a glance 22 2,850 Number of rigs Employees Maersk Drilling provides high efficiency drilling services to energy companies around the world. Global rig locations Jack-ups 4x United Kingdom Floaters 6x Norway 1x Netherlands 2x Denmark 1972 Founded 1,222 Revenue (USD million) 2x Mexico 1x Myanmar 1x Brunei 1x Egypt 1x Ghana 1x Azerbaijan 1x Angola 415 5,517 1x Australia Location of jack-ups and floaters as per 31 December 2019. For rigs in between contracts, the location of the next contract has been referred to. EBITDA before special items (USD million) Total assets (USD million) Maersk Drilling Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction Climate and energy Environmental management Protecting people Value to society Developing people Responsible operations Data tables 06 Maersk Drilling and the oil and gas industry Maersk Drilling Offshore drilling rig services Reliability – Safety – Efficiency Production platform Refinery Seismic Storage Power exploration heating vessel Tanker Pipeline Fuel Petrochemicals lubricants UPSTREAM MIDSTREAM DOWNSTREAM Exploration Development Production Transportation and storage, Refining, marketing and distribution moving oil and gas to shore to everyday products and transportation Finding oil and gas Drilling wells for exploration, Extracting oil and gas appraisal, and production Decommissioning the well Maersk Drilling Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction Climate and energy Environmental management Protecting people Value to society Developing people Responsible operations Data tables 07 Oil and gas is an integrated part of modern society Oil and gas is a vital industry that supports job creation, economic growth and Sustainability highlights 2019 development in many local communities. Products derived from oil and gas are instrumental to help meet crucial needs through a wide range of uses. Maersk Drilling works to continuously improve our impact on people and environment. The figures shown below highlight key areas for our Improving standards of life E.g. enabling cooking and sustainability work. How we work in these areas is described in further heating in places with no or detail in the following chapters. unstable power supplies Pharmaceuticals Road transport E.g. as the base materials E.g. diesel and gasoline for 0.75 349.7 101.9 for medical products lorries and cars enabling transport and logistics Lost-time incidents frequency GHG emissions when drilling for Fuel oil consumed when drilling (based on man hours) customers (1,000 tonnes CO₂ eq.) for customers (1,000 tonnes) (2018: 0.92) (2018: 327.9) (2018: 95.6) Roads Air transport E.g. asphalt used in E.g. jet fuel for Oil and gas 13% 97.7 2 highways and roads global air travel Share of women in our workforce GHG emissions from other Low-emission rigs (2018: 11%) activities (1,000 tonnes CO₂ eq.) commissioned for upgrade (2018: 77.7) (2018: 0) Building materials Sea transport E.g. insulation in building E.g. fuel for container vessels foundations reducing energy loss which supports global trade Chemicals E.g. used in industrial products such as dyes 65 Nationalities represented 55.4 CO₂ intensity (tonnes/contracted day) 1 Spill to environment (2018: 59) (2018: 54.4) (2018: 0) Maersk Drilling Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction Climate and energy Environmental management Protecting people Value to society Developing people Responsible operations Data tables 08 Our sustainability Working closely together approach with our customers on sustainability When working with customers on drilling campaigns, the operational and legal responsibilities related to sustainability are simultaneously separate and intertwined. Maersk We have over many years built a strong Sustainability is an integral part of how we do The Safety and Sustainability Committee is Drilling actively offers solutions to sustainability foundation and operational culture business. It is considered in our strategic decisions currently comprised of the Chairman of the Board our customers, also within their areas based on the Maersk Core Values, which we and integrated into our daily operations as part and two other board members. The main purpose of operational responsibility. still embrace in our new role as an independent of the organisation’s key functions such as health of the committee is to oversee the identification, company. With Maersk Drilling’s first Sustainability and safety, procurement, human resources, legal, management and mitigation of risks, including Report as a separately listed company, we present and commercial. Importantly, our people working targets, objectives, policies, activities and Maersk Drilling’s our approach to and efforts within sustainability, offshore all have vital roles in ensuring that management systems related to sustainability. operational responsibility focusing on our specific role in the oil and gas sustainability standards are upheld. • Training and technical skills of value chain. Maersk Drilling’s Executive Leadership Team employees and contractors • Safety of employees and third Governance and Policies holds the operational responsibility for our parties on board our rigs Through the lens of sustainability, Maersk The Board of Directors is the highest authority on sustainability performance with specialist • Handling of chemicals on rigs Drilling’s role in the oil and gas value chain is sustainability in Maersk Drilling. In April 2019, a support from dedicated working groups. Our • Spills of hazardous materials to sea to be a responsible drilling partner for our Safety and Sustainability Board Committee was Sustainability Policy provides high-level guidance • Sorting of household waste on customers, shareholders, our employees, and established to oversee safety and sustainability on how we conduct a sustainable business and, board our rigs for society as whole. issues and progress across the company. in addition, sustainability is integrated into our • Fuel consumption and emissions in between operations Customer’s operational responsibility Governance • Appropriate disposal of drilling waste (cuttings) Commitments Policies and codes Governing bodies • Impact assessment of drilling activities prior to drilling • UN Global Compact membership Sustainability policy with • Board of Directors including a • Fuel consumption and emissions • Universal Declaration of sub-policies and codes such as: sub-committee for Safety and during drilling operations Human Rights • HSSE policy Sustainability • Security of wells after drilling • Fundamental labour • Diversity and Inclusion policy • Executive Leadership Team • Safety of customer staff and conventions of the ILO • Code of Conduct upholding of Maersk Drilling • Support to the Paris Climate • Third Party Code of Conduct safety instructions Agreement • Modern Slavery policy Maersk Drilling Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction Climate and energy Environmental management Protecting people Value to society Developing people Responsible operations Data tables 09 Our sustainability focus overall Enterprise Risk Management system where sustainability risks are identified, evaluated and Decarbonising Climate managed along with other business risks. upstream activities and energy within oil & gas The Sustainability Policy is built on the ten People principles of the UN Global Compact, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and Improving the fundamental labour conventions of the safety standards International Labour Organisation (ILO). The overall offshore Business policy is further supported by a number of subjectShared value Responsible ethics specific policies which guide us in our operations. with customers business and society practices Focus areas Out of the 17 SDGs, we have identified eight where Local Developing people content we believe our business has the greatest direct and local society impact within the areas of climate and energy, in host countries safety, people, local content and responsible business. These areas are at the core of our Safety sustainability efforts. Decommissioning While Maersk Drilling contributes positively to a Environmental of oil fields number of the SDGs, via for example decarbonisation management of drilling campaigns and decommissioning of oilfields, we are also aware of our impact on others, such as SDG 13 on Climate Action and SDG 14 on Life Under Water. Based on the projections demand for oil and gas in the next decades, we believe our main obligation is to ensure that this demand is met in a responsible way, with a focus on minimising the impact on people and the environment. Maersk Drilling Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction Climate and energy Environmental management Protecting people Value to society Developing people Responsible operations Data tables 10 Climate and energy In 2019, we announced the rebuilding of Maersk Integrator and Maersk Intrepid, converting them into our first lowemission drilling rigs. Thanks to the installation of battery technology, energy efficiency software and NOx-reducing catalysts, they offer leading technological solutions for rigs not running on shorepower. Maersk Drilling Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction Climate and energy Environmental management Protecting people Value to society Developing people Responsible operations Data tables 11 Meeting society’s Related SDGs demand for oil and gas in a responsible way The transition towards a low-emission society sources, especially in developing countries. Most This entails a continued need for exploration Share of CO₂ emissions from represents one of the most fundamental experts expect a significant rise in global energy and development of offshore oil and gas fields. upand midstream activities challenges that we face today. With more than consumption towards 2040. Meeting this need in a responsible way is where ~5% 100 years of societal development based Maersk Drilling can make an impact. on combustion engines and carbon based The most rapid transition scenarios show that materials, this transition will take time. oil and gas will make up a significant part of the Norwegian fields are leading in energy mix for years to come. While renewable energy efficiency improvement With an expected rise in global population to energy will grow significantly to meet the overall Based on our long-standing leading position in from drilling for exploration almost 10 billion people by 2050, there will be increase in demand and to replace carbon Norway, we are well-versed in some of the most and development an increasing demand for access to modern intensive coal, oil and gas are expected to account demanding sustainability requirements in the services that rely on stable and affordable energy for a sizeable part of the energy mix towards 2040. world. The average carbon footprint from upstream ~80% activities on the Norwegian fields is around half the global average of 18 kg CO2 per barrel and it continues to drop. There are examples of fields Change in global energy mix according to the main IEA scenarios in Norway where the carbon footprint has been brought down to below 1 kg CO2 per barrel, due to from production platforms Oil Gas Coal Renewables the use of e.g. hydro-based shorepower. Million tonnes of oil equivalent ~15% 20,000 In Norway, drilling for exploration and development 15,000 accounts for approximately 5% of total carbon 10,000 footprint of the oil and gas companies’ upstream 5,000 and midstream activities, a relatively small proportion compared to the around 80% coming from transport to onshore 0 from production platforms and around 15% from 2017 2040 2040 2040 Current Stated Sustainable storage and transport to onshore processing. Maersk policies policies development Drilling’s ambition is to offer solutions that allow our Includes the activities of exploration, The Current Policies Scenario represents a world that continues along its present path, without any additional changes in customers, the oil and gas companies, to significantly development, production and transportation policy. The Stated Policies Scenario includes today’s policy intentions and targets, and illustrates the potential results of onshore. Does not include refining activities. policy-makers. The Sustainable Development Scenario charts a path aligned with the Paris Agreement, holding the rise in increase drilling efficiency, thereby reducing the total Based on studies from the Norwegian global temperatures to “well below 2°C”. Source: IEA World Energy Outlook 2019 carbon footprint of each barrel of oil produced. Continental Shelf. Source: Based on Rystad data Maersk Drilling Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction Climate and energy Environmental management Protecting people Value to society Developing people Responsible operations Data tables 12 With our strategic ambition of Smarter Drilling for Better Value, we aim to deliver operational excellence while exploring new business models and Reducing our innovative technologies that reduce complexity for carbon footprint with our customers. By rethinking the traditional ways of organising drilling campaigns through partnerships, novel technologies we have, in our current best case example, been able to save up to 36% on time and an equivalent saving Together with our customers, Maersk on energy and emissions in a drilling campaign. Drilling has developed a range of pilot technologies to jointly reduce the carbon Norway and the wider North Sea region has been footprint of drilling campaigns. an incubator for our most advanced solutions such as our shorepowered rig and hybrid rigs. Over time, these solutions can be leveraged and offered to our customers in other regions, as the energy transition accelerates and increases the incentives Shorepower for adopting new technologies and new ways of Maersk Drilling was the first driller to introduce a rig powered by electricity working. through a sea cable. The rig is currently operating in Norway on the Valhall field. Hybrid power based on energy storage Producing oil in the right way makes a difference In 2019, we announced together with our customers Equinor and Aker BP the The CO₂ emissions linked to the production of one barrel of oil vary a great deal from oilfield to oilfield. intention to upgrade two rigs with hybrid Despite the harsh offshore environment, Norway has achieved one of the lowest CO₂ footprints thanks to power solutions based on batteries to the adoption of energy and CO₂ efficient technologies. reduce CO2 emissions. Kg CO₂ per barrel 30 Energy optimising software Our EEE solution – a fully digitalised fuel 23 20 and energy monitoring system – uses 18 19 advanced analytics to learn and optimise 13 10 towards more efficient behaviour. The 11 system is currently running on one of our 8 6 Norwegian rigs and will be rolled out on two 0 more rigs in the coming period. Middle East Norway North Offshore Other Middle East Other offshore offshore American deepwater onshore onshore shelves shelf shale Source: Based on Rystad Energy study for the Norwegian Oil and Gas Association, September 2019 Maersk Drilling Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction Climate and energy Environmental management Protecting people Value to society Developing people Responsible operations Data tables 13 Removing inefficiencies from the value chain Drilling campaigns are technologically challenging and complex projects. Smarter Drilling for Better Value Issue: Aker BP alliance outcome: 36% Many drilling campaigns suffer from Other services during a drilling campaign inefficiencies caused by a complex supplier landscape and coordination challenges. reduction in time spent and CO2 emitted. Equipment Logistics Conductors, casing, liners, Vessels, helicopters, Maersk Drilling X-mas trees, etc. bulk handling, etc. Drilling campaigns are technologically In 2017, Maersk Drilling signed a fiveSafe and efficient drilling services challenging and complex. Drilling one year alliance agreement with Aker BP offshore well can take between 25 and service company Halliburton. and 250 days and involves over 60 This aims at removing waste from the suppliers, leading to multiple handvalue chain through a joint incentive over and coordination challenges. It structure by the use of digital is a central part of Maersk Drilling’s solutions, increased collaboration, strategic ambition of Smarter Drilling standardisation and simplification of for Better Value to eliminate these processes. On average, we have seen a Operational Customer inefficiencies. Via orchestration, time reduction in the range of 5–10%. excellence centricity integrated services and incentive In 2019, Maersk Invincible carried out models based on shared benefits, an installation campaign under the Maersk Drilling has demonstrated alliance that was the most successful an ability to reduce time and to date. A job installing 12 conductors resource waste significantly in close (large pipes that are placed into the collaboration with our partners. This ground to provide the initial stable has major positive effects on the structural foundation for a well) Technology project’s total energy consumption and was estimated to take 38 days and CO2 emissions. According to our own was completed in just 24, resulting calculations based on our Norwegian in a 36% time and CO2 reduction. No operations, every day that can be cut compromises were made on safety Related drilling services Well services from a drilling campaign with one of measures. Running casing, cementing, drill Mud logging, completion, our XLE rigs saves around 20 tonnes of bits, wireline, handling cuttings, well testing, directional drilling, diesel and more than 50 tonnes of CO2. ROVs, etc. drilling fluids, etc. Maersk Drilling Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction Climate and energy Environmental management Protecting people Value to society Developing people Responsible operations Data tables 14 2019 Fuel consumption 2017–2019 Impacts while operating on contract performance Impacts from rigs off contract and from onshore activities 1,000 tonnes 150 28.5 100 20.9 22.6 93.6 95.6 101.9 50 The energy consumption and air emissions of New hybrid solutions announced in 2019 0 our activities derive from three main sources: During 2019, a number of initiatives were 2017 2018 2019 operating rigs for customers as part of drilling introduced to reduce energy consumption and campaigns, moving rigs and running stacked CO2 emissions during operations and during rig rigs and finally running our offices and onshore moves. In May, we announced a hybrid, lowGHG emissions 2017–2019 organisation. The impact of operating rigs for our emission upgrade of Maersk Intrepid which, customers is by far the largest of these. under contract with Equinor, will be fitted with Impacts while operating on contract a unique combination of technologies that Impacts from rigs off contract and from onshore activities In 2019, the fuel consumed by rigs in operation enable low-emission drilling for rigs that cannot 1,000 tonnes CO₂ eq. for customers increased by 6.6%, driven by an be connected to shorepower. In November, we increase in the total number of contracted days announced the upgrade of a second hybrid rig, 450 98.4 by 4.7%. Fuel consumption for rigs off contract in connection with an agreement with Aker BP to 72.3 78.5 300 grew from 22.6 ktonnes to 28.5 ktonnes fuel install similar equipment on Maersk Integrator. 327.9 349.7 321.0 oil due to more long-distance rig moves by our Norway is currently the only country where 150 floaters, compared to 2018. Other air emissions emissions regulation and public funding provide a also grew as they are directly related to the energy sustainable business framework for these hybrid, 0 consumed. low-emission upgrades. 2017 2018 2019 Our greenhouse gas (GHG) intensity, consisting mainly of CO2 emissions, was quite stable at 55.4 GHG intensity 2017–2019 tonnes/contracted day compared to 54.4 in 2018 and 57.8 in 2017. In 2019, there was an additional tonnes CO₂ eq. per contracted day CO2 impact from our shorepowered rig Maersk Invincible moving to a new location on the Valhall 60 field. As the new location was not connected 57.8 54.4 55.4 to the onshore grid, the rig was running on fuel 40 oil instead of shorepower, which increased our 2019 fuel consumption and CO2 emissions. The 20 customer is planning to move the rig back to a 0 shorepowered location on Valhall in 2020 as a 2017 2018 2019 result of which we should see a positive effect on fuel and emissions for 2020. Maersk Drilling Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction Climate and energy Environmental management Protecting people Value to society Developing people Responsible operations Data tables 15 Reducing CO₂ emissions with slow-steaming Since 2015, Maersk Drilling has worked to reduce fuel consumption during transit of our floaters from one part of the world to another. When transit speed is significantly reduced to save fuel and thereby CO2 emissions, it is called slow-steaming. By reducing speed to 50–70% of maximum service speed, fuel consumption and thereby CO2 emissions are reduced by approximately 30% compared to baseline. In 2019, Maersk Drilling performed seven long distance rig transits using slow-steaming. This resulted in an average 30% lower fuel consumption and 10,100 tonnes CO2 saved compared to rig transits at standard speed. Maersk Drilling Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction Climate and energy Environmental management Protecting people Value to society Developing people Responsible operations Data tables 16 Environmental management Maersk Drilling Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction Climate and energy Environmental management Protecting people Value to society Developing people Responsible operations Data tables 17 Respecting Related SDGs the marine environment Maersk Drilling’s ambition is to provide responsible drilling services, and reducing the environmental In 2019, Maersk Drilling recorded one spill to the environment compared to zero in 2018. In June, Waste to test the opportunities to reduce the amounts of single-use plastic items onboard our rigs including impact of our operations is an important part of this. Mærsk Inspirer experienced a spill of hydraulic oil items such as packaging material, cups and We mainly target impacts relating to spills, waste and while docked at the Egersund yard in Norway. An Minimising and managing waste is important to drinking bottles. The findings from the project will the use of chemicals onboard our rigs. Our Health, environmental consulting agency was employed protect the marine environment, save resources be used for evaluating further activities across Safety, Security and Environment (HSSE) function to perform third-party analysis, concluding that and reduce landfill. Maersk Drilling has developed our fleet. works in close cooperation with our rigs to optimise the spill posed little danger to the environment. thorough processes for sorting and handling of activities governed by our HSSE Policy as well as The polluted soil was removed. Maersk Drilling has the waste generated by our drilling rigs. While our our Corporate Major Accident Prevention Policy. upgraded the rig’s hydraulic pressure system to ensure early warning in case of a future leak. customers ensure that waste is handled responsibly once it leaves the rig, it is our task to secure optimal Decommissioning handling when the waste is onboard our rig. Spills In 2018, Maersk Drilling and Maersk Supply Chemical management Waste from drilling activities consists of two main elements: Service founded the joint venture Maersk Decom to focus on the rising need to provide efficient Major spills may have long-lasting adverse effects • Waste from drilling operations, mainly bore and sustainable decommissioning of oil and gas on both the environment and people and can cause The safe use of chemicals on our rigs is an cuttings consisting of rock, clay and other fields. Maersk Decom provides scalable solutions substantial financial and reputational damage. Our important part of our environmental management sediments but also the small amounts of to responsibly handle end-of-life installations, goal is to have zero spills of hazardous materials. system. Chemicals can potentially pose a risk both chemicals used in the process restore the seabed, extend the lifetime of to the environment and to our people’s health and • Household waste, such as plastics, paper, materials and reduce risk in the process. In The risk of major spills is small, but can never be safety. metal, etc. September 2019, the company signed its first completely eliminated. The main risk factors are: contract together with Maersk Supply Service, • Loss of well control – a highly unusual event When working with chemicals, we aim to minimise Waste from drilling operations constitutes the to project manage removal, recycling and waste which Maersk Drilling has only experienced once, risks to health, safety and environment prior to most critical area and Maersk Drilling has for management of subsea infrastructure at the more than 40 years ago usage and handling. All new operational chemicals many years optimised the control, cleaning and Thames field in the UK North Sea. • Spills from machines and pipes undergo a product risk and assessment risk before reuse of the drilling fluid as well as the handling • Spills in connection with fuel charging from being approved for use onboard. Use of highof the cuttings. These services are currently under As part of our normal rig operations, Maersk supply ship to rig. risk chemicals is avoided when at all possible, further development as part of our ambition Drilling has extensive experience in plug and or a lower risk substitute with the equivalent to expand the scope of services offered to our abandonment (P&A), and our track record reflects We have set up rigorous procedures and systems to functionality is sought. When using chemicals, customers. our capability to provide these services efficiently avoid spills. Through our incident and investigation the user is provided with the necessary personal and with minimal risk. Amongst the major P&A processes, we closely evaluate any incident or nearprotection equipment and adequate training to As regards household waste, a pilot project was operations in 2019 were the activities carried out miss which can help improve our performance. handle the chemicals. carried out during 2019 on the Maersk Highlander by Maersk Invincible on the Valhall field in Norway. Maersk Drilling Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction Climate and energy Environmental management Protecting people Value to society Developing people Responsible operations Data tables 18 Protecting people Maersk Drilling Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction Climate and energy Environmental management Protecting people Value to society Developing people Responsible operations Data tables 19 Relentless focus Related SDGs on safety For Maersk Drilling, safety is a top priority. It is an unwavering commitment, rooted in our Core Values. Safety permeates everything we do and 1. Making it simple to act safely 2. Leveraging the knowledge of our front line 3. Being prepared to handle the unexpected stand for, onshore and offshore, and it is the We are freeing up time to focus on safety by Traditionally, safety management in the drilling In 2019, we focused on building capacity that foundation for delivering reliable and efficient removing complexity, reducing administrative industry has been driven out of headquarters allows us to quickly and decisively respond to operations to our customers. Our ambition is to tasks and making work processes more by centrally placed experts. In 2019, we aimed unexpected incidents. Bringing the human factor have zero serious incidents. transparent. No one should lose focus due to to strengthen the role of our offshore crews, into the equation, we aimed to build situational administrative work, and no one should doubt how building upon their knowledge and experience awareness and ensure that crews were able In 2019, Maersk Drilling made it one of its top four to perform a task safely. close to operations. Redefining the way we identify to spot changing variables in the middle of strategic priorities to develop and implement new solutions to safety challenges, we introduced a operations. approaches to safety in the entire organisation. In In 2019, we introduced a new Control of Work series of new systems that are able to constantly addition to our tried and tested safety practices system, a fully digitalised solution which capture the input from the front line and use these During 2019, we have strengthened the and management systems, we have shared the aggregates over 268 – often paper-based insights to address residual safety risks more cooperation between headquarter and front line learnings and results of this new approach with – processes in our safety management system systematically. focusing on a deeper understanding of human the wider industry as we consider safety to be a into one framework. Control of Work integrates behaviour during high-risk operations. This will priority that transcends commercial interests. the execution of any task on a rig into one In addition, we introduced quarterly safety form the basis for training the crew on the right process framework which supports consistently awards which reward the brightest ideas, based mindset as well as help develop early indicators Exploring new ground: Safety as Capacity safe and efficient operations across the fleet. on proposals from each of Maersk Drilling’s 23 allowing the crew to detect and correct before In 2019, we rolled out the new safety strategy Work instructions, permits, rescue and lift plans, rigs. By the end of 2019, we had received more things go wrong. An example has been the under the name Safety as Capacity. The strategy checklists, etc. are all bundled into one user flow. than 232 improvement ideas and we are actively introduction of a load monitoring system on our aims at complementing the traditional safety implementing many of them across the fleet. lifting equipment that triggers an alarm when a approach with an increased attention to the By end 2019, the system was active on eight rigs lifting operation approaches a pre-set limit. human factor in safety incidents. and we expect the roll-out to be completed by mid-2020. The new strategy targets the following three 232 priority areas: safety ideas were received and approved through a safety award campaign in 2019. Maersk Drilling Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction Climate and energy Environmental management Protecting people Value to society Developing people Responsible operations Data tables 20 A strong safety culture No system is stronger than the people operating A cornerstone in Maersk Drilling’s safety approach it and a strong safety culture begins with a solid has for many years been a continuously refined introduction at the very first on-boarding of barrier management system. The system uses new employees. At our Starters’ Day courses, all three types of barrier elements – technical, new employees – onshore and offshore – are operational and organisational – to collectively introduced to Maersk Drilling’s safety principles form an effective safety barrier. When all three and the fundamental operational mandate barrier elements are in place, the barrier function Authorised to Say Stop. This gives all employees safeguards people from incidents, reduces the right and the obligation to stop any unsafe severity, prevents incidents from escalating and activity. enables us to quickly reestablish operations. The right safety behaviour is a constant theme in To continuously drive improvement of the barrier any employee’s career at Maersk Drilling. It is an management system, all major incidents or nearintegral part of our new leadership programme misses are thoroughly investigated. In 2019, we launched in 2019, it is part of all ongoing training significantly revamped our investigation model with activities for our crews, and it remains highly the aim of improving root-cause understanding prioritised in Maersk Drilling’s internal and and ensuring that the right safety learnings are external communications. integrated into the barriers in the future. Personal injuries and potential risk weight During 2019, we registered a decreasing trend in the potential severity of our incidents. We have been pleased to note that no serious injuries have been registered since April. Serious injury LTI Restricted work Medical treatment First aid Accumulated potential risk weight 15 900 820 738 714 689 690 10 433 611 600 466 538 6 6 461 5 432 6 5 8 8 370 5 300 4 4 5 1 3 4 3 1 1 2 1 1 0 1 1 1 1 2 1 1 1 1 0 Jan 19 Feb 19 Mar 19 Apr 19 May 19 Jun 19 Jul 19 Aug 19 Sep 19 Oct 19 Nov 19 Dec 19 Maersk Drilling Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction Climate and energy Environmental management Protecting people Value to society Developing people Responsible operations Data tables 21 2019 safety performance in numbers Our safety performance 2017–2019 In 2019, we improved our safety performance with a Lost Time Injury frequency of 0.75, an LTI frequency TRC frequency improvement compared to 0.92 in 2018 and below the industry average of 1.06. 3 3 2.66 2.75 We saw an increase in the frequency of serious 2 2.49 2 injuries from zero in 2018 to 0.25 in 2019. The serious injuries frequency is a new indicator 1 1 introduced in 2019 to track performance on our most fundamental concern – the serious injuries 0.92 0.75 that cause permanent damage to people. 0.53 0 0 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 We are not satisfied with the number of serious injuries, but are encouraged to see that the LTIf measures the frequency of number of lost time injuries per million man hours. TRCf measures the frequency of all work-related fatalities, lost time injuries, restricted Lost time injuries is the sum of fatalities, permanent total disability, permanent partial work cases/injuries, and medical treatment cases/injuries per million man hours. severity grading of all incidents and high potential disability, and lost work day cases. near-misses has trended down since spring and there have been no serious injuries since April. We see this as an indicator that our new Safety as Capacity strategy is effective and will support us in continuing this trend of reduced severity and frequency of incidents. Serious injuries frequency Fatalities 3 3 2 2 Governing safety throughout our organisation 1 1 1 0.27 0.25 To ensure that safety is well-anchored 0.00 0 0 0 0 in our organisation, we have developed 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 governance structures, organisational competence, capacity, and a leadership Serious injuries frequency is measured as injuries with partial or permanent disability per Death directly resulting from work-related injury regardless of time between the injury culture which promotes the highest safety million man hours. and death. Excludes suicide, criminal and terrorist activity. standards. Our work with safety is embedded in our ‘Corporate Major Accident Prevention Policy’, our ‘Safety as Capacity’ strategy, and our fundamental operational mandate ‘Authorised to Say Stop’. Safety is overseen by the Executive Leadership Team’s Safety Board and ultimately by the Board of Directors’ Safety and Sustainability Committee. Maersk Drilling Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction Climate and energy Environmental management Protecting people Value to society Developing people Responsible operations Data tables 22 Value to society Fast local onboarding in Equatorial Guinea In June 2019, the Maersk Voyager moved from Ghana to Equatorial Guinea on a short-term contract to drill two wells. Operations commenced with 46% local offshore crew who were onboarded with a Safe Start-up Team Charter to guide safe and efficient operations. In addition, five local crane operators were upskilled on a course in Dubai. Despite the challenges of crew rotation, the Maersk Voyager has now drilled more than 1,000 days without a lost time incident. Maersk Drilling Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction Climate and energy Environmental management Protecting people Value to society Developing people Responsible operations Data tables 23 Contributing to Related SDGs local societies As a company guided by our Core Values, and with building local capacity, and ultimately generating Local competencies are important skills development, Maersk Drilling supports the operations around the world, Maersk Drilling strives sustained and inclusive economic growth. for safe and efficient operations local workforce in building skills and competencies to positively impact the communities in which we Local content requirements can for instance A skilled local workforce is crucial for us to maintain that can be used – also after our projects are operate through our local content efforts. include the percentage of local workforce, and safe and efficient operations in emerging offshore completed. of sourcing from local suppliers. Where possible, markets, such as parts of West Africa and South Maersk Drilling is present in a number of Maersk Drilling aims to go beyond local content East Asia. In many areas of the world, not least Local procurement emerging economies. In many of these countries, requirements and contribute even more to the in emerging economies, there tends to be a In addition to local content requirements on governments have adopted local content development of the local communities and discrepancy between the needs of the oil and gas staff, many countries have requirements for requirements for the oil and gas industry, with the economies that are impacted by our operations. industry and the capabilities of the local workforce. local procurement. Maersk Drilling complies aim of creating local employment opportunities, with requirements where they apply, and strives The nature of the drilling business can entail to procure locally when possible. This helps to short-term contracts with only transitory presence support the emergence of a domestic economy in a country. This makes the availability of local and secure local supply for Maersk Drilling and colleagues with the required specialised skills others in the industry. Through working with Overview of local content results in 2019 even more important for Maersk Drilling to deliver local suppliers, we support development of the safe and efficient services to our clients. We knowledge and skills necessary to live up to the Local staff Local procurement see local content as not only our responsibility, standards of international customers in the oil but also a key factor in our ability to continue and gas sector. Country Target 2019 2018 2019 Target 2019 2018 2019 operating at the highest standards. We support Azerbaijan 90% 86% 84% 37% 37% 53% this by contributing to building competencies and To support local procurement efforts, Maersk Brunei 32% 78% 78% 42% 42% 48% investing in the training and upskilling of the local Drilling has hosted local Suppliers Days in a workforce in the countries where we operate. number of countries, inviting local suppliers Egypt 49% 62% 58% 30% 30% 41% to learn about Maersk Drilling’s responsible Eq. Guinea 51% n/a 51% n/a n/a 35% Skills development from beginning to end procurement policy and the standards required Ghana 60% 54% 54% 40% 40% 69% When a new colleague is hired by Maersk Drilling, to work as a supplier to the oil and gas industry. an individual training plan is prepared based on the By working with local suppliers, we play a part Mexico 20%* n/a 38% n/a n/a n/a person’s previous experience and competencies. in developing emerging economies and, at the Myanmar 24% n/a 42% n/a n/a 5% For local crew members, this can include upskilling same time, benefit from increasing the range of Timor-Leste 22% n/a 23% n/a n/a n/a courses to ensure that the person is adequately products and services available to our industry in prepared for the regular rig-specific training, and the local markets. Trinidad 54% 15% 52% n/a 40% n/a is equipped with sufficient knowledge to receive * Note local content is related to cost in Mexico, not personnel headcount. on-the-job training. By investing in training and Maersk Drilling Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction Climate and energy Environmental management Protecting people Value to society Developing people Responsible operations Data tables 24 Training locals in Ghana Maersk Drilling has been present in Ghana since 2011, with a substantial focus on using our core competencies to build local capacity. In 2019, we launched a three-month programme named Training Bright Minds for 20 young Ghanaians who had just completed National Service. The training was led by local colleagues. As part of the programme, the participants were introduced to operations in the oil and gas as well as the drilling industry, and trained in first aid, anti-corruption, and health and safety. Even before the programme was finished, two participants had been able to benefit from the training to secure employment with two different companies. “This training has helped in bridging the skill gap facing the Ghanaian oil and gas sector and has boosted the local content drive of the local authorities. It was a great pleasure seeing Maersk Drilling allocating so much funding for this training.“ Nutifafa Kuivi Assistant Rig Manager of Maersk Venturer Maersk Drilling Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction Climate and energy Environmental management Protecting people Value to society Developing people Responsible operations Data tables 25 Maersk Drilling Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction Climate and energy Environmental management Protecting people Value to society Developing people Responsible operations Data tables 26 Developing people Maersk Drilling Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction Climate and energy Environmental management Protecting people Value to society Developing people Responsible operations Data tables 27 A people Related SDGs business Employee relations in Maersk Drilling are guided Training of offshore employees Ambitious leadership development by our Diversity and Inclusion Policy as well as our Offshore, three levels of training ensure that To support a smooth and efficient transformation Code of Conduct and Third Party Code of Conduct, employees can move forward in their career paths of Maersk Drilling, a new broad-based leadership A new approach to which are in accordance with international labour on a transparent trajectory. programme was introduced in 2019 with the competence assurance standards. aim of building strong dialogue and listening Level 1: License-to-operate compliance training in skills, team orientation and openness to diverse globally In Maersk Drilling, we strive to uphold a supportive line with regulatory and customer requirements. mindsets and ideas. 70 people attended the four In 2019, Maersk Drilling started rolling and productive working environment that day-course during 2019. In 2020, another 350 out a competence assurance system stimulates the growth and development of our Level 2: Maersk Drilling-specific procedural leaders will undergo training. (CAS) across the global fleet. The system people. While our business involves operating training, ensuring the ability to comply with adheres to the UK HSE guidelines for some of the world’s largest offshore drilling rigs operating procedures and systems. The programme covers both onand offshore the management of competency of in technically complex scenarios, Maersk Drilling leaders, emphasising cross-functional personnel engaged in offshore oil and is first and foremost a people business. Level 3: Leadership, values and performance collaboration, curiosity and an increased sense of gas operations. The UK HSE guidelines training to enable consistent high performance. being ‘one team’. are generally recognised as the most stringent in the industry, building on Engagement through dialogue two main pillars: 1. Onboarding checklists which Our quarterly people survey, Compass, provide a practical introduction to was launched in September 2018 and fully rig layout and specific safety critical implemented in 2019. With Compass, we aim equipment and systems. to improve the employee experience by using 2. A structured approach to Compass survey – a new way to engagement and dialogue continuous conversations to drive development. assessment of competencies and This is a step-change compared to the annual skills related to positions. • Easy, quick and frequent The Compass survey yields an Employee employee satisfaction surveys that were used Net Promoter Score (eNPS), which before. Compass has increased the frequency with The digitalised CAS system sets a • 5–6 questions every quarter reflects to what extent an employee will which employees and leaders engage and this has high bar regardless of where the rig • More than 2,000 comments every quarter recommend Maersk Drilling as a great is operating, and has replaced several so far been well received by employees as well as place to work. The score showed a slight local systems with a single corporate • High and growing completion rate improvement during the year – from leaders onand offshore. standard. This helps to ensure that even -24 to -23. In 2020, initiatives have been when shifting personnel between rigs, launched to improve the company’s Maersk Drilling can maintain the same eNPS score. high efficiency and safety standards. Maersk Drilling Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction Climate and energy Environmental management Protecting people Value to society Developing people Responsible operations Data tables 28 Towards Related SDGs more diversity Maersk Drilling does not discriminate based In the oil and gas industry, diversity can Continuing improvements • Succession planning – through identifying on age, gender, nationality, socioeconomic be a challenge and women continue to be in gender diversity diverse successors with a special view to senior background, disability, religion or sexual underrepresented. The Petroleum Equipment and Our share of female employees increased from management positions. orientation. We believe that diversity and inclusion Services Association in 2018 found that only 15% 10% in 2018 to 13% in 2019 and the share of female can contribute to improved performance and of the worldwide oil and gas workforce is female, leaders rose slightly from 10% to 11%. Offshore, • Acceleration programmes – through putting a high quality decision-making, and is essential to and even fewer hold technical and management women only make up 2% of the workforce, all diverse selection of employees on a targeted innovation and organisational learning; critical roles. With a traditional stronghold in the North employed in non-managerial positions. Onshore, career path. elements to maintaining our position as a leading Sea, the majority of Maersk Drilling’s workforce is women represent 37% of our workforce. Female player in the offshore drilling industry. Scandinavian or British nationals. leaders made up 23% of our onshore leadership In 2020, we will initiate a process to further in 2019 compared to 24% in 2018. Our ambition is explore the cultural and behavioural barriers to to ensure that more women progress into senior diversity in Maersk Drilling’s leadership onand leadership positions. offshore, with the aim of identifying additional responses to the diversity challenges. Our ambition We believe that strengthening our pipeline of extends beyond gender to include other diversity female talent and leadership, onand offshore, parameters, such as nationality and age. Alongside will increase diversity. In order to achieve this, we these efforts, we will continue to build awareness aim to address structural and cultural barriers by: of the benefits of an inclusive culture through training and communication. • Enhancing recruitment – through awareness of biases in candidate selection and by applying a structured assessment process. • Promotions – through consideration of a broader and more diverse candidate field for leadership positions. 15% of the worldwide workforce in oil and gas is female. Maersk Drilling Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction Climate and energy Environmental management Protecting people Value to society Developing people Responsible operations Data tables 29 Board diversity in a broader sense, including gender as well Gender distribution in 2019 Maersk Drilling’s overall ambition is to work as nationality, international experience and towards an equal gender distribution on the Board qualifications. During the first year as a separately Male Female of Directors. The target is to have two female listed entity no changes to the board composition board members elected by Maersk Drilling’s has taken place and the 2022 target in regards 2% 0% 100 shareholders no later than at the annual general to gender distribution has therefore not yet 13% 37% 98% 23% 100% meeting in 2022. Additionally, Maersk Drilling’s been met. 87% 80 target is that at least 1/3 of the Board of Directors 77% are non-Danish citizens. 60 63% Upon the establishment of Maersk Drilling 40 as a separate legal entity 2 April 2019, one shareholder-elected board member was female and five were male. Four shareholder-elected 20 board members were non-Danish citizens and two were Danish citizens. As part of the composition 0 of the Board of Directors, diversity was considered Total Onshore Offshore Managerial Managerial positions onshore positions offshore Nationality distribution offand onshore in 2019 Nationality distribution 2017–2019 – total population Scandinavia Central Western Europe Eastern Europe Southeast Asia Other Scandinavia Central Western Europe Eastern Europe Southeast Asia Other Offshore Onshore 100 13% 10% 10% 9% 11% 6% 6% 6% 80 5% 5% 5% 8% 8% 26% 28% 28% 8% 60 10% 34% 51% 51% 48% 40 14% 20 44% 0 57% 2017 2018 2019 Maersk Drilling Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction Climate and energy Environmental management Protecting people Value to society Developing people Responsible operations Data tables 30 Responsible operations Maersk Drilling Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction Climate and energy Environmental management Protecting people Value to society Developing people Responsible operations Data tables 31 Ethical Related SDGs business practices around the world As a company with operations all around the Maersk Drilling possesses a tried and tested Ensuring a high degree of business ethics party and accessible to employees and the general globe, Maersk Drilling is committed to comply anti-corruption toolbox, which includes strong among Maersk Drilling employees public via the Maersk Drilling website and intranet with applicable regulations on anti-corruption, governance and due diligence processes. For It is essential to Maersk Drilling that our people sites. competition, sanctions, export controls and instance, red flags such as unclear ownership understand how to maintain a high degree of the protection of personal data. We uphold our structures and known instances of past corrupt business ethics in our daily operations. In 2019, Business ethics in growth markets high standards for business ethics across the behaviour can be revealed during the due diligence we further solidified our Code of Conduct for Several of our growth markets lie outside our globe with our customers, suppliers, regulators, process. If our potential counterparts do not work employees, consultants and third parties. The core region of Northern Europe and the North governments and other parties. Ensuring with us to mitigate these red flags, we do not Code of Conduct is presented to new employees Sea, where standards for business ethics are adherence with the letter and spirit of the law hesitate to end collaboration. at Maersk Drilling Starters’ Day and is included in firmly established and enforced. Legal compliance and our own Core Values also plays an important employment contracts as required behaviour. It is risk assessments are an integrated part of role in our commitment to upholding and driving To further support responsible operations, we our aim to integrate this into Employee Handbooks Maersk Drilling entering new jurisdictions. We responsible business conduct. carry out site visits as part of our assurance globally. The code specifies our commitment and consider risks related to, among other factors: process. During these visits, we engage in expectations within the areas of Health, Safety, internationally accepted measures of perceived Anti-corruption conversation with our colleagues and key partners Sustainability and Environment; Our People; Our levels of corruption, exposure to financial Maersk Drilling is pioneering the integration of and probe their day-to-day work processes to Assets; and Our Interaction with Third Parties. and trade sanctions, general rule of law and drilling services to increase efficiency for our understand where operational business ethics internationally accepted reports regarding customers. Bringing together dozens of subrisk arises and how that risk is mitigated, at the Should anyone inside or outside our company observance of human rights. Following the suppliers during a drilling campaign requires front lines and on a daily basis. This personal and experience or witness a breach of our business assessment of risks, appropriate risk mitigation increased coordination and alignment of hands-on approach to assurance serves to uphold ethics principles amongst Maersk Drilling measures are identified and implemented. incentives. For Maersk Drilling to be an effective our contractual obligations and to spread Maersk employees, consultants, agents, suppliers or any integrator of services, we have to work even more Drilling’s ethical business approach to societies other partner, we want to know. We encourage closely with new counterparts, and employ new across the globe. During 2019, five site visits were reports to Maersk Drilling line management, ways of doing business. This fosters innovation conducted in Azerbaijan, Brunei, Egypt, Mexico legal department, or HR representative and, if the and collaboration, but also increases exposure to and Norway. These visits strengthened alignment reporter feels those avenues are inappropriate business ethics risks. between headquarters and shorebase sites, and no or requires anonymity, via our Ethics Hotline. The legal breaches or serious violations of our Code of hotline is an anonymous and confidential reporting Conduct were identified. tool, which is administered by an independent third Maersk Drilling Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction Climate and energy Environmental management Protecting people Value to society Developing people Responsible operations Data tables 32 Responsibility Related SDGs in the supply chain The social and environmental impact of Maersk Where there may be gaps, we work with our rights and labour conditions, environmental Drilling extends beyond our own gates. We suppliers to make improvements. Maersk Drilling management and health and safety. Corrective acknowledge that not all suppliers have the same has defined a number of high-risk categories, action plans have been established by the audited High-risk categories starting point on issues such as human rights, which guide our supplier assessment and due companies and non-conformities have been duly High-risk categories have been identified labour rights, environment and anti-corruption. diligence. The categories are depicted to the right. handled. based on potential adverse impact on human Therefore, our Responsible Procurement rights, labour rights, the environment and Programme has been designed to leverage our Our Responsible Procurement Programme includes Contractors anti-corruption. We work with these highlong-term business relationships and promote tools such as questionnaires, desktop supplier In Maersk Drilling, we hire local employees directly risk suppliers as part of our Responsible continuous improvement by partners in our supply assessments, supplier audits and corrective whenever possible. However, when we do not have Procurement Programme, to focus our chain. action plans. In 2019, we conducted 15 supplier employment entities at the countries of operation, efforts on the highest risk and improve our assessments, compared to 22 in 2018. The lower which mostly applies to shorter contracts, we use suppliers’ performance on sustainability. We want to work with suppliers with the lowest number reflects our efforts to limit the overall manning agencies to contract local employees. risk of adverse impacts on human rights, labour base of key suppliers with only a few additions in In these cases, we contractually demand decent rights, the environment and anti-corruption. 2019. The assessments have focused on human working conditions of our contractors. Our Yards pose risks from the perspectives of anticommitment to respecting and promoting human corruption, health and safety, human and and labour rights is also reflected in our approach labour rights, environment and climate, as a to contractors, and we oppose all forms of forced result of use of heavy machinery, chemicals, and bonded labour, child labour, human trafficking and other hazardous materials. and all other forms of exploitation. All our manning agencies are subject to risk assessments in line with our Responsible Procurement Services Programme. pose reputational risks in part due to the use of sub-contractors. Risks are related to anti-corruption, health and safety, human and labour rights and environmental compliance. Security provided by sub-contractors poses heightened risk of corruption and potentially exposes security personnel to physical hazards. Maersk Drilling Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction Climate and energy Environmental management Protecting people Value to society Developing people Responsible operations Data tables 33 Ambition and progress Environmental Responsibility in Issue Climate and Energy Protecting people Value to society Developing people Business ethics management the supply chain Impact on The transition towards a lowSpills, use of toxic chemicals and The health and safety of our Local content in developing Investing in the development Corruption is a systemic issue Working with suppliers emission society represents mishandling of waste can lead to employees is a basic human regions enables local of people contributes to that can undermine social and influences and encourages society one of the most fundamental pollution of the environment, with right. employment opportunities, improved capabilities and economic development and responsible business practices challenges that society lasting adverse impacts on wildlife building local capacity, working conditions. Diversity stable business environments. around the world. faces today. Failure to meet and people. and ultimately generating and inclusion in the workplace this challenge could lead to sustained and inclusive promotes innovation, better adverse impacts. economic growth. decision-making and high performance. Ambition With our strategic ambition We strive to minimise and mitigate Safety is our number one Where possible, we aim to By upholding a working We work actively to ensure We are committed to of Smarter Drilling for Better the environmental impact of our priority. It goes beyond go beyond local content environment that encourages that Maersk Drilling employees leveraging our long-term Value we aim to deliver operations. Our goal is to have zero compliance and commercial requirements and further the development of our people, do not engage in corruption business relationships to operational excellence spills of hazardous materials into interest. Our ambition is to contribute to the development we strive to improve overall of any kind. We are committed advance responsible business and new technologies the environment. have zero serious incidents. of the local communities diversity at management level to acting in an upright manner practices by partners in our to significantly increase and economies in which we and across Maersk Drilling. and staying true to our Core supply chain. efficiency, thereby reducing operate. Values by always complying the total upstream carbon Our target is to have two female with applicable laws regarding footprint of oil and gas. board members elected by the ethical business conduct and annual general meeting no upholding high standards for later than at the annual general business ethics. meeting to be held in 2022. Progress and We started the rebuild of two We experienced one spill to the Improvement in LTI, from 0.92 67% of goals for local We have invested in people Complied with applicable 15 supplier assessments jack-up rigs with low-emission environment while our rig Maersk to 0.75. workforce percentage development programmes, laws and regulations and conducted, corrective action performance solutions. Slow steaming was Inspirer was on yard stay. The achieved. such as a new performance conducted assurance and audit plans established and audits used on seven major rig transits. spill posed little danger to the Two serious injuries during management system and throughout our operations. conducted. environment with only a limited 2019. 100% of goals for local leadership development Relative CO2 emissions – or CO2 need to remove polluted soil. procurement percentage programme for onand intensity – were quite stable Improvement measures have been We rolled out our Safety as reached. offshore. at 55.4 tonnes/contracted day implemented. Capacity strategy and have compared to 54.4 in 2018 and registered a decreasing We have implemented 57.8 in 2017. A pilot campaign for reducing waste severity grading of average initiatives to address structural from single-use plastics onboard incidents. and cultural barriers to Total GHG emissions increased our rigs was conducted. The findings diversity. by 36.9 tonnes, an 8.8% will be used for evaluating further increase driven by 4.7% more activities. contracted days and more rig moves. SDGs impacted Page page 10 page 16 Page 18 Page 22 page 26 page 31 page 32 Maersk Drilling Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction Climate and energy Environmental management Protecting people Value to society Developing people Responsible operations Data tables 34 ESG performance data Environmental performance* 2019 2018 2017 Definitions Energy consumption (rigs on contract) Fuel oil (1,000 tonnes) 101.9 95.6 93.6 Marine Diesel Oil (MDO) and Marine Gas Oil (MGO).* Electricity (1,000 MWh) n/a n/a n/a Purchased electricity.* Energy consumption (TJ) 4,338.7 4,068.4 3,982.4 Direct energy and indirect imported energy.* Fuel intensity (tonnes fuel oil/contracted day) 16.1 15.9 16.9 Tonnes of fuel oil per contracted day.* Energy consumption (other) Fuel oil (1,000 tonnes) 28.5 22.6 20.9 Marine Diesel Oil (MDO) and Marine Gas Oil (MGO).* Electricity (1,000 MWh) 2.0 2.1 1.9 Includes purchased electricity and district heating consumed in onshore offices.* Energy consumption (TJ) 1,220.4 969.6 896.6 Direct energy and indirect imported energy.* GHG emissions (rigs on contract) (1,000 tonnes CO₂ eq.) Direct GHG emissions (scope 1) 349.7 327.9 321.0 Total greenhouse gas emissions from sources at facilities owned (partly or wholly) and/or operated by the company. Direct GHG emissions correspond to Scope 1 emissions as defined by the GHG Protocol and WRI/WBCSD. * Indirect GHG emissions (scope 2) n/a n/a n/a Greenhouse gas emissions that occur at the point of energy generation (owned or operated by a third party) for electricity, heat or steam imported (i.e. purchased) for use on site. Indirect GHG emissions from imported energy correspond to Scope 2 emissions as defined by the GHG Protocol and WRI/WBCSD.* Carbon intensity 55.4 54.4 57.8 Tonnes of GHG emissions (CO₂ equivalents) per contracted day.* (tonnes CO₂ eq./ contracted day) GHG emissions (other) (1,000 tonnes CO₂ eq.) Direct GHG emissions (scope 1) 97.7 77.7 71.6 Total greenhouse gas emissions from sources at facilities owned (partly or wholly) and/or operated by the company. Direct GHG emissions correspond to Scope 1 emissions as defined by the GHG Protocol and WRI/WBCSD.* Indirect GHG emissions (scope 2) 0.7 0.8 0.7 Greenhouse gas emissions that occur at the point of energy generation (owned or operated by a third party) for electricity, heat or steam imported (i.e. purchased) for use on site. Indirect GHG emissions from imported energy correspond to Scope 2 emissions as defined by the GHG Protocol and WRI/WBCSD.* * The scope of reporting on energy, GHG and other emissions has been changed in 2018 from financial scope to operational scope. This means that consumption and emissions while working for customers is now also shown. This is to further increase transparency of GHG emissions from Maersk Drilling’s operations while on contract for customers. Figures from 2018 and 2017 have been restated according to financial scope. Maersk Drilling Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction Climate and energy Environmental management Protecting people Value to society Developing people Responsible operations Data tables 35 ESG performance data Environmental performance* 2019 2018 2017 Definitions Other air emissions (rigs on contract) SOx (1,000 tonnes) 0.20 0.19 0.19 Sulphur oxide (SOx) emissions are calculated indirectly using fuel consumption and conversion factor. * NOx (1,000 tonnes) 8.00 7.50 7.34 Mono-nitrogen oxides (NOx) emissions are calculated indirectly using conversion factors for energy consumption. * SOx intensity (tonnes SOx/contracted day): 0.03 0.03 0.03 Tonnes of SOx emissions per contracted day.* NOx intensity (tonnes NOx/contracted day): 1.27 1.25 1.32 Tonnes of NOx emissions per contracted day.* Other air emissions (other) SOx (1,000 tonnes) 0.06 0.05 0.04 Sulphur oxide (SOx) emissions are calculated indirectly using fuel consumption and conversion factor. * NOx (1,000 tonnes) 2.2 1.8 1.6 Mono-nitrogen oxides (NOx) emissions are calculated indirectly using conversion factors for energy consumption. * Other production consumption Waste (1,000 tonnes) 2.7 1.7 1.2 Sum of all waste types generated, recycled, hazardous and non-hazardous. Water (1,000 m³) 9.6 11.4 12.7 Freshwater withdrawn. Ballast water, water for re-injection and water produced and desalinated is out of scope. Spills Number of spills to environment > 10m³ 0 0 0 Spills are defined as any type of unintended release of hydrocarbon liquids. Number of spills to environment 0.16 m³ – 10m³ 1 0 0 Number of contained spills > 10m³ 0 0 1 Number of contained spills 0.16 m³ – 10m³ 3 4 0 * The scope of reporting on energy, GHG and other emissions has been changed in 2018 from financial scope to operational scope. This means that consumption and emissions while working for customers is now also shown. This is to further increase transparency of GHG emissions from Maersk Drilling’s operations while on contract for customers. Figures from 2018 and 2017 have been restated according to financial scope. Maersk Drilling Sustainability Report 2019 Introduction Climate and energy Environmental management Protecting people Value to society Developing people Responsible operations Data tables 36 ESG performance data Social performance 2019 2018 2017 Definitions Our employees Number of employees (FTEs) 2,850 2,854 2,865 Full-time equivalents (FTEs) are calculated based on the total number of compensatable hours (days) in a work year compared to the number of hours (days) in a ‘norm’ work year. Employees on unpaid leave, contractors, and temporary staff are excluded. Gender – female/total % 13% 11% 10% Headcounts are regular employees not on leave, paid leave, nor unpaid leave. Contractors and temporary staff are excluded. Women in leadership (% based on headcount) 10% 10% 11% Women in management at level 5 and above. Fatalities (headcount) 0 0 1 Death directly resulting from work-related injury regardless of time between the injury and death. Excludes suicide, criminal and terrorist activity. Lost-time Incident frequency 0.75 0.92 0.53 LTIf measures the frequency of number of lost time injuries per million expose hours. Lost time injuries is the sum of fatalities, permanent total disability, permanent partial disability, and lost work day cases. Economic performance USD million 2019 2018 2017 Definitions Revenue 1,222 1,429 1,439 Financial data is taken from the audited Annual Report of Maersk Drilling. The annual accounts and independent auditor’s report can be found at: investor.maerskdrilling.com/financial-reports-presentations EBITDA before special items 415 611 683 Total assets 5,517 5,718 8,256 Number of contracted days 6,310 6,024 5,553 Maersk Drilling Sustainability Report 2019 Board of Directors Claus V. Hemmingsen, Chairman Robert M. Uggla, Vice Chairman Martin Larsen Alastair Maxwell Kathleen McAllister Robert Routs Caroline Alting Glenn Gormsen Executive Management Jørn Madsen (CEO) Jesper Ridder Olsen (CFO) Editors Maersk Drilling Corporate Communication and Branding Design and layout Extrasmallagency Print Printed in Denmark in 2020 by Rosendahls, an environmentally certified printing agency, on Arctic Matt 04 5 7 5 1 4 P ri n t e d m a tt e r0 Rosendahls Maersk Drilling Lyngby Hovedgade 85 2800 Kgs. Lyngby Denmark Phone: +45 6336 0000 Company reg. no. 32 67 38 21 maerskdrilling.com
