SUMITOMO RIKO Integrated Report 2020 Global Excellent Manufacturing Company Table of Contents and Links Corporate Governance•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• P. 10 Message from the President & CEO Messages from Outside Directors Financial Policy••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• P. 11 Greetings from the New President & CEO Financial Strategy and Management of Investment in Growth Review of Fiscal 2019••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• P.1 Financial Information••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• P. 12 Long-term Trends in Performance Indicators Toward Fiscal 2020•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• P.3 For details, please see Sumitomo Riko’s website Aiming to Create Social Value•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• P.5 Top Page https://www.sumitomoriko.co.jp/english/ Infusing New Value into the Future Lives Products https://www.sumitomoriko.co.jp/english/product/ of People••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• P.6 Our Company https://www.sumitomoriko.co.jp/english/company/ Research and Development (R&D) Our Governance Structure •••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• P.8 https://www.sumitomoriko.co.jp/english/rd/ Investor Relations (IR) https://www.sumitomoriko.co.jp/english/ir/ The Company We Aspire to Be•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• P.9 CSR Information https://www.sumitomoriko.co.jp/english/csr/portal/ Editorial Policy Contact Information Period covered in the Report Edited by Sustainability Project, Corporate Planning Department From April 1, 2019 to March 31, 2020 (fiscal 2019). This Report also refers to certain activities that are being undertaken in fiscal 2020 or were Contact : Public Relations and Investor Relations Department carried out in previous years. Boundary of the Report For comments or questions on this report, please contact: This Report covers Sumitomo Riko and its Group companies. TEL +81-525-71-0200 In this Report, “Sumitomo Riko” and the “Sumitomo Riko Group” are defined as follows. “Sumitomo Riko” and “the Company”: Sumitomo Riko Company Limited https://www.sumitomoriko.co.jp/english/ “Sumitomo Riko Group” and the “Group”: Sumitomo Riko and Group companies. The term “Group companies” alone does not include Sumitomo Riko. Group companies may be described as associated companies, subsidiaries or affiliated companies. Message from the President & CEO Review of Fiscal 2019 We aim to be a company that continues to grow by shifting to a solid business structure Review of Fiscal 2019 Message of Sympathy Net sales declined due to the impact of the spread of to all those affected by coronavirus disease COVID-19 in China in the fourth quarter. However, the Group achieved increased business profit as the impact I would like to express my sincere condolences to of COVID-19 on performance was limited as a result of victims of coronavirus disease (COVID-19) and exall-out efforts to strengthen profitability through cost retend my heartfelt sympathies to those affected, their duction activities from the beginning of the fiscal year. families and all those involved. I would also like to With regard to key results other than net sales, we express my profound gratitude and respect to all achieved increases from fiscal 2018, while also living up those working on the frontline of treatment and preto estimates. vention of the spread of infection, including medical, nursing-care and welfare professionals, as well as administrative agencies and support groups. ◆ Fiscal 2019 results Net sales fell by 5% year on year to ¥445.1 billion due to the suspension of automobile production in various regions, as well as a drop in consumer confidence resulting from anti-infection measures. However, business profit increased by 21% year on year to ¥11.3 billion as the Greetings from the New President & CEO entire Group promoted cost reduction and earnings improvement. My name is Kazushi Shimizu. I was appointed as the Representative Director and President & CEO by the Board of Directors Consolidated Profit/Loss of FY2019 [IFRS] (100 millions of yen) following the 132nd Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders. FY2018 FY2019 Change from prev. yr. In this challenging environment, I intend to devote myself to Actual Actual Amount Rate meeting the expectations of our stakeholders. Net sales 4,697 4,451 -246 -5% Due to the global economic slump caused by the impact of Business profit 94 113 +19 +21% (Profit margin) 2.0% 2.5% COVID-19, the Group experienced a significant decrease in proOperating profit 12 89 +77 +672% duction in the automotive market, its primary line of business. (Profit margin) 0.2% 2.0% Despite this very challenging environment, I am optimistic that Profit before income taxes 7 74 +67 +962% Profit for the year (29) 25 +54 — now is the time to transform the Company into a solid business Profit attributable to owners structure with all employees sharing the same sense of urgency. of the parent company (50) 9 +59 — We aim to achieve sustainable growth of the Group by Ensuring Exchange Rate Quick Decision-making and Agile Business Operations, while Value (Yen/USD) 110.92 108.74 -2.18 -2% Creation through Strategic Collaboration via frequent communication. (Yen/EUR) 128.42 120.83 -7.59 -6% Kazushi Shimizu (Note) Business profit is calculated by subtracting Cost of sales and Selling, general and administrative expenses Representative Director and President & CEO from Net sales and adding Equity in earnings/losses of associates. 1 Message from the President & CEO Review of Fiscal 2019 In addition, operating profit increased by 672% year on year to ¥8.9 Column Segment Results billion as an impairment loss of goodwill on investment in an overseas subsidiary was posted in the previous fiscal year. As a result, profit Results by business segment decreased due to a decline in demand for construction and civil [ ■ Automotive Products] engineering machinery in China and India. attributable to owners of the parent company was ¥0.9 billion Anti-vibration rubber products, hoses, sound controlling/insulation ■ Business profit: Despite the impact of decreased sales, we achieved (whereas, loss of ¥5.0 billion in the previous year). products, interior equipment, etc. an increase in profit as a result of curbing expenditure in response to ● Sales..................¥377.9 billion (down 5% year on year) decreased demand. While lockdowns resulted in sluggish economic ◆ Dividends ● Business profit........¥9.5 billion (up 23% year on year) activities in some parts of Asia, the impact on the results of general Sumitomo Riko positions shareholder returns as one of its important ■ Sales: Although sales of hoses in China that comply with the new industrial products was limited. emission China 6 standard contributed, sales declined due to the management policies. The Company’s basic policy is to maintain staimpact of the spread of COVID-19 in various regions, from the fourth Results by geographical segment ble dividends over the long term, taking into account the business requarter. Sales declined due to the impact of the spread of COVID-19 in various sults and other factors. The yardstick for stable dividends is to maintain ■ Business profit: Productivity had been struggling in the Americas regions, primarily in China. a dividend on equity (DOE) ratio (ratio of cash dividends to equity attriband had been addressed as a management task. We provided ■ Japan: Despite a decline in sales due in part to the impact of the utable to owners of the parent company) of 1% or higher. The target intensive technical support from Japan which has led to the consumption tax hike, profit increased mainly as a result of curbing payout ratio is 30% or higher on average over the medium to long term. improvement in productivity and yields. In addition, curbing expenditure and recovering global administrative costs from overWe achieved an increased final profit for fiscal 2019 compared to the expenditure and reducing costs in Japan, as well as increased seas subsidiaries. orders for new products and improved profits in countries such as ■ Americas: Productivity improvement worked effectively in achieving a previous fiscal year. However, in consideration of the growing un­ Italy, also contributed to the increase in profit. profit for the full year. certainty about the future, the Company paid annual cash dividends of ■ Asia: Sales and profits declined due to decreased demand in both ¥14 per share, the same as in fiscal 2018. Going forward, we will work [ ■ General Industrial Products] the automotive and infrastructure fields, although sales of hoses in to recover our business results and improve shareholder returns. Precision resin blades and rolls, anti-vibration rubber for railroad trucks, China that comply with the new emission China 6 standard housing, bridges, and electronic equipment; hydraulic hoses and feeder contributed. hoses; and rubber sealants, etc. ■ Europe: We posted a decline in revenue mainly due to a downturn in ⃝ Sales....................¥67.2 billion (down 6% year on year) consumer confidence as a result of measures to prevent the spread ● Business profit........¥1.8 billion (up 10% year on year) of infection. However, the improved profitability of the Italian ■ Sales: Sales of functional parts for printers decreased due to the subsidiary reduced the size of the deficit. shrinking of the printer market, while sales of hydraulic hoses also Dividend Trends FY2019 Results by Business Segment FY2019 Results by Geographical Segment ■ Year-end Dividend ■ Interim Dividend (100 millions of yen) (100 millions of yen) (Yen/Share) 20 Change from prev. yr. FY2018 FY2019 Change from prev. yr. 20 FY2018 FY2019 Actual Actual Actual Actual Amount Rate Amount Rate 10 14 14 Japan Net sales 2,140 2,087 -54 -3% 15 4 ■ A utomotive Net sales 3,982 3,779 -203 -5% Business profit (11) 19 +31 — 7 Products 10 Americas Net sales 1,053 1,017 -36 -3% Undecided Business profit 78 95 +18 +23% Business profit (9) 1 +10 — 10 10 Asia Net sales 1,446 1,349 -97 -7% 5 7 ■G  eneral Net sales 715 672 -43 -6% Business profit 134 105 -29 -22% 0 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 Est. Industrial Europe and Net sales 593 532 -61 -10% Products Business profit 16 18 +2 +10% Others Business profit (10) (4) +6 — FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 FY2020 Est. Eliminations or Net sales (535) (534) +2 — Profit attributable to owners of the 33.98 yen (48.37 yen) 8.48 yen (145.43 yen) ■C  onsolidated Net sales 4,697 4,451 -246 -5% Corporate Business profit (10) (9) +1 — parent company per share (basic) Total Consolidated Net sales 4,697 4,451 -246 -5% Dividends payout ratio 58.9% — 165.1% Undecided Business profit 94 113 +19 +21% Total Business profit 94 113 +19 +21% Dividend on equity attributable to 1.3% 0.9% 1.0% Undecided owners of the parent (Note) C  ash dividends for FY2020 are undecided at the time of issuing this report. 2 Message from the President & CEO Toward Fiscal 2020 Based on forward-looking information that is currently measures, as well as a series of production adjustments in various reConsolidated Profit/loss of FY2020 Estimate [IFRS]  (100 millions of yen) available, we expect consolidated net sales of ¥360.0 gions, resulting in decreased production and a decline in productivity. FY2019 FY2020 Change from prev. yr. billion and business loss of ¥7.2 billion in fiscal 2020. We formulated consolidated profit/loss estimates for the second half of Actual Estimate Amount Rate Despite the anticipated challenging business environment, fiscal 2020 on the assumption that the market will recover to around Net sales 4,451 3,600 -851 -19% the Group aims to further improve management efficiency 90% of the second half of the previous fiscal year’s results, given reBusiness profit 113 (72) -185 — (Profit margin) 2.5% (2.0%) and profitability in order to transform itself into a solid gional market trends and other factors based on external sources. Operating profit 89 (129) -218 — business structure capable of securing profits even under Fully embracing the reality of the fall in earning power over the last (Profit margin) 2.0% (3.6%) low operating levels. few years, the entire Group has made efforts to reduce costs and curb Profit before income taxes 74 (139) -213 — expenditure since fiscal 2019. In this challenging business environment, Profit for the year 25 (150) -175 — ◆ Consolidated Profit/loss of FY2020 Estimate we will not only continue to improve profits, but also aim to create a Profit attributable to owners of the parent company 9 (151) -160 — We expect the results of our primary line of business, i.e. the automosolid business structure capable of securing profits even under low tive products segment in the first half of fiscal 2020, to be significantly operating levels, while promoting profit structure reform during the imExchange Rate lower than those of the first half of the previous fiscal year. This is due plementation phase of the plan, including further drastic reductions in (Yen/USD) 108.74 108.50 -0.24 -0.2% to a downturn in consumer confidence as a result of anti-infection fixed costs, business reorganization and the consolidation and elimina(Yen/EUR) 120.83 120.00 -0.83 -0.7% (Note) Business profit is calculated by subtracting Cost of sales and Selling, general and administrative expenses tion of bases. from Net sales and adding Equity in earnings/losses of associates. We will strive to strengthen our structure by Value Creation through Strategic Collaboration We will work to strengthen the structure across the entire strengthen our supply chain and then work to reduce costs over the Leveraging our track record of sales of environmentally friendly hosGroup in response to new issues that have emerged as a medium to long term based on lessons learned from the impact of es in Europe, the U.S. and Japan, we will work to expand the sales of result of the COVID-19 crisis, in addition to the manageCOVID-19. We will also work on other mediumto long-term challenges, compatible hoses of China 6 to local automakers in China, which has ment issues that have faced us so far, in an attempt to such as reviewing personnel systems, streamlining domestic and overgrown to become the world’s largest automotive market. As demand is achieve the next stage of growth. We are convinced that seas production bases and creating new businesses, in an attempt to expected to increase for sound controlling/insulation products for the driving force behind this is the promotion of strengthen the structure that will lead to the next stage of growth. environmentally friendly engines with large vibration, we will focus communication. on expanding sales of engine covers with excellent heat-resistant and ● Global sales expansion of automotive products sound insulation properties. ◆ Initiatives toward the next stage of growth With a growing momentum for environmental protection, countries are Leveraging the Group’s product development and supply system in Given the entire Group’s declining profitability due to increased expendibecoming more stringent in their environmental regulatory policies. five key regions in the world, we will promote global sales expansion. tures on top of intensifying global competition, we will strive to optimize Expecting internal combustion engine vehicles, including hybrids, to costs on a consolidated basis by implementing Group-wide initiatives to account for a high proportion of automobile production in 2030, the ● G  eneral industrial products business and new Group is focusing on developing and expanding sales of highbusinesses strengthen our earnings structure. In terms of logistics, for example, we performance fuel hoses and other products that contribute to In the general industrial products business, we will minimize the impact will work to eliminate redundancy in the short-term and streamline logisreducing gasoline evaporation. of sluggish growth in mature markets and declining demand resulting tics in the medium to long-term. In terms of procurement, we will first 3 Message from the President & CEO Toward Fiscal 2020 from the economic slowdown, while at the same time aiming to exusers, we will strengthen dialogue and information collaboration with transmit information. The blog is also accessible on our website to pand our business portfolio through the expansion of global sales of other companies to compensate for the Group’s weaknesses and make sure that our stakeholders feel closer to Sumitomo Riko. products that the market demands. In the new business segment, we further develop its strengths, thereby actively working towards Value will identify business fields to invest in to respond to the demands of Creation through Strategic Collaboration. ◆ Safe and secure work environment for employees society, given the current limited management resources. Given the uncertainty over the containment of COVID-19 and the ◆ Improve the operational efficiency of strong possibility of repeated resurgence in the future, there is a need ● A  ccelerating new product development and sales the organization by better communication for business management based on the assumption of coexistence expansion In recent years, with the expansion of the Group’s scale of business, with the virus. The Group gives top priority to the lives, safety and In research and development aimed at exploring new trends, the optiwe have come to work with people from different cultures and backhealth of its employees, their families and other internal and external mal allocation of management resources through selection and congrounds with diverse values. In the face of fierce competition and parties concerned to minimize the impact of the virus on its business centration is essential. Aside from development systems in each severe environmental changes, Quick Decision-making and Agile and fulfill its social responsibility by ensuring business continuity. We business unit, we established the Advanced Systems R&D Center by Business Operations are essential for continued growth. To achieve will also collaborate with local communities to prevent the spread of consolidating three R&D Centers, each of which belonged to a sepathis, it is important to communicate respectfully from the perspective of infection, while aiming to change our workstyle and corporate structure rate business field. This reorganization will enable quick decisions on others so that employees can work on the business with shared objecto adapt to the new lifestyle. the selection and concentration of items for new product development, tives. Furthermore, organic collaboration is created through active as well as the flexible shifting and concentration of staff within the Cencommunication between divisions and employees with their respective ter, thereby aiming to accelerate development and achieve early roles, leading to the generation of new ideas. We believe that this will commercialization. help to cut duplication of work and omissions, leading to a lean and We will also aggressively incorporate alliances and open innovation efficient organization with no need for rework. To initiate the promotion to promote collaboration with other companies and research instituof communication within the Company at the outset of my term as tions. To create products that meet the needs of customers and end President & CEO, I have set up the President’s blog to regularly Accelerating development and early commercialization Promoting communication Response to COVID-19 President’s blog ▶ Consolidated R&D Centers to accelerate and strengthen creation of ▶ LINK ➡ President’s blog ▶ LINK ➡ CSR Information Website >Response to COVID-19 Pandemic new businesses and new customers https://www.sumitomoriko.co.jp/english/president/ https://www.sumitomoriko.co.jp/english/csr/portal/covid19/index.html President & CEO President & CEO Advanced Business Strategy Department Advanced Automotive Systems R&D Center Advanced Systems R&D Center SUMITOMO RIKO Advanced Business R&D Center President’s blog IoT Device Center Producing face shields at our Brazilian subsidiary 4 Message from the President & CEO Aiming to Create Social Value Endeavor to become a corporation that contributes to safety, comfort, and the environment for people, society, and the earth It is still difficult to identify the impact of the significant ◆ Aiming to be a global system supplier needed by ◆ Achieving targets in environmental and social decrease in automobile production and the global ecopeople, society, and the earth domains nomic slump caused by the COVID-19 pandemic on the The Group currently operates in more than 20 countries across the To contribute to the enhancement of public value, the Group underfinancial objectives in the mid-term business vision world, with a product development and supply system in five key retakes several initiatives to attain non-financial objectives by addressing (2022V). Amid a rapid change in the business environgions of the world: Japan, the Americas, Europe and Africa, China and environmental and social issues advocated by the United Nations’ Susment surrounding the businesses, the Group aims to South Korea, and other Asian countries. This network enables us to tainable Development Goals (SDGs), etc., such as reducing CO2 emisachieve sustainable growth and strengthen the managesupply products that consistently satisfy our customers in every region sions and waste, coping with water-related risks, eliminating industrial ment structure by promoting the 2022V under the followof the world. accidents, and complying with laws and regulations. ing three business strategies: creation of new businesses To continue to be a company needed by people, society, and the In fiscal 2019, we made steady progress toward the achievement of and new customers; MONOZUKURI Innovation; and earth, the Group aims to be a global system supplier capable of prothe objectives, as shown in the table below. Our initiatives include introstrengthening of global business foundations. posing optimal modules and systems, combining multiple components duction of renewable energy and promotion of energy saving activities and functions to meet the new needs of customers and end-users. to reduce CO2 emissions, as well as defect reduction, yield improve◆ Our aims in the 2022V ment, and recycling of unvulcanized rubber (turning it into valuable maWe will keep working on the reinforcement of our manufacturing Our mid-term business vision, the 2022 Sumitomo Riko Group Vision capabilities in our production bases worldwide. By firmly establishing terials) to reduce waste. To eliminate occupational accidents, we (2022V), aims to enhance both corporate value and public value to the manufacturing foundation in Japan where our mother factory is promoted safety dialogue and patrol within the Company, enhancecreate new social value. By fully leveraging our core competences of based and then rolling it out overseas, we can further strengthen our ment of global safety standards, and other measures. Compliance polymer materials technology and comprehensive evaluation technolmanufacturing foundation overseas and create strong workplaces to training for leaders and the Group’s global compliance training took ogy, we work not only to grow our existing businesses, but also enprevail over competition. In addition, we will offer products needed and place in Japan and overseas respectively. All target employees particigage in research and development for products and materials with trusted by people, society, and the earth by advancing cooperation pated in the training. new value. The products and services generated from these efforts with the parent company Sumitomo Electric Industries, Group compaI was appointed Chairperson of the CSR Committee when I took will be expanded into the four fields of automotive (mobility), infrastrucnies, etc., combining Sumitomo Riko’s technology with theirs, and conoffice as President & CEO. I will run the CSR Committee aiming to enture and housing environment, electronics, and healthcare, to create tributing to resolving social issues under the partnership. sure the steady achievement of non-financial objectives set in the new social value. 2022V, with the understanding that the COVID-19 crisis accelerates society’s focus on sustainability and in line with SDGs. Sumitomo Riko Group Mission 2022V Non-financial Objectives *compared with the emission intensity in 2017 At the Sumitomo Riko Group, Items Objectives FY2019 results ▶Inspired by the Sumitomo Spirit, through technological innovation, we strive to resolve the issues facing society, as embodied in the SDGs and other initiatives. CO2 reduction 8% reduction* 3.2% reduction Environment ▶By enhancing corporate value and public value simultaneously, we aim to create social value and achieve susWaste reduction 5% reduction* 4.1% reduction tainable growth together with society. Develop wastewater recycling Strengthened initiatives against physical (water deficit), — Global Excellent Manufacturing Company — Addressing water risk Creation of Social Value technology regulatory, and reputational risks related to water A corporation that contributes to safety, comfort, and the environment for people, society, and the earth Frequency rate of all Corporate Value Definition: Economic value that a company created during a fixed period Zero industrial accident Frequency rate of all industrial accidents 0.78 industrial accidents Society Financial Objectives KPIs: Net sales, profit, ROE, ROA, rate of return of investment, WACC, etc. Definition: SDGS promotion through contribution to the society and local community such as resolving social Participation rate of global Compliance training Participation rate 100% Public Value issues and creating jobs executive training shall be 100% Non-financial Objectives KPIs: Enhancement of environmental technology, development of environmentally friendly products, zero occupational accidents, business expansion in emerging markets LINK ➡ 2022V Non-financial objectives https://www.sumitomoriko.co.jp/english/csr/portal/22v/index.html LINK ➡ Sumitomo Riko Mid-term Business Vision (2022V) https://www.sumitomoriko.co.jp/english/ir/vision.html 5 Message from the President & CEO Infusing New Value into the Future Lives of People Supporting a new era for automobiles through the Innovation by Materials and Value Creation through Strategic Collaboration While we are experiencing a significant decrease in automolies in the Innovation by Materials, which enables us to propose prodachieve highly efficient heat exchange. The Group has commercialized bile production and a slump in the global economy caused ucts and raw materials that are a step ahead of our customers’ rea compact IHX (Internal Heat Exchanger) utilizing modular technology, by the COVID-19 pandemic, the challenges faced by the quests. This is made possible by implementing the polymer materials and a highly efficient piping layout that reduces the weight and space automotive industry remain the same. Leveraging our Innotechnology, which creates highly functional raw materials, and the required, and has supplied them to a wide range of vehicle models. vation by Materials based on long-cultivated polymer matecomprehensive evaluation technology, which feeds product evaluation rials technology and comprehensive evaluation technology, back to raw materials, by turns. ● Polyurethane and seal products the automotive products business, which is the Group’s priTaking advantage of the Innovation by Materials, we will contribute to As EVs develop, use of heat conducting and sound reducing materials mary line of business, will offer products that support the safety, comfort, and the environment for people, society, and the earth is expected to counter the heat and sound generated by motors. Our coming MaaS*1 society. through creation of products which infuse new value to future automoheat conducting polyurethane covers for EV motors currently under debiles, not to mention working on expanding sales of promising prodvelopment minimize sound from the motor through the sound-absorb◆ Business opportunities made possible by CASE*2 ucts in our existing business fields. ing property of urethane foam, while lowering the surface temperature With an eye toward the MaaS society, what is asked of the automotive of the motor by creating escape paths for heat within the urethane foam. industry is changing significantly. We are confronted by global challeng● Anti-vibration rubber products This is already commercially available for small motors, and is now in the es such as aiming at a world without traffic accidents, as well as tackling In our existing business fields, the electrification of vehicles and the process of development to be used for EV motors, by introducing dedair pollution and destruction of the environment. advancement of autonomous driving are expected to spur new deicated evaluation equipment and combining thermal analysis and Against such background, CASE—standing for Connected (C), Aumand for highly-functional anti-vibration rubber products to counter acoustic analysis. tonomous (A), Shared & Services (S), Electric (E)—assigns completely motor vibrations and other road noise while driving. The Company supSealing materials tightly seal connectors linking wire harnesses of new value standards and roles to automobiles. plies a motor mounting system exclusively designed for commercial automobiles and protect the wiring inside by preventing ingress of waSumitomo Riko will seize the opportunities offered by the changes electric vehicles (EVs). ter or dust. Demands for wire harnesses in automobiles are increasing and needs generated by the advancement in these four domains. year by year due to the shift to EVs and other factors, and also greater ● Automotive hoses demands for sealing materials are anticipated in the future. ◆ Initiatives that take advantage of the Innovation by Though fuel hoses will decrease with the rise of EVs, the demand for *1 MaaS is the abbreviation of Mobility as a Service. The concept regards mobility not as a cooling systems such as batteries and inverters will increase. In particmere means but as a one-stop service for users. For example, optimal means of transporMaterials tation could be offered seamlessly through a single app to meet the needs of moving from ular, EVs which consume large amounts of electricity require high-effithe place of departure to the destination. The Group is a manufacturing company that engages in the entire prociency air conditioning systems consuming as little electric power as *2 CASE stands for Connected (C), Autonomous (A), Shared & Services (S), and Electric (E). cess of design and manufacturing out of raw materials. Our strength possible. Greater use can be expected for air conditioning hoses that Examples of EV Application Initiatives Example of Development for EVs Nissan LEAF Heat conducting polyurethane covers for EV motors ▶ Motor mounts (first and current models) ▶ Stabilizer bush (same as above) ▶ Water hose (first model) Mitsubishi i-MiEV ▶ Components of motor mounts Sumitomo Riko products used in successive models of LEAF Nissan LEAF 6 Message from the President & CEO Infusing New Value into the Future Lives of People ◆ New areas for automobiles initiated by CASE ● Heat management Sensors to beds of patients with cardiovascular or respiratory diseases In heat management, we have successfully developed a high-perforwho are recuperating at home would make it possible to monitor vitals, As a member of the Sumitomo Electric Industries Group, we will promance coating which can insulate heat with only a tenth of the thicksuch as heart rate and respiration. Based on the data, doctors would mote partnership for value co-creation through close cooperation with ness of previous products, making high heat insulation possible with a be able to detect signs of deterioration of symptoms, and prescribe Group companies and be ready for changes in social needs and the thin coating. Applying this coating to various base materials enables drugs or recommend a hospital visit. The Sensor can also be used to evolution of automobiles. installation in complex shapes and works effectively in improving the constantly monitor the state of respiration of COVID-19 patients reWe focus especially on vital sensing, heat management, and sealing rate of electric power consumption especially for EVs. At the same motely, which contributes to reducing the aggravation risk after a sudas new areas expected to grow under CASE. time, it adds to the spaciousness and comfort inside the vehicle. den change in condition, as well as to avoid the risk of healthcare workers being infected. ● Vital signs sensing ● Sealing In addition, we took advantage of our precision rubber molding In vital signs sensing, we have been accelerating the development of In sealing, our efforts are focused on rubber sealing materials for fuel technology and jointly developed a Microfluidic Device, a tool to manuSteering Touch Sensor used in hands off detection steering wheel for a cell (FC) vehicles. Since 2014, Sumitomo Riko has supplied Cell Gasfacture high quality lipid nanoparticles*, with a startup company origilaunch in the near future, which utilizes Smart Rubber (SR), a propriket, a rubber sealing material that bonds components, for use in FC nating from Hokkaido University. We will support the development of etary rubber material of the Company that conducts electricity. This stacks of Toyota Motor Corporation’s fuel cell vehicle MIRAI. The highly novel products mainly in the fields of pharmaceuticals and cosmetics. product is embedded in the steering wheel to sense via SR whether functional rubber developed by our proprietary compounding technolo*Lipid nanoparticle: A spherical vesicle that can encapsulate materials such as nutrients and the driver is actually gripping the handle or not. In the next generation gy, combined with our precision processing technology, ensures the pharmaceutical products. It protects nutrients and other materials from degradation and is of autonomous driving, this could, for example, enhance the safety of used as a capsule that delivers them to the affected area, etc. performance enhancement, downsizing and lightening, and long-term driving when a driver switches between autonomous driving and manreliability of FC stacks. ual driving, by accurately sensing the status of the driver. In view of the ◆ Supporting society through manufacturing anticipated era of autonomous driving, it is a product expected to take ◆ Bringing new value also to fields outside The Sumitomo Riko Group will contribute to the transformation not only a role in avoiding dangerous situations. Driver Monitoring System is automobiles to the MaaS society but also to a society coexisting with COVID-19 also under development, which estimates the state of the passenger through manufacturing, making full use of present and future through a non-wearable SR sensor installed on the seat (the passenger The seeds of future businesses for the Group are already beginning to technologies. just needs to be seated). In system development, the entire Sumitomo take root in business fields outside automobiles. A flexible, thin, and Sumitomo Riko also seeks to engage in activities for solving social Riko Group joins forces not only for the sensor device but also for the high-precision Vital Sensor utilizing aforementioned SR enables conchallenges of the SDGs, such as climate change, good health and algorithm and software that estimate the state of the passenger, leverstant recording and monitoring of heart rates and the state of respirawell-being, and the development of sustainable cities and communities. aging the expertise held across the Group of companies. tion, as the patient lies down or sits up. Installation of Body Motion New Areas for Automobiles Initiated Steering Touch Sensor Used in Hands Off Cell Gasket Adopted in MIRAI Body Motion Sensor, which can simultaneously by CASE Detection Steering Wheel monitor vitals such as heart rate and respiration New areas Examples of initiatives • Steering touch sensor to detect the Vital signs switchover to autonomous driving sensing • Driver monitoring system that estimates the state of the passenger Heat • High heat insulation materials to management improve in-vehicle comfort Body Motion Sensor is to be used in COVID-19 • Rubber sealing material for fuel cell (FC) Embedded in a steering wheel and detects whether the research by Osaka University Sealing vehicles driver is actually gripping it or not [Cell gasket] Toyota MIRAI Corresponds with levels 2 to 3 of autonomous driving 7 Message from the President & CEO Our Governance Structure Forming a sound governance structure as a listed subsidiary The ideal state of corporate governance has been a sigwith the directive to raise the percentage of Outside Directors, which ◆ Corporate Governance Structure nificant focus of attention. Sumitomo Riko is ceaselessly are discussed by the Government at Growth Strategy Council-Investing Organization form Company with Audit & Supervisory Board working on improvements, aiming for a sound managefor the Future, etc. Shareholders Meeting ment with consideration to minority shareholders, incorpoSelection/ Selection/Dismissal Selection/Dismissal rating opinions from outside the Company through efforts ◆E  nsuringobjectivity in the election and the Dismissal Board of Directors Audit & Supervisory Board Independent Auditor such as increasing the number of Outside Directors. remuneration of officers Attendance/ 6 Directors Audit 2 members Cooperation KPMG AZSA LLC In corporate management, a greater objectivity is desirable for both the 3 Outside Directors 3 outside members ◆E  lection of Outside Directors and measures to election of officers and their remuneration. Regarding the election of Audit Conduct accounting audit Consultation Supervision strengthen governance Report Nomination and Remuneration Audit & Supervisory officers, our stance is to elect persons who are knowledgeable of the Advisory Committee Board Members’ Report Office Sumitomo Riko is a subsidiary of Sumitomo Electric Industries, which Company’s management and business and capable of meeting shareConsultation has a 50.8% equity stake in the Company (including indirect ownerholders’ expectations concerning execution of duties. Moreover, the Governance Committee ship). As a listed company, it is our duty to pay consideration to stakeCompany elects persons with a high degree of independence as OutReport side Directors, taking into consideration the fact that the Company is a Executive Division Report holders such as our minority shareholders, while engaging in highly President & CEO transparent management looking outside the Company. listed subsidiary. In order to enhance objectivity in the procedures for CSR Committee Consultation We have explored the ideal state of a sound corporate governance the election and/or dismissal of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Environment Committee Compliance Committee Management Meeting and given priority to improving our management structure to incorpoBoard Members as well as remuneration for Directors (monthly remuSafety and Health Committee rate the opinions of external stakeholders through efforts such as inneration and bonuses), the Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Social Contributions Committee Internal Audit Department Diversity Committee Internal audits and creasing the number of Outside Directors. Committee provides opinions on matters to be resolved at the General Supply Chain Committee Promotion & assessment As one of the initiatives, we elected two Outside Directors in 2014, Meeting of Shareholders. The Board of Directors in turn makes a deciof the development of Quality Committee systems to ensure the increasing the number to three from 2018, with the inclusion of one sion while respecting such opinions. Risk Management Committee appropriateness of financial reports female Outside Director. We elected one female Outside Audit & SuperThe Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee consists of Departments and Sections visory Board Member in 2020. In June 2019, we established a Goverone Representative Director, three Outside Directors and one Outside Cross-sectional control Subsidiaries nance Committee as an advisory body to the Board of Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board Member and, from February 2019, the Lead appointing an Outside Director to be the chairperson. Outside DirecIndependent Outside Director has taken the role of the chairperson, in LINK ➡ Corporate Governance tors now make up a third of the total Directors, promptly complying order to realize a structure with greater objectivity. https://www.sumitomoriko.co.jp/english/company/management/ Our Relationship with Sumitomo Electric Industries and its Merits Column Leveraging the merits of a listed subsidiary Initiatives to strengthen the governance structure (1) Relationship (as of March 31, 2020) As a member of the Sumitomo Electric Industries Group, we aspire to Ratio of voting rights held (%) 2005 Executive Officer system introduced leverage synergy with the parent company in our management. SumitoPortion Financial instruments exchanges, etc. on mo Electric Industries has multiple overseas bases, diverse technologies Name Attribution Portion subject 2012 Business Headquarters system introduced directly Total which issued shares are listed to aggreand customer bases, through which it provides us with support in many owned 2014 General Managers Meeting (GMM) launched gation ways for our overseas operations and development of new businesses. First Section,Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc. On the other hand, we ensure that our decision making is indepen2015 Group Governance Committee established Sumitomo Parent First Section,Nagoya Stock Exchange, Inc. dent from the parent company, in consideration of the common interests Electric 49.66 1.14 50.81 company Main Board, Securities Membership Industries Corporation, Fukuoka Stock Exchange of our shareholders. To ensure our independence, we require regular 2016 Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee established reporting to the Board of Directors on our trade with the parent company, Information Exchange Meeting among Outside Directors/Audit & Supervisory (2) Merits 2016 as well as an approval for such trade from the Board of Directors accordBoard Members launched Category Description ing to its scale and nature. Business Our trade with the Sumitomo Electric Industries Group primarily cen2016 Area-based (Americas, Europe, China and Asia) GMM launched Sharing customer base, use of infrastructure, joint purchasing, etc. foundation ters on sales of products (sealing materials for wire harness connectors) Global 2017 Group Company Management Meeting launched Strategic and collaborative cultivation of global markets, etc. for Sumitomo Wiring Systems (a 100% subsidiary of Sumitomo Electric deployment Industries). These transactions make up approximately 1% of our con2019 Appointed the Lead Independent Outside Director Research and development of Development of new automotive products through collaboration within the Sumitomo solidated net sales. Our future policy is to enhance coordination in reEstablished the Governance Committee (upgraded from the Group Governance next-generation Electric Industries Group search and development for next-generation automobiles. 2019 technology Committee) 8 Message from the President & CEO The Company We Aspire to Be Sumitomo Riko’s competitiveness comes from its Manufacturing Capabilities ◆ Aiming to be a company needed by people, society, and the earth and Value Creation through Strategic Collaboration Since the founding of Sumitomo Riko in 1929, we have accurately asOur aim is to become a Global Excellent Manufacturing Company sessed the directions of the times and market needs, steadily expanded our business areas, and made available to the world products with high added value. Based on the Sumitomo Spirit, which is to accord “ShinMoreover, we signed the UN Global Compact in 2014, and since We will continue to cherish and protect the manufacturing DNA that yo-kakujitsu*1” and “Fusu-furi*2”, the Group aims to bethen have practiced corporate activities in line with the ten principles in has been passed down from generation to generation as the source of come a company that provides products needed by the the four areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption, our competitiveness and relay it to the future. We also aim to become society by passing on to the future our manufacturing and we will contribute to solving the social issues as outlined in the a manufacturing company needed by people, society, and the earth by DNA embedded in our long traditions and through collabSDGs through our main business. Value Creation through Strategic Collaboration and responding to the oration to create value together. In order to implement CSR management based on these principles, changing needs of the society. *1 Place importance on integrity and sound management. we will operate six committees within the CSR Committee under the Under the motto, “Banji-nissei” (Do your sincere best, not only in *2 Do not act rashly or carelessly in pursuit of immoral business. policies as shown in the table below. The common goal of these combusiness, but also in every aspect of your life.) in the preamble of the mittees is to steadily achieve the 2022V objectives, achieve thorough Sumitomo Sprit, I will manage the Group while always being aware of ◆  o become a company we aspire to be as a responT governance and synergies across the Group and globally, and mutually safety, environment, compliance and quality (S.E.C.-Q.). sible member of society. cooperate to avoid suboptimization for each theme. The automotive industry is in a once-in-a-century transformation Since being placed under the umbrella of the Sumitomo Group in 1937, How we view social transformation and how we transform the comphase; however, we must never forget our pride as a Japanese manuthe Group has practiced business management based on the Sumitopany are the key to determining the long-term shape of the Company, facturing company that places great value in fine workmanship and mo Spirit, which is to accord “Shinyo-kakujitsu” (integrity and sound while seeing the COVID-19 crisis as an opportunity to take a fresh look superior quality. We are required to create products that meet the management) and “Fusu-furi” (no chasing easy gains) as well as on its at matters such as the meaning of the Company’s existence and the needs of the new era while further refining our long cultivated core own management philosophy. In order to update the management ideal state of the organization. Going forward, we will rethink and prescompetences and responding flexibly to changes in the business envifoundations to meet the demands of society, in ent what is the social value that a Global Excellent Manufacturing Comronment. While faithfully continuing to cherish the Sumitomo Spirit, April 2019 we revised the Corporate Action Charter, pany can create, and communicate with our stakeholders to earn their which is to accord “Shinyo-kakujitsu*1” and “Fusu-furi*2”, we will conwhich serves to put our management philosophy trust, and then would like to mark our 100th Anniversary in 2029. tinue to evolve toward a dramatic growth to become a Global Excellent into practice, and the Compliance Conduct GuideManufacturing Company that is needed by people from all the world by lines, which outline the rules of conduct for officers turning the challenge of the COVID-19 crisis into an opportunity for and employees. transformation. The Sumitomo Spirit Sumitomo Riko Group Management Philosophy Guidelines of the CSR Committee/Six Committees Business Principles In light of the Sumitomo Spirit, all of us at the Sumitomo Riko Group will: Guidelines of each Committee Quoted from the Sumitomo Goshi Kaisha Administrative Regulations formulated in 1928 ❶ We will provide superior products and services to meet cusStrengthening responses to climate change and Environment Committee tomer needs based on technological innovation. circular economy Article 1. Sumitomo shall achieve prosperity based on a solid Ensuring the attitude of doing what is expected as foundation by placing prime importance on integrity and ❷ We will place top priority on safety and work to ensure the Compliance Committee expected sound management in the conduct of its business. safety of people and society. Safety and Health Achieving Zero Industrial Accident by creating an ❸ We will strive to protect the global environment and to contribute environment where employees can stay safe from the Article 2. Sumitomo’s business interests must always be in Committee to creating better communities. time they leave home and until they return home harmony with the public interest. Sumitomo shall adapt Social Contributions Linking businesses to contributing to the SDGs through to good times and bad times but will not pursue immoral ❹ We will maintain a high standard of corporate ethics and observe Committee partnerships with stakeholders business. all laws and regulations to earn public trust and confidence Fostering a culture in which each employee can play Diversity Committee LINK ➡ Business Policy worldwide. an active role by promoting communication https://www.sumitomoriko.co.jp/english/company/message/ ❺ We will foster an invigorating corporate culture that respects our Giving consideration to human rights, labor and other employees’ diversity, personal qualities, and individuality. Supply Chain Committee matters amid the review of global supply chain due to the COVID-19 crisis 9 Corporate Governance Messages from Outside Directors Outside Director About remuneration for Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members Masaaki Iritani I serve as the chairperson of the Nomination and Remuneration Advisory Committee, and the Lead Independent Outside Director. This Committee is a discretionary advisory body to the Board of Directors established based on its resolution in order to realize transparency and objectivity in the decision-making process. It consists of one RepreLINK ➡ Corporate Governance https://www.sumitomoriko.co.jp/english/company/management/ sentative Director, three Independent Outside Directors, and one Independent Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member. It discusses and provides opinions on matters consulted concerning the remuneration and bonuses for Specialization Directors, as well as contents of proposals for the election and/or dismissal of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members to be submitted to the General Meeting of Shareholders. For the nomination and remuneration of officers, while considering factors such as the Company’s management strategy, management plan, business results, financial condition, and management enLaw vironment, it is important to deliberate whether or not the person in question is able to lead the Company for sustainable growth and creation of social value (enhancing corporate value and public value), Management and capable of contributing to appropriate governance; and whether or not the remuneration serves to raise sound entrepreneurial spirit while reflecting the Company’s medium to long term business results and potential risks. I will continue to fulfill my duties as an Independent Outside Director with integrity so that the Committee can contribute to the greater development of the Company. Outside Director About the Governance Committee Shigeru Hanagata The Governance Committee was established on June 1, 2019 as an advisory body to the Board of Directors. It consists of Representative Directors, Outside Directors, and Audit & Supervisory Board Members, and I, an Outside Director, serve as the chairperson. LINK ➡ Corporate Governance As a listed subsidiary of Sumitomo Electric Industries, Ltd., the Company must secure its independence from the https://www.sumitomoriko.co.jp/english/company/management/ Specialization controlling shareholders, while striving to appropriately cooperate with the Company’s minority shareholders, emManagement ployees, trading partners, local communities, and other stakeholders. The independence of the Board of Directors has been enhanced by having a third of its members made up of Independent Outside Directors including myself. In cases where a conflict of interest with International the controlling shareholders occurs, the Governance Committee deliberates in full and provides opinions to the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors in turn deliberates with sufficient consideration to business the Committee’s opinions. Finance and The Corporate Governance Code has been revised to adapt to the changing times. The next task is to materialize it further from “form” to “substance,” seeking to achieve sustainable growth and enaccounting hancement of corporate value over the medium to long term. As we make progress in our governance-based initiatives to secure a sound footing and transparency, I hope to contribute to achieving consistent growth and strengthening the structure as outlined in 2022V. Outside Director Human resources are human capital in which self-sustained career building is key Mariko Miyagi The most important resources in management are human resources (human capital). For this reason, companies need to have a new human resources system that is in tune with major environmental changes of the times, such LINK ➡ CSR Information Website as the method of selecting and hiring human resources who have high potential and will become an asset to the (Human Resources Development) organization in the future, provision of support for career development and career planning that matches the abilities https://www.sumitomoriko.co.jp/english/csr/portal/policy/humanresourcesdevelopment.html Specialization and aptitudes of each individual, and appropriate placement, education and training to enable each individual to maximize his or her abilities. Management In line with workstyle reforms, it is essential for each employee to autonomously reconsider their career development, and further motivate themselves to achieve their future career goals by considering matters such as what they want to do, how they want to be, and how they want to utilize their abilities to contribute to the organization. Diversity What is important here is employees’ self-reliance. It’s not the company or your superior who will develop you, but you are the one who improves and nurtures yourself. We need to enhance the awareness Human resources towards self-sustained career building among employees, and ensure that the growth of individuals leads to the growth of the organization. development Based on Sumitomo’s credo of “people are our most important asset,” I hope to fulfill my role as an Outside Director to promote the self-sustained career building of employees. 10 Financial Policy Financial Strategy and Management of Investment in Growth ◆ Financial strategy ◆ Management of investment in growth ◆ Enhancement of corporate value by risk mitigation 2022V financial strategy The Sumitomo Riko Group expanded its scale of business globally The Sumitomo Riko Group is accelerating global business development In the Sumitomo Riko Group 2022 Vision, the Group is aiming to through vigorous M&A and investment in new facilities. The Group with the aim of becoming a “Global Excellent Manufacturing Company” achieve consolidated net sales of ¥530.0 billion in 2022 and has set manages investment in growth that underpins an increase in cash flow and is strengthening risk management to respond to increasing risks in the following KPI objectives: operating profit ratio of 5%, ROA of 6%, from operating activities, which is the source of enhancing corporate line with the expansion of the scope of the business. By preventing risks and ROE of 7%. In order to achieve the ROA and ROE objectives, we value, based on the Sumitomo Riko Group Investment Profitability Crimaterializing, we are seeking to reduce the cost of capital and enhance will strive to improve the asset turnover through efficient use of working teria, a framework for swiftly responding to post-investment change in corporate value so as to realize sustainable growth. capital on a continuous basis as well as strengthening management of the business environment, and the Financial Discipline Guidelines. investment in growth. ◆ Group financing Sumitomo Riko Group investment profitability criteria The regional management companies in the U.S., China, Thailand, and Cost of equity The Sumitomo Riko Group established unified criteria for investment Europe act as the financial bases, effectively managing funds by ensurThe Sumitomo Riko Group formulates its financial strategy based on a profitability to be applied throughout the Group in 2010 in order to effiing no excess or deficiency of funds at the regional bases, in order to cost of equity of little less than 7%, which is calculated as the sum of ciently promote investment for expanding business globally. We check compress external loans. The risk of foreign exchange losses due to the 30-year Japanese government bond yield (below 1%) and the eqprofitability of contemplated investment projects and make decisions currency fluctuations such as depreciation in emerging market currenuity risk premium (approx. 6%). that also reflect the business strategy. For examining profitability of incies is minimized by strengthening the control of the asset and liability vestments, in addition to the payback period method, which we have positions for each currency. ◆ Financial discipline been using for some time, we use net present value (NPV) and internal The Sumitomo Riko Group has set guidelines for financial discipline, rate of return (IRR) based on the discounted cash flow (DCF) method. ◆ Efficient use of working capital that is, to maintain equity attributable to owners of the parent ratio of The discount rate we use is the hurdle rate, which is the weighted avWe have been promoting the Cash Conversion Cycle (CCC) improve50% or higher for the medium to long term. By observing the guideerage cost of capital (WACC) adjusted by country risks and the WACC ment initiatives since fiscal 2014 throughout the Group. The aim is to lines, financial stability has been secured even while promoting investspread. Using these approaches, we aim to achieve a performance secure cash required for running the business by shortening the collecment in growth to boost operating cash flows. exceeding WACC over the medium to long term. tion period of accounts receivable, reducing inventories, and extending the payment period of accounts payable, thereby achieving efficient Framework for responding to change in the business use of working capital. environment If the business environment is greatly different from the assumption at the time of investment decision-making, risks increase, such as a delay in harvesting returns on investment and deterioration of profitability. In 2014 the Sumitomo Riko Group established a framework for swiftly considering a strategic restructuring plan for any project that has been ■ Cost of equity falling short of the target. This framework enables minimization of risks ■ Approach to ROE improvement of profitability deterioration resulting from change in the business enviCost of Risk-free Equity risk ronment and reallocation of resources to businesses with higher Financial equity rate premium growth potential to enhance investment efficiency of the entire Group. ROE Profitability Efficiency leverage Less than Less than Approx. Profit Profit Net sales Total assets 7% 1% 6% Equity Net sales Total assets Equity * The risk-free rate references the 30-year Japanese government bond yield The equity risk premium is calculated using our beta (approx. 1) and the market risk premium (approx. 6%) * Profit is profit attributable to owners of the parent company. ■ Approach to hurdle rate for investment projects Equity is equity attributable to owners of the parent company. ・ Approach to improve each element Profitability : Improve the profit ratio via growth investment Country risks, management Hurdle rate WACC Efficiency : Manage funds effectively by improving the cash etc. conversion cycle (CCC) and by introducing group financing Financial leverage : Manage leverage based on financial discipline 11 Financial Information Long-term Trends in Performance Indicators (Consolidated results) (FY) KPI 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Unit Japanese GAAP Japanese GAAP Japanese GAAP Japanese GAAP Japanese GAAP Japanese GAAP Japanese GAAP Japanese GAAP IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS IFRS Results of Operations Net sales Millions of yen 311,995 274,392 234,131 272,488 252,008 263,725 369,093 400,930 424,485 422,630 462,885 469,705 445,148 Business profit*1 Millions of yen — — — — — — — — 14,528 14,564 12,860 9,379 11,321 Operating profit Millions of yen 24,704 6,079 10,799 16,796 12,815 9,204 13,577 10,492 12,867 13,600 12,196 1,153 8,898 Profit attributable to owners of the parent company Millions of yen 14,241 1,141 3,579 9,940 6,089 3,003 4,076 (4,429) 2,901 5,195 3,528 (5,022) 881 Business profit to sales — — — — — — — — — 3.4% 3.4% 2.8% 2.0% 2.5% Operating profit to sales — 7.9% 2.2% 4.6% 6.2% 5.1% 3.5% 3.7% 2.6% 3.0% 3.2% 2.6% 0.2% 2.0% Profit attributable to owners of the parent company to sales — 4.6% 0.4% 1.5% 3.6% 2.4% 1.1% 1.1% (1.1%) 0.7% 1.2% 0.8% (1.1%) 0.2% Results by business Automotive Products Net sales Millions of yen 251,257 219,056 185,540 217,524 193,728 210,267 312,439 344,023 369,149 362,367 393,440 398,160 377,907 segment *1 Profit Millions of yen 20,422 4,828 9,568 13,440 9,056 7,080 9,642 7,924 13,012 13,217 9,766 7,771 9,548 General Industrial Products Net sales Millions of yen 60,738 55,336 48,591 54,964 58,280 53,458 56,654 56,907 55,336 60,263 69,445 71,545 67,241 Profit Millions of yen 4,282 1,251 1,231 3,356 3,759 2,124 3,935 2,568 1,517 1,347 3,094 1,608 1,773 Results by geographical Japan Net sales Millions of yen 229,300 193,779 174,666 187,477 188,697 183,131 185,156 183,205 188,911 198,985 213,020 214,033 208,677 segment *1 before Profit Millions of yen 14,694 (564) 3,887 5,356 5,883 440 4,943 2,390 (267) (1,206) (135) (1,147) 1,929 intersegment elimination Americas Net sales Millions of yen 65,566 54,248 38,640 53,953 39,102 50,451 83,029 94,650 100,436 96,376 102,804 105,269 101,681 Profit Millions of yen 3,558 1,251 1,793 3,418 1,954 3,933 4,543 5,069 4,656 3,241 2,311 (894) 122 Asia Net sales Millions of yen 38,777 42,383 41,119 59,857 52,192 61,690 98,762 113,105 127,752 121,795 140,425 144,645 134,936 Profit Millions of yen 5,250 4,757 5,210 8,236 4,832 4,902 9,095 9,874 13,131 13,835 13,099 13,447 10,520 Europe and Others Net sales Millions of yen 13,940 13,217 6,520 5,365 5,517 5,529 46,977 58,230 57,044 54,370 60,688 59,300 53,230 Profit Millions of yen 1,353 608 (142) (152) 91 1 (1,804) (3,293) (1,604) (142) (1,518) (1,032) (395) Financial Position Total assets Millions of yen 254,263 218,965 238,951 244,638 260,600 324,134 383,005 406,777 385,371 404,799 414,233 397,279 373,262 Total equity Millions of yen 155,501 141,175 147,249 154,219 156,932 172,918 189,007 199,225 178,494 179,789 184,459 176,598 167,668 Equity attributable to owners of the parent Millions of yen 147,275 134,063 138,958 144,874 148,286 159,908 172,230 179,687 159,893 161,293 164,379 158,319 150,625 Cash Flows Cash flows from operating activities Millions of yen 31,367 22,704 34,543 27,997 12,421 19,692 17,756 19,547 29,854 33,161 31,622 31,462 36,302 Cash flows from investing activities Millions of yen (27,312) (29,765) (11,528) (13,899) (23,771) (36,814) (51,722) (17,184) (33,990) (32,534) (27,445) (28,251) (28,645) Cash flows from financing activities Millions of yen (2,343) 10,662 (6,622) (4,433) 1,883 24,557 13,558 2,692 (1,106) 10,715 (6,127) (8,368) (12,584) Other Data Capital expenditure (based on purchase of property, plant and equipment) Millions of yen 28,487 27,437 10,277 14,938 20,191 25,295 31,334 29,699 30,538 25,548 24,728 25,180 23,736 Depreciation and amortization Millions of yen 19,151 20,774 19,638 18,543 12,621 14,672 21,468 23,301 26,215 26,664 28,766 29,781 32,641 R&D expenses Millions of yen 7,909 8,371 7,617 8,182 8,660 9,698 11,673 12,821 14,215 14,614 14,796 15,002 14,210 Per Share Data Net assets per share Yen 1,418 1,291 1,338 1,395 1,428 1,540 1,659 1,731 — — — — — Equity attributable to owners of the parent company per share Yen — — — — — — — — 1,540 1,553 1,583 1,525 1,451 Profit attributable to owners of the parent company per share (basic) Yen 137 11 34 96 59 29 39 (43) 28 50 34 (48) 8 Dividends per share Yen 18 14 13 15 15 16 17 18 18 19 20 14 14 Stock and Dividend Data Consolidated payout ratio — 13.1% 127.4% 37.7% 15.7% 25.6% 55.3% 43.3% — 64.4% 38.0% 58.9% — 165.1% Dividend on equity attributable to owners of the parent — 1.3% 1.0% 1.0% 1.1% 1.1% 1.1% 1.1% 1.1% 1.1% 1.2% 1.3% 0.9% 1.0% Other Key Performance Indicators ROA (Business profit to total assets) *2 — 10.1% 2.6% 4.7% 6.9% 5.1% 3.1% 3.8% 2.7% 3.7% 3.7% 3.1% 2.3% 2.9% ROE (Return on equity attributable to owners of the parent company) — 10.0% 0.8% 2.6% 7.0% 4.2% 1.9% 2.5% (2.5%) 1.8% 3.2% 2.1% (3.1%) 0.6% Equity attributable to owners of the parent ratio — 57.9% 61.2% 58.2% 59.2% 56.9% 49.3% 45.0% 44.2% 41.5% 39.8% 39.7% 39.9% 40.4% Net D/E ratio*3 — (0.08) (0.02) (0.17) (0.13) (0.05) 0.05 0.28 0.30 0.38 0.39 0.39 0.40 0.41 Asset turnover — 1.3 1.2 1.0 1.1 1.0 0.9 1.0 1.0 1.1 1.1 1.1 1.2 1.2 Number of employees Persons 11,836 12,533 12,910 13,549 13,894 18,035 22,546 23,568 23,790 24,453 25,689 26,156 26,109 *1 Business profit = Operating profit Other income and expenses (Note) Presentation of KPIs is based on IFRS and they are referred to as follows based on Japanese GAAP. Profit in “Results by business segment” and “Results by geographical segment” is operating income under Japanese GAAP [IFRS → Japanese GAAP] and business profit under IFRS Profit attributable to owners of the parent company → Net income attributable to owners of the parent, Total equity → Net assets, *2 ROA is the ratio of operating income to total assets under Japanese GAAP, instead of the ratio of business profit to total assets. Equity attributable to owners of the parent → Shareholders’ equity, Profit attributable to owners of the parent company per share (basic) *3 Net D/E ratio = (Interest-bearing debt cash and cash equivalents) / equity attributable to owners of the parent → Net income per share, Dividend on equity attributable to owners of the parent → Dividend on equity, Return on equity attributable to owners of the parent company → Return on equity, Equity attributable to owners of the parent ratio → Shareholders’ equity ratio 12 [Cautionary statement with regard to forward-looking statements] Forward-looking statements such as sales and profits described in this report other than statements of historical or current facts are based on the Sumitomo Riko Group’s assumption and judgment on the basis of information that is currently available with regard to economic situation including forecast of the industry trends of each of the Sumitomo Riko Group’s businesses, fluctuation in exchange rate, and other factors that affect the Group’s financial performance. Therefore, please be aware that actual sales and profits may vary materially from those described in this report. The Sumitomo Riko Group does not intend or assume any obligation to update and officially announce these forward-looking statements after the release of this report. Issued in September 2020
