EFG Hermes February 20, 2020 EFG HERMES Communication on Progress Submitted to the United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Introduction EFG Hermes believes that assembled an investment EFG Hermes is proud to there can be no long-term portfolio that includes continue to be an active prosperity without initiatives that directly feed participant in the UNGC responsible investment and into the Sustainable This Communication on a long-term commitment to Development Goals (SDGs) Progress (CoP) report sustainable practices at all in areas ranging from provides an overview of levels of operation. From education and clean energy activities undertaken by our initial commitment to to microfinance and EFG Hermes to uphold the the United Nations Global technology. Compact and the Ten Principles of the UNGC As market leaders, we also on human rights, labour, the articulation of our social recognize that it is our duty environment and antipurpose in 2014 to our to act as catalysts for wider signing of the United corruption, and presents change within our industry Nations Principles for EFG Hermes policies and and within the communities Responsible Investment progress in each area. where we do business. We (PRI) in 2018, we have been believe that the Page taking measured but partnerships we have Human Rights 2 determined steps to align forged and continue to our business with Labour 6 initiate can help realize the environmental, social and SDGs and actively Environment 9 governance (ESG) factors. contribute to the future Anti-corruption 12 In 2019, we submitted our health and prosperity of first report as signatories of both business and society. Measurement of the United Nations PRI, and Progress/Outcomes 15 we are proud to have Human Rights EFG Hermes’ goal is to uphold the UNGC principles on human rights by engaging with stakeholders and committing to policies that minimize risk on human rights issues and improve living standards in the communities where it operates. PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. PRINCIPLE 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Spotlight on … Naga’ El Fawal and El Deir Village Integrated Development Project Launched in 2017 under the newly built houses to Naga’ sanitation and wastewater leadership of the EFG El Fawal residents. treatment plant as well as Hermes Foundation, the EGP upgrading housing whereby 70 million Naga’ El Fawal and The empowerment of each family will have their El Deir Village Integrated women and youth is a critical own unit. In addition, the Development Project pillar of the project. The project will offer economic benefits over 75,000 preschool provides 70 empowerment projects inhabitants. The ambitious children with a Montessoriserving women and youth. project involves the based education and rehabilitation of an entire includes a programme Thanks to our partner donors community starting with catering to 20 children with – The Kuwaiti Initiative for infrastructure development special needs. Significant the Support of the Egyptian and encompassing economic progress has also been made People, the Sawiris and human development in training women to find Foundation for Social initiatives, as well as access Development and Orascom employment and become to a variety of services. Construction – it has been leaders in their community. 2019 has been an exciting We have prioritized training possible to maximize year for the project. resources and work towards teachers to meet the Following the successful broad and lasting impact. educational needs of children inauguration of the The success of the project in their formative years, and also relies in no small completely refurbished El the preschool has Deir health unit and the measure on the support we successfully created 27 have received from the completion of the potable sustainable jobs, 23 of which Ministry of Social Solidarity, water network, this year we are teaching positions. Luxor Governorate and the launched the village preschool, the Young local authorities as well as on Future phases under the the enthusiasm and passion Scholars Academy, and project will include a delivered the first phase of 20 of community members. 2 Policy & Progress Review – Human Rights Policies/Actions Progress EFG Hermes Continued dedication to our four core values of integrity, leadership, value values creation and commitment. Commitment to Continued support for the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Department sustainability as the lead EFG Hermes division responsible for the advancement of sustainability issues within EFG Hermes. Over 95% of employees have participated in mandatory responsible investment training. Release of the fifth annual sustainability report (SR) covering 2018 and preparation of the sixth annual SR to be issued in March 2020. Stakeholder Hanaa Helmy, Chief Executive Officer of the EFG Hermes Foundation and engagement Head of CSR, attended the Aswan Forum for Sustainable Peace and Development, participating in a session titled ‘Harnessing Digital Financing and Financial Inclusion for Sustainable Development and Peace’. Continuing internal awareness campaigns to highlight sustainable development issues and promote the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). 24 collaterals published for CSR initiatives on multiple assets (Facebook, Twitter, Portal, Screens, LinkedIn, etc.). Promotion of sustainability measures within the investment and finance industry through membership in the Sustainability Advisory Committee (SAC) of the Egyptian Stock Exchange (EGX). Employee Participation by employees in voluntary activities promoting sustainability engagement including fundraising activities, community development initiatives, and social media engagement. This year, employees participating in the annual Ramadan ‘Give from the Heart’ drive succeeded in raising EGP 227,500 for the EFG Foundation’s Naga’ El Fawal initiative and EGP 315,800 for Abul Reesh Mounira Children's Hospitals. Corporate Continued support for the EFG Foundation’s Naga’ El Fawal and El Deir Village citizenship integrated development project in partnership with the Kuwaiti Initiative for the Support of the Egyptian People, the Sawiris Foundation for Social Development, and Orascom Construction. The launch of the village’s preschool, the Young Scholars Academy, in September 2019. The preschool provides 70 children with a Montessori-based educational platform including a special programme catering to 20 children with special needs. The preschool has successfully created 27 sustainable jobs, 23 of which are teaching positions. Teachers at the Young Scholars Academy have been receiving training on the Montessori philosophy in early education since August 2017. Four out of the 20 children with special needs are joining their colleagues in the Montessori classrooms to prepare them for future public-school enrolment. The Foundation is currently working with the community on upgrading houses at Naga’ El Fawal. Twenty houses have been fully rebuilt as a first phase. Houses have been designed in a way to give each family its own space with separate rooms for parents and male and female siblings. 3 Policies/Actions Progress Sponsorship by valU, EFG Hermes’ Fintech lending solution, of Egyptian table tennis prodigy, Hannah Gouda, for a full year of training and tournament support. Accessible EFG Hermes Leasing successfully signed three agreements with commercial financing banks to finance SMEs at subsidized interest rates, the Egyptian Arab Land Bank, Ahli Bank of Kuwait and HSBC. The company succeeded in directing EGP 500 million of its available funds towards the SME segment throughout the past three years, which helped to increase the contribution of SMEs in the portfolio to 16% by end of year 2018 compared to 6% at end of 2017. EFG Hermes continues to provide microfinance solutions through its subsidiary Tanmeyah Microenterprise Services, Egypt’s leading private-sector microfinance provider. Tanmeyah offers comprehensive microfinance solutions to owners of very small businesses across Egypt who would otherwise have no access to the banking sector. In 2019, Tanmeyah increased its number of branches from 248 to 271. Tanmeyah is also an active participant in local community engagement projects, particularly those that further the development of human capital and help create jobs. The company has contributed to the establishment of vocational training workshops that teach carpentry and pottery to community members with special needs, so they can obtain the skills necessary to establish income-generating projects. EFG Hermes also continued to operate state-of-the-art Fintech solution under the brand name ‘valU’, offering Egyptian consumers payment-on-instalment programmes as part of the Firm’s continuing efforts to ensure equitable access to financing throughout the country. Right to EFG Hermes’ Education Platform managed by EFG Hermes Private Equity education completed its 3rd investment and acquired a majority stake in the Option Travel, the leading transportation services provider in Egypt. The transaction stems from the Platform’s strategy of creating a one stop shop for top tier education services in Egypt. The transaction involves secondary and primary tranches, latter to be directed towards accelerating Option Travel’s organic growth plans and launching Egypt’s first specialized student transport service provider, which will primarily cater for the Platform’s existing schools in addition to third party schools. The Platform’s investment in Option Travel marks its 3rd investment in the Egyptian market after acquiring four operational schools in the cities of Rehab and Madinaty earlier this year and kicking off the development of a 5th international school in the city of Rehab in August to bring the Platform’s total capacity to approximately 10k students. EFG Hermes sponsored the Model Egyptian Stock Exchange (MESE) Cairo University conference attended by 187 students. In addition, EFG Hermes employees volunteered to conduct two sessions at the conference. EFG Hermes sponsored MESE Cairo University’s sessions for juniors conducted at MSE (Modern School of Egypt) with 170 attendees from seven different classes. In addition, four sessions were held at Career Gates. 350 students were recruited at the Traverse event (the biggest summit for high school students in the middle east) as well as from various international schools. 4 Policies/Actions Progress Human rights Policy statement on Human and Labour Rights. Policy statement on Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking. The EFG Hermes The EFG Supplier Code of Conduct requires suppliers to uphold sustainability Supplier Code of beliefs shared by EFG Hermes and all applicable laws regarding labour and Conduct human rights, health and safety, environmental protection and ethics practices whenever they make products or perform services for EFG Hermes. 5 Labour EFG Hermes upholds the UNGC principles on labour with a clearly defined set of policies and a commitment to investing in the professional development and wellbeing of its employees. PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. PRINCIPLE 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. PRINCIPLE 5: The effective abolition of child labour. PRINCIPLE 6: Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Spotlight on … EFG Hermes Statement on Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking EFG Hermes recognizes its and a Statement on Health and human rights, health and responsibility to ensure that and Safety which aims to safety, environmental modern slavery and human fulfil all corporate and legal protection, and ethical trafficking and their health and safety practices wherever they associated outcomes, such as responsibilities. EFG Hermes make products or perform the laundering of illicit gains, also ensures all salaries fulfil services for EFG Hermes. do not take place within our legal minimum wage EFG Hermes is also sphere of influence. In 2019, requirement in all the committed to mitigating the EFG Hermes has articulated a countries we operate in. socio-economic factors that corporate Statement on Compliance and Risk may trigger vulnerability to Modern Slavery and Human Management — EFG Hermes human trafficking or modern Trafficking and has identified believes that having slavery via two lines of attack: key areas of engagement: sufficient information about its corporate social Labour — EFG Hermes our clients is the best way to responsibility activities believes that protecting the minimize the Firm’s risk of implemented through the rights of its employees is of being used for illicit activities EFG Hermes Foundation for vital importance and has such as the processing of Social Development and articulated two statements to funds gained from human financial inclusion initiatives complement its existing trafficking or modern slavery such as its subsidiary policies: A Statement on Tanmeyah Microenterprise Supply Chain — EFG Hermes’ Human and Labour Rights Services, Egypt’s leading Supplier Code of Conduct affirming compliance with private-sector microfinance requires its suppliers to the laws and regulations of provider. uphold all applicable laws and the countries we operate in regulations regarding labour 6 Policy & Progress Review – Labour Policies/Actions Progress Career The Firm’s inaugural DNA (Development Needs Assessment) Open House development event took place in April 2019. This annual initiative invited all employees to programmes speak to us about their, and/or their teams’, learning and development needs for the year. The event also incorporated short and informative smart sessions which covered various talent development topics. A total of 165 employees participated in this event. 5,888 in-class training hours (excluding online hours). 1542 training hours delivered via the Academy, EFG Hermes’ online platform for professional development. All new hires in the UK, USA, Kenya, and Bangladesh are enrolled in our Online Onboarding Programme which includes all the forms and policies they need to sign as well as any country specific forms which we added to ensure compliance with local regulations, e.g. the GDPR Consent for UK based employees. The EFG Hermes The EFG Hermes Employee Handbook clearly sets out employee rights in Employee terms of conditions of employment, performance management, leave Handbook entitlements, recruitment, and employment termination procedures. It is available to all employees on the company intranet. The EFG Hermes The EFG Hermes Code of Conduct defines a clear set of standards for Code of Conduct business conduct of employees and is available to all employees on the intranet. Policies to ensure Policy statement on Human and Labour Rights. labour rights New statement on Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking. Policies to ensure Policies to prevent discrimination by nationality. workplace ‘Know Your Employee’ Policy. diversity and fair Mandatory pre-employment background checks for New York office recruitment employees by an independent outside agent as mandated by state practices regulations. Payroll & HR Payroll in the UK, USA, Kenya, and Bangladesh is handled by a payroll agent policies to ensure compliance with local law and to apply any mandatory statutory deductions/contributions. Policies are customized based on country need such as in Pakistan where a customized policy was created to regulate loans and salary advance requests to accommodate employee needs given the financial situation in the country. Wellbeing, safety Policy statement on Health and Safety. and health All employees in the UK, USA, Kenya and Bangladesh receive life insurance policies benefits through the same coverage and provider. Medical insurance coverage is provided to UK, Kenya and Bangladesh employees in line with coverage offered to other employees. Pakistan employee medical and life insurance coverage has been upgraded in line with EFG Hermes standards. Medical insurance for USA employees is offered through a local provider in line with EFG Hermes standards. A pension scheme for UK employees as mandated by local law. 7 Policies/Actions Progress 401k pension scheme offered to US employees according to market and industry norms even though not mandated by law. Medical and Life Grant policies for all employees . On-site gym facilities at HQ with a certified trainer. Encouragement of employees to participate in team activities such as the World Health Day in-house fitness tournaments and the Bloomberg Square Mile Relay in Dubai. Policies to An online portal to provide new hires with vital information ranging from encourage minor details such as the dress code, to more important matters such as employee regulatory requirements and policies. engagement The EFG Hermes Connect app is designed to streamline processes such as requesting vacations and HR letters, checking official holidays and pay days and provides access to all internal announcements and other important information. Automation of travel workflows starting from requesting the business trip, getting approvals and digital settlement of employee expenses. The system is integrated with EFG Connect to allow employee to request business trip remotely. ‘Whistle-blowing’ Policy. The ‘Voice It’ programme is an online tool for employees at all levels across the Firm to communicate innovative ideas and voice complaints anonymously and discreetly. 8 Environment EFG Hermes is committed to upholding the UNGC principles on the environment by minimizing the environmental risk surrounding our operation and investments. PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. PRINCIPLE 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. PRINCIPLE 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Spotlight on… EFG Hermes Statement on Climate Change EFG Hermes believes it is vital clean and renewable energy. energy conservation efforts for financial institutions to We also aim to help our and recycling initiatives. make a firm commitment to clients limit their exposure to Advocacy — EFG Hermes is the sustainable development environmental risk utilizing committed to promoting the goals (SDGs) and to the our exceptional research implementation of Climate support of Climate Change capabilities and our in-depth Change measures within the mitigation efforts. Within this knowledge of Frontier investment industry by context, EFG Hermes has Emerging Markets (FEMs) engaging with peers, released a Statement on that may be environmentally government agencies and Climate Change and and socially vulnerable. the wider community. On an identified key areas of Training — EFG Hermes is internal level, EFG Hermes engagement: introducing training modules continues to engage with Policy — EFG Hermes is to help our investment employees to prioritize committed to expanding its professionals recognize Climate Change issues. environment, social and climate risks and identify Citizenship — EFG Hermes governance (ESG) policy, sustainable opportunities. Foundation for Social adopted in 2017, to more Operation — EFG Hermes is Development is committed specifically address Climate committed to increasing to incorporating Climate Change considerations. supply chain efficiency, Change mitigation measures Investment — EFG Hermes is minimizing the carbon in its integrated committed to expanding its footprint of our premises development initiatives in responsible investments, worldwide and expanding rural Egypt and elsewhere. particularly in the area of 9 Policy & Progress Review – Environment Policies/Actions Progress Environmental, Continued commitment to the United Nations Principles for Social and Responsible Investment (PRI) joined in 2018 with preliminary reporting Governance Policy in Q1 2019. Advanced ESG training workshop held in Cairo for business lines in EFG Hermes Headquarters to support full ESG integration. Enrolment in Responsible Investment eLearning Course mandatory for all staff. The course provides an introduction to PRI requirements as well as to EFG Hermes’ Environmental, Social and Governance policy launched in 2017. In line with the UNPRI requirements for reporting and the Egyptian Exchange model guidance for reporting on ESG performance, EFG Hermes is transparent about its ESG activities and has made the EFG Hermes ESG summary policy available on its website and internal portal. Disclosures on EFG Hermes ESG integration efforts are made on an annual basis in the sustainability report. Climate Change New Statement on Climate Change. Responsible Managed by EFG Hermes’ Private Equity Department, the Vortex investing Renewable Energy platform, one of the largest renewable energyfocused investment managers in Europe, is currently expanding into global markets, with an aim to geographically diversify its clean energy footprint. Vortex has successfully executed transactions worth ca. EUR 2.4 billion in the European renewables market since 2014. Vortex was able to close three investments, one divestment and three debt refinancings since inspection. Vortex acquired 457 MW of wind assets from EDP Renováveis SA across four Western European jurisdictions and acquired 365 MW of solar assets from TerraForm Power in the United Kingdom, and recently, divested its wind portfolio in 2019 to J.P. Morgan Asset Management. The Solar PV transaction was valued at an Enterprise Value of ca. GBP 470 million and comprises 24 operational assets, representing one of the largest portfolios of solar PV in the United Kingdom. Vortex has continued to outperform investment targets in terms of electricity generation and financial performance across the years, demonstrating the attractive financial returns possible on sustainable and responsible investment. EFG Hermes Finance, Egypt’s only alternative energy lease finance solution, maintains two vendor agreements with solar station suppliers Karm Solar and Solarize in a strategic alliance to provide clients with solar stations through a leasing facility. By providing agribusiness with access to subsidized financing for renewable energy solutions, clients can generate savings from the product itself and decrease their carbon footprint. EFG Hermes Leasing succeeded in increasing the grant facility provided by the Saudi Development Fund to reach EGP 225 million of which EGP 37.5 million are allocated to fund SMEs located in remote governorates with a further 37.5% to be directed to the agricultural sector including the agricultural industry. 10 Policies/Actions Progress The total portfolio of EFG Hermes Leasing reached EGP 3.5 billion by Q4 2019, with the SME contribution maintained at 15 to 16 %. Energy conservation Replacement of 30% of desktop computers at HQ with newer, more & Green IT energy-efficient models. To date, almost 80% of desktops have been replaced. Six LCD screens have been replaced with more eco-friendly LED screens. Data centre power consumption has been reduced by 33% through: · Continuing to execute the plan of virtualizing IT servers and demoting any unnecessary physical equipment for a 3% increase over the 2018 virtualization strategy. · Replacing the power switch with a new one that is more energy efficient, reducing consumption by 90%. Replacing all user edge switches had similar impact. · Migrating backup process to a solution that reduces both material waste and the footprint in the data centre. · Reducing the number of communication devices by aggregating the services on new equipment with lower power consumption. Continuing the strategy to shift to cloud-based services by: · Migrating to WebEx Cloud licenses which will eventually reduce dependency on the On-Premise WebEx and be reflected in lower data centre power consumption. · Establishing a cloud-based mail archiving system with 30% completion to date. 97% of users are using mail over a cloudbased solution. · Adopting centric advanced cloud security controls to protect multiple services hosted in multiple geographic locations as well as cloudbased business services. WebEx as a teleconferencing/online meeting platform usage increased by around 30% over 2018 with an average of 388 conferences per month. Replacing the outdated telephony system in Pakistan with a new IP telephony system reduced the footprint and power consumption in the data centre. Coordinating with the administration department to include old IT equipment in the e-waste recycling plan in an ongoing process. Continuing the migration to clean energy solutions by installing solar panels at the Egypt HQ with a capacity of 24KW which is equal to 2% of current electric consumption. Promoting Felsekka, EFG Hermes’ carpooling initiative to encourage employees to reduce their carbon footprint. Employees are also encouraged to use ride-sharing apps such as Careem for business-related trips to decrease stress related to poor traffic conditions (12,625 Careem rides in 2019). The EFG Hermes Foundation has introduced the use of solar energy for the operation of the Naga’ El Fawal community centre and the Young Scholars Academy nursery. 11 Policies/Actions Progress Resource EFG HR Connect continues to minimize the use of paper by providing management employees virtual access to internal documents such as CEO Notes, leave requests and approvals, latest corporate news, etc., to reduce waste and increase savings. Continued recycling practices across all EFG conferences and events. 11 Anti-corruption To uphold the UNGC principles on anti-corruption, EFG Hermes takes an energetic, proactive approach to corporate governance, compliance, auditing and risk management. PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Spotlight on… Compliance and Risk Management EFG Hermes believes that • The ongoing training of EFG Hermes Anti-Fraud and having sufficient information all employees on the Corruption Policy aims to about our clients is the best AML policies and educate EFG Hermes way to minimize the Firm’s procedures. employees on fraud and risk of being used for illicit corruption, set the EFG Hermes’ thorough due activities such as the framework for fraud diligence processes, which processing of funds gained prevention and antiare applied to individual and from human trafficking or corruption actions, and corporate clients alike, modern slavery. It also define each employee’s role ensure that no new protects EFG Hermes against in fighting any potential fraud businesses are undertaken fraud and enables EFG and corruption within EFG prior to Compliance scrutiny, Hermes to recognize Hermes. This policy applies to verification and approval. suspicious activity. EFG all employees irrespective of Our due diligence processes Hermes anti-money their position with the Firm are implemented across laundering (AML) policy is and should be read in business lines at EFG Hermes based upon the strict conjunction with the EFG to ensure that our investment adherence to the following Hermes Code of Conduct. platforms are not used for procedures: Compliance with this policy is illegal transactions. Potential mandatory and non• The verification of the clients are required to fill out compliance may lead to identity of new clients a detailed questionnaire, and disciplinary action including • The ongoing screening investor names are checked dismissal. Under monitoring of clients against against domestic and from Compliance, EFG international sanctions international sanctions lists Hermes also conducts four lists and media sources like the Office of Foreign mandatory annual training • The receipt and payment Assets Control (OFAC), courses on Anti-Money of funds directly to / European Union and United Laundering (AML), antifrom the client (not from Nations lists to protect the fraud, cybersecurity, and third parties) Firm from entering into sustainability awareness. A • The reporting system of business with persona non policy was also drafted, and a suspicious transactions grata individuals. Our due course launched on the EU’s • The maintenance of diligence documents are General Data Protection complete and accurate protected by strict access Regulation (GDPR) for all EFG records regulations and Hermes employees. documentation standards. 12 Policy & Progress Review – Anti-corruption Policies/Actions Progress Corporate In 2017, EFG Hermes announced a comprehensive corporate governance restructure in the wake of its sale of its stake in Credit Libanais, signalling the end of the 2013 – 2016 strategic plan and the achievement of all goals set out by the Board of Directors in conjunction with the management team. The new management structure is designed to streamline operations, increase efficiency and help in the achievement of the new 2017 – 2020 strategic plan. The new structure has been disclosed to all stakeholders and ratified by the Board of Directors. Under this new framework, the Board of Directors was restructured during the year to comply with the Egyptian Financial Regulatory Authority’s (FRA) corporate governance regulations. EFG Hermes is fully compliant with FRA regulations and EGX listing rules, which require companies to appoint new board members every three years. EFG Hermes Leasing became the first leasing company in the market to align with all new FRA regulation and standards announced in 2019. The FRA regulation and standards are related to capital adequacy, liquidity ratios, provisioning, portfolio concentration, in addition to the change in accounting standards in line with international leasing standards. To better instil sound corporate governance practices, the Firm restructured its Board committees, splitting the Audit and Risk functions into two independent committees and adding a Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee and Business Risk and Compliance Committee. The Firm also obtained a license from FINRA for EFG Hermes USA; complied with the Common Reporting Standards Regulations; and complied with Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID II), an EU law that seeks to boost investor protection and market transparency. Policies on: All policies are available to employees on the intranet. Code of Conduct 100% of the workforce have signed and acknowledged the Code Staff Dealing of Conduct. Group An orientation package is available to give all trainees and Compliance newly hired employees a comprehensive view of all policies and Information operations. Disclosure Whistle-blowing Mandatory antiThe training completion rate for the anti-money laundering money laundering (AML), anti-fraud, responsible investment, general data and anti-fraud protection regulation (GDPR), and cyber security courses is over courses 91% for 2018. Rigorous due diligence processes are in place. 13 Policies/Actions Progress Internal audit, Strong internal control and risk management culture serves to compliance and risk ensure the alignment of business to management’s strategic management goals. policies Internal Audit renewed its commitment to monitor, assess and, where possible, strengthen business and support functions’ sustainability efforts, including integration of the ESG policy in its standard procedures. EFG Hermes maintained its ISO22301 certification from the British Standards Institute renewing its commitment to business continuity management. Continued inclusion in the FTSE4Good Emerging Index, a market-leading tool for investors that wish to align their portfolios with their values or seek to invest in companies based on their management of ESG risks and demonstration of leading management practices. Completed GAP analysis for all networks and systems including two external systems for valU and EFG Hermes Leasing. The division is actively working to include all NBFIs in the analysis, having already completed one full cycle this year. Drafted a new proxy voting policy, which will be reviewed and updated as necessary to address new and evolving proxy voting issues and standards. Completed audits on all the Firm’s NBFI platforms as well as frontier market operations. Completed the annual update for all existing risk and compliance policies and procedures for risk and compliance. Cybersecurity Completed the second and last phase of the Cyber Security Compromise Assessment for all EFG Hermes networks and systems with successful results. Drafted a policy on the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) for all EFG Hermes employees. International best practices are followed in the operation of all EFG Hermes data centres. The IT team applies the same security policy for both cloud and on premises applications related to risk management and all security controls including but not limited to the following: vulnerability assessment, encryption standards, penetration testing, multi-factor authentication, firewalling and intrusion prevention systems along with the standard administrative controls. 14 Measurement of Progress and Outcomes Our leading position in the area is a direct result of the rigorous guidelines and procedures across our operation. We are equally prudent when it comes to the quality and nature of the documentation that we require from clients. As a result, EFG Hermes has succeeded in maintaining its reputation and market leadership as it continues its expansion into new geographies and its launch of a new roster of products and services. Auditing forms an integral part of corporate governance at EFG Hermes. Both internal and external auditors play a key role in providing an independent assessment of our operations and internal controls. Our Auditing, Compliance, Risk and Human Resource Departments consistently monitor our operations to ensure adherence to the regulatory requirements of the markets where we operate and the integration and of new policies and benchmarks. Our commitment to the United Nations PRI and our submission of the first report has also necessitated an expansion of the kind of data we monitor to integrate ESG factors and maintain the same level of transparency and accountability that we pride ourselves on throughout our operation. New policies that we have enacted, such as those on Climate Change and Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking, have also been accompanied by a review of our current practices to ensure that our practices mirror our commitments at all levels. 15
