SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 FOCUS ON SUSTAINABLE VALUE CREATION Image author: Horst Pozdena (R-IT) Important facts at a glance: Our sustainability strategy: Mission & Vision 2025: RESPONSIBLE BANKER Vision 2025: We are the most recommended ENVIRONMENT financial services group Ecological product responsibility SOCIETY Mission We transform continuous innovation into Social product responsibility superior customer experience ECONOMY Customers We constantly strive to improve customer Added value experience and enable our clients to achieve more in their lives and businesses. We create sustainable Employees We value expertise and create a working d an s Em value e n S us environment which promotes collaboration, s s ice tre tai pre na ne c t plo ne ble creativity and entrepreneurial spirit. usi pra ye Ac u rs e rs es a n t i ve hip ir b ng an d p civ Fa rati old Inh ub il s Shareholders We aim to generate solid and sustainable lic oc eh En int iet y e ou ere shareholder value. tak frie viron op se st EN ds FA I ec nd me l y nt s o all T IZ olo AR cie y ty RP gy CI D General public We act in a socially responsible manner, TN GA fostering the long-term welfare of the people ER GE and businesses in our markets EN 46,873 employees 2,479,430 Training hours 16.7 m for employees customers Group-wide share of women 27,762 employees trained in preventing corruption in management 55 percent Austrian Sustainability RBI AG financing volume: Reporting Award (ASRA): Renewable energies RBI Sustainability Report 2018 around € 303 m recognized as best report Green real estate by a ”Large Company“ around € 1,577 m Successful completion of the second benchmark issue of a green bond by an Austrian bank Sustainable finance with a volume of in the RBI: € 750 m – RBI is the around € 2.28 bn largest Green Bond issuer in Austria Sustainability ratings and Volume of sustainable indices of RBI AG: investments of Raiffeisen KAG: ISS ESG around € 6.5 bn prime rating: (more than doubled compared ”C+“ to the previous year) © Fotolia Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 Certifications Environmental effects of the first RBI green bond: of Raiffeisen KAG: CO2 SAVINGS BY ASSET CATEGORY Asset CO2 savings CO2 savings € 630 m category per year in tons in 3 years in tons Portfolio saves Hotel 657 1,971 Logistics 3,974 11,922 12,992 Group-wide investments Office 7,110 21,330 tons CO2 Shopping Centers 1,251 3,753 per year in the community: Total 12,992 38,976 around € 2.3 m EQUIVALENT TO ANNUAL GREENHOUSE Annual CO2 savings GAS EMISSIONS1 per € 1 m investment 21 tons or or Supporting our or communities with 2,758 Passenger vehicle driven 1,556 Households supplied with 214,792 Tree seedlings grown for ten Annual CO2 savings per € 500 m 1,080 for one year energy for one years outstanding green bonds projects 1 year Source: https://www.epa.gov/energy/greenhouse-gas-equivalencies-calculator 10,300 tons The most important Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) for RBI: CO2 emissions reduced by In 2019, CDP rated RBI six percent the best company in the financial compared to the sector in Austria for the fifth time previous year Target path CO2 reduction of RBI: Reductions 2019 to 2018 45,558,179 liter water 55,489,415 sheets of paper 26% CO2 reduction 35% CO2 reduction CO2 65% CO2 reduction 14,990,548 kWh energy CO2 CO2 CO2 6,468,361 driven pkm 132,809 t CO2e 97,636 t CO2e 6,419,562 kg CO2 86,326 t CO2e 46,483 t CO2e This corresponds to the CO2 emissions that are emitted of around 4,200 four-person households in Austria through their annual Base year 2011 2019 Target value 2025 Target value 2050 electricity consumption. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 RBI Sustainability Report 2019 (corresponds to the non-financial report pursuant to sections 267a and 243b of the Austrian Commercial Code) 2 Publication details Media owner and publisher: Proofreading: edith holzer communications, Raiffeisen Bank International AG Vienna Head of Group Sustainability Management: Translation: Andrea Sihn-Weber EVS Translations GmbH, Offenbach, Germany Telephone +43-1-71707-6069 andrea.sihn-weber@rbinternational.com Print: Bösmüller Print Management GmbH & Co. KG, Editorial team: Vienna Ulrike Capelare, Tanja Daumann, Anita Lang, Ursula Mirth Place of publication: Vienna sustainabilitymanagement@rbinternational.com Editorial deadline: February 28, 2020 Images – cover and chapter pages: Photography club of the Raiffeisen companies Raiffeisen Bank International AG in Vienna Am Stadtpark 9, 1030 Vienna Telephone +43-1-71707-0 Graphics: Elisabeth Windisch, Vienna www.rbinternational.com/sustainabilitymanagement Note in accordance with the Austrian Equal Treatment Act: For improved readability, all forms of personal reference relate to both genders. Exclusion of liability: We have taken the utmost care in gathering the data and other information contained in this Report. Nevertheless, we cannot completely rule out the possibility of errors. Statements on future developments are based on information and forecasts which were available to us at the time this Report was published. The latter were also written with care. Notwithstanding the above, there are many factors and developments that can lead to discrepancies. We therefore ask for your understanding that we do not assume liability for data and other information contained in this Report. This Report is based on RBI’s current business policy. Changes to this business policy are reserved. If this Report contains rules, these shall apply solely to companies of RBI and their board members and employees. Other parties are not addressed by these rules and are neither authorized nor obligated by them. Nobody may derive or assert any type of claims or other rights arising from or relating to this Report against RBI companies or their board members and employees; any liability of these companies, board members and employees arising from or relating to this Report shall be excluded. This Report is subject to substantive Austrian law. The Bezirksgericht Innere Stadt (Local Court Vienna – Innere Stadt, Austria) is solely responsible for reaching a decision on all possible disputes arising from or relating to this Report. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 3 Foreword Contents Overview Management of sustainability Foreword 04 Health and safety 106 Employer branding and recruitment 108 Overview 06 Overview of key performance indicators 112 About the Report 07 Future outlook and Sustainability program 114 Interesting facts about RBI 10 Visual implementation of the Report 11 Fair partner – Inhouse ecology 116 Mission & Vision 2025 117 Sustainability management 12 Impacts, risks and opportunities 118 Responsible and corporate responsibility Environmental targets 119 Sustainability concept and strategy 13 Digitization and climate protection 120 banker Mission & Vision 2025 14 Overview of greenhouse gas emissions 121 Impacts, risks and opportunities 19 Compliance with legal regulations 123 Governance and Compliance 21 Environmental Committee 123 Material topics 26 Environmental policy 123 Stakeholder inclusion 32 Development of Scope 1-3 emissions 124 Fairer partner – Sustainability ratings, indices and awards 39 Supplier evaluation and purchasing 125 Environmental measures 126 Employee Responsible banker 42 CO2e emissions 127 Impacts, risks and opportunities 43 Overview of key performance indicators 129 Business strategy 45 Future outlook and Sustainability program 130 Economic sustainability 46 RBI‘s Economic Footprint in CEE and Austria ® 48 Engaged citizen 132 Responsibility in the core business – 52 Fair partner – Mission & Vision 2025 134 for products and services Impacts, risks and opportunities 135 Mission & Vision 2025 53 Digital change 135 Inhouse ecology Sustainable financing 64 Supported projects and initiatives 136 Sustainable investment products 70 Sustainable entrepreneurship 147 Other sustainable products and services 78 Raiffeisen Sustainability Initiative 150 Future outlook and Sustainability program 84 Future outlook and Sustainability program 152 Fair partner – Employees 86 Engaged GRI index and Assurance report 154 Mission & Vision 2025 87 GRI content index 155 Impacts, risks and opportunities 88 Statement of all legal representatives 161 citizen Development of personnel 89 Assurance report 163 Staff development 90 Abbreviations 165 Employee involvement 94 GRI index and Diversity management and the ability 97 to reconcile work and family Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 4 Foreword Dear readers, The 2019 financial year was a satisfying one for RBI. The Group result of € 1,227 million was almost as high as in the previous year. Our result before taxes rose by 1 percent year-on-year to € 1,767 million. Loans to customers increased by 13 percent in 2019, primarily at head office, in Russia, and in Central Europe. In light of the fundamental and fast-moving changes within the industry and shifting customer expectations, RBI has defined a new strategic orientation as part of its Mission & Vision 2025. This is aimed at strong growth through customer orientation and digital transformation with the vision of being the most recommended financial services group by 2025. RBI intends to achieve this by making its customers’ lives easier through continuous innovation and a superior customer experience. We have clearly set out the path for 2020 and 2021 in a “Strategic Roadmap”, which is intended to provide all employees with guidance and an understanding of the contribution they can make to achieving the targets. Because of the far-reaching relevance of the new Mission & Vision and the corresponding corporate values – “Collaboration”, “Learning”, “Proactivity” and “Responsibility” – this topic is a common theme throughout this report and was also the focus of the most recent Stakeholder Council. With regard to our future orientation, we will need to make the corresponding investments in digitization while retaining our cost discipline in order to remain competitive. As a central element of RBI AG’s transformation into an adaptive bank, 2019 saw the launch of the TOM (Target Operating Model) project, which is geared toward the pillars of transparency, simplicity and efficiency, as well as cost optimization. This report has been prepared in accordance with the international reporting standard “GRI Standards” issued by the Global Reporting Initiative. It constitutes RBI’s “non-financial report” pursuant to the Austrian Sustainability and Diversity Improvement Act and has been audited by KPMG and the Supervisory Board. We have been a member of the United Nations Global Compact, the world’s largest network for corporate responsibility and sustainability, for ten years now. Along with the numerous projects and measures described in the report, this shows that sustainability plays an important role in our business activities. This is also underlined by the fact that RBI has an environmental and social management system in place at seven network banks and a corresponding environmental and social policy that defines the principles of environmental and social risk management at the respective banks. These are predominantly based on the standards of the International Finance Corporation and/or the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency. As we are in no doubt as to the strategic relevance of this topic, we have been intensively addressing the developments in the EU with regard to sustainable finance for some time now, including the Green Deal published by the European Commission. This is also demonstrated by the second benchmark issue of a green bond by an Austrian bank, which RBI successfully completed in September 2019. The bond has a volume of € 750 million and a term of seven years. With an order volume of € 1.8 billion, it was significantly oversubscribed. It means we can serve the continuous growth in demand for green investment opportunities, expand our investor base, and finance sustainable projects in our home market of Austria and in CEE. For the first time, RBI’s “economic footprint” was calculated for CEE and Austria in conjunction with the economic research institute Economica. The aim was to identify the value-added and employment contributions in all of the countries in which RBI is active. The calculation of RBI’s economic impact took into account not only the direct economic contributions resulting from its operating activities, but also the indirect effects throughout the upstream value-added network. The findings of this study underlined the importance of RBI as a key player on the European banking market, particularly in Central, Southeastern and Eastern Europe. The specific results can be found from page 48 onward. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 5 Foreword Overview Among other things, we see the following rating results and awards as confirmation of our many years of commitment to sustainability: In June 2019, RBI was again awarded Prime status and an assessment level of “C+” in the ISS ESG sustainability rating. RBI was also listed in the FTSE4Good Index Series again and was given a first-class grade of “A-” by CDP, a non-profit organization that surveys and evaluates the CO2 emissions of listed Management companies annually on behalf of investors in over 90 countries. Only 925 of more than 8,400 companies of sustainability around the world secured a place on the CDP Leadership List (A and A-) in 2019. RBI is one of the five best companies in Austria to be included in this ranking, including because of its climate targets referring to the UN Climate Change Conference in Paris (COP 21) and its annual CO2 reductions. RBI is also the best domestic financial sector company for the fifth year in a row. The annual Austrian Sustainability Reporting Awards were presented by the Responsible © Martin Hörmandinger Chamber of Chartered Accountants in November 2019. RBI’s Sustainability Report 2018 took first place in the “Large Companies” category. banker The “Diversity 2020” initiative, which aims to optimally promote and take advantage of diversity at RBI in Austria through professional diversity management, continued successfully in the past year. The content of the measures focused on the empowerment of women with the aim of increasing the proportion of women in senior management roles, the inclusion of people with disabilities, and LGBTI topics. In our role as an “engaged corporate citizen”, we actively champion sustainable development in society and Fairer partner – always focus on the local needs of people in our markets. We are striving to help solve the problems faced by society, promoting culture, and implementing measures to protect the environment. In total, RBI invested around € 2.3 million in the community in 2019. Overall, 1,080 projects were supported in the communities in which we operate. Employee Sustainability and climate protection are not only global mega-trends, but some of the biggest challenges of our time. We therefore take potential sustainability risks into account in our governance, strategy, and risk management. As an international banking group, we believe our commitment to sustainability also includes a responsibility to contribute to the global “Sustainable Development Goals” in order to support the United Nations’ “Agenda Fair partner – 2030”. Inhouse ecology On behalf of the Management Board, I would like to thank all of our employees for their commitment to our sustainable approach. Our aim is to act in a socially responsible manner in order to contribute to the long-term well-being of people and companies in our markets. I would like to invite you to continue this dialog with us. On behalf of the Management Board Engaged citizen Johann Strobl Chief Executive Officer GRI index and Raiffeisen Bank International AG Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 6 Information on the Sustainability Report (Non-financial report pursuant to sections 267a and 243b of the Austrian Commercial Code) CORPORATE VALUE ”PROACTIVITY“ AND ”LEARNING“ Image author: Horst Pozdena (R-IT) Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 7 Foreword Overview Overview About the Report In this Sustainability Report, we describe the economic, environmental, and social impact of our business activities in 2019 and present our current activities in the area of sustainability. The aim of the Report is to give a comprehensive Management account of how Raiffeisen Bank International (RBI) has fulfilled its sustainability mission during the reporting period and how it plans to implement and improve its sustainability performance in the future. In addition, some portions of of sustainability the Sustainability Report are published only on our website. This applies in particular to detailed tables relating to the chapter ”Inhouse ecology“ (for the areas of paper, water and waste). Similarly, our sustainability guiding principles are included in this report as excerpts only. The full version can be found on our website at www.rbinternational.com/ sustainabilitymanagement. This Report represents RBI‘s ”non-financial report“ (pursuant to sections 267a and 243b of the Austrian Commercial Code) in accordance with the Austrian Sustainability and Diversity Improvement Act (”Nachhaltigkeitsund Diversitätsverbesserungsgesetz“). It includes matters related to the environment, and social and employee matters, the matter of human rights and the fight against corruption and bribery. The Report is not structured according to Responsible these specific matters. Instead, the corresponding information is actually included in the relevant chapters. banker The Report lays out the impacts, risks and opportunities of our business activity/business relationships, the sustainability strategy together with corresponding management approaches (concepts) and measures and it describes specific sustainability activities carried out during and prior to the reporting period. In addition, we present our sustainability program for the next reporting period. The current reporting period follows on seamlessly from the RBI Sustainability Report for 2018, and the Report is published annually. Fairer partner – As shown in our stakeholder universe (see page 32), the Sustainability Report is addressed to all stakeholders of RBI. Many stakeholders were involved in selecting the most important topics for this Report. We particularly refer readers to the ”Materiality Analysis“ chapter (starting on page 26 onwards) and the ”Stakeholder Inclusion“ chapter (starting on page 32 onwards). Employee Group Sustainability Management at RBI is your point of contact concerning this Report. Comments, ideas and suggestions for improvements can be sent to sustainabilitymanagement@rbinternational.com. Fair partner – GRI Standards Inhouse ecology This Report was produced in accordance with the internationally recognized GRI Standards for sustainability reporting of the Global Reporting Initiative, involving sustainability reporting with the ”core“ option. In addition, selected indicators relating to the information related to the financial services sector are included. Verification of the report’s contents Engaged The contents of this Sustainability Report have been audited by KPMG Austria GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsund Steuerberatungsgesellschaft (KPMG) (see pages 163–164). citizen This Report has been examined by the Supervisory Board pursuant to section 96 (1) of the Stock Corporation Act. GRI index and Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 8 Materiality, impacts, risks, opportunities, and determination of the Report contents In the Report, we address the subjects that have been identified within RBI as material, that reflect the expectations of our stakeholders, and that represented the focus of our commitment in the past year. This Report contains information – including non-financial performance indicators – describing the specific impact of RBI on the economy, society and the environment. The contents of the Report were selected using the principle of materiality. A materiality analysis provides the basis for selecting the relevant topics. The internal and external sustainability requirements and expectations of RBI and RBI‘s impact on the economy, the environment and society have been analyzed in detail and summarized in a materiality matrix. The materiality analysis is based on an online survey carried out in 2018 (see page 28 onward). It is intended to ensure that the contents of the Report cover all topics and indicators that have the greatest impact on business activities, products and services. This includes both the impacts that RBI has, which occurs inside the organization, as well as impacts to which RBI contributes, i.e. that have arisen based on business relationships with other entities. The risks and opportunities that are relevant to RBI in connection with the aforementioned matters or for which there are risks or opportunities for RBI on account of its business activities or its business relationships are also presented. In order to assess the materiality of the various topics and determine the contents of the Report, RBI considered the following matters: • Relevance to strategy and management • Results from stakeholder dialogs, focus groups and online surveys, which we have combined in the materiality matrix • Disclosure requirements on financial analysts, sustainability rating agencies, institutional investors, etc. • The principles of the UN Global Compact and the Sustainable Development Goals Report scope and data collection The report includes Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI AG) and 13 network banks in Central and Eastern Europe. The core business of Raiffeisen Bank Polska S.A. was sold by way of a spin-off effective October 31, 2018. In all of the tables relating to the income statement for 2018, the figures for Raiffeisen Bank Polska S.A. are included until October 31, 2018. The environmental figures have been extrapolated on the basis of historical data. The company is no longer included in the measures listed in the report. The key participations of RBI AG in Austria are also included in the report. These are Raiffeisen Bausparkasse Gesellschaft m.b.H., Raiffeisen Kapitalanlage Gesellschaft m.b.H. Raiffeisen-Leasing GmbH, Valida Gruppe, Kathrein Privatbank AG, and Raiffeisen Centrobank AG. Raiffeisen Bank International (RBI) is used to designate the RBI Group in this Report. On the other hand, the term RBI AG is used to designate Raiffeisenbank International AG. More information on the structure of RBI as a whole can be found on page 10. The structure of the chapters and summaries of figures in this Report correspond with the segments of RBI‘s Annual Report. RBI is divided into Austria (AT), Central Europe (CE), Southeast Europe (SEE), and Eastern Europe (EE). RBI AG is presented separately. Due to rounding, the tables may add up to greater or less than 100 percent and the totals may not always correspond to the individual items. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 9 Foreword Economy Overview The information on economic circumstances contained in this Sustainability Report is based primarily on the information from RBI‘s 2019 Annual Report. The information and data contained therein was examined by external auditors, and some of that information and data was used for this report. Further information can be found in the 2019 Annual Report. Management Ecology of sustainability As in the previous year, quantitative data relating to in-house ecology was collected using the ”mona“ software. Additional data published in the report was gathered by means of standardized questionnaires and discussions with individuals. Since the 2019 financial year, the environmental figures have included the data for the head offices as well as the branches of the network banks, thus covering over 90 percent of all employees. The data for the branches has been calculated retroactively in order to improve comparability with the prior-year figures and the base year. This calculation was based on the Scope 1-3 changes in the respective regions and the employee changes in the respective countries. The base year 2011 was also recalculated to reflect the new report scope. Responsible The key figures of the network banks have been summarized by region and are published on our website (www.rbinternational.com). Data acquisition of the corporate environmental protection indicators is time-delayed banker on account of early reporting requirements (as a result of the Austrian Sustainability and Diversity Improvement Act and with the exception of the base year 2011, which corresponds to the calendar year). Full-year values are published. The figures for the fourth quarter of the previous year are added to the figures for the first three quarters of the current year. The areas of paper, water and waste are not covered in detail in this Report; instead they are published on the website (www.rbinternational.com/sustainabilitymanagement). Employees Fairer partner – Employee data is gathered Group-wide using the ”Tagetik“ software. The data is then imported into the ”mona“ Employee software via an interface. Additional data published in the report was gathered by means of standardized questionnaires and discussions with individuals. Comparability of the information Fair partner – The 2019 Report is fully comparable with the 2018 Report in terms of content. The tables cover a period of three years for RBI. The in-house ecology figures include 2011 as reference year in Inhouse ecology addition. This is the reference year for the objectives set in the environmental area and is therefore more relevant. Further details regarding the areas of paper, water and waste from the ”Inhouse ecology“ chapter are available on our website at www.rbinternational.com/sustainabilitymanagement. Engaged Wording citizen Where possible, terms are used that are not gender-specific in order to preserve readability and the flow of the text. Where the male form is used (such as ”he“ or ”his“), the female form is included implicitly in the meaning. GRI index and Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 10 Interesting facts about RBI Ownership relationships and structure The Raiffeisen Banking Group in Austria (RBG) is the largest banking group in the country and has the densest network of bank branches in Austria. There are three levels to the RBG: it is made up of 368 independent and locally active Raiffeisen banks (level one), the eight Raiffeisen ”regional banks“, which are also independent (level two) and RBI AG (level three). The 368 Raiffeisen banks and their branches, together with the regional Raiffeisen banks and specialist companies, form an extensive and wide-ranging banking network. The Raiffeisen banks are universal banks offering a full range of banking services, and at the same time are owners of their respective regional banks. The Raiffeisen regional banks (Raiffeisen Landesbanken or Raiffeisenverband) are responsible for balancing liquidity and provide other central services for the Raiffeisen banks within their area of operation. In turn, the Raiffeisen regional banks are connected to RBI AG as the central institute of the RBG. Structure of the Raiffeisen Banking Group 1.7 million members 368 Raiffeisen banks 8 Raiffeisen regional headquarters and other shareholders Credit-/Financial institutions/Insurance Other participations Austria: Foreign countries: Austria: Foreign countries: card complete Hobex 13 RBI subsidiaries in CEE CEESEG (Wiener Börse) Centralised Raiffeisen International Kathrein Privatbank • Raiffeisen Bank Sh. A., Albanien Leipnik-Lundenburger Invest Services & Payments, Rumänien Notartreuhandbank • Raiffeisen Bank d.d., Bosnien & Herzegowina Medicur-Holding Regional Card Processing Center, Slowakei ÖHT • Raiffeisenbank (Bulgaria) EAD, Bulgarien Raiffeisen Informatik Ukrainian Processing Center, Ukraine OeKB • Raiffeisen Bank Zrt., Ungarn Raiffeisen Property International Raiffeisen Bausparkasse • Raiffeisen Bank Kosovo J.S.C, Kosovo RSC Raiffeisen Service Center Raiffeisen Centrobank • Raiffeisenbank Austria d.d., Kroatien Raiffeisen Verbundunternehmen-IT Raiffeisen Factor Bank • Raiffeisen Bank S.A., Rumänien ZHS Raiffeisen KAG • AO Raiffeisen Bank, Russland Raiffeisen-Leasing • Raiffeisen banka a.d., Serbien Raiffeisen Wohnbaubank • Raiffeisenbank a.s., Tschechische Republik UNIQA • Raiffeisen Bank Aval JSC, Ukraine Valida • Priorbank JSC, Belarus • Tatra banka a.s., Slowakei Raiffeisen-Leasing International/Leasing units Investment firms/Pension fund companies About RBI RBI regards both Austria, where it is a leading corporate and investment bank, as well as Central and Eastern Europe (CEE) as its home market. 13 markets in the region are covered by subsidiary banks. In addition, the group comprises numerous other financial service providers in areas such as leasing, asset management as well as M&A. All in all, nearly 47.000 RBI employees manage 16.7 million customers at more than 2,000 business outlets, most of them in CEE. RBI AG shares have been listed on the Vienna Stock Exchange since 2005. RBI‘s total assets as of the end of 2019 amounted to € 152 billion. The Raiffeisen regional headquarters hold around 58.8 percent of the shares in RBI AG, while the remaining quantity of around 41.2 percent is in free float. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 11 Foreword Visual implementation of the Report Overview Management Ulf Wallmann, RBI Martin von Malottke, Valida Horst Pozdena, R-IT Stefan Ißmer, RBI Christian Demetrescu, RSG of sustainability For the first time, the 2011/2012 Sustainability Report ushered in the concept of giving our report layout a socially relevant character. Over the years, this has given artists and amateurs an opportunity to present their works as part of the report layout. A wide range of different images and photographs have since graced the cover and the chapter pages of our reports. We were so impressed by the creativity and commitment of the colleagues who helped us with the visual Responsible implementation of last year’s Sustainability Report that we again asked the photography club of the Raiffeisen companies in Vienna to provide us with appealing photographs. The club has existed in its current form since banker spring 2017 and has now grown to almost 150 members. The club was formed by RBI employee Ulf Wallmann to promote an unofficial dialog and exchange on the subject of photography between employees of RBI, Landesbank NÖ-Wien, and their subsidiaries. All Raiffeisen employees in Vienna are invited to join the club activities (socializing and talking shop, photography walks, photography competitions, photography workshops), which are intended for experts and photo-enthusiastic Fairer partner – beginners alike. Their latest task was to visually interpret the underlying corporate values that were redefined as part of the Mission & Vision 2025. Five employees took up the challenge – and the result was an impressive number of Employee photographs. The final contributions were selected from a total of 50 photographs. Irrespective of the style of photography, the working group focused on people and diversity with a view to illustrating the values of “Collaboration”, “Learning”, “Proactivity” and “Responsibility”. We would like to thank the photography team for their hard work: Ulf Wallmann (RBI), Martin von Malottke Fair partner – (Valida), Horst Pozdena (R-IT), Stefan Ißmer (RBI), Christian Demetrescu (Raiffeisen Software). Inhouse ecology We would also like to thank the amateur models who posed for the photographs free of charge: Lisa Bauer, Christian Demetrescu (Raiffeisen Software), Sebastian Dorn (Fair Partner – Employees and Engaged Citizen chapter pages), Mihaela Iovu (RBI), Michael Krompass (RLB), Nadine Prohazka (Fair Partner – Employees and Engaged Citizen chapter pages), Sara Prohazka (Responsible Banker, Fair Partner – Employees and Engaged Citizen chapter pages), Daniel Schuh (Fair Partner – Employees and Engaged Citizen chapter pages), and Bernhard Senn (RBI). Engaged citizen GRI index and Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability strategy, Impacts, Risks and Opportunities 12 Governance and Compliance, Materiality, Sustainable Development Goals, Stakeholder engagement, Ratings and Awards CORPORATE VALUE ”PROACTIVITY“ Image author: Horst Pozdena (R-IT) Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 13 Foreword Sustainability management and corporate responsibility Overview Sustainability concept and strategy Management Our understanding of sustainability Sustainability has always been a fundamental principle for RBI and a measure of corporate success. For over of sustainability 130 years, Raiffeisen has combined financial success with socially responsible action. • We understand sustainability to mean responsible corporate activities for a long-term, economically positive result in consideration of key societal and environmental aspects. • We will continue to combine financial success with social responsibility by anchoring sustainability as a fixed component of our business and by practicing sustainability as an integral leadership and management Responsible responsibility, in addition to taking key sustainability aspects into consideration in our business activities. banker • We therefore commit to aligning our management structures and processes with this attitude. In the three sustainability areas of responsibility, “Responsible banker”, “Fair partner”, and “Engaged citizen”, which are closely linked to our business activities, we endeavor to optimally apply our values and competences to fostering sustainable development both in our companies and in society. In our Sustainability Guiding Principles “We create sustainable value”, we have formulated how we pursue Fairer partner – sustainability strategically and how we wish to live up to this ambition within our business activities. Our Sustainability Guiding Principles serve as a guide for all transactions, activities and services offered by RBI or on its behalf. (Sustainability Guiding Principles, see www.rbinternational.com/sustainabilitymanagement) Employee Our declared objective is to concentrate on those areas with significant potential for making a difference. This requires us to continuously improve the sustainability impact of our business activities and develop ways to measure and verify this impact. In doing so, we hope to increase the long-term value of our group while also actively contributing to the sustainable development of our society. In this context, we have calculated RBI’s economic footprint in CEE including Austria for the first time for 2018 (see page 48 onwards). Fair partner – Inhouse ecology Engaged citizen GRI index and Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 14 The historical values of RBI In the 19th century, Friedrich Wilhelm Raiffeisen simplified the idea of a cooperative down to one basic principle: In unity lies strength. RBI is part of a cooperative organization. This can be seen in the key strategies and decisions. Friedrich Wilhelm Raiffeisen believed in helping others to help themselves and in the principles of charity, community and solidarity. His life was characterized by a sense of responsibility for the community. Now, as before, we build upon a powerful brand that combines and embodies the principles of identity, self-administration, sustainability, subsidiarity and business ethics based on solidarity. Mission & Vision 2025 Prompted by the rapid and fundamental changes affecting the banking sector, the Management Board of RBI decided to redefine the future direction of the company together with the CEOs of the network banks. Looking at the period to 2025, key market trends were discussed, potential future areas for action were identified, the skills, strengths and weaknesses of RBI were reassessed, specific targets for 2025 were defined, and a target attainment plan was drawn up. A range of strategic discussions led to the definition of RBI’s new Mission & Vision 2025, which the Management Board and all of the network banks have unanimously pledged to uphold. The core of the new Vision 2025 and Mission is the aspiration to be the “most recommended financial service group” by 2025. This will be achieved through transforming continuous innovation into superior customer experience. Four RBI group Values – the pillars of RBI’s culture – were defined at the same time. Collaboration, Proactivity, Learning, and Responsibility are the fundamental principles and convictions that will be central to RBI’s future success. The “RBI Transformation Map” was also developed. This defines the focal areas that are material for RBI and its future strategic resource allocation. The “Strategic Roadmap” was developed in order to put RBI’s strategy into action. It breaks down the Transformation Map into transparent action plans that can be followed at all times. The “Strategic Roadmap” is intended to function as a standardized implementation instrument for RBI and the individual network banks, as well as an orientation tool for all employees. The “Strategic Roadmap 2020-2021” was completed at both RBI Group and network bank level in late 2019. Practical implementation began in January 2020. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 15 Foreword Overview Vision 2025: We are the most recommended financial service group. Mission: We transform continuous innovation into superior customer experience • Customers: We constantly strive to improve customer experience and enable our clients to achieve more in Management their lives and businesses. • Employees: We value expertise and create a working environment which promotes collaboration, creativity, and entrepreneurial spirit. of sustainability • Shareholders: We aim to generate solid and sustainable shareholder value. • General public: We act in a socially responsible manner, fostering the long-term welfare of people and businesses in our markets. RBI’s new values: • Collaboration – We work together • Learning – We are eager to learn • Proactivity – We act proactively Responsible • Responsibility – We act responsibly banker More details on how RBI’s new mission can be optimally filled with life from a sustainability perspective can be found in all of the following chapters (see pages 53, 87–88, 117–118, 134). Our values and principles implemented in established rules RBI is one of the signatory companies of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) and is therefore committed to Fairer partner – consistently complying with the ten UNGC principles of responsible business. The UNGC is the world’s largest CSR and sustainable development initiative. Its principles include the core areas of human rights, labor standards, Employee environmental protection and combating corruption. The globally responsible approach associated with this is expected of all employees and managers as well as partners and suppliers of RBI. Further information is available at www.unglobalcompact.org. Fair partner – The ten principles of the UN Global Compact Human rights Inhouse ecology Principle 1 We support and respect the protection of international human rights within our sphere of influence. Principle 2 We make sure that we are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor Principle 3 We uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to negotiations about the Collective Bargaining Agreement. Principle 4 We support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5 We support the abolition of child labor. Engaged Principle 6 We support the elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation. citizen Environmental protection Principle 7 We support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 We undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. GRI index and Principle 9 We encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Assurance report Principle 10 We work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 16 The Code of Conduct (CoC) for dealing with customers, business partners and employees, which is applicable Group-wide, is a binding regulatory framework for all employees and, accordingly, is available on the RBI websites in the respective national language. It is based on the fundamental Raiffeisen values and is oriented towards the specific requirements of everyday business at home and abroad. More information can be found in the chapter on “Governance and Compliance” starting on page 21, as well as atwww.rbinternational.com. Our diversity vision and mission and the guidelines for day-to-day implementation set out the principles for realizing diversity at RBI (see page 97). Our value “Collaboration” also states that RBI encourages diversity and creates an environment that is characterized by mutual understanding, respect, and trust. Our sustainability strategy RESPONSIBLE BANKER ENVIRONMENT Ecological product responsibility SOCIETY Social product responsibility ECONOMY Added value We create sustainable d an s e n S us t p value s s ice Em tre ain pre ab ee ne c t ne le usi pra loy Ac urs rs an tive hip ir b g lde sa d p ci v Fa ratin ub il s I nh e ho lic o c ke int iet y op ou En ere s ta se v i frie ron st I CI nd nd m e FA ec olo l y nt a so TIZ E c ie ll y EN TN gy ty AR EN RP GA GE R D Our approach as designers of a sustainable company and society In order to improve the effectiveness and scope of our sustainability management across the whole of RBI, we published the Group-wide sustainability strategy “We create sustainable value” in 2013. This strategy consists of nine core action areas within which we focus our Group-wide sustainability management. In order to systematically address these core areas, which are also important to our stakeholders, we continuously seek to improve our sustainability strategy. In identifying the core action areas, we rely on our group perspective as well as the perspectives of our stakeholders, who include our employees, customers, shareholders and suppliers, as well as non-governmental organizations and a number of other stakeholder groups. We carry out a multi-stage materiality analysis on a regular basis in order to prioritize these fields of activity. For this reason, as well as for the purpose of making any adjustments to our sustainability strategy, we place great value on maintaining a dialog with our stakeholders. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 17 Foreword Overview Central core areas of our sustainability strategy RBI sustainability matrix Economy Society Environment Responsible banker Value creation Social product responsibility Ecological product responsibility Successful business through Social responsibility for our Ecological responsibility for responsible management and products and services by taking our products and services by business strategies, sustainable consumer concerns into account, guaranteeing national Management economic responsibility in the real consideration of social aspects in environmental provisions and and regional economy and providing loans and financial recognized, international integration of sustainability products, protection of customer conventions as well as taking aspects into the core business data and providing correct into account the environmental of sustainability information impact in project finance plans and financial products Fair partner Fair business and operating Employees and stakeholders Inhouse ecology practices Fairness and transparency Continual inclusion of A responsible approach to towards employees, customers stakeholders as part of resources and the environment and shareholders through sustainable company by reducing our environmental exemplary behavior in areas development by strengthening impact and implementing selected Responsible of influence; as an attractive cooperation management in measures in order to achieve employer, through transparent order to reduce business risks the defined Group-wide climate banker reporting as well as the and make use of business targets avoidance of corruption opportunities and fraud Engaged citizen Sustainable entrepreneurship Active civil society Environmentally friendly society Commitment to sustainable Commitment to a sustainable civil Working for the environment entrepreneurship and enterprise society and responsible political and the climate through climate and the creation of wealth by cooperation by promoting public protection, protection of species Fairer partner – helping to establish a framework interest and knowledge of diversity and conservation of the for sustainable finance as well as financial topics and voluntary various ecosystem functions and direct and indirect support for work services Employee organizations and socially relevant initiatives Fair partner – Inhouse ecology Engaged citizen GRI index and Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 18 Sustainable corporate management The anchoring of sustainability within the organizational structure looked as follows as of December 31, 2019: Organizational anchoring of sustainability in RBI Control level Supervisory Board of RBI AG Supervisory Board and various committees, such as the nomination committee Management Board level Chief Executive Officer of RBI AG Johann Strobl and members of the Management Board Management and program level Sustainability Council Group Sustainability Management Sustainability Working Groups Internal and external stakeholders with Overall management of sustainability With representatives of the relevant expertise in the areas of business, the agendas and focus on implementing board areas of RBI AG (e.g. Sustainable environment and society operational measures Finance Core Team, Diversity-Committee) Local implementation level Employees Special issues working groups Sustainability officers in the Implementation of measures to achieve With internal specialists RBI network banks the sustainability goals at all companies Establishing the sustainability agenda at the individual network banks Level of initiatives and memberships relevant to sustainability Raiffeisen Sustainability EACB Working UNEP FI UNGC respACT VfU Initiative (RNI) Group for CSR United Nations United Nations Austrian business Association for European Environment Global Compact council for Environmental Platform for sustainable sustainable Management business management Association of Programme Finance Co-operative Initiative development and and social responsibility Sustainability Banks As at: December 31, 2019 The Group-wide management of the sustainability agendas and coordination of operational implementation is the responsibility of Group Sustainability Management. This department is supported by representatives of specialized units and business areas as well as the Sustainability Officers at the network banks. The later act as an interface between the Group Sustainability Management department of the head office in Vienna and the relevant departments in the network banks. The Sustainability Council has been firmly established as a core organizational component of sustainability management. The task of this council is to advise on the development of sustainability agendas and to evaluate their performance. It assists in defining important action areas and focal points (materiality approach), identifies targets and measures, and makes recommendations on the development and implementation of the annual sustainability program. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 19 Foreword Overview As at 31 December 2019, the following internal and external persons were members of the Sustainability Council: • Johann Strobl, CEO of RBI AG (Chair) • Dieter Aigner, Managing Director of Raiffeisen Kapitalanlage GmbH • Rudolf Bretschneider, consultant at GfK Austria GmbH • Ralf Cymanek, member of the Management Board of Raiffeisen Bank Zrt. in Hungary • Eva Eberhartinger, Head of the Tax Management Group at the Institute of Accounting & Auditing, Vienna University of Economics and Business Administration Management • Martin Essl, founder of the Essl Foundation • Franz Fischler, Chair of the Raiffeisen Sustainability Initiative and President of the European Forum Alpbach of sustainability • Christian Friesl, Head of Social Policy in the Federation of Austrian Industry • Gregor Höpler, Head of the Group Executive Office of RBI AG • Hannes Mösenbacher, CRO of RBI AG • Andreas Pangl, General Secretary of the Austrian Raiffeisen Association • Georg Schöppl, Member of the Management Board of Österreichische Bundesforste AG • Andrea Sihn-Weber, Head of RBI Group Sustainability Management and Managing Director of the Raiffeisen Sustainability Initiative • Michaela Stefan, former Press Officer of Raiffeisenlandesbank Niederösterreich-Wien • Alfred Strigl, Managing Director of plenum gesellschaft für ganzheitlich nachhaltige entwicklung gmbh Responsible The ten principles of the UN Global Compact, which we joined in 2010, represent fundamental guidelines for banker our business activities. Our internal rules and regulations, such as our Code of Conduct (CoC), build upon this international reference framework as well as other international principles. The CoC and other guidelines are particularly important when it comes to helping our employees to make the right decisions in the course of their day-to-day work. Since 2013, we have used a dedicated tool as the central instrument for controlling and monitoring material Fairer partner – sustainability performance. Building on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and based on scientific data. this innovative software, “mona”, is used as an instrument for sustainability monitoring and reporting. Employee Impacts, risks and opportunities As an internationally active banking group, we are faced with specific challenges in our efforts to realize our Fair partner – sustainability vision. These arise from the economic, social and environmental impacts of our business activities as well as from the external conditions within which we operate. We work within a global environment that is Inhouse ecology characterized by numerous economic, geopolitical and environmental risks. The financial sector itself has for years been confronted with many challenges and risks. In order to remain profitable over the long term, these challenges call for a strong culture of risk management and sustainability. Compliance with appropriate due diligence processes is therefore of particular importance. In 2017, we therefore intensively addressed RBI’s impacts on the economy, environment and society, and the risks Engaged and opportunities associated therewith. This includes both the risks as well as opportunities for RBI and those of RBI for the economy, environment and society. citizen There is a separate sub-chapter in each of the chapters “Responsible banker”, “Fair partner/Employees”, “Fair partner/Corporate environmental protection”, and “Engaged citizen”. A summary of the impact – ranked by weighted relevance – can be found on the next page. GRI index and Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 20 Material impacts Topics Material impacts Nachhaltigkeitskontext Sustainability of the • Allocation of capital (with regard to relevance for sustainability) Interconnected aspects products and services • CO2 footprint of the credit business Environment • Creation of deposit money Economy • Stability of the financial sector • Enabling the economy ”to work“ • Producing prosperity Interconnected aspects • Distribution effects (with regard to diversity dimensions) Society Secondary impacts • Enabling innovation Economy Economic added value • Creating added value for the stakeholders: Shareholders (dividends), RBI Economy (profit accumulation), employees (market-compliant remuneration), suppliers and business partners, customers, public sector (taxes and duties) • Economic impacts as under “Sustainability of the products and services”: Creation of deposit money, stability of the financial sector, safeguarding the functionality of the economy, producing prosperity, distribution effects Work environment • Employee satisfaction Society • A sense of meaning • Physical and mental health • Impact on diversity (especially gender equality) • Opportunities through increasing level of education • Creating jobs Economy • Compensation (in connection with “Economic added value”) Secondary impacts • Security, stability and prosperity Society Organizational • External multiplier effect Interconnected aspects management • Internal multiplier effect, spreading to the entire company (both vertically and horizontally) – employee survey • Controlling of monetary flows and activities • Effectiveness of instruments and processes Commitment to society • Upholding positive social values (e.g. cooperative principle “helping others Society and the environment help themselves”) • Reducing inequality and poverty • Strengthening civil society • Strengthening of regional economic and social structures Economy • Increased awareness of environmental issues Environment Secondary impacts • Strengthening of financial education Economy Regulations • Legally compliant behavior Interconnected aspects and controlling • Anchoring of legal compliance and codes of conduct among all employees (individual responsibility) • Awareness of society and customers (especially risks, know your customer) • Transparency and security for customers • Professionalization with customers Transparency • Pioneering role and setting an example Interconnected aspects and disclosure • Promoting trust • Increasing complexity • Enabling decisions through clarity Inhouse ecology • Setting an example Society • Health • Keeping and/or making resources available Environment • Climate change – CO2 footprint • Maintaining biodiversity and ecosystems Secondary impacts • Opportunities to impact sustainable behavior Society Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 21 Foreword Governance und Compliance Overview RBI places great value on responsible and transparent business management to strengthen and maintain the understanding and trust of its stakeholders. This is a prerequisite for the performance of our banking group. The traditional Raiffeisen values provide the basis for this (see page 14) as does the Code of Conduct (CoC), which is applied across the group. Generating added value for the long term is our primary strategic objective. Management Corporate Governance of sustainability Corporate governance (CG) refers to the framework of rules and practices for managing and monitoring a company and is determined by legislators and owners – in short, the principles of leading a company. The specific structure is the responsibility of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board. Management and inspection within a company that is aware of responsibility, is qualified, transparent and focused on the long-term increase in value are the goals of good corporate governance. Trust-based, efficient co-operation between the various company bodies, protection of shareholder interests as well as open and Responsible transparent communication are central guidelines for us in the implementation of modern corporate governance. As a publicly listed company, RBI AG is committed to the principles of good and responsible company management banker as laid out in the Austrian Corporate Governance Codex (in the version of January 2015) and has pledged to comply with these principles. The compliance evaluation of the Corporate Governance Report according to § 243c of the Austrian Commercial Code (UGB) was carried out by KPMG Austria GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsund Steuerberatungsgesellschaft for RBI AG. In their conclusive report, they noted no cause for objections. (The report is available to the public at www.rbinternational.com/Investor Relations/Corporate Governance/External Evaluation of the CG-Code.) For more information on the composition of the Management Board and the Fairer partner – Supervisory Board, including its committees, please refer to the annual report of RBI. Openness and transparency in communication with shareholders and interested members of the public is of great importance to RBI AG. Extensive information on the following is available on the internet and is regularly updated: Employee Annual reports and interim reports, company presentations, telephone conferences via webcasts, ad-hoc communications, press releases, investor relations releases, share price information and data on shares, information for foreign investors, the financial calendar with a large time lead for important dates, information on security transactions by the Management Board and the Supervisory Board (directors’ dealings), the articles of association of RBI AG, the Corporate Governance Report, estimates of analysts, an ordering service for written information Fair partner – as well as a sign-up option for automatic delivery of the “Investor Relations News” by email. Code of Conduct Inhouse ecology Our Code of Conduct forms the basis for our practices, dictating, among other things, the avoidance of fraud, corruption, bribery, market abuses, money laundering and financing of terrorism as well as the avoidance of any conflicts of interest, upholding financial sanctions and securities regulations as well as compliance with Engaged data protection standards and other sensitive issues (see “Compliance” starting on page 22). The CoC was revised in 2017 and approved and published by the RBI citizen Management Board in 2018 following extensive consultation with various stakeholders taking into account the “ethical bank” concept. As a main component of our corporate responsibility, it consciously goes beyond formal and legally ordained conduct and describes how we deal with customers, business partners GRI index and and employees. It ensures compliance with international standards, which are based on moral concepts, customer focus, professionalism, quality, mutual respect, initiative, teamwork and integrity. Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 22 The business model of RBI places people at its core. The Code of Conduct is a binding regulatory framework which is applicable Group-wide for all employees and can be found in the respective national language on all of the websites of RBI and the network banks. In addition, all persons acting for or providing services on behalf of RBI as well as all other business partners are expected to apply rules and standards that are identical or comparable to those set out in the Code. It is based on the fundamental Raiffeisen values and is oriented towards the specific requirements of everyday business at home and abroad. This includes observing laws including supporting the fight against money laundering and terrorism, implementing financial sanctions, prohibiting fraud, corruption and bribery, as well as respect for the fundamental rights of employees and environmental legislation. The Management Board of RBI AG has the ultimate responsibility for the CoC; the Chair is also the highest authority on issues of sustainability. Operational responsibility for implementing the CoC in all global group units lies with the respective competent management bodies. The division head responsible for compliance is tasked with coordinating the activities in connection with the CoC. This person is also responsible for all issues relating to compliance with selected legal requirements. In addition, all members of management are responsible for ensuring compliance with the CoC in their own areas of responsibility. Human rights violations may generate illicit profit, support slavery and human trafficking, promote the continuation of poor working conditions, and lead to other abuses. RBI strives to further improve the implemented controls concerning financed projects and corporate customers as well as concerning existing and potential suppliers. RBI also does not directly or indirectly finance any businesses, projects or parties in which human rights violations are discernible. Our employees have been instructed to take information on forced or child labor into account and, in case of doubt, to involve Compliance. RBI is one of the signatory companies of the UN Global Compact (UNGC) and is therefore committed to consistently complying with the ten UNGC principles of responsible business. These principles include the core areas of human rights, labor standards, environmental protection and combating corruption. The concomitant attitude of global responsibility is expected of all staff and managers as well as of partners and suppliers (see also page 15). Compliance RBI places great value on compliance with relevant regulations. We do not tolerate any form of corruption, money laundering, financing of terrorism, fraud or market abuse and work actively against such activities. A prerequisite in our business and operational practices is the fair, ethical and legally compliant behavior of all members of our staff. Mechanisms for complying with laws as well as internal or external codes of conduct are established in all countries in which RBI operates through our CoC and clear, detailed regulations contained in the Compliance Manual. The compliance area has an important managing and checking function in our company, particularly in the context of the development of group standards and their implementation. All new RBI employees must attend training courses on the topic of compliance. In particular, these cover aspects of preventing economic crime (in particular corruption and fraud prevention), market abuse and conflicts of interest as well as appropriate measures and rules concerning internal reporting obligations. Defined groups of employees must also attend refresher courses on a regular basis. In addition, there are numerous special training classes for management staff and those sectors where there are particular aspects of compliance involved. The terms of the CoC apply worldwide, for all employees. In 2019 45 percent of Board members, 54 percent of second level managers, 49 percent of other management staff, and 57 percent of employees without a management function were trained on the issue of preventing corruption across the group and also had to take an associated test. At RBI AG, the figure was 41 percent of second Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 23 Foreword Overview level managers, 44 percent of third level managers, 18 percent of other management staff, and 54 percent of employees without a management function. Measures and activities to prevent corruption are guided by the principles of the Austrian criminal code, the UK Bribery Act and the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, in the current applicable version. These include the obligation of the management staff of all units of RBI to shape a corporate culture in which each and every form of fraud is unacceptable. Assessment and evaluation of the risk of fraud takes place periodically and is Management documented accordingly. Persons who provide services for us are subject to due diligence. The relevant procedures for avoiding fraud are communicated clearly and put into practice effectively. Monitoring and reviewing these procedures takes place on a regular basis. The group’s internal Bribery and Anti-Corruption of sustainability (“ABC”) framework was revised in 2015 and is now even more strongly based on risk and prevention. To ensure the greatest possible level of plausibility with regard to invitations and gifts, relevant cost refunds have only been approved by Accounting since 2017 upon presentation of a compliance statement. In addition, not only customers but also suppliers and business partners are assessed in terms of integrity and reputation. The relevant data from these assessments is also published in the course of the MiFID II Inducement Register. Our anti-bribery and corruption framework is based on the following principles: proportionate, process-based annual risk assessment and scenario analysis; commitment of the executive management; a rigorous disclosure regime for gifts, invitations, secondary employment, company participations and sponsoring; a continuous Responsible communication and training program including a candidate testing; monitoring and review of the company conduct (concentration risks, accounting checks to avoid reimbursements without Compliance approval). banker All employees are obliged to report serious violations of the CoC, such as market abuse, fraud, theft, embezzlement, bribery or corruption. This can be done in the form of an email to Compliance, a telephone conversation with a Compliance employee, in writing or via an external telephone hotline run by a service provider in the United Kingdom (group whistle blowing hotline). All allegations will be investigated. The group reacted immediately to previously reported occurrences of corruption. Appropriate disciplinary action is carried out in accordance with group regulations, up to and including dismissal. We constantly analyze our Fairer partner – rules and regulations in order to minimize the risks for the future as far as possible. To combat money laundering and the financing of terrorism, RBI has appointed an independent anti-money Employee laundering officer (reporting directly to the whole Management Board for organizational and disciplinary purposes) and two deputies and established extensive rules and processes that all employees and relevant group companies are required to observe. All employees are obliged to check the identity of the customer, identify the economic owner of the customer, question the purpose and nature of the business relationship, Fair partner – establish the origin of the funds and examine and record any connections with politically exposed persons (PEPs), particularly before establishing a long-term business relationship. Furthermore, all of the financial sanctions that are relevant for the RBI Group are continually reviewed. Employees are also obliged to take Inhouse ecology adequate risk-based measures for the continuous monitoring of the business relationship and to ensure that the business relationship is consistent with the knowledge about the customer, its business activities and its risk profile, including, where required, the origin of the respective funds. If it is not possible to fulfill one of these obligations for a customer, a business relationship may not be established with that customer and any existing business relationships must be terminated and, depending on the situation, the submission of a suspicious activity report on money laundering to the Federal Office of Criminal Investigation should be considered. Engaged RBI is committed to rigorously combating tax evasion and tax avoidance. In case of doubt, it obtains the necessary declarations, confirmations from authorities, and tax records. Along with the heightened KYC due citizen diligence obligations that are already in place, RBI has defined additional requirements for companies domiciled in offshore territories. In these cases, the nature and purpose of the business relationship with RBI and the source of funds of the respective companies are examined in greater detail. This involves a focus on GRI index and the transparency of the business model, the legal and economic connections with operating onshore companies, and special verification mechanisms for payment transactions. The ownership structure of high-risk customers is also examined extremely precisely and must be confirmed by credible external documents. Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 24 RBI has taken extensive Group-wide precautions and implemented IT-based verification processes to ensure that all banking business and all transactions are consistent with EU sanctions and that applicable US sanctions are taken into account. RBI complies with the highest standards and comprehensively meets its obligations with regard to international financial sanctions and trade restrictions. Discussions on the topic of better identification of all sectors exposed to economic crime are usually carried out at Board level, or with the second level of management, and ensure appropriate awareness. The necessary measures and on-going efforts to provide in-depth training are implemented with the support of local Compliance departments or the Financial Crime Management departments. These also play a key role in avoiding corruption and in anti-corruption checks as well as in business activities in sensitive areas. Financial contributions or contributions in kind to political parties, politicians or related institutions are given only in accordance with strict rules and with the approval of RBI AG Management Board. Clear regulations in this regard are enshrined in the Code of Conduct and are monitored by Compliance. Sponsoring, (financial) support and contributions are also given only to recognized private organizations with impeccable reputations. RBI has a well-established internal control system that entails documented controls and requirements in internal governance documents to enable transparency in roles/responsibilities, periodic validation of the adequacy and efficiency of the controls in place for managing the underlying risks and periodic assessment of the controls by means of various forms of tests to measure its effectiveness. The reporting procedures in the form of directives for strategically important topics are a central element and the basis for an effective internal control system. These directives constitute our “company law”. They include the assignment of approval authority for group and company directives as well as departmentand division-specific directives, process descriptions for the creation, quality inspection, approval, publication, implementation and monitoring of directives as well as regulations for their revision and repeal. The management of the respective group units is responsible for implementation of the directives. The “Confirmation of Compliance” process is carried out each year. As part of this process, 58 group units must confirm that they have followed the relevant policies. If this cannot be entirely confirmed for individual units, these units must create a roadmap of how the gaps will be closed. Monitoring compliance with these group regulations takes place within the framework of audits by the group and local audit departments. The Austrian Supreme Administrative Court (VwGH) has revoked the administrative fine imposed on Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) by the Austrian Financial Market Authority (FMA) in 2018. The decision on the next stage of the proceedings lies with the Austrian Federal Administrative Court (Bundesverwaltungsgericht). In any case, RBI will be reimbursed the entire fine in the amount of € 2.7 million. A substantial fine of € 109,000 was imposed on one network bank due to non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area. This involved several individual complaints. RBI defines a threshold of € 100,000 for individual loss events above which direct measures must be taken by the responsible Operational Risk Manager from the respective business area. The indicator does not include any penalty interest due to tax backpayments or complaints. In addition, there were 15 warnings from the customer protection authorities and 30 dispute settlement procedures at one network bank, of which nine cases have already been resolved. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 25 Foreword Lobbying Overview Lobbying is defined as the deployment of suitable people within the company or independent companies to influence public decision-making processes for the purpose of safeguarding or enforcing specific interests in respect of the public sector. We basically consider this to be advisable and legitimate in the process of democratic decision-making and in matters of the execution of state regulations. This activity is subject to high standards of transparency, both for specialized lobbying companies and for Management companies that use their own employees – known as corporate lobbyists – for lobbying activities. All members of RBI are required to register lobbyists who are active for them in the national lobbying register. At RBI, lobbying of sustainability work is carried out via RBI AG as well as the Fachverband der Raiffeisenbanken (Association of Raiffeisen Banks, part of the Austrian Economic Chambers [WKO]). Accordingly, RBI AG is registered in the Austrian lobbying register. At EU level, RBI AG is registered in the transparency register of the European Commission and the European Parliament. This involves observing activities by EU institutions with regard to possible impacts on the Raiffeisen Banking Group (RBG), creation of networks and shared interest coalitions and specific research and preparation of information on EU initiatives and measures in the area of financial services that are of relevance to us (e.g. deposit insurance fees, corporate governance). Since being included in the register, RBI AG is bound to comply Responsible with the code of conduct of the institutions (European Commission/European Parliament). Our position statements concerning consultations of the European Commission can be found on the Commission website. At national level, banker our position enters into joint position statements by the Austrian Economic Chambers, banking and insurance section. (Membership of the Austrian Economic Chambers is mandatory.) Corporate lobbyists of RBI also undertake to observe the following points in their contact with officials: They are committed to the truth, and any information that they provide must be – to the best of their knowledge – undistorted, complete, up to date and not misleading. They ensure that officials know who they actually are, that they work for Fairer partner – RBI, and declare that they are entered in the lobbying register. All lobbyists who work for RBI obtain information exclusively by fair means and make decisions in a fair way. They inform themselves about the restrictions on activities and rules on incompatibility that apply to office holders Employee and comply with these restrictions and rules. They do not tempt office holders to infringe the applicable rules and standards of behavior and never exert unfair or inappropriate pressure on office holders. Clear rules are defined in our Compliance Manual as well as the “Code of Conduct according to Article 7 of the Lobbying Act”. More information can be found on the RBI AG website at www.rbinternational.com  Investors  Corporate Governance  Code of Conduct pursuant to Art. 7 Austrian LobbyG. Fair partner – The Management Board of RBI AG is solely authorized to approve contributions to political parties, election Inhouse ecology committees, party-affiliated organizations and political figures (politicians, candidates) for all of RBI, and such contributions are permitted only if the following conditions are fulfilled: • The contribution does not violate any statutory regulations. • T he contribution is within the customary extent of the respective country. Engaged • The contribution is not apt to have any improper impact. citizen Such payments must be handled transparently, involving RBI Group Compliance. The transparency provisions regarding party financing and lobbying that have been in place since January 1, 2013 must be complied with and are implemented in the Group Executive Office of RBI AG. In 2019, RBI again did not make any financial contributions in kind to any politicians or parties. GRI index and Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 26 Material topics We pursue two approaches in the further development of our sustainability strategy and the definition of reporting content and focal points: On the one hand, we want to know what standards we must meet in order to enjoy long-term success. On the other hand, it is important to us as an internationally active banking group to know what our stakeholders expect of us. Accordingly, we make use of a multi-stage materiality analysis that includes our stakeholders, in order to identify the areas of activity and key sustainability aspects. Since the publication of the fourth generation of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI G4) and the GRI Standards, the principle of materiality has been placed at the center of reporting. In this way, the GRI emphasizes even more strongly than before that sustainability reports should be focused on the material topicss of sustainability. The process of identifying and prioritizing the relevant topics and aspects must also be systematic and well documented. Materiality analysis Materiality analysis process Stakeholder dialogs, analysis of international standards Identification and evaluation of key topics and guidelines, such as GRI, ISO 26000, United Nations Global Compact, AA 1000, SASB and evaluation of studies Internal standards and requirements, such as the Code of Conduct, Compliance Manual, Sustainability Guiding Principles including action areas Review and assessment by our stakeholders: Stakeholder online surveys, assessments in the course of stakeholder Analysis and prioritization dialogs, focus groups, discussions with experts, evaluations by experts Review and assessment by internal committees and RBI AG Sustainability Management Validation of the prioritization of key aspects and GRI Validation performance indicators by an external auditor Integration of the results and insights in the sustainability Implementation strategy and management, monitoring and reporting Identification of relevant topics The selection of material topics takes into account internationally recognized criteria and sustainability standards, such as those created by the GRI, United Nations Global Compact, SASB Sustainability Accounting Standards Board and ISO 26000. In addition, we consider feedback about the Sustainability Reports and evaluate dialogs with individual stakeholders, such as within the framework of the annual Stakeholder Council and other communication forums, such as focus groups. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 27 Foreword Overview Direct feedback in the form of surveys and workshops as well as evaluations of discussions held with individual stakeholder groups, including customers, employees, rating agencies, non-governmental organizations and sustainability experts, as well as the defined focal points of the company strategy, also served as important sources for RBI and its Sustainability Officers in identifying key topics. The process for identifying topics is based on the question of whether the given topics influence company activities now or in the future and whether RBI is in a position to influence them directly or indirectly. Prioritization of the sustainability aspects and materiality analysis Management of sustainability The prioritization of identified topics with regard to their materiality is based on a multi-stage approach: 1.  In order to be able to better evaluate and subsequently prioritize the material topics and areas of activity, the following tool was used to prepare and present topics in 2015: the topic map. . a. First, a list of the current material topics was drawn up by Group Sustainability Management. This is based on an internal analysis of past Stakeholder Councils, focus groups, sustainability reports, online surveys (online materiality survey 2013 and selective evaluations of the materiality of specific sustainability aspects), discussions with experts and the GRI. Responsible b. The list was checked and added to by an external sustainability expert. At the same time, additional requirements of recognized standards and guidelines (incl. the Global Reporting Initiative, ISO 26000, EU banker Directive on non-financial reporting, Sustainable Development Goals) as well as current corporate strategies were also incorporated. c. Next, the relations between the concepts were recorded. On the one hand, this involves hierarchical structures based on strategic clusters and concept levels (e.g. values, strategies, tools), and on the other, causal relationships and impact levels (e.g. input, output, outcome, impact). d. Finally, these data were evaluated with the aid of network analysis software, and a topic map was created. The eight most material topics areas were identified from the topic map. These formed the basis for the stakeholder Fairer partner – online materiality surveys carried out in 2016 and 2018. • Work environment Employee • Inhouse ecology • Commitment to society and the environment • Sustainable products and services • Economic added value • Organizational management Fair partner – • Regulations and controlling • Transparency and disclosure 2. T he current materiality matrix was created on the basis of the results of the 2018 online stakeholder materiality survey. Inhouse ecology 3. In the table “Material topics” (see page 31), we present how the topics we identified as material are related to the associated key GRI topics. 4. Validation of the material aspects, including GRI‘s compliance, was carried out by an external expert who has Engaged international experience as an auditor of sustainability reports produced by financial service providers. This expert examined the identified prioritization of topics and performance indicators. citizen 5. A  workshop was held in December 2017 with around 20 external and RBI-internal participants with the appropriate professional expertise and chaired by external experts, in order to arrive at expert-based weighting and determination of the impacts of RBI’s business activities on the economy, environment and society. GRI index and The impacts on the material topics were identified in two discussion groups. All workshop participants then anonymously assessed the material topics, and particularly the extent of the impacts thereof. The results were then ranked and subjected to critical review. In a follow-up meeting, the Group Sustainability Management Assurance report Team, together with the external experts, determined and discussed further important impacts that have not yet been achieved. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 28 Stakeholder online survey In August and September 2018, around 2,200 stakeholders were invited to participate in an online survey on sustainability at RBI. A total of 810 stakeholders took part in the survey, corresponding to a return rate of 36.2 percent. The stakeholders were asked to evaluate the topics identified by us (see point 1 on page 27). They were asked to assess the relevance of the topics to them, i.e. the extent to which they have a significant influence on their evaluations and decisions with regard to RBI. The survey recipients included employees from RBI AG, the Austrian subsidiaries and 13 network banks (Poland was not included on account of its imminent sale in fall 2018). As the owners, the Raiffeisen regional banks were also included as internal stakeholders. The following groups of external stakeholders were surveyed: customers, business partners, NGOs and NPOs, the capital markets (including investors and rating agencies), education and research, politics and administration, media and special interest groups. We consider the survey to be representative in terms of evaluating and assessing materiality and deriving measures for the future. We deliberately prepared the adapted materiality matrix separately for internal and external stakeholders. We refrained from calculating an overall score, as each weighting involves the potential for distortion. The materiality matrices illustrate the significant economic, ecological and social impacts of RBI (x axis) and the evaluation of the topics by the internal and external stakeholders (y axis). The results of the materiality survey show what our Sustainability Management needs to focus on in the future. Our sustainability program has been modified accordingly. Materiality matrix – main topics (from the point of view of internal stakeholders) 10 (including with regard to evaluations and decisions by the stakeholders) Relevance for internal stakeholders 9 Work environment Regulations and controlling 8 Transparency and disclosure Economic Inhouse ecology Commitment added value to society and environment Sustainable 7 Products and Organizational Services management 6 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Impact of RBI Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 29 Foreword Overview Materiality matrix – main topics (from the point of view of external stakeholders) 10 (including with regard to evaluations and decisions by the stakeholders) Regulations Relevance for external stakeholders 9 and controlling Management of sustainability Work environment Transparency and disclosure 8 Sustainable Economic Products and added value Services Inhouse ecology Commitment to society and 7 environment Organizational management Responsible banker 6 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Impact of RBI Sustainable Development Goals Fairer partner – In order to help find solutions for global challenges, promote human welfare and protect the environment, the international community of states making up the UN adopted “Agenda 2030” in September 2015 in the interests of sustainable development. At its core are 17 goals for sustainable development – the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and their 169 sub-goals. The SDGs encompass social and economic development as well as Employee environmental sustainability. They also address aspects such as peace and security, justice and global partnerships, all of which are of great importance for sustainable development. The SDGs are globally applicable. In other words, all 193 UN member states, including Austria, are called upon to contribute to achieving the goals according to their means. Incentives should also be established to encourage non-state actors to increasingly make active contributions to sustainable development. Fair partner – As an international banking group, we consider ourselves obliged to support these important international initiatives Inhouse ecology within the scope of our sustainability agenda. Our focus is on those SDGs that are most material and relevant to our business activities and that best complement our sustainability strategy. To make this possible, we worked with an external consultant in 2017 to create a structured process to identify the SDGs that are most material to our business. Engaged citizen GRI index and Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 30 SDGs relevant for RBI RESPONSIBLE BANKER Of the ten SDGs identified as relevant to RBI, the eight ENVIRONMENT mentioned below were considered particularly rele7 Ecological product responsibility 13 vant – both for the group as a whole and for the core 8 SOCIETY 9 business. Priority will be given to these SDGs over the Social product responsibility coming years. They directly expand upon the aspects 5 9 and topics that have already been ECONOMY 1 8 Added value 8 identified as material. 16 4 We 1 5 create sustainable 1 9 16 1 The topics and aspects addressed in this Report that 7 ss ine g value e n S us 7 have SDG relevance are specially indicated. us a t i n t re t a pr ina ir b er s Ac en bl 8 Fa d o p t ic e a n t i ve eu e rsh c 8 d p ci a n p ra d ub vil s ip Inh an lic oc es rs 16 En int iet ou ye l d e v f r i i ro e re y se plo ho en nm st EN E m t a ke I dly en FA gy so tal T IZ AR s olo 8 4 5 c ie y l ec ty CI RP D 13 TN 4 GA ER 13 GE EN The eight most important SDGs for RBI are: •S  DG 1: To end all poverty in all its forms everywhere. • SDG 4: Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promotr lifelong learning opportunities for all. • SDG 5: Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls. •S  DG 7: Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all. • SDG 8: Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth and productive full employment and decent work for all. •S  DG 9: Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation. • SDG 13: Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts. • SDG 16: Promote peaceful and inclusive societies in order to foster sustainable development, provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 31 Foreword Overview The following table shows the relationship between the topics we have identified as material, the areas of responsibility (responsible banker, fair partner, engaged citizen), the GRI standards, the SDGs, and the concerns in line with the Austrian Sustainability and Diversity Improvement Act (NaDiVeG)*. Material topics Areas of responsibility Material topics GRI standards ”Top“ Sustainable NaDiVeG* Material topics Development Goals matters Management Responsible banker Responsibility to society and Human rights assessment the environment of sustainability Organizational management Active ownership Marketing and labeling Product portfolio Economic added value Economic performance Indirect economic impacts Product portfolio Sustainable products Product portfolio Responsible and services banker Regulations and Audit controlling Compliance company Fighting corruption Protection of customer data Marketing and labeling Anti-competitive behavior Fairer partner – Transparency and disclosures Public policy Employee Fair Partner Work environment Occupational health and safety Training and development Employment Non-discrimination Freedom of association and right to collective agreement Fair partner – negotiations Diversity and equal opportunity Inhouse ecology Inhouse ecology Waste water and waste Emissions, Energy Materials, Water Organizational Product portfolio management Engaged citizen Commitment to society Marketing and labeling and the environment Engaged Product portfolio Economic performance citizen SDGs No Quality Gender Affordable and poverty education equality clean energy GRI index and Decent work and Industry, innovation Climate Peace, justice and strong economic growth and infrastructure action institutions NaDiVeG* matters Assurance report Respect for Employee Combat corruption Environmental Social human rights matters and bribery matters matters * Austrian Sustainability and Diversity Improvement Act Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 32 Stakeholder inclusion Our business activities affect the interests of many stakeholder groups and people in different countries. We also recognize that we are only able to run our company sustainably if we engage in frank and constructive dialog with our stakeholder groups and seek out and find common solutions, even on controversial topics. Involving our stakeholders is therefore one of the core action areas of the sustainability strategy and a central element of our sustainability management. We identify and assess relevant and sensitive issues through regular dialog with stakeholders. In various forms of communication with our stakeholder groups, we evaluate the relevance of sustainability topics. In our sustainability committees, we consider the results of the stakeholder dialogs, including controversial themes, and based on what we have learned, we develop concrete objectives and measures for further development of our sustainability management. Our stakeholders RBI defines its stakeholders as those people or groups of people that have a legitimate interest in the company through their direct or indirect business activities. Stakeholders are therefore primarily employees, customers, owners, subsidiaries and equity participations as well as business partners. There are also several other stakeholder groups with regular mutual relations. Stakeholder universe of RBI Non-university research institutions European Association of Co-operative Banks Employer Other and employee Education educational institutions Interest representatives Shareholder representatives groups and Auditors research Universities and polytechnics Stock Consultants Suppliers exchanges Capital Sustainability market rating agencies Business ECB partners Analysts Competitors Employees Rating Regulatory Supervisory agencies authorities authorities Economy Conventional NGOs rating agencies NationalSocial and Mains tream media banks Owners NPOs Private investors Environment Network banks and RBI Supranational Media other equity investors organizations participations Civil MIGA Customers society Specialist media IFC EIB Institutional EBRD investors Corporate customers Small and mediumsized enterprises Public policy Private customers and administration Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 33 Foreword Our stakeholder approach as a fair partner Overview RBI is a fair business and dialog partner to all stakeholders. As a partner, we interact in an open and respectful manner with employees, customers, business partners, shareholders and other stakeholder groups. Transparency – that is to say, the disclosure of measurable objectives and the reporting of measures taken and the success in meeting their targets – forms our central, overarching guiding principle. We foster and promote constructive exchange with our stakeholders. We also endeavor to recognize the needs Management of our most important stakeholders, and to act within the scope of our powers. of sustainability RBI places great value on fair business and operational practices. This includes fairness and transparency towards employees, customers and shareholders. Just as important to us is exemplary conduct within our sphere of influence. In our internal regulations, we have clearly stated that in our pursuit of profit, there must be no violations of law or of the Code itself. We forgo business that can take place only through such practices. The rules of fair competition clearly apply to RBI. We feel obliged to offer an outstanding service culture which strives to exceed the expectations of our customers wherever possible. When making recommendations, we ensure that they are given in an honest and fair manner and that the customers are adequately informed about the risks. False or misleading advertising is something we feel is unacceptable. Responsible RBI stands for transparent disclosure and responsible marketing. Our reporting on business activities and banker sustainability is conducted transparently and comprehensively, based upon recognized and authorized international standards (such as the Global Reporting Initiative). As such, our communication with stakeholders goes beyond the statutory requirements. At a time when banking is more than ever a matter of trust, the reception that our customers have given us shows that our fair approach is the correct one. This trust is based on our deep roots in the countries and our relationships Fairer partner – with their people, and also on the efforts made by our employees every day to deepen this trust. We share a common goal with our customers: Success. We have internalized this company principle and put it into practice every day, such as in the way we actively offer our customers tailored, personalized solutions based upon their requirements. Employee Our employees are our most important asset and the key to the success of RBI. With nearly 47,000 employees, they represent the largest stakeholder group in terms of numbers, right after our 16.7 million customers. We encourage them, but we also demand excellence from them. We are committed to living by the performance principle and promoting team spirit. This means that we want the very best people, who will become even better Fair partner – with us. In return, we provide systematic further training, attractive development opportunities and a working atmosphere characterized by team spirit. We work closely with our shareholders and see them as both dialog partners and consultants. Additionally, we Inhouse ecology share an open dialog on many levels with representatives of our stakeholders, and we are active participants in various forums such as the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), the United Nations Environmental Program Finance Initiative (UNEP FI), Transparency International, the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and respACT – Austrian Business Council for Sustainable Development. Engaged We view environmental and climate protection as part of our responsibility toward society, and we see ourselves as a fair partner to the environment. The direct environmental impacts of our operational activities are limited citizen compared with those of production industries. Nevertheless, RBI has the goal of limiting negative environmental impacts at all of its sites to the greatest possible extent, and – where possible – going beyond basic compliance with statutory requirements and demands. GRI index and A prerequisite in our business and operational practices is the fair, ethical and legally compliant behavior of all members of our staff. You can find more information about this on page 21 onwards. Assurance report A key part of our corporate culture is in-depth communication with our shareholders. This is why we ensure that their feedback and input is used in our strategies and operations. The result of this is a shared system for the creation Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 34 of added value. The shareholders of RBI AG exercise their rights ac cording to the principle of “one share, one vote” by voting at the Annual General Meeting. All shareholders have entirely equal rights, and can exercise their right to vote in person or by proxy. Naturally, we have a great responsibility toward our shareholders. This is why optimizing shareholder value is part of our corporate vision. We are not interested in short-term value growth. Good profitability, which we can use to build up equity from within, and the long-term profitable development of RBI are good not only for owners and shareholders but also for all other stakeholders. They safeguard our common existence. Dialog und Information For the inclusion of our stakeholders, we engage in many forms of dialog including the Internet, intranet, blogs, workshops and interactive events, surveys, conversations with experts, training courses and participation in local, national and international discussions on sustainability and sustainability initiatives. In order to reach as many stakeholder groups as possible, we regularly carry out comprehensive stakeholder surveys. The last stakeholder survey was conducted in summer 2018. Over 800 stakeholders took the opportunity of working with us to reprioritize the material topics for RBI (see page 28 onward). The results of the stakeholder surveys are reflected in our materiality analysis and are integrated into our sustainability management alongside the results from focus groups, discussions with experts, and the annual Stakeholder Council. The materiality analysis is an important tool for our annually held Stakeholder Council. This allows for direct selection of the topics that we will discuss in greater depth with our stakeholders. At the Stakeholder Council and within the context of our reporting, we share information about the progress we have achieved in our sustainability performance. Our objective is to transparently disclose the most important expectations and recommendations of the stakeholders as well as our responses and associated measures. Here too, we focus primarily on those topics and aspects that we and the stakeholder groups have identified as material. Selected forms of dialog Information Dialog and consultation Participation Goals: Creating transparency, Goals: Open exchange and dialog Goals: Active participation, sharing information on perspectives; expectations and cooperation, setting out initiatives, possibilities for solutions; listening implementing projects and learning Sustainability Report based on GRI Standards Stakeholder Council Active initiation of sustainability measures (e.g. via RNI) UNGC report “Communication on Progress” Focus groups Participation in the CDP Surveys and opinion polls on sustainability Participation in national initiatives topics (e.g. online surveys) (e.g. respACT) Sustainability information on the company websites eLearning tool (internal sustainability training) Participation in international initiatives (e.g. UNEP FI, UNGC, EACB, VfU) External and internal Communication (e.g. Social media (internal Raiffeisen blog on regular articles in the employee magazine sustainability and corporate responsibility) Support of projects (e.g. cooperation with INSIDE) as well as public relations work polytechnics and universities) Ad hoc dialogs with policymakers and Participation in sustainability ratings of various specialized lectures Incorporation of external stakeholders agencies (e.g. ISS ESG, Sustainalytics, (e.g. at universities) in inhouse committees (e.g. on the Vigeo-EIRIS) Sustainability Council) Organization of events (e.g. DisAbility Talent Articles in specialized publications Programme 2019 closing event) Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 35 Foreword Stakeholder Council Overview The most important communication format for us is the annual Stakeholder Council, in which various stakeholder groups enter into dialog with representatives of our Management Board and management. The goals of the event are dialog and knowledge transfer, informing the participants about progress achieved, discussing possible actions and jointly considering and dealing with current sustainability questions. Of the suggestions from the Stakeholder Council in 2018 on the topic of digitalization, the following points were Management prioritized and implemented 2019: of sustainability • As part of the green bond issue in 2018, sustainability impact measurement (carbon footprint) was implemented in order to increase transparency by measuring the footprint (see page 79). • A strategic sustainable finance core team was established in 2019. The aim is to increase the proportion of environmentally products in the overall portfolio. This is also set out in the Sustainable Finance Roadmap. With this move, RBI is addressing the suggestion that sustainability be integrated into bank controlling to an even greater extent. • We have complied with the request to intensify the drive for sustainable financial products in various respects – for details see page 89 to 80 • Our numerous initiatives in the area of diversity management are helping our employees to take advantage of Responsible flexible working models and achieve a healthier work-life balance (see page 99). • Our new values, particularly the “Collaboration” value, and our efforts to be an adaptive company are directly banker linked to the aim of realizing an open corporate culture. • Since fall 2019, RBI in Austria has transparently presented climate targets and success stories for employees via a dedicated website for environmental topics (see page 123). • The quarterly Sustainability & Diversity newsletter has also ensured greater transparency and improved communication since 2019. • As part of our commitment as a corporate citizen, which extends beyond our core business, we have entered Fairer partner – into a partnership with “Impactory”, the first mobile marketplace for donations to non-profit organizations (see page 152). Work continued on the following measures from the Stakeholder Council in 2017. Employee • The implementation of strict lending criteria and policies has already been realized for some sectors and is continuing with the enhancement of existing policies. • The suggestion that an RBI green bond be issued was again taken up. The second green bond was issued in September 2019 (see page 79). Fair partner – • T he climate strategy formulated in 2017 was pursued as recommended by the stakeholders. • In 2019, we remained committed to communicating the environmental measures adopted, both internally and Inhouse ecology externally. • The numerous measures with regard to SDG 5 on gender equality continued (see page 101). We are increasingly focusing on directly addressing the personnel-relevant processes. As recommended by the stakeholders, all of this is intended to sustainably change the relevant structures in order to have a positive impact when it comes to gender equality. T he 10th RBI Stakeholder Council was attended by over 80 people from various stakeholder Engaged groups, including customers and business partners, employees and owners, and representatives from the financial world and rating agencies, education and research, special interest groups, citizen media, politics and administration, NGOs and NPOs. CEO Johann Strobl welcomed the guests and discussed how the changing environment, with its new customer GRI index and requirements and new resources, has prompted the bank to intensively address its positioning. The outcome is “Vision 2025” and the aspiration to be the “most frequently recommended financial service provider” by 2025. This will be achieved through continuous innovation aimed at making customers’ lives easier. With this Assurance report in mind, the customer relationship will be at the heart of any and all changes. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 36 Andrea Sihn-Weber, Head of Group Sustainability Management, presented the latest developments in sustainability management and the changes that have taken place since 2018. She added that the various measures clearly demonstrate that the existing strategy of being a “responsible banker, fair partner, and engaged corporate citizen” is continuing to be pursued systematically and successfully. Stakeholder Council 2019, © Sabine Klimpt CEO J. Strobl, S. Mills, A. Sihn-Weber, C. Helmenstein, Input from the Corporate Banking Board, © Sabine Klimpt P. Lennkh, © Sabine Klimpt Christian Helmenstein, Board Member of the Economica Institute of Economic Research, started by discussing why some national economies are doing better than others. Unlike at the start of the 20th century, success is no longer determined by the availability of natural resources, but by human capital. Austria is benefiting from the European community of states and, in particular, the opening up of Eastern Europe. Helmenstein then discussed the analysis of the importance of RBI to the economy. There have been changes in the environmental conditions in the banking sector in recent years, such as regulatory measures to safeguard financial market stability, restructuring in both Austria and Central and Eastern Europe, a sustained low interest rate environment, and adjustments to reflect growing digitalization as well as changes in user behavior. For this reason, a study was conducted to calculate the economic footprint for 2018 as a measure of the value-added and employment contributions of RBI in all countries in which it is active. The calculation of RBI’s economic impact took into account not only the direct economic contributions resulting from its operating activities, but also the indirect effects throughout the upstream value-added network (for details see page 48). In her presentation, Stefanie Mills, Head of Group Strategy Development, reported on the process leading to the development of the new vision and mission, including the extensive involvement of stakeholders throughout the entire group. This strategic refinement also involved the redefinition of the corporate values. The four new values – Collaboration, Proactivity, Learning, and Responsibility – are primarily aimed at improving cooperation, diversity, encouraging employees to act proactively and making them open to continued personal development, establishing a new culture of error prevention, and promoting trust. Mills concluded by underlining how important it is for everyone to take responsibility for their own actions. Following the information section of the 10th Stakeholder Council, working groups extensively discussed how the RBI mission “We transform continuous innovation into superior customer experience” can be optimally filled with life from a sustainability perspective and on the basis of the corporate values. The four workshops focused on the stakeholder groups addressed by the mission: employers, customers, shareholders, and the general public. Each group subsequently presented their five best ideas on the respective topic to the entire Stakeholder Council, allowing all of the participants to find out what had been discussed at the other tables and prioritize the suggestions presented using real-time voting. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 37 Foreword Overview Stakeholder group ”Customers“ ”We constantly strive to improve customer experience and enable our clients to achieve more in their lives and businesses.“ What needs to be done – from a customer perspective – to fill this mission with life? Development of sustainable financing products 41 Clear sustainability strategy to 2025 – Management sharpen focus 26 Smart communication: develop customerof sustainability 21 specific communicaJon via sustainability Consulting for companies to improve their ESG rating 7 Presentation of sustainability in the RBI 5 digital world 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% Responsible banker Stakeholder group ”Employees“ ”We value expertise and create a working environment which promotes collaboration, creativity and entrepreneurial spirit.“ What needs to be done – from an employee Fairer partner – perspective – to fill this mission with life? Employee Rethink management 27 Transparent communication 26 Inclusion as an economic factor/active diversity 19 Fair partner – Establish a culture of error prevention 15 Inhouse ecology Establish a culture of mindfulness 13 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% Engaged citizen GRI index and Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 38 Stakeholder group ”Shareholders“ ”We aim to generate solid and sustainable shareholder value“ What needs to be done – from the shareholders‘ perspective – to fill this mission with life? Long-term vs. short-term view (ESG goals and link to management bonuses) 34 Create sustainable value – impact investment 31 Management of ESG risks 13 (regulatory requirements) Transformation policy (exclusions, measures, training) 11 Increase transparency and communication 10 (“translation” for the general public) 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% Stakeholder group ”Public“ ”We act in a socially responsible manner, fostering the long-term welfare of the people and businesses in our markets. “ What needs to be done – from the public perspective – to fill this mission with life? Idea lab for sustainability (like Elevator Lab currently) 34 Make impact visible (e.g. define KPIs with NGOs) 31 Institutionalize communication for cross-border 16 sustainable projects (with NGOs) Systematic lobbying for green supporting factor 11 Supplier Code of Conduct for CEE 8 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% In his closing address, RBI Management Board member Peter Lennkh expressed his appreciation for the participants, the discussions and the numerous suggestions, adding that the results of the Stakeholder Council would now be deliberated and followed up internally. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 39 Foreword Sustainability ratings, indices and Overview awards Sustainability ratings and sustainability indices Management In addition to financial indicators, sustainability criteria are increasingly involved in the investment decisions taken of sustainability by investors. Analyses and ratings by agencies specializing in sustainability – such as ISS ESG, Sustainalytics and Vigeo Eiris – and index providers offer guidance and orientation. ISS ESG ISS ESG evaluates a company’s social and ecological performance in the context of corporate ratings by applying over 100 sector-specific social Responsible and environmental criteria. ISS ESG ensures that the ratings are kept up to date through regular update banker cycles. In order to make the evaluations transparent, ISS ESG publishes not only criteria and processes, but also important rating results. RBI’s sustainability rating was confirmed at level “C+” in June 2019, which corresponds to “Prime Fairer partner – Status”. Sustainalytics Employee Sustainalytics is a leading independent provider of environmental, social and corporate governance (ESG) research, ratings and analyses. It specializes in analyzing and evaluating the sustainability Fair partner – performance of companies and countries, and helps investors around the world to develop and Inhouse ecology implement responsible investment strategies. As of June 2019, Sustainalytics rated RBI as an outperformer in terms of its overall ESG score. This meant it occupied 37th place out of the 336 companies ranked. Engaged citizen GRI index and Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 40 FTSE4Good RBI AG has been included in the FTSE4Good Index Series of FTSE Russell since 2015. The FTSE4Good Index Series is designed to measure the performance of companies that have effective environmental, social and management (ESG) practices. This is measured on the basis of transparent criteria. Awards Austrian Sustainability Reporting Awards In November 2019, the Chamber of Chartered Accountants (KSW) presented the Austrian Sustainability Reporting Awards (ASRA) for the best sustainability reports in Austria for the 20th time. RBI (jointly with OeKB) took first place in the “Large Companies” category, which covered a total of 22 reports. This meant that RBI’s sustainability report was recognized for the seventh year in succession, during which time it has taken first place three times. This confirmation by the external experts on the jury is not only extremely satisfying, but serves as motivation to make the forthcoming report even better. Presentation of the ASRA award to the RBI, © Sabine Klimpt Among other things, the qualitative jury feedback on RBI’s sustainability report praised its balanced reporting, the depth of reporting with a consistent structure over many years, the detailed description of the implementation of the diversity strategy, and the existence of a diversity vision. In addition, the jury had positive words for the stakeholder analysis and stakeholder dialog, the separate presentation of the stakeholder perspective in the materiality matrix, the impact analysis, and the description of the materiality analysis. There was also praise for the ambition and innovation of the report (including the digitalization survey and the benchmark green bond issue) and the successful presentation of the focal area of “Digitalization”. CDP Once a year, the non-profit organization CDP surveys and evaluates the CO2 emissions of listed companies on behalf of investors in over 90 countries. In order to make it possible to compare qualitative and subjective facts in connection with the answers provided by the companies, these facts are subjected to a points-based evaluation system. The goal is to evaluate the degree of maturity of companies with respect to their strategic alignment on climate-related issues. Only companies that can demonstrate a score of at least 80 percent on the “Leadership” level are given a place on the A-list. It is also necessary for CO2 reporting to be verified, for no relevant CO2 emissions to be excluded from the reporting, and for companies to have set themselves ambitious emissions reduction targets. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 41 Foreword Overview In 2019, more than 8,400 companies reported their CO2 data to CDP. Using this data and the CDP scores as an information base on material climate risks, investors and companies can make better decisions when selecting suppliers. Only 925 companies worldwide and 159 companies from the Germany, Austria and Switzerland region secured a place on the CDP Leadership List (A and A-) in 2019. RBI is one of the five best companies in Austria to be included in this ranking. In addition, RBI is the best domestic financial sector company for the fifth year in a row. Management RBI was recognized by CDP for the seventh successive year for its high standard in answering the questionnaire. For the first time, RBI was also identified as a leader for its of sustainability cooperation with its suppliers in the area of climate protection and included in the CDP Supplier Engagement Leaderboard. Responsible banker Fairer partner – Employee Fair partner – Inhouse ecology Engaged citizen GRI index and Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 42 Field of action Responsible banker: For sustainability in the core business CORPORATE VALUE ”RESPONSIBILITY“ Image author: Ulf Wallmann (RBI) Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 43 Foreword Responsible banker Overview As a ”responsible banker“, long-term added value is our primary objective. Therefore, our business strategy as well as our products, services and processes are aligned with this goal. To achieve this, we take a holistic approach. Rather than limiting ourselves purely to generating economic value, we always consider the environmental and social impacts of our business activities as well. Effective and sustainable performance can be achieved only if these aspects are also taken into account. Management Being a responsible banker means taking responsibility in our core business, as this is where the most effective leverage factor is to be found. RBI therefore believes that granting loans and investing funds represent the primary of sustainability and most important fields of action for achieving sustainable success. In all business areas and products, RBI takes great care and responsibility to structure its business and business relationships for long-term resilience, to avoid social and environmental risks and to take advantage of opportunities to improve environmental protection and social standards. Impacts, risks and opportunities Responsible Only by knowing the impacts of our business activities on the environment and society can we pursue a serious banker policy of sustainability and align the company strategy accordingly with this goal. However, the sustainability impact of the core business of a bank is felt across a wide range of aspects consisting of many opportunities as well as risks. For instance, when considering the economic added value from the business activities, we make an indisputable contribution to the stability, resilience and productivity of the economic system. On the other hand, this naturally poses the risk that the real economy could become caught up in the problems that arise from the financial economy. The question of just distribution of the added value among stakeholders – in particular Fairer partner – shareholders, employees and customers – is often a controversial one as well. The structuring and sustainability of the products and services we offer play important roles in this respect. As a bank, it is up to us to make funding available for the implementation of sustainable projects or to refrain from Employee supporting the realization of projects that are not sustainable. In deciding to whom and for what purpose we provide loans, we have an impact on the environment and the climate as well as social issues like health and upholding human rights. By considering environmental and social aspects (including human rights) or stipulating requirements in our financing decisions, we also motivate our customers to change their perspective. This also applies to our own investments and the funds managed by our asset management company (”active ownership“). Fair partner – We believe that possessing a certain market power is a great responsibility, one we wish to exercise in accordance with our principles for the good of society. A similar approach also applies to the collection and Inhouse ecology processing of customer data (big data). We have an impact on the transformation of business and consumption in the direction of greater sustainability and we are in a position to incentivize or support such innovations. The financing of infrastructure investments also plays a major role. Inevitably, our business activities leave behind not only an environmental footprint, but also a social footprint. The impacts of our activities are also still felt in other areas. We also make a contribution to supporting the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) (see ”Sustainable financing“ starting on page 64). For example, Engaged disadvantaged groups of the population can attain greater equality in socio-economic respects through purposefully designed products and information offers (see ”Initiatives for improving access to financial products citizen for disadvantaged groups of the population“ on page 82). We also have an obligation to ensure that we do not contribute to the over-indebtedness of customers through granting loans irresponsibly, thereby endangering the existence of these (see ”Responsible and fair lending“ on page 57). Another worthy goal is achieving and maintaining a foundational awareness of the concepts of saving, preparing for the future and economic GRI index and responsibility as well as an associated product base, which we support with our investment products (see ”Sustainable investment“ starting on page 70). All this in turn has an influence on the prosperity and quality of life of the population. Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 44 Conversely, we are also aware of the risks that affect our business activities and we work to counteract these. When considering the risks in connection with the environment, the negative impacts of global warming must also be taken into account. This includes consequences for tourism, agriculture, forestry and health as well as the damages resulting from increasingly frequent natural disasters, which contribute to the destruction or depreciation of our own assets or assets financed by us. On the other hand, stricter environmental protection laws and regulations can make existing investments less profitable or even unprofitable altogether. The market can also be expected to anticipate various future developments. The withdrawal of many investors from the area of fossil energy, especially coal and © PaulGruber carbon-dependent industries, is an indication that such assets of our customers or investees can be expected to fall in value over the Michaela Seelig, Director of medium term (”carbon bubble“). Sustainable Finance and Regional Economic Policy at the Austrian The EU has set itself the target of becoming climate-neutral by 2050, Federal Ministry for Climate Action which it intends to achieve by implementing its Green Deal. This contains packages of measures for sustainable ecological change, ”To overcome the climate crisis, significantly including dramatic reductions in emissions and significant investments more capital needs to be directed toward a in green technologies, research, and innovation. This will open up sustainable future. The Green Deal recently new opportunities for additional business and attracting new published by the European Commission customers. puts the level of additional investment required to achieve the climate and energy With regard to social and societal risks, factors such as poor working targets for 2030 at € 260 billion a year. conditions, endangerment of health and a failure to uphold human Public funding alone will not be enough to rights can play a very significant role in connection with financing meet this challenge. Accordingly, redirecting and investments we carry out. We strive never to be involved in or financial flows and mobilizing private capital associated with human rights violations. We also endeavor to will be extremely important. To create prevent such violations within the scope of our influence and our incentives for more private investments in capabilities. In addition to our intrinsic interest in avoiding human green projects, the European Commission rights violations, it is also in our economic interest to decrease the published its Action Plan on Financing risk of strikes, loss of personnel, regulatory fines or compensation Sustainable Growth in 2018. This represented payments on the part of our customers. a major step toward a sustainable financial system. The objectives are reorienting The timely identification of these risks together with the traditional capital flows toward sustainable investments, business risks using appropriate care and, where necessary, managing financial risks, and encouraging extensive due diligence is a fundamental requirement for proactive transparency and a long-term mindset. With countermeasures and effective risk minimization (see ”Lending the development of a classification system policy and lending decision policy“ starting on page 58). We also for green activities, a common taxonomy for continuously analyze our development opportunities. RBI views ecologically sustainable investments is sustainability itself as an opportunity – for our own business activities being defined for the first time. This will help and for our stakeholders alike. to ensure greater transparency and credibility, allowing sustainability and investments in climate protection to become the new norm in financing and making the financial sector a part of the solution for a climate-neutral future.“ QUOTE Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 45 Foreword Business strategy Overview RBI is a leading universal banking group in CEE and a corporate and investment bank in Austria. It provides financial services to retail and corporate customers, banks, and other institutional clients. RBI will continue to concentrate on the CEE region, which offers structurally higher growth rates than Western Europe and therefore more attractive potential returns. Complemented by leading specialist institutions in Austria, RBI is broadly diversified and also Management benefits from the opportunities of the Austrian market. of sustainability Following the successful completion of the Ambition 2020 transformation program, which involved a withdrawal from non-core activities, a strategic repositioning in selected markets and a significant reduction in risk and complexity, RBI is now returning its focus back on growth, digitization, and innovation. In response to the fundamental and fast-paced industry dynamics and ever-changing customer expectations, RBI has determined a new strategic direction: the Mission & Vision 2025. RBI believes in a strong at strong growth through customer centricity and digital transformation. This is reflected in the Vision to be “the most recommended financial services group” in 2025. (see ”RBI – Mission & Vision 2025“, page 14) RBI intends to achieve this by making its customers‘ lives easier through continuous innovation and a superior customer experience. Responsible This requires a strategy with a strong customer orientation that offers an easy, stress-free banking experience and banker excellent products and services. RBI can build on its existing competitive edge (customer focus, pronounced local presence, strong brand, long-term relationships, comprehensive product and service range available across all channels) while intensifying its efforts in the following strategic areas: • Sales and service model: Branch transformation, redesign of sales and service models for large corporate and institutional clients, set-up of dedicated customer experience management across all business lines • Digital operational excellence: Improved efficiency and effectiveness through digitization and automation, Fairer partner – redesign of critical customer touchpoints and processes from scratch Employee • Group-wide innovation process: Strengthening of payment transaction and FX capabilities with scalable Group solutions, development of innovative digital lending propositions • Data and analytical capabilities: Leveraging artificial intelligence and advanced analytics to develop new business opportunities and optimize existing processes Fair partner – • IT architecture: Transformation of core IT into lean and scalable, architecture, evaluation of greenfield Inhouse ecology infrastructure for digital retail banking in particular • Adaptive organizational set-up: Transformation of culture, organization and processes to enable higher responsiveness, improved collaboration and new ways of working Ultimately the strategic initiatives are aimed at customer and revenue growth across all business lines and markets. This will be based on improved digital customer acquisition, as well as further leveraging RBI’s broad CEE Engaged coverage. The latter, specifically to further expand the Corporate and Markets & Investment Banking business. citizen Based on the overarching Mission & Vision, each client segment is following individual business strategies aimed at differentiating RBI in terms of customer experience, which are to support RBI’s aim to be the most recommended financial services group. Based on its Vision, RBI aims to be the most recommended bank in most of its markets already by the end of 2021, in retail and corporate banking business and in servicing institutional clients, as GRI index and measured by the Net Promoter Score (NPS). RBI sees sustainable and responsible corporate governance as an important pillar for all activities. In addition to Assurance report compliance with statutory and supervisory rules, this also means dealing responsibly with societal and ecological Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 46 risks and underlying transparent management processes. RBI has always given great priority to corporate governance and compliance (see ”Governance and compliance“ starting on page 21). Economic sustainability Economically successful business is a prerequisite for ensuring the long-term survival and success of a company. Economic value creation is generally the primary goal of productive activities. Only this ensures that other, ethical objectives can also be realized. Through the economic value creation of its business activities, RBI generates additional benefit for the company itself as well as for its owners and employees, its customers and the economy in general. In this way, it makes an important contribution to the stability, resilience and productivity of the economic system and the prosperity of society. We are fully aware of the associated responsibility. Another requirement is ensuring appropriate capital resources. The concept of Group risk controlling comprises a sustainability perspective that should ensure that RBI has a sufficiently high core capital ratio at the end of a planning period even if the macroeconomic environment worsens unexpectedly (details on this can be found in the 2019 RBI Annual Report starting on page 180). The following tables provide an overview of the direct contribution RBI has on the economy. RBI operating result (in million €) 2019 2018 Change Net interest income 3,412 3,362 50 Dividend income 31 51 -20 Current income from investments in associated companies 171 80 91 Net fee and commission income 1,791 1,791 5 Net trading income and net income from fair value measurement -17 17 -34 Net income from hedge accounting 3 -11 14 Other net operating income 78 88 -9 Operating income 5,475 5,377 98 Staff expenses -1,610 -1,580 -30 Other administrative expenses -1,094 -1,178 84 Depreciation -389 -290 -99 General administrative expenses -3,093 -3,048 -45 Operating result 2,382 2,250 53 Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 47 Foreword Overview The following table shows the value contribution for the most important stakeholders: the owners, the employees, the economy and public authorities. ”Investments in the community“ have been reported separately since 2015. Financial flows to stakeholders (in million €) 2019 2018 Owners – Dividends 306 204 Employees – Wages and salaries 1,227 1,218 Business – Investments and operating costs 1,141 1,229 Management Investments in the community 2 3 of sustainability Public authorities 843 753 Income taxes (excluding deferred taxes) 457 373 Banking levies 110 116 Social security costs and staff-related taxes 276 264 Equity status as of December 31 13,765 12,413 Responsible RBI key figures by segment 2019 Total assets Change from Business Employees2 Profit/loss Customers Amounts owed banker in € million previous outlets after taxes in million to customers year1 in € million in € million Poland 2,974 -9.0% 1 227 -113 0.0 17 Czech Republic 17,433 3.3% 136 3,413 192 1.2 14,106 Slovakia 14,613 9.9% 182 4,029 142 1.0 11,961 Hungary 7,862 4.4% 71 2,237 63 0.5 5,882 Fairer partner – Central Europe segment 42,094 4.3% 391 9,915 290 2.7 31,967 Albania 1,838 1.6% 78 1,241 23 0.4 1,556 Bosnia and Herzegovina 2,469 7.5% 103 1,316 31 0.4 1,897 Employee Bulgaria 4,626 12.3% 148 2,633 66 0.6 3,723 Kosovo 1,062 15.6% 47 862 18 0.3 861 Croatia 4,959 4.3% 76 1,860 58 0.5 3,736 Romania 9,246 3.1% 354 4,987 161 2.3 7,591 Serbia 2,789 11.6% 88 1,581 53 0.8 2,166 Southeastern Europe segment 26,986 6.4% 894 14,480 410 5.4 21,529 Fair partner – Belarus 2,088 19.0% 86 1,746 61 0.8 1,504 Russia 18,178 29.0% 154 8,819 498 3.3 13,696 Ukraine 3,139 33.7% 492 7,791 177 2.5 2,512 Inhouse ecology Eastern Europe segment 23,381 28.5% 732 18,356 735 6.7 17,712 Group Corporates & Markets segment 53,706 20.7% 23 2,908 283 2.0 27,601 Corporate Center segment 31,549 -10.7% 0 1,214 421 0.0 1,464 Reconciliation/other -25,515 – – – – – -3,923 Total 152,200 8.6% 2,040 46,873 1,365 16.7 96,214 1 The change in total assets in local currency compared with December 31, 2018 is due to the euro exchange rates. 2 In full-time equivalents as of the reporting date. Engaged citizen GRI index and Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 48 RBI‘s Economic Footprint® in CEE and Austria There have been numerous changes in the environmental conditions in the banking sector in recent years such as regulatory measures to safeguard financial market stability, restructuring in both Austria and Central and Eastern Europe, a sustained low interest rate environment, and adjustments to reflect the advance of digitalization as well as changes in consumer behavior. Against this background, the objective was to use the Economic Footprint ® (registered trademark of Economica/Cognion Research Association) to determine the value added and employment contributions of RBI in all countries in which it operates. Apart from Austria, these countries were Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Kosovo, Croatia, Poland (sale of the core banking business took place in October 2018), Romania, Russia, Serbia, Slovakia, Czech Republic, Ukraine, Hungary and Belarus. The analysis for the year 2018 was carried out in cooperation with the economic research institute Economica. In the calculations of the economic impact of RBI, not only the direct economic contributions from operating activities were included, but also indirect effects throughout the upstream value-added chain. The findings of the scientific study underpin the importance of RBI as an important player in the European banking market, especially in Central, Southern and Eastern Europe. You can find the entire Economic Footprint ® on the RBI homepage at: www.rbinternational.com/sustainabilitymanagement Operating income and gross production value RBI’s operating income amounted to € 5,298 million in 2018. The economic counterpart to it and the basis of all further calculations is gross production value, which expresses the value of all of the goods and services generated. RBI’s gross production value (GPV) in The direct gross production value for 2018 amounts to the CEE countries (incl. Austria), € 5,435 million. Intermediate inputs in the upstream value in € million, 2018 chain result in indirect effects of € 2,624 million, meaning a total gross production value of € 8,059 million in the countries considered. 2,624 8,059 The factor is calculated by dividing the total effect by the direct effect. The gross production value factor is 1.48, meaning that every euro of gross production value generated within RBI triggers 48 cents in indirect effects in 5,435 other economic sectors of the CEE countries (incl. Austria). At country level, Austria, with its headquarters function, achieved a gross production value of € 1,980 million and thus the highest value, followed by Russia with € 1,380 million and Romania with € 796 million. Direct Indirect Total GPV GPV GPV Source: RBI, Economica Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 49 Foreword Overview RBI’s gross production value by country, in € million, 2018 Ukraine 324 100 Russia 1.070 310 Belarus 145 47 Romania 550 246 Serbia 147 76 Management of sustainability Kosovo 53 22 Croatia 203 98 Bosnia and Herzegovina 110 53 Bulgaria 166 79 Albania 70 42 Slovakia 458 180 Poland* 340 154 Responsible banker Hungary 250 115 Czech Republic 504 167 Austria 1,046 934 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 n Direct n Indirect Fairer partner – Source: RBI, Economica *Sale of core banking operations in October 2018 Employee Value-added effects RBI’s gross value added (GVA), The total gross value added of RBI, i.e. the economic in € million, 2018 value added, amounts to € 5.3 billion, which makes RBI larger than, for example, the catering industry in Austria. Fair partner – € 4,120 million or almost 78 percent of the total effect are 1,180 5,300 generated directly, € 1,180 million indirectly. Dividing the total effect by the direct effect for gross value Inhouse ecology 4,120 added results in the value-added factor. This expresses RBI’s economic lever, i.e. the extent to which RBI stimulates external economic sectors. A factor of 1.29 means that every euro generated by RBI Engaged triggers 29 cents of value added in other sectors within the limits in which RBI is active. citizen GRI index and Direct Incirect Total GVA GVA GVA Assurance report Source: RBI, Economica Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 50 At country level, alongside Austria with 1.70, above-average factors are recorded by Albania at 1.36 and Serbia at 1.30. RBI’s value-added factors by country, 2018 Russia 1.15 Ukraine 1.16 Belarus 1.17 Czech Republic 1.18 Slovakia 1.22 Kosovo 1.23 Rumania 1.25 Bulgaria 1.27 Bosnia and Herzegovina 1.28 Croatia 1.28 Poland* 1.28 Hungary 1.28 Average value-added multiplier of the RBI 1.29 Serbia 1.30 Albania 1.36 Austria 1.70 Source: RBI, Economica *Sale of core banking operations in October 2018 Dividing the direct share of gross value added generated by RBI in the individual countries by the gross value added reported in the “financial services and insurance” sector in the individual countries results in the following shares. Share of RBI’s direct gross value added in the finnancial services and insurance sector by country, in percent, 2018 Kosovo** 21.3 Albania 17.1 Slovakia 15.6 Bosnia and Herzegovina 13.8 Serbia 9.2 Average share of RBI 8.8 Ukraine 8.7 Rumania 7.7 Belarus** 7.1 Croatia 6.1 Czech Republic 5.5 Hungary 4.6 Bulgaria 3.9 Poland* 1.4 Russia 0.9 0.0% 5.0% 10.0% 15.0% 20.0% Source: RBI, Economica, Eurostat, national statistical offices *Sale of core banking operations in October 2018 **The figures for Kosovo and Belarus are extrapolated from the 2017 figures, as the value added data at sector level for 2018 is not yet available. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 51 Foreword Employment effects Overview In total, 55,743 jobs were created or secured by RBI in 2018. Compared to other industries, the financial sector is very labor-intensive. RBI’s employment, in the CEE countries Almost 85 percent of the employment effect is attributable (incl. Austria), in workplaces, 2018 to RBI itself (direct effect of 47,079 jobs). Indirect effects result in an additional 8,664 jobs. The resulting employment Management factor is 1.18, meaning that one additional job is secured 8,664 55,743 or created in another economic sector for approximately of sustainability every five jobs at RBI. 47,079 Lower than for value added but still impressive is the share of employees attributable to RBI in the “financial services and insurance” sector. The average share is 4.7 percent, with Kosovo (13.3 percent), Albania (8.2 percent), Slovakia (7.9 percent) and Bosnia and Herzegovina (7.2 percent) in particular outperforming the average. Responsible In the same way as for value added, the employment effects generated by RBI can be broken down by banker economic sector. It is notable that 93 percent of the total effect is attributable to ten sectors that RBI stimulates, with Direct Indirect Total almost 86 percent accounted for by the financial services employment employment employment sector alone, 1.32 percent by other economic services, Source: RBI, Economica and 0.94 percent by retail and postal services. Fairer partner – Share of RBI’s direct employment effects in the number of employees in the financial Employee services and insurance sector by country, in percent, 2018 Kosovo** 13.3 Albania 8.2 Slovakia 7.9 Fair partner – Bosnia and Herzegovina 7.2 Rumania 4.6 Croatia 4.6 Inhouse ecology Average share of RBI 4.7 Bulgaria 4.0 Ukraine** 3.7 Serbia 3.6 Czech Republic 2.9 Belarius** 2.7 Engaged Hungary 2.4 citizen Russlia 0.1 Poland* 0.6 0.0% 2.0% 4.0% 6.0% 8.0% 10.0% 12.0% GRI index and Source: RBI, Economica, Eurostat, ILO, national statistical offices *Sale of core banking operations in October 2018 **The figures for Belarus, Kosovo and Ukraine are extrapolated from the 2017 figures, as the employment data at sector level for 2018 is not yet available. Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 52 Responsibility in the core business – for products and services At RBI, trust, reliability and responsibility with respect to society, the economy and the environment have always been fundamental principles. The needs of the customers in this regard coincide with Raiffeisen values. Customer interest in the sustainable structuring of the products and services we offer is on the rise. RBI is committed to an outstanding service culture which regularly seeks to exceed the expectations of customers with regard to quality. This is also reflected in RBI‘s new Mission and Vision 2025: We are the most recommended financial service group by making our customers‘ lives easier through innovation. Accordingly, we constantly strive to improve customer experience and enable our clients to achieve more in their lives and businesses (see also ”RBI – Mission and Vision 2025“, page 14, and ”Customer satisfaction“, page 60) As part of our task of serving our customers as comprehensively as possible with financial services in line with their needs, our stated goal is to take into account the impact on society and the environment to the greatest possible extent. When making recommendations, we ensure that they are given in an honest and fair manner and that the customers are adequately informed about the risks. Retail customers: RBI provides services to over 16.5 million retail, private banking and small business customers in around 2,000 branches in CEE, offering a full product range (e.g. account packages, clearing, settlement and payment services, consumer finance, as well as mortgage loans and investment products). Retail customer behavior is changing, demand for digital solutions has been increasing and customers expect fully optimized distribution channels for their needs. Therefore, the strategic focus of RBI’s retail banking area is on the further enhancement of digital banking capabilities to facilitate solid retail customer growth. RBI’s retail customers already benefit from state-of-the-art online and mobile banking, including video identification and contact center solutions based on telephone or chat functions. The aim is to further accelerate the adoption of these digital channels; the target is to increase active usage of mobile banking from 32 percent in 2019 to 55 per cent by 2021. Ultimately, the aim is to further exploit the potential of new technologies and data analytics in order to provide a superior customer experience for all retail customers. Corporate clients: RBI services roughly 100,000 corporate clients across CEE (incl. medium-sized businesses, large local companies, international corporations and local authorities). Supported by deep local market expertise and strong advisory skills, RBI aims to build long-term business partnerships and to provide customers with the right financial services to meet their needs. As part of the new strategic direction, several areas will be addressed in 2020-2021: developing new crossborder solutions for clients across the entire CEE region; improving Customer Experience across all processes by redesigning the most crucial customer touchpoints (e.g. KYC, account opening, online banking); expanding the convenient digital product and services offering, fast information flows and short decision-making processes; focusing on responsible customers and businesses while building on sustainability as an opportunity (including respective products and advisory services). By offering innovative and convenient solutions, RBI’s long-term ambition is to become the corporate bank of choice across CEE. Institutional clients: For RBI’s institutional clients (e.g. banks, insurances, asset managers), one of the main focuses is on developing and implementing digital products and features in order to enhance the Markets & Investment Banking product offering; the target is to have 80 percent of deals captured digitally in the next two years. Furthermore, RBI is designing a digital sales channel for foreign exchange (FX) business in order to become an FX-business leader in the region. Further strategic pillars are an optimization of the investment banking setup, as well as of the capital markets trading and sales architecture. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 53 Foreword Overview While implementing these strategic ambitions, RBI will further enhance the usage and analysis of data, transform the Markets & Investment Banking area following agile principles, focus on sustainable business growth and continue intense group-wide collaboration. The strategic goal in this business segment is to become the best bank in the CEE region for institutional clients. RBI wants to achieve this by inspiring clients with excellent services and innovative products across all business areas. Moreover, due to the systemic importance of banks and their contribution to the functioning of the economic cycle, we consider it our obligation to place a strong focus on the sustainability of our products and services. By Management granting financial resources, banks have significant leverage in actively shaping sustainable development that is fit for the future. A prerequisite for this is the consideration of environmental and society standards and criteria of sustainability within the core business of the bank. This means that we strive to offer products which offer specific benefits to society, the environment and the real economy while also making sure not to offer any products that present risks to society or the environment. ”We conduct ourselves responsibly“ – one of our fundamental principles – also gets to the heart of this conviction in RBI‘s redefined corporate values. Mission & Vision 2025 We intend to realize RBI‘s vision of being the most recommended financial service group by making our customers‘ Responsible lives easier through continuous innovation. If our financial services can help our customers to achieve more in their lives and businesses, we can promote good long-term customer relationships as well as a positive societal banker development. However, a focus on customer benefit must always take the environment and social aspects into account. Although individual customer benefit and societal benefit can sometimes involve conflicting priorities, more and more customers are placing value on the ecological and social compatibility of the products and services they use. In most cases, this leads to increased customer satisfaction and hence promotes a positive customer experience. Fairer partner – For this reason, we are increasingly focusing on the systematic enhancement of products and services containing ESG (environmental, social and governance) components. To make the value added of these products and services comprehensible and transparent, we focus on high-quality advice and good communication. In addition, there is growing demand for assistance and advice on ESG risks among customers. Many customers have also Employee been unsettled by the latest developments at EU level and expect our relationship managers to be an expert point of contact for all of these concerns. Accordingly, we are currently working on a comprehensive sustainable finance concept and the corresponding intensification of internal expertise (see ”Future outlook“, page 84) Fair partner – Digitization and innovation Inhouse ecology As mentioned above, a broad range of products and continuous innovation are important prerequisites for a positive customer experience and the satisfaction and loyalty of our customers. This is ensured by way of the Group-wide product competence centers and the Group Strategy & Innovation team. All new products, product combinations and variations throughout the entire network are also subject to a formal product approval process that is intended to ensure that every product is offered in an optimal form and all risks associated with a product are disclosed. Naturally, we offer products and services only when we have the corresponding expertise, the necessary infrastructure and the required license and when the product or service is approved on the respective Engaged markets. Product development takes account of trends and developments in the market. citizen In the area of financial engineering, tailored solutions are developed for customers in connection with investments, financing and risk hedging. In addition to structured investment products, financial engineering includes structured finance, i.e. financing concepts that go beyond the use of standard instruments and that are used in areas such as acquisition and project finance. RBI also develops individual solutions for its customers for hedging various risks, GRI index and from interest rate and exchange rate risk through to commodity price risk. In addition to financial engineering, RBI is actively working in the area of cash management on the enhancement of integrated product solutions for international payment transactions. Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 54 A central topic of the advance of digitization for banks is mobile banking. Having amounted to 22 percent in 2018, penetration at RBI increased to 30 percent by the end of the reporting period and is set to rise to 55 percent by 2021. Online lending is also meeting with growing acceptance as a mobile banking product. 20 percent of loans were granted online in 2018, a figure that had risen to 25 percent one year later. A figure of 35 percent is forecast for 2021. RBI is intensively addressing the opportunities arising for the Group as a result of all aspects of digitization. To optimally harness these opportunities, RBI‘s strategy and innovation departments are bundled in the Group Strategy & Innovation team. As well as developing and implementing innovative ideas and partnerships, this is intended to place the focus on the strategic components of RBI‘s digital transformation. Since April 2018, the dedicated Innovation Board has been tasked with controlling and coordinating all of the Group‘s innovation activities. In early 2019, RBI successfully completed the second round of the Elevator Lab fintech partnership program, which tests innovative solutions with selected fintech start-ups with a view to long-term cooperation. The Groupwide and regional Elevator Lab programs have already given rise to numerous partnerships with fintechs. Elevator Ventures, RBI‘s corporate venture capital company, has investment capital of € 25 million and focuses on strategic direct investments in selected fintechs that have already gathered their first market experience. In August 2019, an investment was made in kompany, an Elevator Lab participant from Austria, together with UNIQA Ventures. RBI integrated kompany‘s solution into its innovative e-KYC know your customer process, which makes it up to 50 percent quicker for customers to perform onboarding and update their data. In 2019, RBI also launched another round of its Group-wide intrapreneurship program, Innovation Garden. Following a multi-stage process, ten of the 563 ideas submitted were selected for the actual program phase, in which cross-functional teams worked on problem-solving in greater detail. The employees were also familiarized with modern working methods and technologies. In the area of new technologies, RBI also intensively addressed blockchain in 2019 with a focus on specific applications in the areas of trade finance, capital market transactions, and payment transactions. In order to further develop blockchain solutions, RBI has entered into a cooperation agreement with the Research Institute for Cryptoeconomics at Vienna University of Economics. RBI has been a member of the international blockchain consortium R3 since late 2017 and has participated in global feasibility studies in this capacity. The network banks in CEE also regularly initiate innovative projects. The experience gained both there and at head office is continuously evaluated and improved upon. The stated aim of RBI‘s digitization strategy is to continue to refine these insights and subsequently implement them at other network banks within the Group. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 55 Foreword Ecological product responsibility Overview RBI cares about the environment. We therefore always consider the associated environmental consequences of the products and services we offer. In particular, financing of or participation in transactions or projects which put the environment at risk of lasting effect are not in accordance with our business policy. We give precedence to transactions involving environmentally friendly technologies and take the environmental footprint and related measures into account when selecting our suppliers. Management Our goal is to reduce the negative impacts of our business. activities on the environment to the minimum and to lower CO2 emissions. RBI is committed to complying with all applicable environmental regulations in each country within its business operations and service sectors. It acts in an environmentally-conscious manner and continually strives to improve its own environmental balance as well as the environmental balance attributable of sustainability to its product and services portfolio. When making decisions, every employee must consider the potential risks posed by a transaction or project that could lead to negative impacts on the environment. The risks range from endangering the environment to the associated risk for the financing business as well as the resulting damage to the group‘s reputation. In addition, for each financing and project approval it must be ensured that the company being financed is using Responsible the funds in a way that ensures compliance with the respective regional and EU environmental legislation as well as with the international agreements on protecting the environment. banker Carbon policy RBI is committed to promoting environmentally friendly technologies. The declared fight against climate change, based on the 2015 Paris climate agreement, has given impetus to our ambitions in this area. We see this as a chance for new business fields, such as in the areas of renewable energy, electric mobility, energy efficiency and Fairer partner – resource management. The climate agreement could drive investments in these areas and provide new impetus for innovation. We have therefore established restrictions on our own practices that apply across the entire RBI. For example, we avoid financing new thermal coal mining projects and new business relationships with customers in the thermal coal mining sector or companies where more than 50 percent of the revenue is generated from Employee thermal coal trading. Coal power plants are only financially invested in on a selective basis and only if the project offers discernible positive environmental impacts. We are striving to significantly reduce our involvement with thermal coal. Fair partner – Social product responsibility Inhouse ecology RBI is aware of the impacts of its business activities on society. Virtually, all payment transactions are processed through banks and by issuing loans, banks have an influence on the purposes for which funding is utilized. Our products and services can therefore directly contribute to changing the life situations and consumer behavior of the population. Indirect influences arise through investments in projects or companies with particular social or societal relevance, from which people could either benefit or be disadvantaged. Engaged citizen GRI index and Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 56 Observing human rights is a basic requirement in connection with all of the products and services we offer. Specifically, we do not finance transactions connected with forced or child labor or in violation of the European Convention on Human Rights, obligations under the labor and social law of the respective country, applicable regulations issued by international organizations (including the relevant UN conventions), or the rights of local populations or indigenous people. RBI is also not involved in business with products that can serve to suppress demonstrations or political unrest or infringe on human rights in some other way. This is especially true for businesses involved in countries in which political unrest, military conflicts or other violations of human rights are taking place or expected. Considering the requirements and concerns of our customers also plays an important role for our company in the design, sale and use of our products and services. The security of our products and the security of our customers are both of central concern to us. Along with access to relevant information regarding products and services, this includes the verifiability of claims, explanations of the possible risks associated with products or services and appropriate information, e.g. on risk reduction. For example, the economic feasibility of loan repayment is carefully explained to the customer (see also ”Responsible lending“, page 57). Where possible, we inform customers about the sustainability aspects of our products. We carefully check any complaints which are brought to us and respond as soon as possible. We also strive to provide comprehensive barrier-free access to our financial services for disabled persons. Protecting customer data also forms part of our social responsibility (see next chapter). Protection of customer data and data security RBI considers the comprehensive protection of all data provided to or made available to the Group, particularly from natural persons (e.g. customers or employees), to be an integral part of its business activities to which it attaches an extremely high level of importance. The recording, storage, processing and transmission of personal data of natural persons at RBI is subject not only to the mandatory statutory requirements, but also to mandatory internal principles and processes that are set out in a specific organizational and process structure for data protection. Compliance with these principles and processes is managed by the Group Data Privacy & Quality Governance organizational unit and the Group Information & Cyber Security and Group Business Continuity Management & Physical Security organizational units and monitored by the Data Protection Officer. Security has top priority at RBI. Data from customers, employees, and partners is handled with great care. RBI has taken various technical and organizational measures to ensure confidence in its services. The rapid pace of technological change requires the continuous adjustment and improvement of security measures from a technical and organizational perspective alike. An overview of RBI‘s activities to protect information and its technical infrastructure can be found on RBI‘s website: www.rbinternational.com  About Us  Security  Technical and Organizational Measures In addition, RBI AG services, supports and monitors its Group subsidiaries in Austria and abroad with regard to the requirements of the GDPR and the internal principles and processes that are required to be observed within the Group. In addition to the GDPR, the applicable national laws in the respective countries must be observed. This involves supplementary or differing provisions in some cases, particularly in countries outside the EU. Additional information on the processing of personal data by RBI can be found in the RBI data protection declaration: https://www.rbinternational.com/dataprotection In order to further sharpen awareness of data protection at RBI and its Group companies, employee training includes an e-learning package aimed at generally improving the sensitive handling of personal data, as well as classroom-based training to enable practical implementation for the respective target group (business analysts, product owners, etc.). The e-learning campaign constitutes mandatory periodic training for all employee levels. Complaints and data protection violations are monitored, reviewed, processed, and documented at RBI and all domestic and foreign subsidiaries. The reasons for the respective complaint or data protection violation are Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 57 Foreword Overview investigated and all necessary measures are taken to protect the data subject (including notifying the responsible data protection authority as appropriate). In the 2019 financial year, 25 invitations to submit comments were received by RBI AG or its foreign subsidiaries, mainly via the responsible data protection authorities. RBI acknowledged nine of these cases as justified complaints. In addition, 16 cases of ”data theft or data loss“ were reported to the responsible data protection authority. The proceedings with the data protection authorities at the foreign subsidiaries are partially complete and partially not yet finalized. The proceedings with the Austrian data protection authority were completed extremely promptly Management and did not lead to the imposition of a fine or follow-up measures in any case. Responsible and fair lending of sustainability RBI is committed to responsible and fair lending. Among other things, this involves lending customers only as much as they can handle based on their financial situation. We strive to offer the clearest, most comprehensible information possible concerning our loan products in advance and to conclude loans to our customers under equally transparent conditions. This includes explaining the entire process, the precise steps involved as well as the responsibilities, risks, and primary lending conditions associated with a loan agreement (in particular the costs of the loan, repayment amount, precise deadlines, due dates, and number of installments). Responsible For consumers, our Group guideline ”RBI Retail Credit Policy“ describes our balanced approach to credit risk – in banker the interests of the customer as well as our own risk controlling. We strive to prevent our customers from taking on too much debt by employing, among other measures, modern creditworthiness procedures for issuing loans based on clearly defined assessment criteria. The risk of a possible default should be avoided from the outset in order to prevent our customers from suffering financial cutbacks to their living situation and living standards. We therefore apply conservative rules with regard to the relationship between the loan amount and collateral as well as the recipient‘s income. To support this calculation, we work out the household income and cost of living for every Fairer partner – market. Subjective selection factors, such as gender or religion, play no role when deciding whether to issue a loan. We strive for the greatest possible level of objectivity in order to reach an unbiased and transparent lending decision. Employee This is possible only if the customer provides all of the necessary data and information. RBI aims to offer the customer a suitable and tailored offer based on the available information and results of the creditworthiness assessment. In the case of payment difficulties, dealing respectfully and sympathetically with the affected customers is a natural Fair partner – part of our banking operations. As soon as RBI notices the first visible signs of payment difficulties, assistance is provided to the customer with information and advice. Furthermore, it tries to find a suitable solution for the Inhouse ecology situation at hand within the scope of its options and the customer‘s financial situation. If difficulties arise with servicing the loans, RBI looks at each case individually and assesses how the customer can be helped by means of deferments, payment suspensions, credit restructuring etc. within financially justifiable limitsand endeavors to work with the customer to find a fair solution. In doing so, particular attention is paid to the customer‘s changed circumstances. In the event of a dispute, RBI follows a fair and professional complaints procedure. Engaged citizen GRI index and Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 58 Lending policy and lending decision policy Our business model is geared around the high level strategic goal of creating long-term value. Responsible lending is a significant component of this model. We achieve this with a lending policy that is based on continuity. We remain a fair and reliable lender to businesses with future prospects, even in difficult times, and we hold a clear position regarding the handling of sensitive business areas. The Code of Conduct is part of our lending policy. All employees involved in lending are accordingly obliged to act responsibly and also to carry out their supervising duties with great care. Likewise, the reputation of our banking group must be considered in all activities and decisions. The executives of our company are responsible for compliance with these standards in their respective areas of responsibility. We are committed to not directly or indirectly financing transactions, projects, or parties that are suspected of violating human rights and, in particular, that use forced or child labor or that contravene the legal working and social obligations of the respective countries, the applicable regulations of international organizations and, in particular, the relevant UN conventions and rights of the local population or indigenous people. Financing or participating in transactions or projects that involve the risk of sustainable damage to the environment (e.g. destruction of the rain forest, land, air or water pollution) is not consistent with RBI‘s business policy. For each financing decision, the responsible employees must take the potential negative environmental impact and the resulting damage to RBI‘s reputation into account. Furthermore, we aim to prevent the mobilization of nuclear power by ensuring that we do not finance any nuclear power plants, companies that extract, distribute, or trade in nuclear fuel or companies that manage nuclear waste. Cooperation with power plant companies that operate nuclear power plants is continued only if the nuclear operations are strictly separable. We also seek to prevent the mobilization of arms trading by ensuring that we do not finance any manufacturers of or dealers in controversial weapons or their relevant suppliers, as well as wholesale arms dealers. Cooperation with companies and businesses that manufacture defense products in addition to other products is only continued selectively and if the military operations and related activities are strictly separable. It goes without saying that RBI complies with international standards on financial sanctions and trade restrictions. In connection with the gambling industry, we strive to finance exclusively reputable, transparent companies within the European Economic Area or other European countries with a regulated gambling market that are subject to supervision, comply with the principles of responsible gaming and adhere to the AML and CTF standards. As mentioned previously, we are also a signatory of the Global Compact of the United Nations (see page 15). The credit portfolio of the group is controlled by means of the portfolio strategy. Lending in different countries, sectors or types of products is thus limited, which enables the concentration of undesirable risks to be avoided. The risks and potential of various industries in the individual countries are continuously evaluated using an ”industry heat map“, which allows a timely response to any changes. Based on this industry heat map, lending guidelines and limits for future structuring of the credit portfolio are developed. Specific lending criteria for individual customer segments and countries are resolved by credit committees consisting of representatives of the front office and back office areas or by the full Management Board. The composition of the credit committees varies depending on the customer group for corporate customers, financial institutions, public authorities, and retail. They make all associated lending decisions within the framework of the lending approval process and the rating and volume-oriented assignment of responsibility (details on the loan decision process and the Credit Portfolio Management department can be found in the 2019 RBI Annual Report on page 183). Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 59 Foreword Overview The lending decision process is carried out on a case-by-case basis following standardized principles and guidelines and in line with a comprehensive due diligence process. There is a clear personnel and functional separation between the business activities and all risk management activities. In addition to traditional ”hard facts“ and numerous qualitative criteria, our internal rating model incorporates an evaluation of the management, which is responsible for adequate handling of environmental and social topics within the company. An evaluation is performed as to whether an industry is subject to special environmental or social risks, including human rights violations or health risks, and whether a Management potential borrower follows the existing rules with regard to the environment, human rights, and health. The agreed credit terms are also assessed as standard as part of the annual analyses. Group Compliance is responsible for all issues concerning compliance with legal requirements. The describe Group-wide standards apply to all group units, but these are also supplemented with local, of sustainability sometimes more stringent, internal guidelines and policies by many of our network banks. They take into account, to varying extents, the social and environmental risk strategies of the respective bank, define sometimes higher minimum criteria or define the exact procedure for compliance with all of the agreed-upon principles. The standards of the International Finance Corporation (IFC) and/or the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (MIGA) apply at seven network banks: Raiffeisen Bank Sh.A. in Albania, Raiffeisen BANK d.d. Bosna i Hercegovina, Raiffeisen Bank Kosovo J.S.C., Raiffeisen Bank S.A. in Romania (which has also committed to Responsible compliance with the EBRD standards), Raiffeisen banka a.d. in Serbia, Priorbank JSC in Belarus, and AO Raiffeisenbank in Russia. banker These network banks all have an Environmental and Social Management System (ESMS) and a corresponding Environmental and Social Policy (E&S Policy). This policy describes the principles of the ecological and social risk management in the bank and defines important roles and responsibilities for managing E&S risks as well as key elements of the E&S risk management process. An E&S Officer is nominated by the Management Board for each bank and is responsible for proper implementation within the bank. All employees involved in evaluating E&S risks receive appropriate training. The credit process ensures that all credit applications in the Fairer partner – corporate customer area are reviewed in three steps, in addition to the usual credit and risk criteria: 1. Evaluating whether the company is engaged in activities on the IFC Exclusion List. Employee 2. Categorizing the environmental and social (E&S) risk level depending on the type, location, noticeability, and size of the project as well as the nature and scope of its possible environmental and social impact (low, medium, or high). 3. Social and environmental impact assessment (E&S due diligence) for all transactions of high and medium Fair partner – risk: Determining the environmental and social impacts and risks of a project as well as determining whether it meets the laws of the respective country and other policies of the World Bank and IFC. Inhouse ecology Also included are performance standards regarding work and labor conditions, resource efficiency and the avoidance of environmental pollution, public health and safety, land acquisition and forced relocations, retention of biodiversity and sustainable management of natural resources as well as indigenous peoples and cultural heritage (see the IFC website at www.ifc.org). The IFC and MIGA standards also include extensive reporting and monitoring requirements, which are carried out within the scope of ”E&S Supervisory Visits“. Engaged citizen GRI index and Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 60 Customer satisfaction The satisfaction of our customers and outstanding customer relationships are our top priority. Customer satisfaction at RBI is therefore regularly measured in both retail and corporate customer business. Measures for achieving additional improvements are derived from the insights gained in this way. In our business with private customers, small enterprises and micro businesses, customer satisfaction and service quality have been an integral component of our business management for a number of years. Since 2012, we have also employed a number of different methods to gain insight into the quality, duration and consistency of our customer relationships. After developing positively in 2018, our net promoter score (NPS) continued to improve in 2019. We are well above the market average in most of the markets in which we have operating subsidiaries. The NPS measurement is carried out locally in all network banks based on a standardized method for the entire group. NPS is based on the question: ”How likely is it that you would recommend Raiffeisenbank to a friend or colleague?“ We also conduct a brand performance analysis at least once a year. This measures brand awareness, trust and attractiveness compared with local competitors. Most network banks rank above the market average in this analysis. High brand awareness/high brand trust, a stable market presence and high advisory service quality on the part of the employees are key among the most frequently listed reasons for a willingness to recommend us. We have invested in establishing customer experience management at all network banks. This consists of developing competence in improving the customer experience, establishing measurement and controlling criteria and anchoring customer satisfaction within the strategy of the network banks. Regularly measuring customer satisfaction and the customer experience are used to document and analyze changes. Digital channels (website, internet banking, mobile banking and social networks) are continuing to enjoy rapid growth in popularity and have also become an integral part of all measurements. Results are evaluated immediately and corresponding measures put in place. Objective criteria, such as the ratings for our apps in app stores, show that the services we offer via digital channels are meeting with an extremely good response among customers. In 2019, we set ourselves the ambitious target of becoming the most recommended financial institution in all of the markets in which we are active. This meant we had to revise our existing Customer Experience Framework (CEF) in order to reflect this ambition. The revised version of the CEF contains three strategic areas for improvement, each with specific measures assigned: • Understand: We strive to systematically collect feedback from our customers across all customer journeys and contact points so that we know with a high degree of certainty where we need to make improvements. To achieve this, we will also expand and standardize our journey mapping activities by applying uniform best-in-class methods in all our markets. Another leverage factor for this strategic area is the introduction of a multi-channel platform for customer experience management following on from the successful concept demonstrations in some markets. • Prioritize: We decide on what needs to be improved and how by reference to transaction-specific customer feedback, additional business insights and a range of statistical methods in order to maximize the impact of our improvement measures wherever customers see the greatest barriers to smooth interaction with us. To achieve this, we develop and prepare a range of use cases for customer experience analytics at our network banks so that we can further optimize the way in which we measure and record customer satisfaction. • Act: We are fully aware that none of the aforementioned activities can lead to a significant improvement in customer satisfaction unless our employees are trained in how to understand and respond to customer feedback. Accordingly, we will develop a dedicated Customer Experience Academy to provide training for employees at various hierarchical levels, from customer-facing employees through to product and general management. All of the aforementioned activities are underpinned by specific execution plans with targets and KPIs that must be met over the next few years. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 61 Foreword Overview Direct customer feedback is also an important indicator within the corporate business of RBI AG. On behalf of the Raiffeisen Banking Group in Austria, IMAS International conducted a market survey from September to December 2019 in all of the corporate business segments (annual revenue: micro: € 0-10 million, SME: € 10-50 million, LC: over € 50 million), the results of which will be published in April 2020. Raiffeisen achieved consistently good results with these customer groups in the previous periods, enjoying a competitive edge in terms of digital services, payment transactions, and the easy accessibility of its branches. We fundamentally view criticism and complaints by our customers as an opportunity to improve our products and Management processes, reduce errors and increase how customers benefit from our services. The importance of taking customer complaints seriously is unquestioned throughout the entire group (see page 62, ”Complaint management“) of sustainability Awards Our commitment to customer satisfaction and our employees‘ expertise once again earned us a number of awards in 2019. By way of illustration, here are our awards from four internationally renowned financial journals: EMEA Finance, Euromoney, Global Finance and The Banker. For example, the Financial Times journal The Banker and EMEA Finance named RBI as ”Bank of the Year in CEE“ and ”Best Bank in CEE“. For the ninth time in a row, RBI was recognized by EMEA Finance for the Responsible ”Best Cash Management Services in CEE“. banker “Best Bank“ or ”Bank of the Year“ awards were won by RBI and its subsidiaries in Austria (EMEA Finance), Albania (EMEA Finance: ”Best foreign bank“), Belarus (EMEA Finance: ”Best foreign bank“), Bosnia and Herzegovina (EMEA Finance, Euromoney, Global Finance, The Banker), Bulgaria (EMEA Finance, Euromoney, The Banker), Croatia (Global Finance ”Best Private Bank“), the Czech Republic (EMEA Finance: ”Best Investment Bank“), Hungary (EMEA Finance: ”Best Private Bank“), Kosovo (Euromoney), Romania (EMEA Finance), Russia (EMEA Finance: ”Best foreign bank“), Serbia (EMEA Finance), Slovakia (Global Finance, Fairer partner – EMEA Finance), and Ukraine (EMEA Finance, Euromoney, Global Finance, The Banker). The Slovakian subsidiary Tatra Banka won a global prize: Global Finance recognized it as ”The Most Innovative Consumer Digital Bank in the World“, while RBI was honored as the Employee outstanding ”Financial Innovator“ in the CEE region. RBI‘s investment banking was again named ”Best bond house in CEE“ and ”Best M&A house in CEE“ by EMEA Finance. The range of awards won for RBI‘s investment banking services and transactions was completed by prizes such as ”Best sovereign bond in Europe“, ”Best structured finance deal in Europe“, and ”Best corporate bond in CEE“ (all EMEA Finance). Fair partner – Inhouse ecology In 2019, Raiffeisen in Austria was once again the most successful banking group in terms of customer share in the private customer and corporate customer segments alike. Regionality, security and sustainability have been among the guiding principles of the Raiffeisen Banking Group since it was founded. These principles have a special meaning during economically challenging times especially. Security and trust are the most important criteria when choosing a bank. According to the 2019 Austrian brand value survey carried out by the European Brand Institute, the Raiffeisen brand increased its value by 0.9 percent to a total of € 2.06 billion and took fifth place among all of the brands surveyed. Raiffeisen is the undisputed number one in the Austrian financial services Engaged industry. citizen GRI index and Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 62 Complaint management So as to implement the complaints procedure guidelines for European financial institutions of the EBA/ESMA committee (European Banking Authority/European Securities and Markets Authority), RBI introduced a central complaint management system during the third quarter of 2016 and passed corresponding head office and group laws. We define a complaint as any type of expression of dissatisfaction directed toward the bank by a person (natural or legal) with a specific demand regarding a specific transaction, as long as this same demand is not the subject of a pending process in a court or at a board of arbitration or of a decision already issued by such a body. The central responsibility for complaint management lies with Group Compliance. In accordance with head office law, decision can be taken in co-operation with the departments that certain complaints will be processed and resolved within the departments (in compliance with the prescribed process steps). If an expression of annoyance – and therefore a possible complaint – is addressed to the bank or an employee, this must be evaluated as to whether or not it qualifies as a complaint. If it does qualify as a complaint, it must always be entered directly and without delay in the web-based complaint management system (”Archer“ IT system). The person issuing the complaint must then be kept informed of the receipt and handling of the complaint. It must be evaluated and decided whether the complaint is justified. This decision is made by the person or department responsible for complaint management. The result must then be documented in the system and the person who registered the complaint must be informed. The department responsible for processing the complaint must investigate its cause. RBI does not consider customer complaints to be a burdensome nuisance; on the contrary, they are seen as a welcome opportunity to enhance customer loyalty to the bank through handling the complaint in the best possible way. Furthermore, they offer useful indications of potential for improvement. This attitude is held by all employees, especially those who come into contact with customers. We want to give our customers the feeling that their issues or problems are being taken seriously and that someone is personally working toward finding a quick and individual solution for them. Information about the complaints procedure can be found on our website (www.rbinternational.com  Customer Relations  Complaints Management). Responsible sales practices and marketing As surveys consistently show, trust is at the top of the list when it comes to choosing the right banking partner. Since trust is based on honesty, it is important to RBI that our products and services are clearly and transparently communicated to all customers and stakeholders. That is why, when advertising and marketing our products, we align ourselves with strict principles that are intended to protect customers. False or misleading information is taboo. Our goal is to inform our customers as far as possible in an easy-to-understand manner. When giving recommendations, our main focus is to be objective and comprehensive. It is essential that the risks associated with our products can be clearly demonstrated and explained to the customer. During the 2019 reporting period, one violation of regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling was identified at a network bank, and a penalty was imposed. The problem has since been resolved by improving the relevant process. All violations that are classified as operational risks are monitored and controlled on a Group-wide basis within the scope of the operational risk management by the ”Operational Risk Controlling“ team as part of ”Integrated Risk Management“. The incidents are recorded in a central database, the risk is evaluated, scenarios and action plans are analyzed and early warning indicators are developed. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 63 Foreword Overview In addition, we carry out promotions in accordance with the ethical and moral principles of the code of ethics of the Austrian advertising industry and we are committed to complying with quality criteria agreed jointly with the advertising industry that extend beyond the statutory provisions. For this reason, the Raiffeisen Banking Group (and therefore also RBI AG) have been awarded the Pro-Ethics Seal of the Austrian Advertising Council. The Pro-Ethics Seal is awarded for a period of two years. Companies are awarded for marketing measures that Management reflect: of sustainability • the ethical and moral principles of the code of ethics of the Austrian advertising industry (for ethical advertising) • the community social-ethical ideals of the communications industry (for self-regulation) • and for standing up for freedom of advertising and against advertising bans in this form. All marketing measures of RBI, including the nationally and internationally advertising RBI AG as well as the network banks in Central and Eastern Europe, all comply with the ”ICC Advertising and Marketing Communications Code“ published by the International Chamber of Commerce. This ensures a transparent and fair market presence that is oriented to internationally recognized guidelines. Responsible In addition to protecting customers, our responsible marketing managers ensure that only those marketing activities banker that are in the interests of the company are actually carried out. Bribery and corruption are not tolerated to any degree, and our Code of Conduct and strict compliance guidelines help us to achieve this goal. International advertising and marketing campaigns of RBI are exclusively developed and commissioned by the Group Marketing division of the Vienna head office. This division also evaluates and approves all local campaigns by the network banks in Central and Eastern Europe by reviewing and approving TV spots, online Fairer partner – advertising, print ads, etc. before they are published. RBI values a functioning capital market and public confidence as being just as important as its reputation as a professional player on the market. Any action that endangers this principle would have serious consequences for Employee RBI and the employees involved. The need for integrity also applies in the fight for market share. This means that no unauthorized agreements should be entered into and that it is necessary to abide by the rules of fair competition and the standard international rules of market behavior (MiFID). In the period under review, there was one case of anti-competitive behavior at a subsidiary at the Vienna sites Fair partner – that was resolved by way of a settlement with the consumer protection organization. There were no complaints at the network banks in this respect. Inhouse ecology Engaged citizen GRI index and Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 64 Sustainable financing We describe financing as being ”sustainable“ when it has long-term positive effects on the environment and climate and/or on societal and social affairs. With a majority of these financing projects, we support targets as stipulated in the ”Sustainable Development Goals“ (SDGs) within the scope of our capabilities as a financial institution. Particular focus is placed on the following efforts: ”Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all“ (SDG 8), ”Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation“ (SDG 9), ”Assuring inclusive, equitable and high-quality education and promoting lifelong learning opportunities for all“ (SDG 4), ”Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and contemporary energy for all“ (SDG 7) and ”Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts“ (SDG 13). Sustainable financing at the Vienna sites (by RBI AG, unless otherwise specified) Financing with a positive impact on the environment and the climate • Renewable energy The total financing volume at RBI AG in the category of ”renewable energy“ amounted to around € 118 million as of the end of 2019. This includes wind farms in Poland, Romania, France, Turkey, Bulgaria and Germany, solar parks in Spain and Romania, and biomass-fueled power plants in Romania and Austria. In 2019, RBI also financed the Green for Growth Fund, which invests in renewable energy projects via financial institutions and direct investments aimed at reducing energy consumption and CO2 emissions as well as increasing the efficient use of resources in Southeastern Europe, Eastern Europe, the Caucasus, the Middle East, and North Africa. In addition, two new projects were financed in 2019: Photovoltaic plants in the form of a construction/operation lease model on free space at the sites of group companies, and the expansion of a hydro power plant. RBI AG is financing the expansion of the TIWAG hydro plant in Kirchbichl/ Tyrol in partnership with OeKB AG. The project involves the renovation of the existing property, including raising the water level of the curve in the River Inn, and the construction of a new reservedflow power plant and a central powerhouse as well as a fish ladder. The project is still in construction and is © TIWAG expected to be completed in 2020. Although there is still a significant need for renewable energy in RBI‘s markets in Central and Eastern Europe, an increase in the share of renewable energy is dependent on government-imposed conditions in many markets. Most new projects can be implemented only with the help of guaranteed feed-in rates. When it comes to financing, the bank is responsible for carefully examining the operational security of a project in order to keep the risk low. The reliability of political players plays an important role but is not sufficiently ensured in all regions. This is why we have adopted a rule whereby we concentrate only on those projects whose feasibility is not dependent on special grants or feed-in remuneration. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 65 Foreword Overview • Sustainable real estate RBI‘s green building portfolio (according to our framework definition for our own green bond issues) had a total volume of € 1,153 million as of December 31, 2019, with RBI AG accounting for € 733 million of this figure. It makes up 84 percent of the entire green loan portfolio that is eligible for the issue of RBI green bonds. In terms of property type, seven percent of the properties are shopping centers, 18 percent are logistics properties, 70 percent are commercial offices, and five percent are hotels. 38 percent of the green building portfolio is located in Romania, four percent in Poland, five percent in the Netherlands, twelve percent in Hungary, five percent in the Czech Republic, six percent in Management Bulgaria, twelve percent in Austria, eleven percent in Slovakia, and five percent in Serbia. 51 percent of the of sustainability green buildings were constructed between 2014 and the reporting date, with 49 percent still under construction. In terms of international certification standards, six percent of the green buildings are certified as BREEAM Outstanding, 31 percent as BREEAM Excellent, eleven percent as BREEAM Very Good, seven percent as LEED Platin, 33 percent as LEED Gold, ten percent as DGNB Platin, and two percent as DGNB Gold. One notable property that was newly financed in 2019 is a joint project with Raiffeisenbank Romania with a volume of € 60 million. In 2019, Raiffeisen Bank S.A. in Romania refinanced an office building including a retail store and a logistics center with total floor space of 62,000 m² with funded risk participation on the part of RBI Responsible AG. In addition, Raiffeisenbank (Bulgarien) EAD refinanced the investments of a major European food retailer in Bulgaria in sustainable buildings with a total volume of € 60 million with the participation of RBI AG. banker • Sustainable mobility As of December 31, 2019, Raiffeisen-Leasing GmbH‘s portfolio included financing of around € 84.8 million for fully electric vehicles. The results achieved over the duration of the ”e-pendler in niederösterreich“ model region, which was recognized by the Federal Ministry of Sustainability Fairer partner – and Tourism as the most successful initiative for promoting electric mobility in Austria, clearly show that electric mobility in combination with public transportation has grown significantly. Thanks to the additional Employee charging infrastructure that has been installed, the use of e-vehicles and changes in mobility behavior, a reduction of 274 t CO2 per year has been recorded. The nationwide e-mobility package, which supports the purchase of vehicles with alternative drives and the construction of electric charging stations, also enjoyed a positive response in 2019. RaiffeisenLeasing assists its customers in purchasing e-vehicles as a professional partner for electric mobility financing. Fair partner – RBI AG financed investments totaling € 42 million for public transportation in the areas of maintenance and servicing for rail vehicles and buses. Another notable project is the financing of an additional phase in the Inhouse ecology expansion of a battery factory for electric cars in Hungary together with Raiffeisenbank Zrt., Hungary. • Water supply and waste disposal In 2019, RBI AG financed investments of around € 26 million in these areas: a drinking water extraction and processing plant and supply lines in a municipality in Kosovo, a waste-to-energy plant for the treatment and recycling of residual waste in Belgrade, and various investments with an Austrian waste disposal company. Engaged Financing with a positive impact on society and social issues citizen • Regional development and infrastructure Public sector projects: Last year, RBI AG once again incentivized 141 institutes of the Raiffeisen Banking Group in Austria in financing a total of 68 additional projects for water supply facilities, waste water systems, schools and kindergartens as well as similar public sector projects for a value of € 116 million. As a result, the total volume of GRI index and new and existing financing projects supported in 2019 was € 859 million. Another notable project is the financing of the European Fund for Southeast Europe SA, which funds micro and Assurance report small enterprises via financial intermediaries with the aim of creating new jobs and additional income and improving living conditions in Southeastern Europe, Eastern Europe, and the Caucasus. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 66 • Health and health care RBI financed a private operator of health care and nursing facilities in Austria and CEE in connection with the acquisition of a care home in Slovenia in the form of equity financing, while the modernization of a hospital in Vietnam was also financed. The total amount financed in this area was € 34 million. • Training and development An apprentice training center of a private group of companies was financed, as were a training center for turning/milling, woodworking and welding as well as a vehicle workshop in connection with a technical training project in Cameroon; the total amount financed in this area was € 12 million. • Research and development Projects for the development of drugs to treat cancer were financed in the amount of around € 3 million. Another notable project is an EIB loan for € 100 million allowing RBI AG to support SMEs and mid-caps as well as research, development and innovation projects and innovation-oriented companies in general. • Fair trade RBI AG participated in a Schuldscheindarlehen (certificate of indebtedness) of a Swiss chocolate producer, under which at least two-thirds of the proceeds will be used to finance sustainability projects to support cocoa farmers and their communities. • Property and wealth accumulation among the population In recent decades, domestic building societies in Austria have co-funded the construction, purchase or modernization of a large volume of residential units. In this way, building societies have contributed to the broad accumulation of property and wealth as well as individual financial security. A significant portion of this financing was provided by Raiffeisen Bausparkasse Gesellschaft m.b.H., which serves around 1.5 million customers. In its 58-year history, Raiffeisen Bausparkasse Gesellschaft m.b.H. has financed more than 497,000 homes accommodating over 1.3 million people. This financing provides an important boost for the domestic construction industry and economy. The topics of renovation, energy efficiency improvements in existing structures and energy-efficient construction are becoming increasingly important. The company also assists its customers in this area with an extensive range of free information services. • Art and culture in the public sphere For five years now, the residential construction projects of ”Raiffeisen WohnBau“, a brand of Raiffeisen-Leasing GmbH, have featured a sustainability perspective alongside the ”Quality Living“ seal in the form of the ”Art and Living“ project. Artists design the entry areas and exterior spaces of residential complexes with works tailored to the respective building. 19 works of art have now been installed. ”The Story of a Lifetime“: Garage entrance designed by the artist Golif at Hörtnaglstrasse Ceiling art: ”Hanging grasses from the outside in“, by Jack Bauer at Blechturmgasse 32, 13+15, 6020 Innsbruck, © Bernhard Hörtnagl 1040 Vienna, © Irene Schanda Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 67 Foreword Sustainable financing at the network banks Overview Financing with a positive impact on the environment and the climate • Renewable energy The financing portfolio of the network banks in the category of ”renewable energy“ encompassed more than 130 individual projects and amounted to around € 185 million as of the end of 2019. It mainly comprises photovoltaic plants, but also hydro power plants, wind farms and biogas and Management biomass plants in Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Albania, Bulgaria, Kosovo, Romania, of sustainability and Ukraine. In Slovakia, the renewable energy projects financed by Tatra banka a.s. primarily involved photovoltaic plants, as well as some small hydro power plants and biogas plants. The renewable energies financing portfolio of Raiffeisenbank a.s. in the Czech Republic amounts to around € 48 million and consists of 16 photovoltaic plants, two wind farms, two biogas projects, and a hydro power plant. The financing portfolio of Raiffeisen Bank Zrt in Hungary includes 19 photovoltaic plants. Nine projects were completed in 2019 and a further three are still under construction. In Albania, Raiffeisen Bank Sh.A. is financing the expansion of hydro power. Responsible Its portfolio comprises seven financing projects with a total volume of around € 16.8 million. Raiffeisenbank (Bulgaria) EAD has three wind farms near the Black Sea and a hydro power plant in its portfolio. In 2019, banker Raiffeisen Bank Kosovo J.S.C. financed a hydro power plant that is scheduled for completion in 2021. Raiffeisen Bank S.A. in Romania is financing a photovoltaic plant and a biomass cogeneration plant. In Ukraine, the renewable energy projects financed by Raiffeisen Bank AVAL JSC primarily take the form of photovoltaic plants. However, the portfolio also includes a biogas plant that processes beet waste. Financing for five of the renewable energy projects was concluded in 2019. Fairer partner – • Sustainable real estate The total volume for sustainable – green bond-eligible – real estate financing across all network banks (excluding Russia) amounted to around € 420 million as of December 31, 2019. Additionally, Employee there was around € 432 million in real estate financing that can also be considered to be sustainable but that does not satisfy the stricter rules of the green bond framework (e.g., due to no or inadequate certification). Fair partner – The green real estate projects of Tatra Banka a.s in Slovenia comprise five office buildings and a shopping center. In the Czech Republic, Raiffeisenbank a.s. is involved in financing four office projects. Three projects are Inhouse ecology certified as LEED GOLD and one is partially certified as BREEAM Outstanding (approx. 20 percent of the rental space). In Hungary, the financing portfolio of Raiffeisen Bank Zrt. includes three office buildings with LEED Gold certification. Raiffeisenbank (Bulgaria) EAD has three projects in its portfolio with BREEAM, LEED and EDGE certification respectively. In Croatia, the financing portfolio of Raiffeisenbank Austria d.d. includes four different sustainable real estate projects in several Croatian cities. All of the projects are certified in the best or very good energy Engaged classes in accordance with national standards. In Romania, Raiffeisen Bank S.A. is involved in eight sustainable real estate projects. Two of the projects have BREEAM Excellent certification, while a further two have LEED citizen GOLD certification. The other four projects are currently in the certification phase. The real estate projects newly financed in 2019 are a mixture of office and residential buildings as well as a shopping center. The headquarters of a German retailer, constructed in line with sustainable principles, was also financed together with RBI AG. Raiffeisen bank a.d. in Serbia is involved in the financing of two sustainable real estate projects. GRI index and One already has LEED Gold certification, while the other is expected to be certified on completion. The sustainable real estate portfolio of AO Raiffeisenbank in Russia includes projects with a total value of Assurance report around € 126 million, three of which have BREEAM certification. Three projects were financed in 2019. The Russian real estate projects do not form part of the green bond portfolio. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 68 • Energy efficiency One particularly notable project in this area is a joint credit finance program between Raiffeisen Bank d.d. Bosnia i Hercegovina and KfW to improve energy efficiency in residential buildings with a total volume of € 15 million. In Romania, Raiffeisen Bank S.A. financed projects including an investment in an agricultural business that helped to achieve a thirty percent improvement in energy efficiency. There is a joint credit finance project between Raiffeisen Bank d.d. Bosnia i Hercegovina and KfW to optimize energy efficiency in residential buildings in Bosnia and Herzegovina. • Waste disposal and recycling Raiffeisen Bank S.A. in Romania has financed waste disposal with green certification in a number of Romanian cities. The portfolio of Priorbank JSC in Belarus includes the financing of paper and plastic recycling. • Organic farming In Ukraine, Raiffeisen Bank AVAL JSC financed a company in the area of organic farming. • Sustainable mobility As reported previously, Raiffeisenbank Zrt. in Hungary is financing a production site for batteries for electric vehicles together with RBI AG as a contribution to the future of mobility. This facility also forms part of our green bond portfolio. Raiffeisen Bank AVAL JSC in Ukraine financed the expansion and improvement of public transportation in several Ukrainian cities, including using electric vehicles in some cases. Financing with a positive impact on society and social issues • Sustainable entrepreneurship and start-ups In Romania, ”Factory by RAIFFEISEN BANK“ is a flagship initiative that provides financial support for the development of innovation-driven start-ups and helps to promote sustainable economic growth in Romania by creating a strong ecosystem for start-ups. In 2019, 83 Romanian start-ups received financing of up to € 50,000 per company. • Regional development and infrastructure The European Union and various supranational institutions support and promote the development of the private sector, particularly by improving and simplifying access to finding for SMEs, innovations, and agriculture. For example, on the basis of the Western Balkans Enterprise Development & Innovation Facility (”WBEDIF“), Raiffeisen Bank Sh. A. in Albania makes it easier for the private sector to access financing by way of a first loss guarantee from the European Investment Fund (EIF). It also provides financing for agricultural investments in Albania as part of the EU program IPARD (Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance for Rural Development), which is intended to support the sustainable adjustment of the agricultural sector. And not least, Raiffeisen Bank Sh.A. has initiated a financing program together with some of the biggest municipalities in Albania with the aim of helping young families to buy a home. The families benefit from an advantageous interest rate, with the difference to the market rate being assumed by the municipalities. Having successfully supported women in business in the past with the aid of EBRD loans, Raiffeisenbank Austria d.d. in Croatia is now developing its own program with a focus on start-ups founded by women. In Ukraine, Raiffeisen Bank AVAL JSC participates in partnership programs aimed at supporting the Ukrainian economy by making it easier for SMEs in particular to access funding. Easier access to technologies and an improvement in Ukraine‘s economic development, including the establishment of relationships with international and local companies, will increase people‘s quality of life. Special investment loans for SMEs are offered in this context. • Health and health care At Raiffeisenbank a.s. in the Czech Republic, the total volume of the financing portfolio with a social impact is around € 33.4 million. The loans were used for nursing and care facilities, retirement homes, and the purchase of medical equipment. AO Raiffeisenbank in Russia financed the purchase of medications and laboratory reagents for multidisciplinary medical care centers for children and adults. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 69 Foreword Overview Breakdown of RBI‘s sustainable financing by sustainability criteria 2% 13% 16% Management of sustainability 69% n Renewable energy n Sustainable real estate n O  ther green financing (including energy efficiency, sustainable mobility, Water supply, sewage disposal) Responsible banker n Social finance (impact on society and social affairs) Breakdown of RBI‘s sustainable financing by region 7% Fairer partner – 14% Employee 46% 33% Fair partner – Inhouse ecology n Austria (RBI AG) n CE n SEE n EE Engaged citizen GRI index and Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 70 Sustainable investment Raiffeisen Bausparkasse Gesellschaft m.b.H. Building societies support the economic cycle through savings and financing, thereby enabling the construction of residential projects that also benefit the coming generations. The core co-operative principle of Raiffeisen is expressed very clearly here: One group saves for the financing of residential construction, renovation, care and education for others who currently need this financing. The savers profit from the secure investment of their assets as well as the government incentives and can also be certain that their capital is being invested in useful, sustainable projects. Raiffeisen Bausparkasse (RBSK) takes social responsibility when designing campaigns. For example, the ”Bauspartage“ promotional campaign was all for a good cause: For every building savings agreement concluded during the promotional period from November 25 to December 31, 2019, Raiffeisen Bausparkasse supported the SOS Children‘s Villages in Austria. The large number of building savings agreements concluded meant that a donation of € 50,000 was generated for the SOS Children‘s Villages. Every Bausparkasse customer helped to put a smile on a lot of children‘s faces by fulfilling their most heartfelt wishes. Mit jedem Bausparvertrag schenken Sie ein Kinderlachen. Gemeinsam erfüllen wir Wünsche von Kindern in SOS-Kinderdörfern. www.bausparen.at/kinderlachen Raiffeisen Bausparkasse Gesellschaft m. b. H., FN 116309v Impressum: Medieninhaber: Raiffeisen Bausparkasse Gesellschaft m. b. H., 1190 Wien, Hersteller: Stavros Vrachoritis Ges. m. b. H., 2325 Himberg, Verlagsort: Wien, Herstellungsort: Himberg Bauspartage 2019 – campaign, © RBSK Raiffeisen Kapitalanlage-Gesellschaft m.b.H. (Raiffeisen KAG) Sustainable investing of customer deposits at RBI AG is in large part effected via Raiffeisen KAG, which offers securities and real estate investment funds as well as investment management products to institutional and private customers both in Austria and abroad under the brand name Raiffeisen Capital Management (RCM). The focus is on Austria as well as – with substantial growth – Italy, Germany, and the RBI network banks in Central and Eastern Europe. With a managed fund volume of € 35.6 billion and a 19.3 percent share (according to OeKB statistics) of a fund market with a volume of € 185 billion (Austrian asset management companies), Raiffeisen KAG is one of Austria‘s leading asset management companies. The Raiffeisen Capital Management umbrella brand unites Raiffeisen KAG, Raiffeisen Salzburg Invest (RSI), and Raiffeisen Immobilien KAG. The total volume managed in security funds, including advisories (mandates to third parties, partly abroad) amounted to € 38.3 billion at the end of 2019. The RSI fund volume was formally transferred to Raiffeisen KAG in 2019. Raiffeisen Vermögensverwaltung, which is integrated into Raiffeisen KAG, manages € 1.1 billion, while Raiffeisen Immobilien KAG manages € 508 million. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 71 Foreword Overview After the first milestones in 2002, the repositioning in 2013/14 established a management team with sustainability expertise. Subsequently, the range of sustainable funds was gradually expanded and built into a consistent product range of retail investment funds and mandates (special funds) that explicitly give significant consideration to the ESG criteria. In 2019, the volume of sustainable investments doubled year-on-year to € 6.5 billion. These sustainable investments now account for 17 percent of the total volume, and over 25 percent in Management the retail segment. of sustainability The success of the sustainable investment funds product portfolio is illustrated by the volume statistics since 2014, the year in which the RCM sustainability funds were repositioned. The volume has increased more than sixfold in the meantime. Development of the sustainable fund volume of Raiffeisen Capital Management 6,546 in € million Responsible 6,000 banker 5,000 4,000 +542% 3,114 Increase 2,912 from 2014 3,000 2,227 to 2019 2,000 Fairer partner – 1,020 1,185 1,000 572 8 Employee 0 2002 2007 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Source: Raiffeisen KAG, data as of December 31, 2019 Raiffeisen‘s sustainability funds now allow for investments in all asset classes and different risk categories. The range of products extends from three pension funds and numerous mixed funds with different proportions of Fair partner – equities through to three pure equity funds. Inhouse ecology Raiffeisen KAG has had the Raiffeisen-GreenBonds fund in its portfolio since 2015. This is one of the first funds to invest in bonds that finance climate and environmental protection projects. Engaged citizen GRI index and Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 72 Volume of sustainable funds of Raiffeisen Capital Management 2019 Sustainable funds (retail funds) Volumen (in € million) Retail investment funds (Mutual funds) Raiffeisen-Nachhaltigkeit-ShortTerm 46.0 Raiffeisen-Nachhaltigkeit-Rent 477.8 Raiffeisen-GreenBonds 91.8 Raiffeisen-Nachhaltikgkeits-Solide 212.7 Raiffeisen-Nachhaltigkeits-Diversified 55.5 Raiffeisen-Nachhaltigkeit-Mix 2,039.7 Klassik Nachhaltigkeit Mix 34.6 Raiffeisen-Nachhaltigkeit-Momentum 223.7 Raiffeisen-Nachhaltigkeit-Aktien 328.7 Raiffeisen-Nachhaltigkeit-EmergingMarkets-Aktien 12.6 Additional retail funds (sustainable minimum criteria) Raiffeisen-Österreich-Rent 338.0 Raiffeisen-Global-Aktien 606.9 PAXetBONUM (2 funds) 26.7 16 special funds and mandates (partly abroad) 1,401.0 RKAG fund administration (6 funds) 650.1 Total 6,545.7 Source: Raiffeisen KAG, data as of December 31, 2019 Note: Fund administration means that all typical fund services are carried out by the KAG, except for portfolio management in the narrower sense. This comprehensive product range is supplemented by two large retail funds that also meet the ESG criteria in a slightly ”lighter“ form and special funds or funds that are administered and serviced but not managed. Raiffeisen-Nachhaltigkeit-Rent joined the family of sustainable funds in 2019 following its conversion. It dates back to Raiffeisen KAG‘s oldest fund, Raiffeisen Rentenfonds. The brand new ”PAXetBONUM“ line consists of two funds that meet the specific ethical investment guidelines of the Austrian Bishops‘ Conference. A further expansion of the product portfolio – and thus a continuous expansion of its assets under management in the area of sustainability funds – is planned over the coming years. In 2019, Raiffeisen Vermögensverwaltung developed a new product for its product line with a focus on affluent private customers that combines RCM‘s sustainability expertise and capital market know-how. ”Raiffeisen VIPnachhaltig“ invests solely in fund products that are classified as sustainable. In 2019, Raiffeisen Immobilien KAG made the planned progress in implementing its strategy for the sustainable operation of its buildings. One milestone was the award of German Sustainable Building Council (Deutsche Gesellschaft für Nachhaltiges Bauen DGNB)Gold certification in accordance with the latest standard for existing buildings for six buildings in Germany with differing use types (hotel, logistics, office, commercial). The future viability of the properties was examined on the basis of assessment standards in line with climate protection criteria. The assessment system for existing buildings focuses on building operation and user satisfaction in particular. This means that almost a third of the buildings have already been certified. Raiffeisen Bank International | Nachhaltigkeitsbericht 2018 73 Foreword Overview The plan is to certify additional buildings in the portfolio in accordance with the market version of the DGNB system for buildings in operation. The aim is to ensure sustainable building operation after the building has been constructed in a way that encompasses operating costs and processes, user satisfaction, mobility services, and social sustainability strategies. Since 2018, Raiffeisen-Immobilien KAG has also been a member of ÖGNI (Österreichische Gesellschaft für Nachhaltige Immobilienwirtschaft), the Austrian Society for Sustainable Real Estate. Responsible management of sustainable funds Management There are different approaches to integrating ESG into investment. All of them are aimed at taking the social responsibility of investment into account to a greater extent alongside the income and risk targets. By its very of sustainability definition, sustainability therefore means active management. A sustainable portfolio cannot be achieved solely by screening the investment universe using a few exclusion criteria. The interaction of all three elements – avoid, support, and especially influence – is a prerequisite for the responsible management of sustainable funds. Sustainability at Raiffeisen Capital Management as an integrative concept Exclusion 1. Responsible Avoid absolute relative banker and demonstrate responsibility screening value-based norm-based 3. 2. Influence Support and unfold effect and promote through dialogue sustainability Fairer partner – and engagement ESG stands for Engagement Employee Environment, Best in class exercising voting right Social, company dialogue Governance thematic investing collaboration individual platforms Impact investment Fair partner – Source: Raiffeisen KAG Strict exclusion criteria for the management are defined in the dedicated sustainability funds (retail and special Inhouse ecology funds), such as the violation of human rights and labor rights, atomic energy, weapons, green genetic engineering, violations of the Global Compact, and other ethical principles (e.g. gambling, alcohol, and the use of human embryos in research). Based on this, a high degree of responsibility and future viability was spotlighted in the investments, i.e. debt capital of enterprises and hence also of states, by self-developed, specific ESG research. To ensure compliance with sustainability criteria and processes, both the criteria framework (extra-financial exclusion criteria) as well as the sustainable quality are verified and updated on a monthly basis. This is based on Engaged data from two sustainability research agencies and in-house data. The ”sustainability universe“ that results in this way can be modified further to reflect ad hoc events. Internal limit testing (”pre-trade testing“) and the reporting citizen of any limit violations takes place in the asset management system. The external fund audit provides further assurance of the applied framework of criteria on an ex post basis. In addition, progress is being made in expanding the integration of ESG principles to all funds, i.e., beyond the GRI index and product family of sustainability funds: For all retail investment funds, for example, a voluntary commitment has been made in recent years to exclude investments in agricultural commodities and livestock, as well as controversial weapons. Most recently, companies whose business consists predominantly of the supply or use of coal were Assurance report excluded. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 74 Close cooperation between a dedicated ”Sustainable Investments“ team and an already large group of specialists in all of the fund and asset management teams serves to fundamentally ensure the goal of systematically enhancing sustainability in the core business as well as continuously intensifying and expanding sustainability expertise within Raiffeisen KAG. This is not least reflected in our active commitment in the sense of exercising our right to vote or actively communicating with listed companies on ESG issues. In 2019, similarly to the previous year, 309 active company engagement activities took place and 172 votes were cast either directly at general meetings or via specific platforms. An annual engagement report is published on the website (rcm.at). Certified quality Raiffeisen KAG works continuously to improve its sustainability investment processes both internally and with external partners. Visible signs include the growing number of national and international certifications it has obtained. These include the ”Austrian Ecolabel“, the ”FNG seal“ and the ”eurosiftransparency code“, which is also a prerequisite for the FNG seal. Confirmation of the quality of sustainability funds by external auditors serves to strengthen investor confidence. In late 2019, Forum Nachhaltige Geldanlagen (Sustainable Investment Forum) in Austria and Switzerland, issued the FNG seal 2020. This seal is awarded after an audit conducted by an external auditor (University of Hamburg) (information at www.fng-siegel.org). 11 of RCM‘s sustainability funds were awarded three stars, the highest rating and one that was only given to 37 funds in total. Raiffeisen‘s sustainability funds also have the Austrian Ecolabel that is awarded by the Austrian Federal Ministry of Climate Action, Environment, Energy, Mobility, Innovation and Technology following a corresponding external audit. Expansion and intensification of the sustainability agenda Sustainability means handling resources responsibly. This responsibility for the environment and society is presenting all of us, and the financial industry in particular, with new challenges. In 2013, RCM signed the PRI (Principles for Responsible Investment) and, at the same time, the competence and capacity of the management was expanded as a significant step toward the integration of sustainability elements into the total investment. Furthermore, Raiffeisen KAG has been an active member of the Sustainable Investment Forum, the professional association for sustainable investment in Germany, Austria, Liechtenstein, and Switzerland since 2009 and, since 2016, a member of the Italian counterpart ”Forum per la Finanza Sostenibile“. Raiffeisen Capital Management was also a founding member of the Raiffeisen Sustainability Initiative (RNI) in 2007, marking the start of a growing focus on the general integration of sustainability into the investment business. As a manager and provider of investment funds and asset management products, RCM intends to continue to intensify its dialog with customer and stakeholder groups above and beyond its service range. To this end, the information platform focusing on sustainable investment was launched (www.investment-zukunft.at) and the ”nachhaltig investieren“ newsletter was relaunched (www.investment-zukunft.at/publikationen). The advisory board for sustainable investment that was established in 2017 has met regularly ever since. Its purpose is to provide Raiffeisen KAG‘s activities in the area of sustainable investments with substantive, academic and inputs motivated from various stakeholder groups‘ perspectives. The advisory board acts as a specialized body representing the key stakeholder groups for sustainable investments. Although the goal has not yet been reached, the process of becoming a climate-neutral, sustainable asset management company has been initiated and is progressing rapidly. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 75 Foreword Kathrein Privatbank Aktiengesellschaft Overview Kathrein Privatbank offers tailored investments for private assets and foundations as well as advice on all matters relating to private foundations, asset transfer and the purchase and sale of companies. Tailored investment solutions are also provided for institutional clients. In its investment decisions, Kathrein Privatbank follows a clearly defined methodology – the quantitative investment style. The object is to identify possibilities for performance improvement and to develop objective economic criteria for investment decisions. Management The topic of sustainability, including diversity, is firmly enshrined in the corporate philosophy of Kathrein as a member of RBI Group. Kathrein wants to actively shape a better future by consciously selecting sustainable of sustainability investments and has voluntarily committed to follow all of the recommendations of the European Transparency Code for Sustainability Funds for selected products. Kathrein has received the Austrian Ecolabel for sustainable financial products for three funds. Four funds have been awarded the FNG seal. Kathrein is also intensively addressing the topic of impact investment already (fund selection and dedicated asset class for mixed mandates; special funds select and use instruments depending on the investor‘s preferences). Responsible banker The carbon footprint is calculated for two funds, KCM Aktien Global SRI and KCM SRI Bond Select. The calculation is performed by the cooperation partner CSSP – Center for Social and Sustainable Products AG. Both funds are certified and listed on the ”yourSRI.com“ platform. The calculated value of the carbon footprint is also published there (see https://yoursri.com/fundsdx/68151030 and https://yoursri.com/funds-dx/68403018) Fairer partner – All in all, Kathrein already manages over 30 percent of its total fund volume in accordance with sustainability criteria. (Sustainability concept for retail funds with the Ecolabel: see website https://www.kcm.at  Products  Sustainability). There is a cooperation with ISS-ESG and MSCI as research partners in the area of sustainability. Kathrein defines exclusion criteria and positive criteria and combines these with its selection process in order to Employee generate the portfolio of individual instruments. The sustainability funds currently offered are: • Kathrein Euro Core Government Bond: Invests primarily in government bonds of the former EU hard currency Fair partner – countries and euro states with historically stable budget policies. A minimum rating of AA applies as an allocation criterion. Inhouse ecology • Kathrein Euro Bond: Invests exclusively in government bonds without the inclusion of corporate tangents. Since July 2011, government bonds with a minimum composite rating of BBB have been exclusively allocated to the fund. • HYPO RENT: Gilt-edged pension fund that is suitable for severance payment and pension provisions. • MI Multi Strategy SRI: A mixed fund that invests according to the investment regulations of the Austrian Corporate Employee and Self-Employed Pension Act (Betriebliches Mitarbeiterund Selbstständigenvorsorgegesetz-BMSVG) and the Austrian Pension Fund Act (Pensionskassengesetz). Engaged • KCM SRI Bond Select: A global investing bond fund focused on companies with a good credit rating. The fund has a broadly diversified portfolio across different countries and sectors. Social, ethical and ecological citizen exclusion and quality criteria are applied in issuer selection. • KCM SRI Bond Classic: A euro pension fund with active maturity management that invests solely in eurodenominated government and corporate bonds issued in the European Economic Area (EEA) with investment grade ratings (required minimum average: maximum drawdown <3 percent over a twelve-month rolling GRI index and observation period). In realizing these ambitious aims, the fund meets the requirements of section 10 EStG, section 14 EStG, section 25 PKG, section 446 ASVG, and section 30 BMSVG. • KCM Aktien Global SRI: Designed as a passive, highly diversified global share fund that is intended to Assurance report replicate the value development of the MSCI World SRI Index on the basis of a reasonable number of individual instruments. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 76 Raiffeisen Centrobank AG (RCB) Raiffeisen Centrobank AG is the competence center for shares and certificates of the Raiffeisen Banking Group. Sustainability has enjoyed high priority in RCB‘s product range for the past 15 years. For safety-conscious investors, RCB issues capital protection certificates at regular intervals which enable participation in the development of the underlying assets or offer a predefined return if the underlying asset is higher than its starting value at the end of the term. Capital protection describes the protection for the capital employed at the end of the term. Capital protection of 100 percent means at least 100 percent of the nominal amount is returned to the © Raiffeisen Centrobank AG investor at the end of the term. Heike Arbter, member of the Management Board of Raiffeisen In the area of structured products, RCB Centrobank AG issued sustainability-oriented index certificates as early as 2005. It later also ”An awareness of having a positive impact issued capital protection certificates on on ecological, social and societal aspects various STOXX ESG-based indexes in order to make it easier for of corporate governance through their investors to address the topic of sustainability and make investments is playing an important role for investments with capital protection. RCB issued its more and more investors. In addition, ”Nachhaltigkeits-Winner“ for the first time in October 2014. almost no yield has to be sacrificed in order iSTOXX ESG Select Global 100 Index, i.e. the index that to make sustainable investments, meaning combines the best 100 companies in the areas of environmental, they meet one of the main criteria for social and responsible action (ESG), is the underlying for this investing – to generate a profit. And, of investment product with capital protection. In the meantime, RCB course, there is growing political pressure has issued more than 30 products in its sustainability series with to meet climate and environmental goals an outstanding volume of almost € 400 million, corresponding to like those set out in the Paris Agreement, around ten percent of the total volume of all RCB certificates. accompanied by the corresponding legal Most of the products in the RCB sustainability series have the conditions. I am confident that this is just the STOXX® Europe ESG Leaders Select 30 Index – the European beginning and that the move toward counterpart to the global sustainability index – as their underlying. sustainable investments will accelerate The STOXX® Europe ESG Leaders Select 30 tracks the considerably in the coming years. Raiffeisen performance of 30 of the best European companies in the areas Centrobank (RCB) has been addressing of environment, social and governance. Exclusion criteria for the the topic of sustainability for some time now index include violations of one or more principles of the UN and has issued sustainability-oriented Global compact. These include labor standards, human rights, certificates since 2005. In recent years, environmental protection and combating corruption. The index is RCB has also issued capital protection weighted on the basis of market capitalization, with the weighting certificates to allow security-conscious of each individual equity limited to ten percent. investors to move into the area of sustainable investment. Sustainability is a topic that most investors are now aware of, Once a niche area, sustainable investment is now also enjoying ever and we are reflecting this fact by greater attention in the CEE region. The majority of investors are expanding our product range.“ primarily focused on having a positive impact on ecological and social challenges with their sustainable investments and helping the principles of good corporate governance to take hold. In fall 2019, two capital protection certificates were issued with the new sustainability index of the Warsaw Stock Exchange as the underlying. RCB also issued a capital protection certificate with a 90 percent capital protection level in Czech koruna (CZK) on the QUOTE STOXX® Europe ESG Leaders Select 30 Price EUR Index. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 77 Foreword Overview According to a new internal study (September 2019) on the RCB sustainability series, attractive yields can be generated with capital protection certificates on the topic of sustainability. The average yield for all of the certificates analyzed in the period covered by the study was 4.72 percent (corresponding to 3.64 percent p.a.) with an average capital protection level of 98.48 percent. These results suggest that sustainability and capital protection can be successfully combined with certificates, allowing investors to generate solid yields accompanied by the required security. Even in a zero interest rate environment, sustainability certificates can not only cover inflation, but also deliver solid additional income. Product overview: Management Product name ISIN Underlying USD 1,25% Nachhaltigkeits Winner (ISIN: AT0000A1G783) iSTOXX® GLOBAL ESG SELECT 100® USD of sustainability Nachhaltigkeits-Winner (ISIN: AT0000A19XZ4) iSTOXX® Global ESG Select 100 Index Nachhaltigkeits-Winner 2 (ISIN: AT0000A1AEB8) iSTOXX® Global ESG Select 100 Index Europa Nachhaltigkeits Winner 90% (ISIN: AT0000A1WCY8) STOXX® Europe ESG Leaders Select 30 Europa Nachhaltigkeits Winner 90% 2 (ISIN: AT0000A1XA13) STOXX® Europe ESG Leaders Select 30 Europa Nachhaltigkeits Bond 7 (ISIN: AT0000A27ZS7) STOXX® Europe ESG Leaders Select 30 Nachhaltigkeits Winner 98% (ISIN: AT0000A1G7B0) iSTOXX® Global ESG Select 100 Index Responsible Nachhaltigkeits Winner 95% (ISIN: AT0000A1G7A2) iSTOXX® Global ESG Select 100 Index Nachhaltigkeits Winner 100% (ISIN: AT0000A1G791) iSTOXX® Global ESG Select 100 Index banker Europa Nachhaltigkeits Bond 5 (ISIN: AT0000A25JC9) STOXX® Europe ESG Leaders Select 30 Europa Nachhaltigkeits Bond 4 (ISIN: AT0000A23RB9) STOXX® Europe ESG Leaders Select 30 Europa Nachhaltigkeits Bond 3 (ISIN: AT0000A239Z3) STOXX® Europe ESG Leaders Select 30 Europa Nachhaltigkeits Bond 2 (ISIN: AT0000A21PG6) STOXX® Europe ESG Leaders Select 30 0,5% Europa Nachhaltigkeits Bond (ISIN: AT0000A25JL0) STOXX® Europe ESG Leaders Select 30 0,5% Europa Nachhaltigkeits Bond 2 (ISIN: AT0000A26AP8) STOXX® Europe ESG Leaders Select 30 Europa Nachhaltigkeits Bond 6 (ISIN: AT0000A27109) STOXX® Europe ESG Leaders Select 30 Europa Nachhaltigkeits Express (ISIN: AT0000A2ADX2) STOXX® Europe ESG Leaders Select 30 Fairer partner – Raiffeisen 200 Nachhaltigkeits Bond (ISIN: AT0000A20B06) STOXX® Europe ESG Leaders Select 30 Nachhaltigkeits-Winner II 100% (ISIN: AT0000A1PK03) iSTOXX® Global ESG Select 100 Index Employee Nachhaltigkeits-Winner II 95% (ISIN: AT0000A1PJZ4) iSTOXX® Global ESG Select 100 Index Europa Nachhaltigkeits Winner 2 (ISIN: AT0000A1Z0Y4) STOXX® Europe ESG Leaders Select 30 Europa Nachhaltigkeits Bond 90% 4 (ISIN: AT0000A2APM9) STOXX® Europe ESG Leaders Select 30 Europa Nachhaltigkeits Bond 90% (ISIN: AT0000A29TE6) STOXX® Europe ESG Leaders Select 30 Europa Nachhaltigkeits Winner 5 (ISIN: AT0000A287S7) STOXX® Europe ESG Leaders Select 30 Europa Nachhaltigkeits Bond (ISIN: AT0000A21912) STOXX® Europe ESG Leaders Select 30 Europa Nachhaltigkeits Winner 4 (ISIN: AT0000A287R9) STOXX® Europe ESG Leaders Select 30 Fair partner – Europa Nachhaltigkeits Winner 3 (ISIN: AT0000A1Z8F6) STOXX® Europe ESG Leaders Select 30 Europa Nachhaltigkeits Winner (ISIN: AT0000A1YGH0) STOXX® Europe ESG Leaders Select 30 Europa Nachhaltigkeits Bond 90% 3 (ISIN: AT0000A2APD8) STOXX® Europe ESG Leaders Select 30 Inhouse ecology Europa Nachhaltigkeits Bond 90% 2 (ISIN: AT0000A29T56) STOXX® Europe ESG Leaders Select 30 Winner Evropskeho udrzitelneho Rozvoje 90% (ISIN: AT0000A1XE76) STOXX® Europe ESG Leaders Select 30 Europe Sustainability Winner 98% (ISIN: AT0000A1Z072) STOXX® Europe ESG Leaders Select 30 95% Europe Garant ESG (EUR) (ISIN: AT0000A25616) STOXX® Europe ESG Leaders Select 30 Europe Garant ESG (ISIN: AT0000A21LH3) STOXX® Europe ESG Leaders Select 30 Zrównowazony Rozwój II (ISIN: AT0000A1X1L1) STOXX® Europe ESG Leaders Select 30 Zrównowazony Rozwój (ISIN: AT0000A1FWN4) iSTOXX® Global ESG Select 100 Index Engaged Index-Certificate (ISIN: AT0000A2AEM3) Long WIG-ESG ® Nachhaltigkeits Bond 90% (ISIN: AT0000A2B6L5) STOXX® Europe ESG Leaders Select 30 citizen Europa Nachhaltigkeits Winner 6 (ISIN: AT0000A2B6M3 STOXX® Europe ESG Leaders Select 30 GRI index and Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 78 Other sustainable products and services Financing programs and initiatives to support sustainable investments • ESG Support Factor RBI AG launched an ”ESG Support Factor“ (ESF) incentive in early 2019. The ESF supports sustainable finance. RBI bases its lending on the criteria of leading institutions on sustainability in the EU, such as the EIB and KfW, among other things. The ESF is intended to support the establishment of a sustainable portfolio. • ESG discount ESG-eligible assets are aimed at financing or refinancing loans with positive ecological or societal impacts in the sense of the social development goals of the United Nations. The eligible green/social loans are administered on a portfolio basis in order to support the issue of RBI green and social bonds. Other products and services with relevance for sustainability • Documentary business The Trade Finance department supported one of our most important large customers in its first project in Vietnam by structuring a complex letter of credit structure. A drinking water facility with a capacity of 300,000 m³/day was constructed in the region around Hanoi. Our customer delivered the majority of the machinery and equipment and was extensively involved in construction on site. Another particularly sustainable project with the involvement of RBI AG was the provision of a delivery and performance guarantee of around € 15 million for a renewable energy project in Russia. This long-term project involves the extensive modernization of hydro turbines with a total project volume of € 130 million. Furthermore, a project worth mentioning was the provision of a warranty with an equivalent value of € 15 million for the delivery of electromechanical components for a hydro power plant in Laos in order to promote renewable energy in the Mekong region. • Green bond issues and ”Green Schuldscheindarlehen“ for corporate customers RBI AG acted as mandated lead arranger and bookrunner for two Green Schuldschein transactions with a total volume of € 176 million with the purpose of refinancing green real estate projects and environmentally friendly construction materials and energy-saving measures in the construction sector. Furthermore, RBI AG also acted as mandated lead arranger and bookrunner for a Schuldscheindarlehen in the care sector in Austria and the Czech Republic with a total equivalent value of around € 63 million. In addition, RBI AG was active bookrunner for three green bond issues with a total volume of € 2,075 million that were used to finance and refinance suitable green projects aimed at climate protection and the protection of natural resources, including one in Ukraine. • Financing facilities linked to sustainability targets RBI AG has a € 75 million participation in an ”ESG-linked“ revolving credit facility with a total volume of € 250 million. The margin of the credit facility is adjusted by an external rating agency once a year to reflect the ESG rating of the borrower. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 79 Foreword Overview • R BI‘s green bond issues In September 2019, RBI successfully completed the second benchmark issue of a green bond by an Austrian bank. The bond has a volume of € 750 million and a term of seven years. With incoming orders of € 1.8 billion, the bond was significantly oversubscribed. The proceeds are used to finance real estate and clean transportation projects in Western Europe and CEE. The issues of two green retail bonds were also successfully completed, one with a volume of € 7.5 Management million and a term of seven years, the other with a volume of of sustainability € 3.5 million and a term of five years. This means RBI is the largest green bond issuer in Austria. Environmental effects of the first RBI green bond: © Goran Andric CO2 SAVINGS BY ASSET CATEGORY Helmut Breit, Head of Division Asset CO2 savings CO2 savings € 630 m Corporate Finance, RBI AG category per year in tons in 3 years in tons Portfolio saves Hotel 657 1,971 Logistics 3,974 11,922 12,992 ”The world has changed a great deal since RBI was recognized with the ‚FT Sustainable Responsible Office 7,110 21,330 tons CO2 Banking Award for Carbon Finance‘ by the banker Shopping Centers 1,251 3,753 per year Financial Times more than twelve years ago. Total 12,992 38,976 Sustainable finance has reached the EQUIVALENT TO ANNUAL GREENHOUSE Annual CO2 savings mainstream. Among other things, this is GAS EMISSIONS1 per € 1 m investment illustrated by the following facts: 21 tons or or or The European Union has defined extensive Annual CO2 savings measures in its Action Plan, and in its Taxonomy Fairer partner – 2,758 1,556 214,792 per € 500 m set out clear targets for a range of economic Passenger Households Tree seedlings outstanding green bonds 10,300 tons vehicle driven supplied with grown for ten activities that are responsible for 93 percent of for one year energy for one years year Employee all greenhouse gas emissions. This means that 1 Source: https://www.epa.gov/energy/greenhouse-gas-equivalencies-calculator the industry and investors have access to a guideline and a uniform definition of ”green“ for the first time. Services in connection with sustainable mobility The regulatory side is now also seeing Fair partner – significant momentum: ESG risks of corporate • Environmental fleet management customers are to be integrated into banks‘ As part of the environmental fleet management of loan approval processes. A climate stress test Raiffeisen-Leasing Fuhrpark-management GmbH, Inhouse ecology will become part of the calculation of capital driving profile analyses and TCO (total cost of resources for the purpose of the SREP ratio. ownership) calculations were again carried out in 2019 to compare Potential surcharges and reductions for the electric and combustion vehicles in order to individually advise capital requirements for green and brown customers and other interested parties according to their needs. loans are also being considered. All of this is Customers also receive specially developed reports that provide having a significant impact on customer a good overview of CO2 emissions and facilitate the preparation Engaged behavior, and there are great opportunities of data for an energy audit. Daily business is supported by modern when it comes to customer advice and support communication methods and the combination of various app solutions. There is also a partnership with Smatrics, an innovative in the form of ’ESG-linked products’, which will citizen largely guide the transition of companies over service provider for electric mobility, and with fuel and charge card the coming years.“ providers for cashless charging throughout Austria. GRI index and QUOTE Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 80 • Cooperation with electric car manufacturers Raiffeisen-Leasing GmbH remains active as a long-standing expert partner to electric mobility manufacturers. Another encouraging development is the fact that the fleet of electric vehicles increased considerably in 2019. A total of 9,242 electric vehicles were registered, of which around eleven percent were financed via Raiffeisen-Leasing. New additional services and car-sharing projects have also been developed for customers and are enjoying a positive response among ”electric motorists“. • Provision of electric mobility in residential construction with minimal grid usage A new residential construction project of Raiffeisen-Leasing GmbH was provided with electric mobility in such a way as to minimize the grid load. In addition to the general target of using energy-saving technical solutions to the greatest possible extend, this meant that Raiffeisen-Leasing GmbH was able to guarantee efficient usage for the entire housing complex through the additional installation of an energy management system. This ensures that drivers can charge their electric vehicles at the maximum power both now and in the future. This required the conversion of meters to a measuring transducer that controls the power to the entire building via the downstream load management system. • Consulting for municipalities on electric charging infrastructures In connection with leasing business, municipalities in Lower Austria were advised on the provision of an adequate charging infrastructure. In line with the principle of sector couping, renewable forms of energy (PV, wind, water) that have a decarbonizing effect on all sectors of the economy are combined with energy-efficient technologies. This can help ensure a reduction in energy consumption as well as energy security in the Municipalities in Lower Austria are boosted by the right electric charging infrastructure. flexibility of demand through the use of functional From left to right: Stefan Pernkopf, Environmental Secretary of Lower Austria; Christine Scharinger, Raiffeisen-Leasing; Petra Bohuslav, member of the state government of Lower energy storage without impacting existing grids Austria, Martin Fassl, ecoplus. © NLK Filzwieser with excessive peak loads. The project partners ecoplus and Raiffeisen-Leasing offer these services or construction services as a modular system in order to meet the needs of the respective municipalities. Additional measures • Paperless office in retail business In 2019, Raiffeisen-Leasing GmbH introduced a workflow solution called LeasFlow in its retail business for vehicles. Based on the fully digitized exchange of information, this system makes it significantly quicker to process and find documents. Incoming documents are scanned immediately (early scanning) and subsequently processed and completed electronically. One of the consequences of this is a significant reduction in paper consumption. Over a full working year, around a million fewer sheets of A4 paper are used. As it takes 7.5 kilograms of wood to produce 500 sheets of A4 paper and each tree provides around 100 kilograms of wood, the Raiffeisen-Leasing solution therefore ”saves“ 150 trees every year. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 81 Foreword Overview Valida Vorsorge Management The Valida staff provision fund is responsible for processing the obligatory contributions under ”Abfertigung Neu“ for a total of 2.5 million employees and self-employed persons. The contributions it manages are in the amount of approx. € 3.4 billion. The ”Valida staff provision fund sustainability concept“ (see valida.at/nachhaltigkeitskonzept) defines the ethical criteria for capital investment. Central positive criteria (examples): Exclusion criteria (examples) Responsible dealings with employees Weapons Management Active environmental policy Nuclear power Sustainable products Serious deficits in democracy or human rights violations of sustainability The consultancy firm Reinhard Friesenbichler Unternehmensberatung (rfu), a specialist in sustainable investment, reviews the level of sustainability for the entire corporate assets of the Valida staff provision fund twice yearly. The individual investments are rated on a scale of 0 to 200. Investments with a sustainability score of 100 points or more are to be regarded as sustainable. The scores of the individual portfolio positions are aggregated at the level of the overall portfolio and result in an overall sustainability Responsible score. banker Additionally, the investments are assigned to one of the following sustainability classes: 1) Sustainability funds 2) Sustainable individual instruments 3) Sustainably oriented funds 4) Conventional funds (not sustainable) Fairer partner – The goals for the sustainable capital investment of the Valida staff provision fund are as follows: • All investments should be allocable to one of three sustainable investment classes. At the 2019 reporting date, the Valida staff provision fund held no conventional funds. This means that 100 percent of the assets were invested in the above three classes of sustainability. Employee • The sustainability score for the entire portfolio should be over 140 points. At the reporting date of December 31, 2019, the Valida staff provision fund exceeded this target at 156 points, thereby setting a new record. Valida therefore clearly met all of the goals of sustainable investment. ÖGUT certification: The Valida staff provision fund is audited and certified l Fair partner – annually by the Austrian Society for Environment and Technology (ÖGUT). Inhouse ecology In 2019, the Valida staff provision fund once again received the ”ÖGUT Gold“ award, the best possible, for the year 2018. This is the seventh ÖGUT Gold certification in a row. In addition to the ethical investment factor, communication and transparency in regard to sustainability, in-house ecological aspects, staff policy and corporate citizenship all play a role. Engaged The Valida Group also supports the UN Sustainable Development Goals citizen (SDGs). As part of its sustainability efforts, it contributes in particular to the attainment of three SDGs: Sustainable Energy (SDG 7), Combating Climate Change (SDG 13), and Justice (SDG 16). Sustainable energy generation is one of the positive criteria for investing in the staff provision fund, while investments in nuclear GRI index and power are excluded (SDG 7). Valida has been regularly measuring the CO2 footprint of the staff provision fund‘s equity portfolio since 2016. Among the criteria for exclusion in the case of government bonds is a ”Passive Climate Policy“ (SDG 13). Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 82 With strict compliance regulations, RBI Code of Conduct, which applies to Valida employees and suppliers, as well as the strict exclusion criteria for investments of the staff provision fund, Valida applies regulations that go far beyond the legal requirements (SDG 16). As a member of the UNGC (United Nations Global Compact), Valida is the first member of the industry to have been included in the list of participants of the SDG movement. (see: https://globalcompact.at/teilnehmerorganisationen-sdg-box/) Overview of measures Austria CE SEE EE Measures RBI AG RBSK RKAG RL Valida RCB Kathrein TBSK RBCZ RBHU RBAL RBBH RBBG RBKO RBHR RBRO RBRS RBBY RBRU AVAL Free donation transfersn n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Free account management and special n.r. n.r. ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ credit for defined NGOs/charitable Electronic bank statements ✓ n.r. ✓ ✓ n.r. ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Electronic product information ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Special conditions for pensioner n.r. n.r. n.r. ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Special conditions for students and/or n.r. ✓ n.r. n.r. ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ teenagers The complete company names can be found in the abbreviation list. Initiatives for improving access to financial products for disadvantaged groups of the population It is important for social equilibrium in society that all sections of the population are given equal opportunity to access financial services. Disadvantaged groups include people with disabilities as well as people who have, for example, linguistic, cultural or age-related barriers to overcome. In all of our markets, we are endeavoring as far as possible to ensure that people with disabilities will be able to enjoy barrier-free access to all facilities in the medium term. Austria Visually impaired users in Austria have the opportunity to switch the websites of RBI and ELBA internet to highcontrast colors, making them easier to read. The web pages meet all standards in order to be read by screen readers. For people who have difficulty using the website due to limited hand mobility, there are now larger buttons and images. A further significant improvement was achieved through ”Responsive Design“. This means that the website is automatically modified to suit the end device. Another important measure is the ”Sensing Journey“, voluntary training that is provided to RBI AG employees. This is intended to help to improve their understanding of the concerns of people with disabilities and make it easier for them to meet their needs in connection with financial products. Network banks One of the most important requirements is barrier-free physical access to branches and ATMs. For most of our network banks, this has been achieved at 100 percent of branches. At just four network banks, structural reasons mean this is only possible in between 72 and 97 percent of branches. Ensuring that ATMs are fitted with corresponding keyboards and headphone jacks for people with visual impairments is another essential requirement. A web presence including digital product information with the option of switching to high-contrast colors represents a further significant improvement for many visually impaired people. The compatibility of digital publications with screen readers is also becoming increasingly important. The option of arranging for a sign language interpreter to attend consultations on financial services can make things considerably easier for people with hearing impairments. Language barriers for immigrants can also be overcome by using technology with language selection, at least at ATMs. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 83 Foreword Overview One good example is the ”Silent Connection“ application, which allows deaf or hearing-impaired customers in the Czech Republic to contact Raiffeisenbank a.s. It makes use of sign language interpreters or real-time transcription of the spoken word. This silent collaboration makes it easier for the hearing-impaired to obtain access to an account and other financial products and services. This service is also offered for web calls at Raiffeisen BANK d.d. Bosna i Hercegovina, for example. For visually impaired customers, on the other hand, special CDs with information on the bank‘s products are produced. Some banks have now established rules for assisting people with disabilities. At Raiffeisen BANK d.d. Bosna i Hercegovina, for example, witnesses can also be requested for greater transaction security depending on the Management severity of the customer‘s disability. At Priorbank JSC in Belarus, standards for assisting people with disabilities of sustainability have been developed as part of the ”establishing and implementing service quality standards“ project. At AO Raiffeisenbank in Russia, all front office employees also completed internal training in this area. Overview of measures Austria CE SEE EE Measures RBI AG RBSK RKAG RL Valida RCB Kathrein TBSK RBCZ RBHU RBAL RBBH RBBG RBKO RBHR RBRO RBRS RBBY RBRU AVAL Barrier-free access to all branches n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ and ATMs Website adaption for the ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Responsible visually impaired banker Adaption of ATMs for the visually n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ impaired Multilingual ATMs for immigrants n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Guidance/assistance/training measures for dealing with people ✓ n.r. n.r. ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ with special needs Product information for the visually n.r. ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ impaired Fairer partner – Availability of sign language n.r. ✓ ✓ ✓ translators for the hearing impaired The complete company names can be found in the abbreviation list. Employee Fair partner – Inhouse ecology Engaged citizen GRI index and Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 84 Future outlook and Sustainability program RBI has always sought to structure its business and business relationships for long-term resilience, to avoid social and environmental risks, and to ensure that opportunities to improve environmental protection and social standards are leveraged. The topic of sustainability was boosted further in 2018 with the issue of the first RBI green bond with a total volume of € 500 million. This bond, which was already backed by a large number of financial transactions in the ESG (environmental, social, governance) area, signaled the start of a strategic initiative under which RBI has intensified its activities in the area of sustainable finance at both customer and product level. Another landmark was the first retail green bond issue – with a modest volume of around € 3.5 million – in spring 2019. The second major green bond for institutional investors was issued in September 2019, with an increased volume of € 750 million on account of the high level of demand. These green bond transactions mean that the classified volume of green financing is now already in the billions. Working groups were established to comprehensively address all aspects of ESG. This includes the creation of a rulebook on the segmentation and classification of transactions in RBI‘s portfolio, the corresponding labeling of such transactions in the IT systems, and preparatory work for the forthcoming segmentation and classification of customers and transactions throughout RBI‘s entire corporate business. To help us achieve these goals, we acquired an ESG data pool in December 2019 in preparation for the portfolio segmentation. At the same time, a network of ESG contacts for core business at all of RBI‘s network banks has now been established. In 2020, we will focus in particular on the implementation of portfolio segmentation and classification. The aim is to classify the customer groups based on ESG criteria by summer 2020. In the next stage, these customers will also be classified on the basis of the EU taxonomy criteria in the second half of 2020. The corresponding rulebook definitions are also being gradually expanded and improved. We are confident that all of this work will lay the foundations not only for us to optimally advise our customers, but also for us to provide them with the right products. We are currently seeing a large number of customer inquiries relating to how companies will be required to position themselves in the future in order to meet the targets of the EU Action Plan for the financing of sustainable growth and the preparations they will need to make in order to receive concessionary loans with ESG-compliant transactions. This is a crucial process for the banks themselves, as it will incentivize customers to transform while also ensuring the required compliance with the legal conditions of the EU taxonomy. We also need to prepare ourselves to be able to perform the stress tests that are planned by the EBA (European Banking Authority). The first voluntary stress test is already scheduled for late 2020. This will involve a sensitivity analysis in order to investigate the potential hazards for the banking sector in terms of climate risks and develop an improved understanding of the long-term consequences for banks‘ business models. RBI‘s aim is to take a leading role in this process in order to ensure that it is equipped for potential future scenarios (transformation and hazard risk) while also gathering experience that it can apply in advising customers. A debate is currently taking place at EU level about lowering the capital requirements for ESG-compliant transactions in the form of a supporting factor. RBI also intends to be prepared for any such development. Raiffeisen KAG already demonstrated its clear positioning with regard to making a sustainable contribution to the climate goals set out in the Paris Agreement and Agenda 2030 (Sustainable Development Goals) in 2015 when it signed the Montreal Carbon Pledge, a UN PRI initiative dedicated to publishing the carbon footprint of investment funds. This represents a major challenge. The calculation of a carbon footprint for sustainability funds is a project that will be completed in the near future and that will form a valid basis for additional measures. As part of the Raiffeisen Sustainability Initiative, Raiffeisen KAG has committed to offering at least 25 percent ”green“ investment products by 2030 and to reduce greenhouse gas emissions across its assets under management by 25 percent. These Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 85 Foreword Overview targets apply to all Raiffeisen Capital Management funds. A concept for the comprehensive, in-depth measurement and aggregation of greenhouse gas emissions in the portfolios is currently being developed with internal and external experts (Environment Agency Austria and the University of Natural Resources and Life Sciences, Vienna). This means Raiffeisen KAG is well on the way to being a forerunner in the German-speaking region in terms of its climate performance as an asset management company. This is also consistent with the goals of the Raiffeisen Sustainability Initiative. Management Excerpt from the Sustainability program General objectives: Anchoring sustainability within the business processes; promoting sustainable products of sustainability SDGs Objective Measure Status Progress Increasing the share of environmentally Incentive model for sustainable financing friendly products and services Portfolio expansion for Training on green finance products to increase awareness future green/social bonds among relationship managers Responsible Promotion of the topic of sustainable Establishment and increased integration of ESG contacts finance within the Group for core business at all network banks banker Classification of customer groups Implementation of portfolio segmentation and classification based on ESG criteria Implementing a climate Elaboration of a group-wide environmental policy strategy in the core business Increasing awareness Elaboration of a group-wide human rights policy regarding ethical behavior Fairer partner – Contribution to the Sustainable Expansion of financing to support the SDGs 7, 8, 9 and 13 Development Goals (SDGs) Building infrastructure and Promoting an internal culture of innovation at RBI through Employee promoting innovation (SDG 9) the intrapreneurship program and expanding activities at a local level (local intrapreneurship programs) Entering into global partnerships for Partnerships between the accelerator programs at the sustainable development (SDG 17) network banks to connect local and global start-up ecosystems Increased integration of ESG Expansion of resources, process innovation Fair partner – research in funds managed by Raiffeisen KAG Expanding the top position and Establishing/converting further funds, further integration Inhouse ecology increasing the volume of sustainable of ESG research in all managed funds investments of Raiffeisen KAG Development into a sustainable, Measurement of/reduction in carbon footprint of inhouse climate-neutral asset management ecology and product portfolio (funds) company New In progress Complete Constantly Status (25% of target achieved per box filled) Engaged citizen SDGs Affordable and Decent Work and Industry, Innovation Climate Protection Peace, Justice and Clean Energy Economic Growth and Infrastructure Measures Strong Institutions GRI index and Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 86 Field of action Fair partner – Employees: for inclusion and empowerment CORPORATE VALUE ”COLLABORATION“, ”LEARNING”, ”PROACTIVITY“ AND ”RESPONSIBILITY“ Image author: Ulf Wallmann (RBI) Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 87 Foreword Fair partner – Employees Overview Our employees, our culture, and our organization are the foundations of RBI. Our focus on employees helps to increase employee commitment and has a positive impact on the “Employee Management Experience”, which describes the sum of the experiences and perceptions gained by our employees while working for the company. of sustainability A positive “Employee Experience” promotes satisfaction and performance and helps to support productivity. RBI sees its employees as key stakeholders whose expertise, creativity, and entrepreneurship © WU-Wien are essential to the company‘s future development. Heike Mensi-Klarbach, Head of Group HR, RBI AG Mission & Vision 2025 ”RBI‘s vision, mission, and corporate values are founded on the fundamental Responsible principle that the considerable diversity in Our Vision 2025 sets out the company‘s golas and direction. Our our workforce is a major asset when it banker values set the framework within we want to achieve these goals (see comes to achieving our corporate page 14 onward) objectives. Our mission to turn continuous innovation into a superior customer Our mission is to transform continuous innovation into superior experience can be achieved when all of customer experience. To allow us to deal with the resulting challenges our employees contribute not only their as best as possible, a strategic transformation roadmap has been expertise and creativity, but also their (life) Fairer partner – developed with the aim of driving the transformation of ”people, experience, so that their entire potential can culture, and organization“. The strategic roadmap contains a number be harnessed. Our values – collaboration, of focal points, from employee recruitment, development, and skills, Employee proactivity, learning, responsibility – are through to agile working methods and entrepreneurship. These focal based on a culture that promotes diversity points, along with the clearly defined indicators for measuring the and a sum that is greater than its parts. progress of our transformation, apply to our entire banking network, thereby providing a new degree of consistency in terms of focus and Group Human Resources is responsible for implementation. One of our core tasks remains to generate a positive creating suitable conditions and supporting employee experience that supports our mission. Fair partner – managers and employees so that everyone is willing and able to contribute their Within the focal points adopted for the Group as a whole, each potential. I am also particularly committed Inhouse ecology network bank plans its strategic initiatives in the context of their own to increase the proportion of woman share local strategic plans. The key strategic initiatives taken by many of in top management in order to make visible our banks for their local roadmaps include anchoring the corporate progress in terms of diversity.“ values within existing and new working methods. This includes the refinement of our employer value proposition (EVP). This supports the development of the necessary skills and competences, the achievement of the mission, and an organization that is more Engaged adaptable to the conditions of the market. citizen The mission statement for employees begins by stressing the importance of expertise. Coupled with an environment that promotes cooperation, creativity, and entrepreneurship, this means that various sustainability aspects are also addressed at the same time. GRI index and QUOTE Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 88 To allow us to optimally meet the future requirements concerning sustainable finance (see page 79 und 84) – and, in particular, to advance sustainable customer innovations – it is necessary for us to establish extensive expertise and continuously expand this expertise as an organization. RBI sees itself as a learning organization and makes use of various options in this respect, from on-the-job learning through to the latest digital aids, such as the extensive online sustainability training that will be available to all employees from 2020. The value system RBI intends to use in achieving its mission includes the value of ”Collaboration“. This clearly reflects RBI‘s commitment to listening, mutual understanding, respect, and trust, and is intended to encourage greater diversity as a consequence. The diversity principle has been integrated into RBI‘s strategy for a number of years (see page 97) and is relevant for the creativity that is both desirable and necessary in order to make innovation possible in the first place. Further elements include the value of ”Proactivity“ – in the sense of courage, but also acting with foresight – and the value of ”Learning“, ”which is practiced not only through training, but also by establishing a culture of error prevention. An inclusive management culture, the role model function of managers, and less hierarchical management approaches are topics that are becoming increasingly important at RBI. In order to achieve credibility and impact, our values need to be visible and tangible in the way in which we work together. Our managers bear a particular responsibility for delivering positive personal examples and acting as role models when it comes to practicing the values. Active ”responsibility“ means taking responsibility for everyone‘s actions – including with regard to the environment and society. This means that sustainability is firmly enshrined within RBI‘s values. Impacts, risks and opportunities As a large financial service provider, RBI has a special responsibility towards its employees. How the company conducts itself not only affects its employees, but also indirectly affects their families and society as a whole. RBI is aware of this responsibility and must take action to balance these competing forces every day – generating adequate profits for its shareholders while at the same time ensuring the well-being of its employees. The opportunity to create and maintain jobs – with positive socio-economic benefits for individuals and regions – is a fundamental concern of RBI within its 14 markets. This has an indirect impact on security, stability and prosperity in society. Nevertheless, RBI cannot escape technological changes and rising cost pressures and, as a result, cannot completely avoid economically necessary job losses. RBI considers a responsible approach to this topic to be essential. In addition, RBI tries to counteract the increased workload for individuals by improving efficiency to reduce the risk of illness and its possible impact also on the families of employees. RBI is committed to maintaining the physical and mental health of its employees. Through a variety of health care and sports provisions and opportunities, the company seeks to prevent potential negative effects of what is primarily sedentary office work and stress that can have a material impact on well-being. RBI‘s foremost goal with its employees regarding sustainability involves the topic of meaningfulness. Within the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and goal number eight defined there (SDG 8), the transformation to ”good jobs“, RBI tries its best to work towards achieving this goal. We understand this as an opportunity to increase employee satisfaction, productivity, loyalty and employees‘ identification with the company and what it stands for. The opportunity resulting from the SDG 1 would be to trigger a quality competition in terms of ”good jobs“ in the case of RBI leading by example in CEE where possible. This goes hand in hand with fair remuneration, which is a concern of RBI, as it creates a win-win situation. Through professional diversity management, with a focus on empowering women and employing people with disabilities and LGBTI, RBI can contribute to reducing inequality in society. If there is no diversity, RBI risks having a lack of varying perspectives, which influences business decisions and therefore the company‘s results. RBI sees utilizing different cultures to give added value as an opportunity. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 89 Foreword Overview Adequate vocational education and training not only contributes to the success of RBI, but also motivates employees. The sum of all vocational education and training measures provided by the company also influences the educational level of our society. This is why RBI offers comprehensive learning opportunities for its employees. Development of personnel Management RBI employed 46,837 people as of December 31, 2019 (full-time equivalents), 206 less than end of 2018. The of sustainability biggest reductions were recorded in Russia (179), Ukraine (132) and Romania (128). By contrast, Hungary (up 148) and head office (up 122) saw the biggest increases. The average age of employees remained relatively young at 38 years, while the ratio of female employees was 66 percent. The proportion of employees with university degrees was 78 percent, which indicates a very high level of qualification. The following graphic shows the development in the number of staff over the past five years (in full-time equivalents). Development of personnel Responsible Number of staff at end of year1 banker 60,000 53,096 472 50,203 49,700 332 91 47,079 46,873 50,000 3,905 81 73 3,574 3,616 3,910 4,049 Fairer partner – 40,000 19,369 17,827 18,132 18,750 18,356 Employee 30,000 15,122 14,893 20,000 14,792 14,646 14,480 Fair partner – 10,000 14,228 13,577 13,069 9,692 9,915 Inhouse ecology 0 20152 2016 2 2017 2018 2019 n Central Europe n Southeastern Europe n Eastern Europe n Austria n Rest of World 1 Includes the employees of all consolidated companies 2 The figures from 2017 are based on the merged bank (merger taken into account) As one element of RBI AG‘s transformation into an adaptive bank, 2019 was the launch of the TOM (Target Engaged Operating Model) project. This is geared toward the three pillars of transparency, simplicity and efficiency, as well as cost optimization. The further development of the corporate culture – in an extremely challenging and citizen changing environment – plays a key role in this process. In many areas, this involves a far-reaching reorientation accompanied by the acquisition of new skills. This also leads to organizational changes and workforce reduction. GRI index and Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 90 Staff development Identifying, encouraging and retaining talented individuals is one of the key objectives and prerequisites for a long-term partnership between employees and the company. We work actively to create clear and individual development opportunities. Satisfied, committed and empowered employees achieve more both quantitatively and qualitatively and are likely to remain loyal to the company. The following chart provides an overview of the employee development measures that are being implemented at the individual companies. Overview of measures Austria CE SEE EE Topic Measures RBI AG RBSK RKAG RL Valida RCB Kathrein TBSK RBCZ RBHU RBAL RBBH RBBG RBKO RBHR RBRO RBRS RBBY RBRU AVAL Employee Performance ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ development management Talent ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ management Trainee ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ programs Please see the list of abbreviations for the complete company designations. In contrast to many global companies, we pursue a largely decentralized approach. Within a Group-wide framework that sets the standards and methods for performance management, talent management, succession planning and development of management staff, the network banks have developed practices tailored to their specific local requirements so that they can attract, develop and retain talented employees. Our ”RBI Group Management & Leadership Development Policy“ sets out the principles for this approach. As a group, we require common core elements within our culture of management and leadership. We need to be able to fill vacancies mainly from within the group, and to be able to prepare the next generation of executive managers. According to this principle, we continuously strive to build our pool of future managers and to develop our existing ones. This is set out in the Group-wide Succession Policy alongside of all regulatory requirements. Performance management We view performance management as a management approach that enables all employees to align their personal performance targets to the overall targets of the company, perform at their best, and realize their full potential in order to contribute to the long-term success of the company. It is therefore closely linked to other HR instruments such as remuneration, promotion of talents, employee development and career planning. Performance management provides a framework for the common growth of employees and managers and creates the foundations for the positive future development of RBI in a changing business environment. The guiding principles are set out in the Group policy ”Performance Management RBI Group“ and in the supplementary document ”The Book of Group Performance Management“. Furthermore, Group-wide obligatory minimum requirements are defined and provide the framework for the local policies that are adapted to the country-specific conditions. Having gradually revised our performance management over the last two years, we now have an approach that meets the requirements of an increasingly volatile and fast-moving business environment and that will support our company in its transformation to an agile way of working. Performance management is an important instrument for breaking down the mission/vision we redefined in 2019 and our Group‘s corporate values into transparent and comprehensible targets, so that every manager and employee knows what is expected of them and so that this contributes to the realization of the measures set out in the transformation roadmap. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 91 Foreword Overview Instead of setting targets once at the start of the year, a rolling approach means shorter and more flexible planning periods, allowing us to respond quickly to new requirements and adjust and/or realign the respective targets. This also allows us to continuously review and document progress in terms of target attainment. An electronic real-time feedback solution allows every employee to actively obtain feedback from other employees at all times and to proactively give feedback themselves. This will be an important stimulus in terms of further improving cooperation within the company, personal development, and continuous improvement. Management In 2020, we will adapt our performance management to be even more attuned to the specific needs of agile teams and organizational units designed in line with adaptive principles, thereby continuing to provide our of sustainability employees and our company with the best possible support when it comes to achieving our transformation and growth targets. Training and development, talent management Our strategic approach to training and development The objective of our training and development is to help our employees to obtain the knowledge, competences, Responsible and social and management skills they require to master their tasks as best as possible – both now and in the future. Accordingly, our managers are responsible for examining the strategic objectives of the bank and their banker departments in order to determine which competences are required and need to be fostered. For us, development always means a combination of experience-oriented, relationship-oriented, and training-oriented measures (80:20:10). HR provides a comprehensive portfolio of training programs and tools to achieve this. But we also understand learning in the sense of ”learning by doing“ as an integral part of daily work in conjunction with feedback, retrospectives, etc. This is set out in our ”Learning“ corporate value (see page 15). The centralized and decentralized training offering encompasses three main areas: leadership development, Fairer partner – professional development, and personal/soft skill development. Employee The training goals for leadership development are derived from our Group-wide ”Leadership Training Architecture“ for all management levels. These are based on a series of key competences for managers that have been defined by the Management Board in line with our corporate values. All first-time managers must complete a standard development program that qualifies them for the new role and gives them the tools needed for managing employees. In addition, development programs are offered for talented managers and successors who have Fair partner – been identified for executive management positions in order to maintain the talent pipeline. Our Group-wide executive development program, the contents of which are primarily of a strategic nature, is available to our top Inhouse ecology level of management. The development of professionals (non-management staff) is based on training goals that are derived from the strategic priorities. Current focus areas are digital skills, data analysis and data science, innovation, risk management, IT, sales, and retail and corporate business. It is also necessary to carry out training and development that meets regulatory requirements to ensure that executive management staff and key function holders steadily expand their competence and knowledge in their area of expertise, stay up to date, and can furnish certifications as required Engaged (e.g. ”fit & proper“, MiFID II, GDPR, cybersecurity). citizen The goal of personal development is to increase the competence of managers and employees in terms of all topics with a customer focus, such as sales skills, presentation techniques and negotiation skills, as well as interpersonal skills such as communication and conflict resolution. The teaching of languages and cultural know-how also forms part of facilitating cross-border cooperation. At RBI, learning and development also includes the topic of health. We see creating awareness of health topics GRI index and such as work-life balance, mobile work, resilience, and coping with stress as part of our occupational health Assurance report management. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 92 Our extensive range of training, coaching, mentoring, etc., as well as talent management and the development of management staff, is regularly evaluated from the perspective of promoting and preserving health and is adjusted as necessary (more information can be found in the chapter on occupational health management; see page 106 onwards). Talent management and development of management staff The identification and development of high potentials plays an important role in ensuring RBI‘s future business success. This improves the development and career opportunities of the employees themselves, while also contributing to proactive and qualitative personnel planning and the targeted promotion and retention of our key employees. Various coordinated measures and concepts have been introduced for this purpose over the years. This includes the annual ”Spot-Grow-Lead“ process, which is aimed at identifying and developing high potentials. This has resulted in talent pipelines being established in almost all units with consideration of the different local focal points. The success of this ongoing process is demonstrated by the fact that 67 percent of the Management Board positions were filled by internal candidates in 2019. The Talent Development Framework is another example of a standardized process aimed at developing high potentials. The individuals identified in the ”Spot-Grow-Lead“ process benefit from a range of individual development measures, including 360-degree feedback, personality assessments, mentoring and coaching, on-the-job learning in the form of challenging projects and job rotation, and seminars and programs aimed at improving their professional skills. We also create a Peter Drucker Forum, © Karolina Kluska space for high potentials to network, exchange ideas, and learn from each other at ”High Potential Networking Events“, which are held regularly for RBI AG as part of the Peter Drucker Forum in Vienna. The ”Spot-Grow-Lead“ process has proven extremely successful in various respects, particularly with regard to the career development of the high potentials identified. The data shows that 22 percent of all female talents and 21 percent of all male talents have moved to a higher job category since the start of 2019, compared with eleven percent of female employees and twelve percent of male employees at a company-wide level. In order to further improve gender equality within RBI‘s talent pool and hence ensure equality of opportunity for male and female employees, we also worked with a number of new approaches. ”Additional female assessors“ have been included in talent review meetings since 2018. To ensure that the decision-making process at talent review meetings is as fair as possible, the managers and the ”additional female assessors“ were offered gender bias training. Another new feature in some areas of the company was the introduction of self-nomination in order to further strengthen the role of the individual in the context of personal and career development. This approach has had a positive impact on the number of women applying for the talent pool, thereby helping to ensure a better gender balance. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 93 Foreword Overview Training and development The ”Group Learning & Development and Talent Management Law“ guideline sets out the Group-wide pillars of our training, development and talent management programs. The learning and development options at RBI AG and our fundamental commitment to permanent development with the supporting processes are defined in a company guideline, the ”RBI Learning & Development Policy“. Furthermore, the annual development meeting and personal development plan of each employee form the Management structured basis of the individual development measures. Strategic training initiatives of sustainability Activities in 2019 focused on the ”adaptive transformation“ of RBI. In addition to organizational changes, this initiative concentrated in particular on establishing a new mindset and new forms of work with the aim of ultimately achieving a change in management style. The majority of the training programs we offered for managers involved awareness and training on management skills in this new environment (”new leadership“). Non-managers were trained on topics such as innovation, cross-departmental cooperation, empowerment, individual responsibility and agile working methods in particular. Responsible In connection with the transformation, the proven ”leaders‘ breakfasts“ format continued with a focus on a new understanding of leadership. Workshops for managers with scientists, philosophers and start-up founders were banker organized in cooperation with the marketing initiative ”#neudenkenheisst“, giving managers new impetus for their daily leadership activities ”out of the box“ and reinforcing their change mindset. Data literacy was defined as a professional focal point in 2019. This covers all of the skills required to record, analyze and interpret data and prepare it as information in order to be successful in an increasingly digital and data-driven world. A range of training opportunities in the category of data, analysis and coding was offered at Fairer partner – all levels under the motto ”Take a step“. In 2019, investment in training participation in this important area was increased by 71 percent compared with the previous year. Since mid-2018, we have used a learning app to train managers in the concept of unconscious bias as a key Employee overarching diversity topic. In 2019, the content was adjusted to the target group of employees and offered on a wide scale. Efforts to promote individual initiatives per board areas were extremely successful, with various networking and training events being organized by women for women. In addition, another ”Empowerment of Women“ training course was launched and met with strong demand. Fair partner – LEAD F is a program initiated by female company founders. It is aimed at female professionals and managers who want to improve their digital leadership skills and gain an insight and understanding of the world of female Inhouse ecology founders and start-ups. The program combines the promotion of gender diversity, leadership qualities, and the new digital world of work for professionals. Companies and start-ups benefit in equal measure by learning from each other. RBI AG supports this program and gives a selected number of young female talents the opportunity to participate in it. Infrastructure for digital and modern learning Engaged The learning management system ”cHaRlie“ for the administration of learning opportunities was implemented at head office and some of the network banks in 2018. The system is now in use at all of the major Austrian citizen subsidiaries of RBI AG and eight network banks and their banking subsidiaries. All Group units are scheduled to be connected to cHaRlie in the first half of 2020. This will allow us to roll out training and online learning programs on a Group-wide basis at any time via a single platform and perform additional evaluations of the available training. A range of modern online programs, particularly on personality and leadership topics, was developed further GRI index and in 2019 and serves to supplement the digital learning offering, thereby making efficient use of another benefit of Assurance report cHaRlie. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 94 Training and development initiatives at the network banks One key element of the strategic reorientation is the digital transformation, which is reflected in Group-wide training initiatives. Our international development program ”GoIT Academy“, which deals with key topics in IT and related areas, was not only continued but expanded in terms of the topics covered. Eight different programs were rolled out in 2019. The aim of this initiative is to establish a professional network of managers and experts throughout the Group, communicate modern knowledge at a high level of quality, and promote cross-border cooperation. In many areas of RBI, especially in the corporate and private customer business as well as in IT management, international learning trips to exchange knowledge at the expert level were again successfully carried out. This form of practical training, away from the traditional classroom, is strongly on the rise. In 2019, more than 52 employees from the network banks took the opportunity of a working placement at RBI AG. The rotation and exchange programs for employees in the ”talent pool“ and high potentials were also continued, with one example being the ”International Young Potentials Program“ that was successfully launched for the eighth time in 2019. All in all, 91 employees from ten countries have already participated or are in the current intake. Employee involvement Employee co-determination RBI believes it is extremely important that the concerns of our employees are listened to and taken seriously. We use various communication and integration tools to achieve this, including employee events, employee surveys, and the ”Make Ideas Happen“ idea platform at RBI AG. We also seek to ensure trust-based cooperation with the employee representatives as a key element of our corporate culture, which is founded on cooperation at all levels and is intended to shape the relationship between all partners, both internally and externally. We act in accordance with the relevant statutory regulations and the agreements concluded and take into account the respective operating conditions. 50 percent (47 percent in 2018) of group employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. The active participation of employees is also made possible via their interest group, the Staff Council, which initiates a wide range of activities throughout the year. This also includes employees‘ suggestions being processed in the various working groups of the Staff Council of RBI AG, some of them with the company physician and Human Resources, and measures are taken on an ongoing basis. The goal is the discernment and promotion of economic, social, health and cultural interests of the employees in the business. Some working groups are set up to run on a permanent basis (e.g. workplace conditions/health, work/family, nutrition, culture). Others are put together at short notice and work on a project-by-project basis. However, cost-intensive issues are only rarely discussed here. In addition to the Staff Council‘s co-determination prescribed under labor law, co-determination and the exchange of information are also guaranteed through participation in various committees such as the Supervisory Board, the health and safety committee, the environmental committee as well as at individual ”jours fixe,“ which are held by the Chairman of the Staff Council and the various members of the Management Board. The Staff Council is connected to the Group Staff Councils, the Raiffeisen Staff Council in Vienna, the Raiffeisen Staff Councils in Austria and (via the European Staff Council) internationally. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 95 Foreword RBI with European Staff Council Overview The following eight EU countries are represented in the European Staff Council (ESC) of RBI: Bulgaria, Hungary, Croatia, Austria, Poland, Romania, Slovakia and the Czech Republic. New representatives were elected to the ESC in June. The ESC now comprises a total of 14 representatives, one more than in 2018. This is due to growth in the workforce in Bulgaria and Hungary and a reduction in the number of employees in Poland. During the course of 2019, the ESC held two ordinary meetings in May and November. In addition to RBI‘s Management business development and strategy, the meetings discussed a wide range of topics with RBI management and departmental representatives, including the RBI Group Bonus System, Group People Systems (GPS), Group AI of sustainability initiatives, and an online HR development platform in the area of Group Procurement. A new steering committee was elected at the meeting in November, including a chair and three deputies. RBI remains committed to the principle of direct and open communication with employees. The good cooperation with existing local and/or national employee representatives is complemented, but not replaced, by the ESC. The ESC is an important additional platform for ongoing dialog and the structured exchange of information between company management and employees through their elected representatives. Responsible Employee surveys banker Over the past six years, employee surveys have been conducted in the Group every two years. The aim is to use employee feedback to find out more about the areas in which the company is already well positioned and where employees believe there is still room for improvement. The responsible and transparent handling of the results and the systematic planning of measures have led to the successful implementation of necessary changes in the individual Group units. As an instrument of strategic organizational development, employee surveys have provided us with important insights into central topics such as internal communication, process efficiency, and the Fairer partner – allocation of decision-making authority. In the long term, we will supplement this traditional form of employee survey with short surveys on an ad hoc basis. This development will introduce greater flexibility in terms of the range of topics covered and permit Employee individual organizational units and managers to customize the surveys to a greater extent. This will break down the implementation intervals and allow for greater individuality. To this end, activities in the past year were entirely dedicated to preparations for and a pilot test of the new self-service platform. This technical solution allows Group-wide surveys to be conducted as previously, while also Fair partner – giving each company the flexibility to determine the additional topics to be surveyed locally. The central element of this platform is a shared library currently comprising around 150 categorized questions, which will enable Inhouse ecology intragroup comparisons in addition to external benchmarking. We are confident that this will make an important contribution to allowing us to reinforce and/or improve on last year‘s high figures of 73 percent in the category of ”Employee Engagement“ (commitment to the company and willingness to volunteer for additional work) and 75 percent in the category of ”Employee Enablement“ (the presence of an environment that promotes success). While this new platform was being configured, short surveys were piloted at selected network banks this year in order to demonstrate how simply and flexibly the platform can be used. This began at head office with a short survey as part Engaged of operational health management. This first test run enjoyed an encouragingly high response rate of 49 percent. Many of the network banks have also realized various initiatives and measures based on the results of the last citizen employee surveys. For example, digitization projects in the Czech Republic include the implementation of an employee Instagram, allowing employees to share their perceptions of the employee experience. GRI index and Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 96 A Facebook group has also been set up for women on maternity leave so that they can keep up-to-date on what is happening at the company. In Russia, too, some changes have been made in response to suggestions from employee working groups – such as the DEMO days, which give employees the opportunity to obtain information on new banking products directly from the product developers. This makes it quicker and easier for them to put themselves in the customer‘s shoes and better understand their point of view. The first Group-wide survey using the new platform will be conducted next year. At the same time, survey plans are being set up in all of the units. Permanent measurement alone is not enough. As before, an adequate and timely response is just as important. We believe with the new platform we are well equipped for the changed requirements that will accompany the new, agile forms of work. Another form of employee integration is the opportunity to interact directly with the Management Board. Seven times a year, the employees of RBI AG have the opportunity to have breakfast with a member of the RBI Management Board. Together with ten to twelve colleagues, they can ask the board member questions in an informal setting over a convivial breakfast and discuss current topics with him. To ensure that all employees who sign up for the breakfast have an equal chance of participating, names are drawn for each date. Breakfast with the Management Board, © RBI AG Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 97 Foreword Diversity management and the ability Overview to reconcile work and family Management RBI is a universal bank specializing in the regions of Austria and Central and Eastern Europe. Our 16.7 million customers across 14 markets and our almost 47,000 employees represent diversity. We value this diversity of perspectives, abilities, experience and needs. We use the potential of our employees of sustainability to generate added value for our workforce, our customers, and society. The RBI Group Diversity Policy that was published in 2018 describes the relevance of this topic for RBI. The Policy defines the responsibilities and how a diversity strategy is to be implemented. A key element of the Policy is the RBI Diversity Vision and Mission, which contains guidelines that are intended to provide guidance for dealing with diversity on a day-to-day basis. Responsible Diversity Vision banker Diversity, one key to success, enables RBI to overcome boundaries. For RBI, diversity means added value. Leveraging the opportunities provided by diversity offers sustainable benefits for our company and employees as well as the economy and society. Diversity Mission Fairer partner – By promoting diversity, we are continuing Raiffeisen‘s success story, which dates back over 130 years. As a Employee strong partner, we harness the potential of diversity actively and professionally in order to best support our clients and to present ourselves as an appealing employer. Guiding Principles The following guidelines were published together with the Vision Mission Statement in 2017 and are intended Fair partner – to help everyone experience and appreciate diversity when working with each other on a daily basis. They are particularly important for decisions with personnel relevance. Inhouse ecology • We value and respect each other regardless of gender, sexual orientation, age, culture, origin, religion, ideology, physical impairment, or other characteristics. • We maintain a respectful, appreciative culture of communication, for which we require a variety of perspectives. • Our aim is to maximize variety in our teams and ensure that diversity also exists at the highest levels of management. • We understand the needs of our diverse client base. As a universal bank, we support our partners in Engaged achieving their aims worldwide. A clear commitment to diversity and the appropriate training of our employees is a matter of course for us. citizen • We are aware that our behavior is influenced by our unconscious bias. We consider it important to recognize these prejudices and to reflect upon them, as we intend to make the best decisions and take conscious action. GRI index and • We approach staff decisions objectively: We fill positions, make decisions on compensation, and perform employee appraisals, assessments of potential, promotions and nominations for projects based on employee skills, performance and potential. Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 98 Our current Code of Conduct clearly states that we consider fair employment practice to be of great importance. We want to be a corporate group that the best people want to work for; that hires and promotes people according to their aptitude (performance and work experience), and gives employees the opportunity to develop their skills while maintaining a good work-life balance. We value teamwork within and between business divisions, areas and countries and help our employees to realize their full potential. Discrimination and harassment have no place at RBI. We promote an environment where employees treat and appreciate each other with mutual respect and support diversity as it can open up new perspectives. Our goal is to maximize diversity across our teams and ensure that it also exists at the highest levels of management. This corresponds to our corporate value ”Collaboration“ (see page 15). Discrimination and harassment (such as on the basis of age, ethnicity, skin color, national origin, religion or belief, political or other opinion, gender, sexual orientation or disability) are incompatible with maintaining an inclusive work environment in which all employees achieve the maximum level of productivity for themselves and can meet our business goals. No form of discrimination, harassment, or intimidation will be tolerated or excused by RBI. RBI is committed to promoting equality, which is consistent with our self-image, and to creating equal opportunities for equal performance in the workplace, regardless of gender or other factors. This starts as early as employee selection, which must be free of prejudice and where the same criteria must always be applied. The following chart provides an overview of the measures that are being implemented at the individual companies in order to promote a healthy work-life balance. Overview of measures Austria CE SEE EE Topic Measures RBI AG RBSK RKAG RL Valida RCB Kathrein TBSK RBCZ RBHU RBAL RBBH RBBG RBKO RBHR RBRO RBRS RBBY RBRU AVAL Compatibility Part-time-work ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ profession (parents) and family Part-time-work ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ (other than parents) Teleworking ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Flexi-time-models ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ (regular) Flexi-time-models ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ (long time) Company kindergar✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ den or similar Time off for fathers in event of a birth ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ (statutory requirement) Time off for father in event of a birth ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ (beyond statutory requirement) Sabbatical for ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ educational leaves Other sabbaticals ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Please see the list of abbreviations for the complete company designations. Widely differing labor laws as well as family policies and health systems can be found in the various countries in which RBI operates. In order to offer employees more options for reconciling work and family life, as well as for a good work-life balance, the network banks provide a range of supplemental offers tailored to local needs and possibilities. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 99 Foreword Overview In order to further improve the framework conditions for profession and career, RBI is constantly working to improve the work-life balance. Work models, such as flexible working hours, part-time and tele-work are offered in accordance with statutory provisions. Where possible, company childcare with employee-friendly hours of operation is offered. These models are intended to enable targeted parental leave management that promotes re-entry into working life. RBI has a positive attitude towards paternity leave, which it sees as being an important way to advance equality. Salaries are regularly analyzed within RBI. As a result of continuous efforts in previous years to give equal remuneration for equal work, irrespective of gender, there are no significant differences between the salaries Management of men and women. The internal ”RBI Total Rewards Management“ policy provides a comprehensive of sustainability framework for shaping the Group-wide remuneration management system. This includes, in addition to all specifications for implementing statutory and regulatory requirements, a structured job evaluation system and regular market benchmarks of the salaries in the countries in question. An internal job evaluation system forms the basis for position-related and – as a result of this – gender-neutral remuneration. We would like to contribute to the implementation of SDG 5 and SDG 8 with our measures in Diversity Management. Specifically, this concerns ending all forms of discrimination towards women and ensuring that women can fully and effectively participate and that they have equal opportunity in taking on Responsible management roles on all levels of decision-making. Furthermore, we support the goal of achieving equal remuneration for equal work. banker RBI has signed up to the Diversity Charter. In this way, we are sending a clear signal that diversity is an important concern for us. Diversity and the ability to reconcile work and family at the Fairer partner – Vienna sites Employee A Company Agreement on the issue of ”Fair behavior in the workplace“ has been concluded for RBI AG to demonstrate that discrimination of any sort has no place in our corporate group. To lend even more weight to the seriousness of this issue, and in cooperation with the Staff Council, several employees underwent training at the Vienna sites to become ”harassment representatives“; these employees are Fair partner – now the first point of contact for employees should any problems arise with regard to this issue. Inhouse ecology Expertly trained members of staff provide competent points of contact on the issues of stress and burnout. Engaged citizen GRI index and Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 100 Sustainable integration In 2019, around 1,100 employees (26 percent of all employees) with a non-Austrian background from more than 60 countries worked at the two head office sites in Vienna. RBI employees not originating from Austria at the Vienna sites n 1–10 employees n 11–20 employees n 21–80 employees n over 80 employees The now long-standing tradition of the International Dinner was continued in 2019. New colleagues from various nations and colleagues from other areas of the bank can be met at this gathering over dinner. The relaxed, informal atmosphere is not only a good setting for talking about the cuisines and cultures of different countries but also helps new colleagues from other countries to integrate more easily. ”Diversity 2020“ initiative RBI AG launched the ”Diversity 2020“ initiative in 2016. The goal is to better promote and take advantage of diversity in the company through professional diversity management, thereby making a positive contribution to the corporate results. Organizational anchoring of the topic was taken into account through a diversity officer and the establishment of a diversity committee. In order to include as many different perspectives as possible, there are around 20 diversity ambassadors from all board areas. These ambassadors cooperate with the diversity committee and are tasked with strengthening diversity in their area as well as planning and implementing the measures. Employees are informed about the comprehensive measures and latest developments in a quarterly ”Sustainability and Diversity“ newsletter. One important factor that hinders diversity in companies and thus, among other things, hinders attempts to increase the appointment of women to management positions, is unconscious bias. Managers and employees are currently being offered online training on this topic (see page 93) In May 2019, RBI organized a podium discussion entitled ”Diversity – from ideal to reality“ in cooperation with ABZ*Austria, an association that promotes work, education and future prospects for women. In her keynote presentation, Sita Mazumder, Professor of IT and Economics at Lucerne University of Applied Sciences and Arts, reported on exciting developments in diversity management. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 101 Foreword Overview In the high-profile panel discussion that followed, which was attended by internal and external guests, she discussed the current challenges and expectations of the young generation with regard to diversity in a corporate environment and the opportunities presented by digitization when it comes to achieving a healthy work-life balance. The first comprehensive package of measures related to the empowerment of women and was launched in 2016. It aims to sustainably increase the proportion of women in higher qualified positions. We believe it is important to directly target HR processes in order to have a sustainable effect. For internal vacancies, the decision was made to include a waiting period in the appointment process in order to have enough time to find Management qualified female applicants. In addition, qualified female candidates are being actively approached by HR of sustainability employees. Documents are ”anonymized“ for interviews and hearings so that there is more objectivity in the selection process. We also consider it important to change the structural conditions within the company to encourage women to apply for management positions. In 2017, RBI set a Group-wide overall target quota of women on the Supervisory Board, Management Board and in second level management of 35 percent by 2024. This figure had reached 30 percent by the end of 2019. Mentoring for women is seen as an essential instrument for increasing the share of women in management and will therefore be continuously expanded. An in-house training course on ”Empowerment of Women“ is also offered. The third course began in late 2019. RBI AG also participated in the Forbes Women Summit 2019 (see page 110). For the first time, RBI AG also participated in the innovative Lead F training program for women in management (see page 93). Responsible Two graduates of the “Empowerment of Women”banker course initiated the ”RBI Women Forum“ event series in 2018. The aim of the forum is to establish a strong network that promotes the growth of business relations and that has the power to advance women in their careers. The forum gives female managers a space where they can engage in regular dialog and discuss Fairer partner – relevant future-oriented topics. The ambitious goal of the forum is to create a solid, future-oriented network Employee for women. The Women Forum events in 2019 were entitled ”The Power of Language“, ”The Power of RBI Women Forum, 2019, © RBI AG Perspective“, and ”The Power of Leadership“. Being family-friendly means enabling employees to find a balance between work and family life. This is why RBI AG is a partner of the Fair partner – ”Companies for Family“ initiative of the Austrian Federal Ministry of UNTERNEHMEN Work, Family and Youth. 2019 saw another two events for FÜR FAMILIEN employees on parental leave under the title ”Let‘s stay in Touch – Job Inhouse ecology & Family @ RBI Group“. All in all, around 40 employees of RBI AG and its associated companies in Austria used this platform to remain connected with their company. New mothers and fathers took the opportunity to find out about the latest developments within the company and obtain information on their return to work from an employment law perspective. The event was rounded off with a keynote presentation and the opportunity to talk to representatives of Human Resources, the Works Council, the company childcare service, and other employees. Engaged Improving the ability to reconcile family and work is also a very important consideration for Raiffeisen-Leasing GmbH in Austria. The relevant measures include, among other citizen things, flexible working hours, part-time models or tele-work as well as active parental leave management. The ”berufundfamily“ (”work and family“) audit has been conducted since 2013. GRI index and Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 102 In order to be able to better support employees in their changing needs at different stages of life, RBI AG offers a corresponding sabbatical program. Several models are available, providing various timeframes and thus an attractive recreational and relaxation model for people‘s different needs. Any of these sabbatical models can be further tailored to the individual. Since 2018, RBI AG and its subsidiaries Raiffeisen Capital Management and Valida have been among the first supporters of ”Fondsfrauen in Österreich“, helping this initiative to enter the Austrian market. Fondsfrauen is a career network for women with a focus on asset management in Germany, Austria, Switzerland, and Luxembourg. Formed in Germany in 2015, Fondsfrauen is currently supported by 27 companies. ”Fondsfrauen“ event 2019, © RBI AG Three major events of “Fondsfrauen” were held in Vienna in 2019 , including one at RBI‘s head office. Smaller monthly meetings were also organized. Many employees are involved in working groups on topics such as career opportunities for women, financial education for women, and mentoring. Among other things, a guide to increasing the proportion of female managers at financial institutions has been compiled. New ground was broken for the entire region in 2019 with the presentation of awards to companies and individuals that have excelled in the promotion of women or in asset management. Activities also focused on the promotion of young talents. The second diversity topic we are focusing on is the inclusion of people with disabilities. The aim of the RBI AG project is to break down inhibitions, generate awareness, increase social skills, and employ more qualified employees with disabilities. The ”intern tandem“ project was realized in summer 2019. Two seasonal interns, one of whom was disabled, were allocated to the same organizational unit. The idea was for them to jointly perform the tasks assigned to them as tandem partners in order to benefit from the social aspect as well as the professional experience gained. The internship was a complete success for all concerned. As an employer, RBI AG gained a lot of new experiences and suggestions for the future. Feedback from the colleagues involved shows that everyone found the Projekt ”Feriali-Tandems“ 2019, © Sabine Reinthaler enthusiasm of the young people to be a huge asset, and there is great interest in repeating the project. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 103 Foreword Overview In addition, we intensified our cooperation with Specialisterne, an association specializing in the placement of people on the autism spectrum, resulting in the intake and employment of four people with Asperger syndrome. RBI AG participated in the myAbility disability talent program for the second time in 2019. (see page 109). In early October, RBI AG conducted an employee survey on the inclusion of people with disabilities. In addition to a needs assessment, Management the survey aimed to raise awareness and create knowledge on the topic of disability and provide information about what RBI AG offers of sustainability in this respect. The high response rate of 25 percent suggests that there is already interest among employees. Almost all respondents said that they could see themselves including a person with a © myAbility-Reneé Del Missier disability in their team or working with them, and that they believe it is important for RBI AG to actively address the topic of inclusion. Gregor Demblin, founder of myAbility RBI AG is a member of the DisAbility Business Forum of ”For companies above a certain size, individual measures are welcome but can Responsible never replicate the impact of a well-founded In 2019, sexual orientation was established further as disability strategy. I am delighted that we banker a third dimension of the ”Diversity 2020“ initiative. are supporting RBI as it establishes a The aim is to increase awareness of LGBTI (lesbian, strategy of its own. This is how the process gay, bisexual, transsexual, intersex) issues, promote works: inclusion, and enable a working atmosphere in which no one has to fear being disadvantaged on account of their sexual orientation. In the first phase, a status quo analysis identifies development potential, entry Fairer partner – The business resource points for quick wins, and differences group ”Embrace“ at between the departments and board areas. RBI in Austria, which Employee The accompanying benchmark analysis comprises members of allows the company to be compared with the LGBTI community its peers from the same industry. This forms and straight allies the basis for preparing a strategy for the (heterosexual people coming years. The strategy sets out the who actively support targets as KPIs and defines a package of LGBTI), has launched Fair partner – measures that covers all areas. Internal and additional initiatives to raise awareness of the dimension of external communication play a major role. sexual orientation. Particular attention must be paid to Inhouse ecology manager awareness, so that employees know why the subject of disability affects us all and why – when handled correctly – it can also bring economic benefits. Needless to say, the topic of inclusion must be taken into consideration in all areas. A Engaged sustainable cultural change of this nature takes time, as does breaking down the barriers in people‘s heads. This makes it all citizen the more satisfying when the strategy takes effect and leads to real change!“ GRI index and Get2-know breakfast – Embrace LGBTI Business Resource Group, © RBI AG On May 17, the International Day Against Homophobia, Transphobia and Biphobia, the ”Get2-know“ breakfast format that QUOTE Assurance report is established at RBI AG was used to present the activities of the Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 104 Embrace group and the topic of LGBTI in more detail to the large number of employees who attended. In addition to an online consultation on existing knowledge, terminology and facts and figures of LGBTI were discussed and personal stories shared at three interactive stations © David Sailer Hannes Mösenbacher, CRO RBI AG ”At RBI, we practice diversity in all its Transgender film and discussion during the DIVÖRSITY days, © RBI AG dimensions. For example, women account for 66 percent of the total workforce and The DIVÖRSITY Days focused on the topic of transgender 55 percent at management level. People inclusion. The Embrace group and the Works Council jointly from 60 countries work for RBI in Vienna, arranged a viewing of the movie ”The Danish Girl“. This was and we enjoy good cooperation across followed by a moderated discussion at which a transgender all age groups because we all want to do woman examined the situation of the people affected from a what we can to make our bank successful. current perspective, shared insights into her personal experience, In addition, I take a particular personal and responded to the numerous questions from the attendees, interest in the inclusion of people with who were interested and visibly moved. disabilities and raising awareness for the dimension of sexual orientation, which are RBI AG is a member of also addressed in our ’Diversity 2020’ BRich, a network of the initiative. It is important to not merely pay LGBTI business resource lip service to topics like this simply because groups of Austrian they are fashionable right now. No one companies. should fear being disadvantaged on account of their sexual orientation. Employees should be appointed because of their skills and talents and assessed on the basis of their performance. In Austria, RBI again participated in DIVÖRSITY, the Austrian Days of Diversity. In addition to This means knowing employees‘ strengths the employee survey mentioned above, the and how best to harness their potential. RBI Women Forum held a networking event I am also happy to support the RBI LGBTI (see page 101) and an evening was dedicated to the topic of business resource group Embrace, which transgender inclusion. has been established at our head office to enable LGBTI employees and straight allies to initiate adequate measures. The commitment demonstrated every day by the colleagues involved also serves to demonstrate how our value of collaboration is being made a reality.“ QUOTE Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 105 Foreword Diversity initiatives at the network banks Overview The share of women im management at the network banks of RBI has traditionally been very high: Share of women in the network banks in 2019 in percent 80 Management 70 of sustainability 60 50 40 30 20 Responsible 10 banker – NWB total CEE SEE EE n number of female employees in % n all female management in % Fairer partner – The description of the abbreviations can be found in the list at the end of the Report. Share of women at the network banks by employee category in 2019 in percent 80 Employee 70 60 50 Fair partner – 40 Inhouse ecology 30 20 Engaged 10 citizen – NWB total CEE SEE EE n B% n B-1 % n B-2 % n other female management % n other female employees % The description of the abbreviations can be found in the list at the end of the Report. GRI index and At RBI, diversity officers are appointed at all network banks in CEE and all associated companies in Austria with Assurance report a view to establishing professional diversity management throughout the Group. The preparation and creation of local diversity strategies was one of the key areas of action in 2019. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 106 Health and safety Healthy and efficient employees are the basis for success for every company. RBI offers provision and support in the form of a range of initiatives and facilities. In addition to the legally prescribed measures in the area of health care, we offer numerous additional programs. The statutory standards for occupational health and safety are complied with in all countries, and the corresponding committees and officers set up and appointed. There was one fatality as a result of work-related injuries at RBI in 2019, corresponding to a rate of 0.0024. The number and rate of work-related injuries with serious consequences was one person or 0.0024. There were a total of 67 documented work-related injuries, corresponding to a rate of 0.1634. (The rates are calculated per 200,000 hours worked.) The following chart provides an overview of the measures that are being implemented at the individual companies in the area of health and welfare. Overview of measures Austria CE SEE EE Topic Measures RBI AG RBSK RKAG RL Valida RCB Kathrein TBSK RBCZ RBHU RBAL RBBH RBBG RBKO RBHR RBRO RBRS RBBY RBRU AVAL Health and Safety management ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ safety system Programs for mental ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ health Health checks ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Promotion of sports and wellness ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ activities Social benefits Promotion of the ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ company canteen Reimburesment ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ public transport cost Promotion of private ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ health insurance Promotion of pension ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ fund Promotion of ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ cultural events Please see the list of abbreviations for the complete company designations. Health initiatives at the Vienna sites Occupational health management is an important factor in ensuring that employees are willing and able to perform, and hence in ensuring the performance of our company as a whole. In order to promote good health among its employees, RBI AG offers a wide range of preventive and health initiatives. A revised operational health management concept was rolled out for RBI AG in September 2019. It provides for a holistic approach to care that is built on four pillars. The health@RBI concept encompasses the following focal points: The first pillar, ”safety and protection“, contains all of the structures that are used to ensure safety and protection in the workplace. This includes medical care and rapid assistance for mental health problems as well as trained first-aiders, safety officers and fire safety officers, who are on hand in case of emergency and who seek to ensure that emergencies do not occur in the first place. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 107 Foreword Overview The second pillar, ”conditions“, ensures that the environment in the workplace has a positive impact on our employees‘ health. This includes flexible working time models and the corresponding works agreements, as well as the possibility of part-time work during reintegration following lengthy illness. The remuneration system rounds off the conditions with extensive benefits resulting in discounted rates for various services (e.g. group health insurance). The third pillar, ”activities and offers”, comprises the various services offered by RBI AG in close cooperation with the Works Council office, for which it provides the funding and the premises. The majority of these services are aimed at promoting healthy behavior, such as a wide range of sporting activities and fitness checks. One Management of the main services offered is the annual medical check-up, which is utilized by a large number of employees. Room for personal growth and development and the space to learn new things are important when it comes of sustainability to promoting a sustained sense of health and wellbeing in the workplace. The fourth pillar, ”learning and development“, therefore seeks to assist employees in their personal development. This includes an extensive range of training, coaching, mentoring, talent management and the development of management staff, as well as raising awareness of health-related topics. Responsible banker health@RBI Corporate Health Management Fairer partner – Employee LEARNING & SAFETY & PROTECTION FRAMEWORK ACTIVITIES & OFFERS DEVELOPMENT Fair partner – • Occupational Health • Company Agreements • Health Care • Training and Coaching Care • Working Time Models • Health Week and • Mentoring and • Occupational and • Organizational Models Family Days Consulting Inhouse ecology Emergency Psychology • Recruiting and • Physiotherapy and • Leadership Development • Employee Assistance Onboarding Massages • Talent Management Program • Achieve & Grow • Sports, Exercise and • Support during Changes • Safety Specialists • Remuneration System Relaxation • Team Interventions • Safety Technology • Group Health Insurance • Nutrition • Employee Surveys • Safety Representatives • and much more • First Aid Providers • Fireguards Engaged citizen Health initiatives at our network banks Health care is also a central issue at the network banks of RBI across the various countries. In order to supplement GRI index and the range of programs aimed at preventing illnesses and preserving health above and beyond the regulatory requirements, employees can make use of a wide range of offers and activities. The range of services varies greatly, depending on what is needed and what can be provided locally in the individual countries. Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 108 The available offers are illustrated by two examples from the network banks: Since 2013, Raiffeisen Bank S.A. in Romania has offered a program with a variety of measures for a healthy work environment throughout the organization under the name ”RStyle – A Balanced Lifestyle“. The extremely comprehensive program is aimed at all employees and is based on three main pillars: physical health, mental-emotional balance, and healthy interpersonal relationships. It presents the employees with a set of measures that provide solutions for guiding them to a healthy lifestyle and improving the quality of life and performance at work. The program is intended to provide self-esteem and emotional balance for a good balance between working and working life. In 2019, a total of approximately 3,000 employees, corresponding to around half of the bank‘s workforce, took advantage of the RStyle offers at 150 events. The RStyle program includes many offers tailored to the organization and its employees, from physical activity, nutrition and group recreational activities to education and family or development topics. Accompanying workshops and personal consultations are intended to help transform existing habits into ”healthy“ habits, such as in this year‘s focus areas of stress management, self-esteem, fear management, and mindfulness. In order to assist personal well-being, the RStyle program provides a broad range of sporting activities, which this year took the form of a company-wide sports competition for cycling, tennis, trail running and various team sports such as football and volleyball. Employer branding and recruitment Our objective is to position ourselves as a top employer in each of the domestic markets we serve in order to be attractive to our desired target group of employees. Our corporate values are the basis on which we formulate our employer branding strategy for the respective employment market. To further reinforce this process, RBI has begun redefining its employer value proposition (EVP) both internally and externally. The following chart provides an overview of where targeted measures are being implemented with students and graduates at the individual companies in the area of employer branding and where RBI is viewed as an attractive employer. Overview of measures Austria CE SEE EE Topic Measures RBI AG RBSK RKAG RL Valida RCB Kathrein TBSK RBCZ RBHU RBAL RBBH RBBG RBKO RBHR RBRO RBRS RBBY RBRU AVAL Employer Cooperations with ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Branding Universities Attractive employer ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ recognition Please see the list of abbreviations for the complete company designations. Employer branding and recruitment at the Vienna sites The core of our employer branding strategy is communication, interaction and direct exchange with specialists, talented individuals, young professionals, graduates, and students. Working in close cooperation with the business units (e.g. IT, Risk, Corporate & Markets), RBI AG is regularly represented at various events so that it can enter into direct contact and dialog with talented individuals. ”Women Hack“, ”FinTech Hackathon“ and meet-ups on interesting technologies are just a few examples of the around 40 different events attended or organized by RBI AG every year. The company attaches great importance to personal contact, interaction and getting to know potential new colleagues directly. RBI AG continues to use the various technical channels, such as interaction via social media (e.g. XING, LinkedIn, Twitter). Our responsive careers page allows applicants and interested parties to get the information they need more quickly and more comprehensively, whether that information is about RBI AG as an employer, HR marketing activities, vacant positions, or new professions in the IT, innovation and digital environment. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 109 Foreword Overview Technical professions and data-driven roles remain extremely important in order to allow us to meet the requirements of the future even more effectively. To satisfy demand in this area, RBI AG has adopted a holistic approach that shows how employee recruitment from the new technology-driven professions and diversity can complement each other extremely well and open up new opportunities.  range of measures have been A conducted as part of the ”Diversity Management 2020“ initiative (see page 100). Among other things, RBI AG‘s recruitment was dedicated to the topic of people with disabilities. of sustainability In conjunction with the company ”myAbility“, RBI AG acted as a partner and one of the sponsors of the ”DisAbility Talent Program 2019“. A group of interested students with myAbility closing event, © myAbility disabilities familiarized themselves with Responsible two areas of RBI AG and its work as part of the matching day and the job shadowing days. banker Another focal point in 2019 was the start of an extremely rewarding cooperation with ”Specialisterne Austria“, an organization that matches talented individuals with autism and companies that urgently require their special talents in areas such as IT, quality management, data management, or finance and controlling. We had previously been on the lookout for specialist knowledge that was not always easy to find on the market. Specialisterne is an outstanding partner that is now assisting us in this process, and we have already successfully filled four available positions with exactly the skills required. Fairer partner – We also continued to focus on women in technical professions in 2019. One of the many initiatives aimed at attracting women to our company was our participation in the ”Women Hack“ in Vienna, a special event for women who work or want to work in UX design, software development and project management. We are Employee using this new format to invite interesting candidates to an additional networking event and give them the opportunity to get to know the company, colleagues and offices and find out about current projects. The Wiener Töchtertag (Vienna Daughters‘ Day) is an initiative under which girls between eleven and 16 years of age are invited to companies to get a Fair partner – first-hand impression of less ”typical“ professions for women. RBI Group IT opened its doors to the initiative for the first time, giving a group of girls the Inhouse ecology opportunity to take a look at the interesting world of IT careers and talk to women who are successful in these professions. Through presentations, the workshop and the discussions, the aim of the event was to show that women belong in technical Vienna daughters day, © Helena Markovitsch-Tokic professions just as much as men. Engaged citizen GRI index and Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 110 The Forbes Women Summit took place in Vienna for the first time in March 2019. More than 200 women accepted the invitation and followed the presentations by international speakers on ”Writing future codes“. As well as providing an appropriate framework for presenting ourselves in the context of equal/diverse leadership, the event offered the opportunity to network with other companies and organizations, particularly in the start-up sector. The discussions, some of which were moderated by experts from RBI, such as the breakout sessionsForbes Women Summit 2019, © RBI AG on ”Challenges in recruitment – start-ups vs. corporations“, showed that everyone is having to deal with the same issues. We are particularly committed to diversity. Since 2018, we have highlighted this by using the following text in all RBI AG job advertisements: ”RBI AG is committed to creating a diverse environment and is proud to be an equal opportunity employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to age, ethnicity, race or color, national origin, religion, political or other opinion, gender, sexual orientation or disability.” The third gender is also explicitly addressed in our job advertisements (m/f/x). Trainee programs represent a sustainable investment in introducing student graduates to a career in banking. With the masters‘ training program for markets and investment banking that was newly introduced in 2019, RBI AG expanded the range of available career opportunities for students who have just begun their masters‘ degree. We offer students part-time positions in which they can get to know all of the departments and activities in the area of markets and investment banking over a two-year period and complete a special training course. The continuous development of the existing ”Corporate Banking“ program paid off: RBI AG was recognized with the ”excellent trainee program“ accolade by ”TraineeNet“, a platform of trainees from around 50 Austrian companies. In 2019, economics students again ranked RBI AG among the top ten most attractive employers in Austria. RBI AG is also the best-placed bank among IT students (source: https://universumglobal.com/rankings/company/raiffeisen-bank-international/). Additionally, the bank strives to intensify and expand its cooperation, sponsorships and partnerships with technical universities in order to familiarize students and graduates with new kinds of work positions as well as diverse career opportunities in the IT environment of a digital bank. An effective way of retaining students with RBI AG as their employer remains the active support of bachelor and master theses and the mentoring of seminar theses. Employer branding and recruitment at the network banks The network banks have also put a large number of different initiatives in place with a view to positioning themselves as more attractive employers and ensuring the recruitment of talented employees. Addressing and cooperating with students is a key element that has been taken up by all of our network banks, and this is reflected in a range of activities. This includes directly addressing students on site by giving them an insight into the work of a bank, as well as partnerships with student institutions and universities. On the basis of examples from the Ukraine we want to show which extensive activities are set. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 111 Foreword Overview In September 2018, Raiffeisen Bank Aval signed up to the Ukrainian Pact for Youth 2020. This is a Europe-wide initiative of the United Nations that brings together businesses, government bodies and employment centers in order to help young people to develop professionally and find work. The aim is to facilitate entry into the workforce for businesses and young people alike. This also includes imparting knowledge and providing opportunities for gaining practical experience of company life. In this context, Raiffeisen Bank Aval JSC offers not only practical placements for high school and college students, but also trainee programs. The bank‘s considerable commitment in this area is also underlined in the transfer of Management knowledge offered at various events and workshops – like the skills labs, which teach participants how a successful career path might look or how to set up their own company. All in all, Raiffeisen Bank Aval JSC was of sustainability represented at 50 events in more than a dozen cities in 2019. These took the form of workshops, career days, presentations, hackathons, discussion panels, working groups, and excursions. In October 2019, the ”National Girls in STEM Day“ was held simultaneously in all regions of Ukraine. On this day, technology companies and research centers opened their doors for female pupils aged 14 and 15 to foster their interest in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM) and Responsible corresponding careers. The bank participated in the event in Kiev. 20 pupils from the eighth and ninth banker grade of a secondary school visited a digital branch of Raiffeisenbank Aval in Kiev. Various representatives from Human Resources, IT and digitization specialists National day of girls in technology, © Inna Vitkovska arranged an excursion and a workshop entitled ”Choosing a career path“. Fairer partner – Employee Fair partner – Inhouse ecology Engaged citizen GRI index and Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 112 Overview of key performance indicators RBI* RBI AG 2019 2018 Change over 2017 2019 2018 previous year Employees by gender, type of occupation and employment contract Employees 45,241 45,423 -0.4% 48,649 3,070 2,893 Male 34% 34% 1 PP 33% 53% 54% Female 66% 66% -1 PP 67% 47% 46% Full-time employees 95% 95% 0 PP 95% 71% 73% Male 35% 34% 1 PP 33% 64% 64% Female 65% 66% -1 PP 67% 36% 36% Part-time employees 5% 5% 0 PP 5% 29% 27% Male 21% 22% -1 PP 28% 26% 28% Female 79% 78% 1 PP 72% 74% 72% Employees with fixed contracts 87% 87% 1 PP 85% 84% 84% Male 35% 34% 1 PP 34% 54% 54% Female 65% 66% -1 PP 66% 46% 46% Central Europe 20% 20% 1 PP 26% Southeastern Europe 32% 33% -1 PP 32% 100% Eastern Europe 38% 38% 0 PP 34% 16% Austria 9% 9% 0 PP 8% 100% 100% Employees with limited contracts 13% 13% -1 PP 15% 16% 16% Male 28% 28% 0 PP 27% 48% 54% Female 72% 72% 0 PP 73% 52% 46% Central Europe 16% 20% -3 PP 27% Southeastern Europe 23% 18% 4 PP 17% 100% Eastern Europe 51% 53% -2 PP 50% Austria 10% 9% 1 PP 6% 100% 100% Employees by region Central Europe 20% 20% 0 PP 26% Male 39% 38% 0 PP 38% Female 61% 62% 0 PP 62% Southeastern Europe 31% 31% 0 PP 29% Male 27% 27% 0 PP 27% Female 73% 73% 0 PP 73% Eastern Europe 40% 40% -1 PP 37% Male 33% 32% 1 PP 31% Female 67% 68% -1 PP 69% Austria 9% 9% 1 PP 8% 100% 100% Male 52% 53% -1 PP 52% 53% 54% Female 48% 47% 1 PP 48% 47% 46% New hires1 Total 8,790 9,164 -4% 9,391 490 505 Share in percent of total headcount for: Employees total 19% 20% -1 PP 19% 16% 17% Employees under 30 years of age 11% 12% -1 PP 12% 9% 9% Employees between 30 and 49 years of age 8% 8% 0 PP 7% 7% 8% Employees over 49 years of age 1% 0% 0 PP 0% 0% 0% Men 7% 8% 0 PP 7% 8% 10% Women 12% 13% 0 PP 13% 8% 8% Central Europe 4% 4% 0 PP 5% Southeastern Europe 5% 4% 1 PP 4% Eastern Europe 10% 10% -1 PP 9% Austria 1% 1% 0 PP 1% 16% 17% Fluctuation (former employees)1 Total 9.316 8.214 13% 9.778 337 251 Share in percent of total headcount for: Employees total 21% 18% 3 PP 20% 11% 9% Employees under 30 years of age 8% 7% 1 PP 9% 4% 5% Employees between 30 and 49 years of age 11% 9% 1 PP 10% 5% 3% Employees over 49 years of age 2% 1% 1 PP 1% 2% 1% Men 7% 6% 1 PP 6% 7% 5% Women 14% 12% 2 PP 14% 4% 4% Central Europe 3% 3% 0 PP 6% Southeastern Europe 5% 4% 1 PP 4% Eastern Europe 11% 10% 1 PP 9% Austria 1% 1% 0 PP 1% 11% 9% * The values include the figures from the companies listed in the Overview chapter (reporting limits and data collection, page 8, first paragraph). 1 In 2017 and 2018, employees aged 50 and over were included in the age category employees between 30 and 49 years. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 113 Foreword Overview RBI* RBI AG 2019 2018 Change over 2017 2019 2018 previous year Average number of training hours for employees, by position Total 55 52 6% 53 33 27 Men 51 46 12% 48 33 26 Women 57 54 4% 56 33 28 B-1 72 79 -9% 64 36 29 B-2 77 62 23% 52 54 33 Management Other executives 52 53 -2% 50 33 37 Other employees 54 51 6% 54 32 25 Share of employees with Performance Management Total 81% 73% 8 PP 69% 89% 90% of sustainability Men 86% 77% 9 PP 74% 90% 91% Women 78% 72% 7 PP 67% 86% 90% B-1 99% 99% 0 PP 100% 100% 100% B-2 99% 100% 0 PP 99% 100% 100% Other managers 98% 83% 14 PP 83% 100% 100% Other employees 79% 71% 7 PP 67% 87% 89% Diversity Share of women Board 14% 14% 0 PP 12% 0% 0% Responsible B-1 35% 35% 0 PP 36% 20% 19% B-2 46% 46% 0 PP 45% 24% 20% Other managers 63% 63% 0 PP 62% 31% 26% banker Managers total 55% 55% -1 PP 54% 26% 23% Employess total 66% 66% -1 PP 67% 47% 46% Share of minority groups Employees with foreign citizenship Board 32% 33% 0 PP 35% 29% 29% B-1 5% 4% 1 PP 4% 20% 17% B-2 3% 2% 1 PP 2% 25% 21% Other managers 1% 1% 0 PP 1% 15% 13% Other employees 3% 3% 0 PP 2% 34% 31% Fairer partner – Age groups1 Board Board under 30 years of age 0% 0% 0 PP 0% 0% 0% Employee Board between 30 and 49 years of age 58% 61% -3 PP 60% 43% 57% Board over 49 years of age 42% 39% 3 PP 40% 57% 43% B-1 Employees under 30 years of age 0% 0% 0 PP 0% 0% 0% Employees between 30 and 49 years of age 77% 81% -4 PP 83% 49% 60% Employees over 49 years of age 23% 19% 4 PP 17% 51% 40% B-2 Employees under 30 years of age 1% 2% -1 PP 1% 0% 1% Fair partner – Employees between 30 and 49 years of age 81% 83% -2 PP 85% 73% 72% Employees over 49 years of age 17% 15% 3 PP 14% 27% 27% Other managers Inhouse ecology Employees uunder 30 years of age 4% 4% 0 PP 4% 1% 1% Employees between 30 and 49 years of age 76% 79% -3 PP 80% 81% 82% Employees over 49 years of age 20% 17% 3 PP 15% 18% 18% Other employees Employees under 30 years of age 27% 28% -1 PP 28% 22% 20% Employees between 30 and 49 years of age 61% 62% -1 PP 63% 62% 67% Employees over 49 years of age 12% 10% 1 PP 10% 16% 13% * The values include the figures from the companies listed in the Overview chapter (reporting limits and data collection, page 8, first paragraph). In 2017 and 2018, employees aged 50 and over were included in the age category employees between 30 and 49 years. Engaged 1 citizen GRI index and Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 114 Future outlook and Sustainability program The focus for 2020 remains on the implementation and anchoring of the new corporate vision, mission and values, and the corresponding transformation map. The key topics of employees, culture and organization are being addressed through a large number of accompanying initiatives. The HR learning management system ”cHaRlie“ that was newly implemented in 2018 will be further expanded in the future. Work is currently in progress to make online courses available on mobile devices from 2020. In 2020, we will adapt our performance management to be even more attuned to the specific needs of agile teams and organizational units designed in line with adaptive principles, thereby continuing to provide our employees and our company with the best possible support when it comes to achieving our transformation and growth targets. The ”Diversity 2020“ initiative in Austria will be continued. The focal areas of the empowerment of women and the inclusion of people with disabilities will continue, as will the LGBTI program. The topic of generation management will be anchored in the strategy. At the network banks, the local diversity strategies adopted in 2019 will be implemented. The focus at Group level is on increasing the proportion of women in executive management (see page 101). A new online training course for employees on the topic of sustainability will be rolled out on a Group-wide basis in 2020. This also includes the key area of diversity. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 115 Foreword Excerpt from the Sustainability program Overview General objective: Inclusive employer, high employer attractiveness SDGs Objective Measure Status Progress Establishment of a corporate culture Performance of the RBI Stakeholder Council 2019 (see page based on Vision 2025, the mission 35), performance of workshops and training for managers and and the corporate values employees Management Implementation of the Group-wide Appointment of diversity officers at all affected companies, diversity policy adoption of a local diversity strategy of sustainability Increase in the proportion of women Implementation of the focus on the empowerment of women that in executive management of the RBI was launched in 2016 at RBI AG; expansion of the initiatives to Group to 35 percent by 2024 include the entire RBI Group and evaluation of the ”Diversity 2020“ initiative Inclusion of people with disabilities Implementation of the planned activities in connection with the ”Diversity 2020“ initiative Adaptation of the RBI working Further development and implementation of the findings from the environment to changes brought Stakeholder Council 2018, continuously addressing and Responsible about by digitization positively shaping the digital transformation for the working world (see Sustainability Report 2018, page 95 et seq.) banker Maintain high level of employee Development of a package of measures and their enablement and engagement implementation on the basis of the employee surveys from 2018 to 2020 Realignment of the Performance Group-wide introduction for realigning the performance Management System management concept developed in 2016 by 2019 Raising awareness of sustainability Development of new online training for the entire RBI Group in among employees Austria and CEE Fairer partner – Further development of the Regular publication of sustainability articles, expansion of Employee ”Sustainability and corporate author pool responsibility“ blog Establishment of a newsletter for Quarterly preparation and distribution of a newsletter with sustainability and diversity at RBI in articles on sustainability and diversity Austria New In progress Complete Constantly Fair partner – Inhouse ecology Status (25% of target achieved per box filled) SDGs No High quality Gender Affordable and Poverty education Equality Clean Energy Decent Work and Industry, Innovation Climate Protection Peace, Justice and Economic Growth and Infrastructure Measures Strong Institutions Engaged citizen GRI index and Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 116 Field of action Fair partner – Inhouse ecology: for a climate-friendly future CORPORATE VALUE ”RESPONSIBILITY“ Image author: Martin von Malottke (Valida) Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 117 Foreword Fair partner – Inhouse ecology Overview The management of climate risks – not just in inhouse ecology – is an increasingly important task for the economy. It was not without reason that the World Economic Forum classifies climate change as one of the five greatest risks in the 2020 Global Risks Report. Companies that do not set climate protection targets or do so only to an Management inadequate extent or rather do not incorporate any climate-related aspects into their corporate strategy should expect that their profitability will suffer in the medium to long term. Effective climate protection has long been a of sustainability competitive factor in the capital market. We view environmental and climate protection as part of our responsibility toward society, and we see ourselves as a fair partner to the environment. The direct environmental impacts of our operational activities are limited compared with those of production industries. Nevertheless, RBI has the goal of limiting negative environmental impacts at all of its sites to the greatest possible extent, and – where possible – going beyond basic compliance with statutory requirements and demands. RBI is committed to minimizing its environmental impact as much as possible. The company therefore works to Responsible continuously improve the main environmental parameters in the most relevant areas. The environmental management system in Austria is based on international standards (ISO 14001). The network banks in CEE are also conscious banker of their responsibility for the environment and work to continuously improve the key performance indicators. In general, energy efficiency, renewable energy, environmentally friendly mobility and sustainable purchasing are particularly important in corporate environmental protection. Nevertheless, because of RBI‘s carbon footprints energy consumption in the contexts of building management and the mobility sector are the two most essential areas for action. These are also key for attaining the climate targets (see page 121). Fairer partner – Mission & Vision 2025 Employee In accordance with its new vision, RBI aspires to be the ”most frequently recommended financial service provider“ by 2025. This will be achieved through continuous innovation aimed at making customers‘ lives easier. RBI‘s mission for the general public also includes the aim of acting in a socially responsible manner and ”contributing to the Fair partner – long-term wellbeing of people and companies in our markets“. Inhouse ecology The Stakeholder Council 2019 discussed how the new mission can be optimally filled with life from a sustainability perspective at the topic tables (see page 35), with the areas of the environment and society being combined at the ”general public“ table. Following the collection of ideas in small groups, multiple clusters were created in the following topics: ”collaboration“, ”sustainable financing and investment“, ”internationalism and cross-border CSR projects in CEE“, ”education and awareness incl. financial literacy“, ”positioning and communication“, and ”digitization and Engaged support for the customer experience“. citizen The discussion that followed formulated specific measures, which were voted on by the participants using a points-based system. The following five topics received the highest points score and were subsequently discussed by the entire Stakeholder Council: GRI index and 1. Idea lab for sustainability 2. Supplier Code of Conduct for CEE 3. Institutionalize communication for cross-border sustainable projects (with NGOs) Assurance report 4. Systematic lobbying for green supporting factor 5. Make impact visible (e.g. define KPIs with NGOs) Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 118 One of the main areas of action for the future is the desire to develop a ”Supplier Code of Conduct“ for RBI. Other measures discussed in the small groups included ideas such as flagship projects aimed at raising awareness of sustainability in other countries, particularly in CEE. The idea to present the impact of projects in a transparent form was also expressed. The NGOs asked to be included to a greater extent. A joint communication channel was also suggested in order to enable cross-border projects at international level. Impacts, risks and opportunities The impacts of inhouse ecology activities on the environment and society are assessed annually. The most important indicator is the carbon footprint. The aim is to reduce emissions compared with the previous year. As the changes in the world‘s climate have far-reaching consequences which stretch beyond national borders, there is no regional limitation of effects in this regard. The impact of greenhouse gas emissions on the environment is entirely negative, however, use of renewable energy, or the promotion of energy efficiency, can lead to improvements in the situation. These areas also have a positive effect on society, for example by creating or preserving jobs. The greatest risk for the economy, society and environment – if companies are unwilling to counter climate change – is the onset of global warming with the known negative impacts. For this reason, RBI defined environmental targets for the entire group for the first time in 2015. The base year is 2011, the first year in which corporate environmental protection figures were recorded for the entire group. There are risks for RBI, particularly in terms of cost. Examples of such risks are one-off additional costs during work on the shell of the building and conversion to LED lighting. Additional costs can also accure due to higher procurement costs, combined with the longer time required to assess products and a smaller selection of suppliers and products in purchasing. RBI‘s due diligence process is diversified and includes, among other things, compliance with internationally recognized ISO standards, building certification and environmental labels (see also page 126). In addition, energy audits and management systems are used not only in Austria, but also at some network banks (see also page 126). The annual supplier survey is another important pillar of this process, with the infringement of environmental regulations being a particularly relevant element (see also page 125). Finally, the Environmental Committee is an important advisory body with the responsibility for passing on new findings with regard to greenhouse gas emissions and the environmental impact of the key impact categories from RBI AG to the network banks. RBI is making a positive contribution to society with concrete steps related to environmental management. We are contributing to meeting the goals of the UN Climate Change Conference in Paris (COP 21) by working to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and promoting the renewable energy sector of the economy. The area of consistent cost-cutting offers an important opportunity for RBI in inhouse ecology. Because business travel and energy consumption are among the largest generators of emissions in inhouse ecology, measures to reduce these influence factors bring the greatest cost savings in the course of operations. Furthermore, reputation risks are minimized, new collaborations in research and development are fostered, and resilience in the face of the consequences of climate change is increased. Risks in the added value chain, for example due to delivery delays, are reduced by purchasing regional products. This risk is minimized with a regional procurement share of around 85 percent at RBI. The impact of core business on the environment is described in the ”Responsible Banker“ chapter on page 55. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 119 Foreword Sustainable Development Goals Overview Two of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) were classified as particularly relevant for RBI in inhouse ecology. These include SDG 13 ”Climate Protection Measures“ as well as SDG 7 ”Affordable and Clean Energy“. It is important to counteract climate change by reducing direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions. RBI‘s options for exerting direct influence on the environment predominantly lie in the areas of energy consumption (electricity and heat) and the mobility sector, and to a lesser extent, waste production, as well as resource and water consumption. All these areas can be found in the Sustainable Development Goals, for example SDG 6 Management (water), SDG 7 (energy, and proportion of green electricity, energy efficiency), SDG 12 (consumption and production/waste) and SDG 13 (climate protection). Water consumption and waste have a relatively small of sustainability footprint at RBI, which is why SDG 6 and SDG 12 are not listed separately. Environmental targets With reference to the UN Climate Change Conference in Paris (COP 21), RBI has set itself the target of reducing its CO2 emissions by 35 percent by 2025, 40 percent by 2030 and 65 Responsible percent by 2050 (Scope 1+2 and separately for Scope 3). This will be achieved by means of energy efficiency, a higher proportion of green electricity, a reduction in business travel and banker information measures for employees, who are key players when it comes to achieving the environmental targets. Since 2011, CO2 emissions have already been reduced by 29 percent Fairer partner – in Scope 1 and Scope 2 and by 23 100% green electricity in Austria percent in Scope 3. Overall (Scope 1Reduction of energy related 100% of the new employees trained in 3), emissions have dropped 26 percent since 2011. emissions by 35% Employee environmental issues RBI is well on the way to achieving the defined reduction targets by 2030. At 38 percent, RBI‘s Share of 35% green proportion of green electricity is above the EU electricity in CEE target, which stipulates that the proportion of renewable energy should increase to 27 percent Published environmental and Environmental by 2030. sustainability requirements for goals of RBI Reduction of paper, Fair partner – suppliers waste, water and business by 2025* travel related emissions by 25% Inhouse ecology Central tool for the implementation and further development of the environmental targets is the Training in environmental environmental management system in Austria, which 20% reduction issues offered to all employees in air travel is operated in accordance with the requirements of CO2 avoidance before offsetting ISO 14001 (certified since 1998). In addition, the greenhouse gases have been validated for RBI since 2013 in accordance with ISO 14064-3. Doubling of the vehicles powered by alternative Ongoing communication of the environmental goals and Engaged citizen energy sources in the transparent presentation of The Environmental Committee, Group Sustainability company fleet goal attainment Management, Facility Management and Sustainability Officers at the network banks are primarily responsible *The base year is 2011, the ﬁrst year in which inhouse related data were recorded for the entire group * The base year is 2011, the first year in which inhouse related data were recorded for the entire group for implementing and evaluating the achievement of our goals. Details on the goals can be found on our website GRI index and at: www.rbinternational.com/sustainabilitymanagement. Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 120 Target path CO2 reduction of RBI 26% CO2 reduction 35% CO2 reduction CO2 65% CO2 reduction CO2 CO2 CO2 132,809 t CO2e 97,636 t CO2e 86,326 t CO2e 46,483 t CO2e Base year 2011 2019 Target value 2025 Target value 2050 Digitization and climate protection Digitization and climate protection are not incompatible. Among other things, this was the finding of a small group discussion on ”environmental problems“ at RBI‘s Stakeholder Council in 2018. Digitization has revolutionized the way we live, work, and communicate. Without it, many facts about climate change would be unknown both locally and globally. These facts have enabled scientists to make more accurate predictions concerning the consequences of our actions and to derive recommended actions for politicians and businesses. The resulting action areas have led to technical developments and more intelligent heating and cooling systems that we are now using to significantly reduce energy consumption. The comfort of people and company employees has also benefited as a result. Digitization has been a key factor in the increased use of green electricity in the energy supply. The occasional volatility of green electricity can now be controlled using storage systems so that it can be supplied to consumers as needed. Furthermore, digitization has helped to drive a breakthrough in the closed-loop economy. For example, 96 percent of RBI‘s waste is non-hazardous and 17 percent of it is recycled. Thanks to connected information, it is easier to track resources in terms of location and volume. We now also have the necessary transparency to control resource flows more efficiently in terms of the waste generated. These are just some examples of how companies – including RBI – can harness the opportunities provided by digitization in order to help them achieve their climate targets. At the same time, data centers and new communication solutions consume a lot of energy. However, these applications also enable features such as web conferencing, which will cut down on business travel in the medium to long term. Increased energy consumption is more environmentally friendly than the emissions caused by business travel. This also explains why energy consumption accounts for the largest share of emissions at RBI. Preventing rebound effects is taken into account when defining inhouse ecology measures, as this can account for an increase of more than 20 percent in savings. For example, upper limits in energy consumption are observed and addressed if and when they are exceeded. In order to minimize RBI‘s overall ecological footprint, the Environmental Committee regularly addresses RBI‘s environmental targets and their achievement and discusses their adjustment to reflect developments and trends. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 121 Foreword Overview of greenhouse gas emissions Overview Since the 2019 financial year, the environmental figures have included the data for the head offices as well as the branches of the network banks, thus covering more than 90 percent of all employees. The data for the branches has been calculated retroactively in order to improve comparability with the prior-year figures and the base year. This calculation was based on the Scope 1-3 changes in the respective regions and the employee Management changes in the respective countries. The base year 2011 was also recalculated to reflect the new report scope. The data is presented for RBI, which consists of the network banks in CEE, RBI AG and the Austrian subsidiaries of sustainability (see page 8). The following graphic shows the environmentally relevant areas of RBI and their impact on CO2e emissions1. CO2e emission of RBI in 2019 CO2e emissions Energy Responsible The total CO2e of RBI in 2019 was 97,636 t location based Energy consumption makes up about 72 percent of emissions with banker or 102,473 t market based (minus six percent on the 70,699 t CO2e (minus eight percent on the previous year or minus previous year or minus 26 percent on 2011).The biggest 26 percent on 2011) and is the biggest cause of our emissions. Most of this key performance indicators of our CO2e emissions are is evident in Scope 2, but partly also in Scopes 1 and 3. energy consumption and business travel. Furthermore, most of the emissions (51 percent) fall in Scope 2 (mostly caused RBI’s share of green electricity is about 38 percent. by power consumption, partly by air traffic), followed by Scope 3 with 42 percent (power consumption is also in first place here). In third place is Scope 1 with seven percent, mostly caused by business travel with own cars. Business travel Fairer partner – Business travel makes up about Employee 14 percent of emissions with 13,547 t CO2e Waste (minus eight percent on the previous year or With 4,586 t CO2e, waste is negligible and minus 23 percent on 2011), while parcel makes up about five percent of emissions service and transport of goods accounts for (plus eight percent on the previous year or less than one percent with 1,029 t CO2e minus 22 percent on 2011). The effects are according to recent surveys. Transport is evident only in Scope 3. therefore the secondbiggest cause of our emissions. This has an effect on both Scope 1 and Scope 3. Fair partner – Material Water Inhouse ecology Material consumption (especially paper consumption) makes up The share of water consumption in our emissions is negligible at 112 kg about eight percent of emissions with 7,775 t CO2e (plus seven CO2e and nearly zero percent (minus ten percent on the previous year or on the previous year or minus 34 percent on 2011). minus 20 percent on 2011). The CO2e emissions are solely in Scope 3. The effects are evident only in Scope 3. CO2e emissions of RBI result from Energy 72.4% Business travel Material 8.0% 13.9% Engaged citizen Waste 4.7% Parcel service and transport of goods 1.0% Water 0.0% Scope 1 n 7% Scope 2 nn 51% Scope 3 nn 42% GRI index and Assurance report 1 CO2e is the conversion of the hazard potential of the relevant, climate-influencing gases into an equivalent amount of CO2. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 122 The graphic shows that the biggest items of CO2e emissions of RBI (total of 97,636 tons (t) location-based, down six percent compared with the previous year and 26 percent compared with 2011) relate to energy consumption and business travel. Particularly relevant is the division of the emissions into three ”Scopes“, which define the classification of the CO2 emissions according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: • Scope 1 comprises all greenhouse gas emissions produced directly in the company, e.g. from the combustion of stationary sources (such as power plants, boilers), from the combustion of mobile sources (such as from the company‘s own fleet), from the © denkstatt.eu production processes and from transient emissions. Christian Plas, Managing Director • Scope 2 comprises indirect emissions that arise from the company of Denkstatt being supplied with energy, i.e. when an energy supplier makes ”With her program in December 2019, power or heat available for a company. Commission President Ursula von der Leyen showed from the very highest level that it is time • Scope 3 comprises all other emissions caused within the limits of to end a way of thinking that has curbed the system, e.g. business travel using planes, trains and external positive developments for decades now: car fleets, as well as office supplies (such as paper). ‘Sustainability costs money that we cannot afford!‘ Instead, von der Leyen is saying: ’This Most emissions, 51 percent, can be found in Scope 2 (mainly change is an opportunity for Europe as an caused by electricity consumption), followed by Scope 3 with 42 economic area!‘ percent (here too, electricity consumption is in first place). At seven The Green Deal is turning a number of prejudices on their head and proactively percent, Scope 1 is in third place and is caused by business travel addressing the major challenges of the change (with the company‘s own vehicle fleet), in addition to the purchase we are seeing. The energy and mobility of electricity from third parties. Details are published on our website transition create the chance to combine the (www.rbinternational.com/sustainabilitymanagement). sustainable development of society with value generation. This will also have a huge impact on the financial sector, whose important role is CDP highlighted in the new Commission‘s program. The previous Commission had Since 2011, RBI has participated in the annual evaluation by CDP, already shaken up the financial world with the a non-profit organization (NPO) that evaluates the CO2 emissions EU Action Plan, leading to a whole new degree of listed companies in more than 90 countries on behalf of investors. of seriousness when it comes to addressing the questions of climate change and the The aim is to encourage transparency on the part of companies with technological revolution. regard to their targets and strategies, resulting in a reduction in CO2 In addition to the challenges in terms of emissions. infrastructure financing (an additional EUR 200-300 billion per year for climate neutrality by 2050), this involves radical decarbonization In 2019, more than 8,400 companies reported their in a form that goes beyond the purchase of CO2 data to CDP. Only 925 companies worldwide CO2 certificates. This means rearranging and 159 companies from the Germany, Austria and mobility processes and the way in which energy Switzerland region secured a place on the CDP is used and supplied. Electricity and heating are Leadership List (A and A-) in 2019. RBI is one of the five best responsible for more than 70 percent of RBI‘s companies in Austria to be included in this ranking. In addition, carbon footprint, with business travel RBI is the best domestic financial sector company for the fifth year accounting for a further 15 percent. These are in a row. RBI was recognized by CDP for the seventh successive the major operational challenges for inhouse year for its high standard in answering the questionnaire. RBI was ecology in the coming years.“ also identified as a leader for its cooperation with suppliers in the area of climate protection and included in the CDP Supplier Engagement Leaderboard for the first time (see also page 40). QUOTE Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 123 Foreword Compliance with legal regulations Overview Compliance with legal regulations is subjected to a stringent procedure defined in the management system. Thus, in 2019, at the Vienna sites as well as the network banks, there were no convictions for violations of environmental protection regulations. Overview of measures Management Austria CE SEE EE of sustainability Topic Measure RBI AG RBSK RKAG RL Valida RCB Kathrein TBSK RBCZ RBHU RBAL RBBH RBBG RBKO RBHR RBRO RBRS RBBY RBRU AVAL Compliance No violation of environmental ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ legislation Please see the list of abbreviations for the complete company designations. Environmental Committee Responsible banker In accordance with their responsibility for environmental measures, the Management Boards of RBI AG appointed an Environmental Officer and an Environmental Committee in 1994. The Environmental Committee is the advisory and decision-making committee. Permanent members are the Environmental Officer of RBI AG as well as representatives of Group Sustainability Management and of the Staff Council. Depending on the field Fairer partner – of expertise, other representatives of the departments, such as IT, Marketing or Procurement, are involved in the meetings. The Environmental Officer convenes the Environmental Committee at least twice a year. Tasks of the Environmental Committee include developing decision-making principles for Employee the Management Board regarding ecological strategies, planning and initiatives, as well as conducting periodic present-state assessments and weak point analysis. Topics in recent years included the implementation of a climate policy and climate strategy within the scope of Fair partner – membership in the Raiffeisen Sustainability Initiative (see page 150) and support for awareness-raising measures and events, such as the bicycle repair days. These events are held annually to support environmentally conscious Inhouse ecology mobility of employees. The increased use of new technological solutions, particularly in order to save on business travel, was dealt with, among other things. Environmental policy Engaged citizen RBI has had an environmental policy since 2015. As a sustainably operating banking group, the traditional Raiffeisen values were the central point of reference for its design. The contents of the environmental policy are included in the sustainability guiding principles of RBI in the areas of product ecology, inhouse ecology and climate-friendly society, as published on the website at GRI index and www.rbinternational.com/sustainabilitymanagement. With respect to the area of inhouse ecology, for example, the guiding principles state that RBI is committed to continuously improving its services for the environment beyond regulatory requirements, where possible and reasonable. Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 124 Travel policy RBI‘s travel policy contains rules for traveling to events and conferences, and defines framework conditions for business trips in Austria and abroad. The travel policy was revised in accordance with environmental factors in October 2013. The choice of means of transport must take into account economic and environmental considerations. This applies to the Austrian units including the subsidiaries, and also provides a framework for the network banks. To save costs and protect the environment, business trips should where possible be replaced by available technologies, such as web and video conferences. The mode of transport to be used should result in the lowest costs, taking travel time into consideration. Furthermore, environmentally friendly means of transport (e.g. public transportation) are preferred. Development of Scope 1-3 emissions The following overview shows the development of RBI and RBI AG‘s greenhouse gas emissions in accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Scope 1-3 emissions of RBI* in t CO2e in 2011, 2018 and 2019 140,000 132,809 120,000 104,056 97,636 100,000 80,000 60,000 40,000 20,000 3,708 5,288 4,688 0 2011 2018 2019 RBI RBI AG RBI RBI AG RBI RBI AG n Scope 1 emissions n Scope 2 emissions location based n Scope 3 emissions * The values consist of the figures for the companies listed in the chapter Overview (Report scope and data collection, page 8, first paragraph). Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 125 Foreword Supplier evaluation and purchasing Overview RBI AG has around 2,200 suppliers which mainly provide services to the Head Office in Vienna and RBI. The biggest expenses are in the areas of IT, facility management, consulting, and marketing. Suppliers are selected and classified according to selected criteria, and sustainability criteria are factored into this through considerations of regionality. All of RBI‘s suppliers must observe the Code of Conduct (CoC) and its principles, which include Management compliance with laws, a ban on corruption and fraud, upholding employees‘ basic rights and environmental regulations. of sustainability Overview of measures Austria CE SEE EE Topic Measure RBI AG RBSK RKAG RL Valida RCB Kathrein TBSK RBCZ RBHU RBAL RBBH RBBG RBKO RBHR RBRO RBRS RBBY RBRU AVAL Supplier Inquiry of environmental and ✓* ✓* ✓* ✓* ✓* n.a. ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ social standards Responsible * Done by ZHS Office& Facilitymanagement GmbH Please see the list of abbreviations for the complete company designations. Purchasing for RBI is partly carried out via RBI AG or for subsidiaries via ZHS Office& Facilitymanagement banker GmbH (ZHS). The latter takes on the following tasks for RBI AG: Building & property administration, building management, energy management, space & relocation management, event support, purchasing of office supplies, waste management and environmental protection. Acting responsibly towards the environment and society, the ZHS revised supplier-related requirements in 2013. Criteria taken into consideration include quality and costs as well as inquiries about supplier distance, compliance Fairer partner – with industry standards, agreements and guidelines on the environment and sustainability (e.g. UNGC) and maintenance of certifications (quality, environment, employee protection, such as ISO 9001, ISO 14001, EMAS). Apart from the obligatory annual check on supplier criteria, key environmental and social data are also surveyed via a questionnaire. All suppliers of ZHS must meet certain sustainability criteria, which are electronically Employee recorded and analyzed. If these criteria are not met, no business relationship will be entered into. A key supplier in Austria is Raiffeisen Informatik GmbH, which has set itself the goal, in terms of sustainability management, of combining successful economic activity with responsibility for the environment and society. Raiffeisen Informatik aims to shape the use and provision of information technology in an environmentally friendly Fair partner – and resource-efficient manner across its entire life cycle. Additionally, RBI‘s top suppliers, provided purchasing is performed centrally, are surveyed annually on topics including environmental and/or socially relevant certificates Inhouse ecology for the company and/or for products and/or services purchased from RBI, proceedings due to the infringement of environmental regulations, and indicators on mobility (km/tkm1). 86 percent of suppliers responded, and 72 top suppliers (based on revenues) were surveyed. The feedback shows the following results: • 57 percent of suppliers have environmental certificates and 44 percent have social standards for their company. Engaged • 52 percent of suppliers publish their environmental and social data. Around 23 percent of suppliers have this data audited. citizen • 4 4 percent of suppliers have entered into a commitment with respect to sustainable aspects (e.g. UNGC, Diversity Charter). • No suppliers are in proceedings due to the infringement of environmental regulations. GRI index and RBI sees the survey as an important step towards raising more awareness among our suppliers and will continue with it. Assurance report 1 Ton kilometers or tkm are calculated on the basis of the transported mass in tons and the distance covered in kilometers. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 126 Environmental measures The central measures in the environmental areas of greatest importance for RBI are presented in brief in the overview below. Overview of measures Austria CE SEE EE Topic Measure RBI AG RBSK RKAG RL Valida RCB Kathrein TBSK RBCZ RBHU RBAL RBBH RBBG RBKO RBHR RBRO RBRS RBBY RBRU AVAL Environmental ISO 14001 ✓* ✓* ✓* ✓* ✓* ✓ ✓ certificates ISO 50001 ✓ ✓ Energy audit ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Energy LED ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ savings Light sensors ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ and effciency Evening/weekend ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ mode Computer/printer ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ with energy labels Adaptions in ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ heating/cooling Other measures ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Renewable PV/geothermal energy energy in/on the ✓ ✓ ✓ building Green electricity in ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ n.r. the power mix Business Support of public ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ travel & transportation commuting Web and video ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ conferencing Bicycle parking ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ spaces Fleet Fleet cars with low ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ CO2 emissions E-cars, ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ hybrid vehicles Shuttle bus service ✓ ✓ ✓ Material Measures for ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ consumption reducing consumption Paper with an ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ environmental label Waste Waste seperation ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓** ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓*** Waste management ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ system Increase of recycling n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. n.r. ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ waste Water Measures for ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ reducing consumption Employee E.g. in the form information of trainings and ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ via intranet Please see the list of abbreviations for the complete company designations. * ISO 14001 Facility Management ** Only paper *** Waste outsourced Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 127 Foreword CO2e emissions Overview As in the previous year, quantitative data relating to inhouse ecology was collected using the ”mona“ software. Since the 2019 financial year, the environmental figures have included the data for the head offices as well as the branches in CEE, thus covering more than 90 percent of all employees. The data for the branches has been extrapolated backwards for 2018 and 2011. The calculation was based on the Scope 1-3 changes in the respective Management regions and the employee changes in the respective countries. The base year 2011 was also recalculated on the basis of the current group structure. Average CO2e emissions (calculated with the emission factor ecoinvent v3.4) for 2019 came to of sustainability 97,636 tons (t) (location-based) and were reduced by 26 percent compared with 2011 (the first reporting date). Of this figure, 7,073 t of CO2e (seven percent) was allocated to Scope 1, 49,708 t (51 percent) to Scope 2 (location-based) and 40,856 t (42 percent) to Scope 3. The greatest reduction compared with 2011 was achieved in Scope 2 (down 30 percent). In Scope 1, emissions have fallen by 24 percent since 2011, while Scope 3 has seen a reduction of 23 percent. Emissions were reduced by six percent compared with the previous year. Responsible Data quality is collected on the basis of three grades: The best data quality is 1 (exact), followed by 2 (calculated). banker Most of the corporate environmental protection data is exact or calculated. Only the areas of materials and water are classified in the lower category 3 (estimated) in terms of their data quality. RBI is endeavoring to improve data quality in both of these areas. Reductions 2019 to 2018 Reductions 2019 to 2011 45,558,179 liter water 87,161,147 liter water Fairer partner – Employee 55,489,415 sheets of paper 538,736,366 sheets of paper 14,990,548 kWh energy 29,464,411 kWh energy Fair partner – 6,468,361 driven pkm 11,813,755 driven pkm Inhouse ecology no reduction in waste 1,797,471 kg waste 6,419,562 kg CO2 35,172,861 kg CO2 This corresponds to the CO2 emissions that are emitted of around 4,200 four-person households in Austria through This corresponds to the CO2 emissions that are emitted of around 22,900 four-person households in Austria through Engaged citizen their annual electricity consumption. their annual electricity consumption. At 70,699 t CO2e, energy consumption accounts for around 72 percent of emissions (down eight percent compared with the previous year and 26 GRI index and percent compared with 2011) and is the biggest source of emissions for RBI. Electricity consumption accounts for 91 percent of this figure, while heating demand accounts for approx. nine percent. The emissions particularly arise in Assurance report 72.4 percent of total CO2 emissions Scope 2 as well as in Scope 1 and 3. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 128 RBI‘s total energy consumption was around 216 GWh in 2019 (down six percent compared with the previous year). Around 137 GWh was required for electricity and around 79 GWh for heating. The average energy consumption per employee per year is 4,551 kWh. RBI‘s proportion of green electricity is around 38 percent. Mobility generates 13,547 t of CO2e, which corresponds to around 14 percent of emissions (eight percent less than the previous year and 23 percent less than in 2011). Travel is thus RBI‘s second biggest source of emissions. It arises in both Scope 1 and Scope 3. 13.5 percent of total CO2 emissions Business travel at RBI amounts to around 62 million pkm (passenger kilometers; pkm are calculated on the basis of the number of persons carried and the distance covered). The average per employee per year is 1,316 pkm. Comparing the means of transport (in terms of pkm), air travel accounts for the largest proportion at 54 percent, followed by car travel at 40 percent, and travel by train at around six percent. RBI‘s vehicle fleet is particularly environmentally friendly with an average of 125 g of CO2 emissions per km. At 7,775 t CO2e, material consumption accounts for around eight percent of emissions (up seven percent on the previous year and down 34 percent compared with 2011), making it the third biggest source of emissions. The impacts are felt solely in Scope 3. The proportion of recycled materials in paper purchasing is 67 percent. 8.0 percent of total CO2 emissions In total, RBI used around 2,556 tons of paper in 2019. Paper consumption per employee amounted to 10,836 sheets per year. At 4,586 t CO2e (up eight percent on the previous year and down 22 percent compared with 2011), waste is also negligible and accounts for just under five percent of emissions. The impacts are felt solely in Scope 3. The quantity of waste produced by RBI amounts to about 7,908 tons per year or 4.7 percent of total CO2 emissions 167 kg/employee and consists of 96 percent non-hazardous waste. Almost 62 percent of waste is brought to landfill sites, approx. 17 percent is incinerated and around 17 percent is recycled. Electrical devices account for around four percent. The parcel service and transport of goods accounts for around one percent of emissions at 1,029 t CO2e (a comparison with 2011 is not possible because this indicator was not recorded for the entire group in 2011). The km/tkm values of the suppliers reported in the supplier survey were collected internally but not included due to insufficient verifiability. The impacts of the emissions 1.1 percent of total CO2 emissions are felt primarily in Scope 3. The parcel service and the transport of goods at RBI amounts to around 526,868 tkm (tkm are calculated on the basis of the weight transported and the distance covered). Water use (exclusively tap water) takes last place at 112 kg, thereby causing almost zero percent emissions. Total water consumption in 2019 amounted to 353 million m3, corresponding to 7,460 liters per employee per year. 0.0 percent of total CO2 emissions Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 129 Foreword Overview of key performance indicators Overview The inhouse ecology key figures of RBI and RBI AG are shown in the following table. RBI* RBI AG Management 2019 2018 Change to Base year Change from 2019 2018 previous year 2011 2019 to 2011 Material of sustainability Non-recycled paper in t 841 929 -10% 1,745 -52% 19 23 Recycled-paper in t 1,715 1,903 -10% 3,498 -51% 35 42 Total papier in t 2,556 2,833 -10% 5,244 -51% 54 65 Paper consumption in sheets/employee 10,836 12,499 -13% 19,358 -44% 2,888 4,468 Energy Total energy consumption in MWh 215,994 230,690 -6% 245,256 -12% 16,956 19,552 Share of renewable electricity 38% 36% 2 PP 31% 7 PP 100% 100% Total energy consumption in kWh/employee 4,570 5,079 -10% 4,518 1% 4,502 6,749 Responsible Water Tap water consumption in million liters 353 398 -11% 440 -20% 38 38 Water consumption in liters/employee 7,460 8,760 -15% 8,100 -8% 10,030 13,270 Waste banker Hazardous waste for incineration in t 0.0 0.0 -98% 0.2 -99% 0.0 0.0 Hazardous waste for landfill in t 4 6 -24% 7 -34% 0.0 0.0 Hazardous waste for recycling in t 19 25 -24% 31 -38% 0.4 0.4 Non-hazardous waste for incineration in t 1,300 1,128 15% 2,016 -36% 249 132 Non-hazardous waste for landfill in t 4,934 4,678 5% 6,020 -18% 0.0 0.0 Non-hazardous waste for recycling in t 1,355 862 57% 1,303 4% 379 324 Fairer partner – Old-electronic devices for recycling in t 296 208 42% 329 -10% 0.8 0.7 Total hazardous waste in t 24 31 -24% 38 -37% 0.4 0.5 Total non-hazardous waste in t 7,589 6,669 14% 9,339 -19% 628 456 Employee Waste in kg/employee 167 152 10% 179 -6% 167 158 Business travel 1,000 pkm total 62,211 68,679 -9% 74,025 -16% 14,260 14,147 Business travel in pkm/employee 1,316 1,512 -13% 1,364 -3% 3,787 4,883 CO2 emissions1 Scope 1 emissions in t 7,073 7,696 -8% 9,304 -24% 221 351 Fair partner – Scope 2 emissions location based in t 49,708 53,825 -8% 70,684 -30% 1,361 1,683 Scope 2 emissions market based in t 54,545 57,613 -5% n.a. n.a. 3,166 3,589 Scope 3 emissions in t 40,856 42,535 -4% 52,821 -23% 3,106 3,255 Inhouse ecology Scope 1+2 emissions loc. based in t 56,781 61,521 -8% 79,988 -29% 1,582 2,034 Scope 1-3 emissions loc. based in t 97,636 104,056 -6% 132,809 -26% 4,688 5,288 Scope 1+2 emissions loc. based in kg/employee 1,201 1,355 -11% 1,473 -18% 420 702 Scope 1-3 emissions loc. based in kg/employee 2,066 2,291 -10% 2,446 -16% 1,245 1,825 Fleet CO2 emissions of the fleet in g/km 125 130 -4% n.a. n.a. 135 135 Purchasing Procurement from local suppliers 85% 84% 1 PP n.a. n.a. 100% 100% Engaged *The values consist of the figures for the companies listed in the Overview chapter (Report scope and data collection, page 8, first paragraph).page 8, first paragraph). citizen 1 CO2 emissions for all years are calculated on the basis of the ecoinvent v3.4 factors. GRI index and Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 130 Future outlook and Sustainability program Environmental protection, along with conservation of resources and mobility, is one of the mega-trends of this century and is changing the awareness and behavior of humans and companies in a variety of ways. The primary goal of international climate policy, agreed on during the Paris Climate Agreement (COP 21) in December 2015 and implemented in October 2016, describes limiting global warming to below 2°C, which is consistent with the scientific findings of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) and Agenda 2030. The central task in the management of environmental trends for the purpose of inhouse ecology involves contributing towards the attainment of the Paris climate goals for RBI. This includes the identifying of strategically important areas of energy consumption and the mobility sector. In times of dynamic and regulatory environmental development, the main environmental opportunities for, and risks to companies must also be reviewed in the strategic analysis. For RBI, these primarily include economic, political and social changes, changes to the market and in the supply chain. Environmental targets and measures are adjusted as necessary. The EU‘s priorities in the area of renewable energy and energy efficiency have a supporting effect, as these topics are also of great importance to RBI. In addition to innovative programs to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, they will be key to achieving RBI‘s environmental targets. RBI set environmental targets for the entire group many years ago. As a result of the dynamic developments in 2019, these were adjusted to reflect the 2°C target of COP 21 and the latest scientific findings, which involves a higher CO2 reduction per year according to the latest IPCC reports. In the coming years, the climate targets defined by RBI will continue to be pursued. The relevance of this development is underlined by the EU ”Green Deal“ that was presented in late 2019. Two targets in particular are notable: Firstly, the EU plans to become climate-neutral by 2050. Secondly, the EU intends to reduce its greenhouse gases by between 50 and 55 percent of the 1990 figure by 2030, replacing the previous target of 40 percent. Among other things, this will be achieved through modifications to the energy supply, accelerating the expansion of green energy, and targeted strategies for clean transport including new emission limits for cars. Both of these aspects will undoubtedly also have a positive impact on ecological company targets and lead to additional CO2 reductions. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 131 Foreword Excerpt from the Sustainability program Overview General objective: Reduction in environmental impacts SDGs Objective Measure Status Progress Implementation of a climate Elaboration of a Group-wide environmental policy strategy in inhouse ecology Energy reduction Increase in energy efficiency and the proportion of Management renewable energy Reduction in business travel Establishment of videoconferencing systems, software for of sustainability video and voice calls in the workplace, etc. Make the vehicle fleet more Conversion of fleet to more environmentally friendly environmentally friendly vehicles with lower CO2 emissions Increase in proportion of recycled Cooperation with partner companies offering materials in waste corresponding waste recycling Survey of the status of the top Implementation of a supplier survey, in which they suppliers with regard to their receive a corresponding questionnaire once a year environmental and social aspects Revision of RBI‘s environmental Adaptation of the goals in accordance with the elaborated Responsible goals climate strategy as part of the Raiffeisen Sustainability Initiative Expansion of employee Integration of awareness information on the intranet banker information Audit of climate-relevant emissions Collection of inhouse ecology related figures for the calculation of RBI’s CO2e emissions Supplier policy Elaboration of a group-wide supplier policy Fairer partner – Raising awareness of sustainability Expansion of the existing online training to the subsidiaries in among employees Austria and CEE Employee Contribution to the Sustainable Reduction of CO2 emissions and implementation of Development Goals (SDGs) appropriate measures New In progress Complete Constantly Status (25% of target achieved per box filled) Fair partner – SDGs Affordable and Decent Work and Climate Protection Clean Energy Economic Growth Measures Inhouse ecology Engaged citizen GRI index and Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 132 Field of action Engaged citizen: As a designer of a sustainable society and the environment CORPORATE VALUE ”COLLABORATION“, ”LEARNING” AND ”RESPONSIBILITY“ Image author: Ulf Wallmann (RBI) Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 133 Foreword Engaged citizen Overview We consider ourselves to be an engaged corporate citizen that actively champions sustainable development in our society. RBI‘s commitment as a corporate citizen goes beyond its core business and aims to counteract social problems, promote cultural life, and protect the environment. Diversity, tolerance, and a strong focus on people are the constants of our efforts to shape the sustainable development of society. As defined in its sustainability strategy, RBI‘s key areas of action – including in its role as a committed corporate citizen – always take economic, social and environmental factors into consideration. Management At RBI AG, a policy that applies to all employees governs the procedure for donations, sponsorship and of sustainability advertising requests as well as memberships. Most recently revised at RBI AG for RBI in 2019, this regulation again underlines the fact that RBI strives to promote the long-term wellbeing of people and companies in the markets in which it operates. RBI‘s role is based on the following three pillars: • the understanding to act in harmony with the cooperative mission of its dominant owners and towards sustainable entrepreneurship, active civil society and environmentally friendly society; • the assertion of the group‘s own set of principles and beliefs; • specific regional requirements of RBI‘s subsidiaries. Responsible RBI defines its mission with respect to its Sponsorship and Donations Policy as follows: banker • RBI works to strengthen democracy, rule of law, as well as social cohesion and diversity. • RBI is engaged in advancing international exchange and understanding with a strong focus on the European Union in general and CEE in particular (”bridging“). • RBI supports the pursuit of excellence as a means of promoting relevant progress in society – be it in civic, economic, academic and cultural life. • R BI supports initiatives that address social causes. Accordingly, RBI actively seizes opportunities to meet the challenges within the European Union. This includes its Fairer partner – membership of ”European Movement International“ (EMI), the largest pan-European network of pro-European organizations. Employee Founded 70 years ago, EMI continuously advocates in favor of European cooperation and integration based on the principles of peace, democracy, liberty, solidarity, equality, justice, respect for human rights and the rule of law. EMI is present in 34 countries and encompasses 38 international associations. Fair partner – EMI has created a platform to encourage and facilitate the active participation of citizens and stakeholders from a cross-section of sectors in the development of European solutions to common challenges. EMI aims to be the Inhouse ecology place where civil society, business, trade unions, NGOs, political parties, local authorities and academia come together to craft a way forward for the European Union. It develops new ideas to address economic and political challenges. EMI enables its members to discuss the bigger issues with organizations representing other parts of society and shape the debate on the future of Europe. While national rules are in place at the network banks, the Code of Conduct (see page 21 onward) forbids any Group employee from using charitable contributions as a condition or means of influencing decisions or public Engaged officials under any circumstances. citizen In our role as an engaged citizen, we champion issues that are essential to becoming a sustainable society. In this context, sustainability is not limited to environmental protection, but rather combines this with economic progress and social justice. GRI index and As an international banking group, we believe it is important for us to play a part in ensuring that future issues relating to a sustainable financial economy are discussed openly and deliberated with our stakeholders and the wider public (see the ”Responsible banker“ chapter starting on page 43). Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 134 Cooperation with the relevant socio-political representatives and stakeholders is extremely important, as new systems that also mean a new quality of economic activity can be created only through cooperation. The RBI Group champions active citizenship and the common good. It supports an open society and considers itself to be a promoter of integration, awareness, and openness. Social awareness is a driving force for sustainability. This is why RBI seeks to highlight the effects of social action and make the discussion of sustainable solutions public. At Raiffeisen, protecting the environment and the climate has been incorporated into the ”Raiffeisen NachhaltigkeitsInitiative“ (Raiffeisen Sustainability Initiative, RNI) since 2007 and is implemented through a multitude of projects and measures. The RNI sees itself as a platform and a service and representational device for all the sustainabilityrelated activities of its members (with RBI AG being one of the founding members). It supports its members in designing, implementing, and communicating measures in this area. Driving sustainability and raising awareness are among the priorities of the platform. In order to achieve long-term success, dialog with internal and external stakeholders and comprehensive communication were of great importance from the outset. For example, an annual networking event was established to enable the sharing of best practices together with expert lectures and panel discussions. In addition to the RNI website, we have hosted a separate, content-rich eco-energy blog since 2015. Selected collaborations, such as the student ideas competition ”Jugend Innovativ“ (Innovative Youth), have also been successfully implemented for many years (for more information, see page 150 onward). Mission & Vision 2025 RBI has always focused on people, and its new vision (see also page 14 onward) goes even further. With the Vision 2025 that it presented in 2019 – ”We are the most recommended financial services group“ – RBI is clearly showing that it wants to be more than just a bank for its customers. Its various initiatives as an engaged citizen help to ensure that its activities go far beyond its core business. To make this vision a reality, RBI‘s mission is formulated as follows: ”We transform continuous innovation into superior customer experience.“ This is tied to the promise to the general public to ”act in a socially responsible manner, fostering the long-term welfare of the people and businesses in our markets“. This is consistent with RBI‘s sustainability strategy, the aim of which is to generate sustainable value. Four selected values (”collaboration“, ”learning“, ”proactivity“ and ”responsibility“) serve as the compass for achieving this. As one of the four most important stakeholder groups for RBI, the general public and RBI‘s responsibility toward it is reflected in the ”responsibility“ value, which states that RBI‘s employees must always be aware of the consequences of their actions and take responsibility for their decisions. This value offers huge potential as the basis of each employee‘s conduct: If everyone takes individual responsibility, a great deal can be changed for the better. In addition to personal responsibility, the value talks about corporate responsibility as follows: ”We are responsible members of society and build sustainable business.“ In particular, RBI seeks to realize its mission in those markets that are still subject to significant economic and social developments. In addition to fulfilling its important function within society, RBI aims to have a positive long-term impact in these areas. Needless to say, environmental protection also plays a central role in this respect. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 135 Foreword Impacts, risks and opportunities Overview The considerable importance of RBI‘s commitment to society and the environment and the associated high expectations of internal and external stakeholders have been repeatedly confirmed in numerous surveys. As a member of society, RBI contributes to the common good beyond its business activities in all the countries in Management which it is present. As a result, RBI predominantly sees opportunities but no significant risks in its role as a corporate citizen. The eradication of poverty, integration and solidarity are important goals of our social commitment. We advocate of sustainability for social sustainability in terms of reducing poverty, improving educational prospects, equal opportunity, fairer distribution of income, and treating people with respect regardless of their origins. Derived from the cooperative principle and the motto of helping others to help themselves, RBI sees its contribution in upholding positive social values. Among other things, its commitment is illustrated by its support for all kinds of cultural projects. Furthermore, RBI takes numerous measures to strengthen the regional economic and social structures of the markets in which it operates. RBI‘s stated goal is to establish responsible corporate management Responsible and to promote sustainable innovations – including by strengthening the business locations throughout the Group. RBI creates and secures jobs and promotes sustainable business via strategically selected memberships and activities banker in organizations (see also the ”RBI‘s Economic Footprint® in CEE and Austria“ chapter starting on page 48). As a financial sector company, RBI believes that improving knowledge about how to handle money is very important. It therefore actively supports initiatives in this area and strives to increase individuals‘ responsibility for their personal finances, whether they are RBI clients or not. In addition, RBI contributes to society by initiating corporate volunteering programs, supporting various social projects, and entering into partnerships with NPOs Fairer partner – and NGOs. With these projects, RBI is helping to reduce inequality and poverty, often with the support of many employees. In this way, it contributes to securing social peace, which is possible only by satisfying human needs such as Employee lifelong learning, employment, and prosperity. Through selected memberships and activities, RBI is involved in organizations that promote sustainable business activities as well as the framework conditions they require. At the same time, it seeks to raise awareness of environmental issues in order to protect those who are ultimately deprived of their livelihoods due to the impact of global climate change. Fair partner – Digital change Inhouse ecology To interpret digitization as a purely technological advance – the provision of new tools to make people‘s lives easier – would be overly simplistic. The digital shift is being accompanied by broad-based changes in society. From RBI‘s perspective, digitization as a societal process can be successful only if people are included at every stage. Engaged The fact that more and more companies are getting involved as corporate citizens shows that society increasingly citizen expects them to engage in responsible corporate management. In particular, this involves the need for information, transparency, and participation. The topic of connectivity, which digitization makes easier than ever to achieve, is a perfect reflection of what Friedrich Wilhelm Raiffeisen stood for more than 130 years ago: People working together can achieve what one person cannot manage alone. This principle is something that needs to be GRI index and brought forward into the future. Digitization and corporate social responsibility are not a means to an end, but must involve a benefit for people. Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 136 Supported projects and initiatives R BI invested a total of € 2,326,329 in the community in 2019, thereby supporting projects in the communities in which it is active as a bank. The projects thereby it supported are diverse and have different focal points depending on the respective countries. Key indicator (in €) 2019 2018 2017 Investments in the community 2,326,329 2,721,646 3,471,757 Percentages of monetary donations by the RBI in 2019, by topic1 2% 1% in € in % 13% n (Financial) Education 639,884 28 n Culture and art 230,590 10 28% n Other 163,553 7 n Social 888,584 39 n Sports and health 290,126 13 n Environmental protection 53,145 2 39% 10% n Science and research 37,213 1 7% 1 Breakdown as recorded in the “mona” monitoring tool In addition to the aforementioned donations, RBI supports numerous projects and activities through sponsorship as part of its social and cultural commitment. As the projects supported in this way are in a position to make a contribution to societal development, they are also included in this report. To meet its social responsibility, RBI decided years ago not to restrict itself to only a few major aid projects, but instead to place factors such as personal commitment and regional societal challenges at the forefront of its decisions. RBI and its employees are involved in a wide range of projects and initiatives by providing financial support or fostering contacts. Every region has unique projects that improve people‘s lives at a local level. In line with the principle of helping others to help themselves, RBI provides support in the fields of education, science and research, art and culture, sports, as well as charitable initiatives and environmental activities, often in cooperation with various NGOs. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 137 Foreword Overview An overview of measures implemented in the area ”Engaged citizen“ by country can be found below: Overview of measures Austria CE SEE EE Topic RBI AG RBSK RKAG RL Valida RCB Kathrein TBSK RBCZ RBHU RBAL RBBH RBBG RBKO RBHR RBRO RBRS RBBY RBRU AVAL Financial education/financial literacy ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Other education initiatives ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Management Cultural initiatives ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Social initiatives ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Corporate volunteering ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ of sustainability Sports and health initiatives ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Environmental initiatives ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Science and research initiatives ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Other initiatives ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ Please see the list of abbreviations for the complete company designations. The data of RBAL also includes Raiffeisen INVEST. Personal commitment is necessary considering the comprehensive changes that the global community Responsible of nations is striving to achieve by the end of 2030 with its ”Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)“ banker (see page 29 onward). In the same way that each company can play a role and become directly active, every individual has the opportunity to get personally involved and be part of the sustainable change required to achieve these goals through activities such as corporate volunteering. The many measures implemented by RBI in 2019 in its role as ”Engaged citizen“ supported multiple SDG Fairer partner – objectives such as SDG 1 (end poverty in all its forms everywhere). With its initiatives in the area of (financial) education, RBI offers an opportunity to take on another urgent social challenge and thereby takes into account the objective of SDG 4 (ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning Employee opportunities for all). This results in a possible effect on SDG 8, which envisions the promotion of sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all. RBI firmly believes that its corporate volunteering projects in particular can always support several goals at the same time. RBI also addresses various environmental initiatives in terms of modern energy and climate protection (SDG 7 and SDG 13). For example, RBI AG is actively involved in the Raiffeisen Sustainability Initiative as part of its membership (see page 150 onward). Fair partner – Total number* of projects supported in 2019 RBI sees it as particularly positive that many of its employees not Inhouse ecology only make the projects supported by RBI possible through their personal commitment, but also take on social activities in their free time. Supporting our The examples selected for this chapter are just a small sample of communities with Engaged the many initiatives within the Group. 1,080 projects citizen GRI index and * Included in the number of projects are figures with which the TBSK supported the Tatra banka Foundation in 2018, as the figures for 2019 were not yet available when this report went to Assurance report press. The figures of RBAL also includes Raiffeisen INVEST. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 138 Long-term initiatives Many of RBI‘s cooperations with its partners and its project and association work are geared toward continuity. This involves a wide range of focal points. Tatra banka, a.s. in Slovakia has placed the focus of its social responsibility on philanthropy. To this end, it formed the Tatra © Tatra banka banka Foundation in 2004. With its programs Eva Šinková, and scholarships, the © Tatra banka Foundation Manager of the Tatra banka Tatra banka Foundation Foundation and sponsorships supports Slovakian students at foreign universities, brings worldrenowned academic experts to Slovakia, and develops and ”The foundation supports education at high supports education projects and events at a high level. The main schools and universities and is seen as a objective of the foundation and the projects it supports is to advance patron of art. It endeavors to support education for the long term: improving the education process at everyone who wants to be the best in their universities, supporting institutions that are dedicated to education field through continuous learning. While the and continuous development, and supporting individuals who foundation awarded the work of young achieve outstanding results. artists and students at art colleges within the first year, it is currently supporting outstanding To this end, the Tatra banka Foundation continuously designs contemporary artists. I am proud of what the additional scholarship programs intended for children in secondary Tatra banka Foundation has achieved to education, which involve scholarships being granted to exceptional date and I am looking forward to all of the pupils. The foundation helps middle-school pupils to participate in important and beautiful projects that will follow-up educational events to improve their language skills and arise in the future, including as part of the supports students who want to deepen their knowledge in the area new ’More Design‘ scholarship program. of their university studies. I am also closely involved in the foundation‘s annual art prize, which is awarded to the Another important objective and area of activity of the Tatra banka leading lights in all categories of the Foundation is promoting art and supporting outstanding artists and Slovakian art scene. Over the years, we their works in the form of an art award with an attractive prize. The have developed a very transparent and foundation has decided to concentrate its future activities on visionary, widely recognized system for this award creative, and experimental design projects. It supports young with a highly professional jury that is elected Slovakian designers in various partner projects as well as a new on a two-year cycle. At Tatra banka, we scholarship program that was launched recently. believe the foundation is the best way to support the areas of art, education and Once a year, Raiffeisen digital change. I am very excited about the BANK d.d. Bosna i roll-out of the corporate design that we Hercegovina invites developed in the past year and the associations and strategy we will be implementing from institutions to apply for 2020 onward. This will allow us to continue donations and on our path in line with our strategy while sponsorship projects, also integrating current CSR trends.“ with numerous © Association of citizens Magic theatre ”Aladin“ applications being received. This initiative has proven extremely successful, allowing Raiffeisen BANK to contribute to a wide range of projects in the areas of charitable QUOTE work, culture, education, sport and ecology with a focus on its selected target group of children and people with disabilities. Since 2002, Raiffeisen BANK has supported more than 535 different Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 139 Foreword Overview projects. In 2019 alone, 72 projects received around € 49,000 in financial support. As part of its social responsibility, Raiffeisenbank (Bulgaria) EAD has developed the ”Choose to Help“ initiative in accordance with the Raiffeisen principle of helping people to help each other. The initiative provides financial support for projects in the regions in which the bank operates. Raiffeisenbank actively involves its employees. Just like customers, they can participate by making donations. Management Raiffeisenbank adds around € 50 to every employee donation. The media provides support for the poorest people in society in the form of sustainability © RBBG of donation appeals. In addition to their personal donations, employees actively participate in selecting and administering projects. The specially designed internet platform Izberi (izberi.rbb.bg) allows users to easily find information on the projects and donate directly to the bank account of the respective charitable organizations online. ”Choose to Help“ was held for the eleventh time in 2019. The campaign is held annually from November until September of the following year. In addition to the active donation campaign, employees support the projects during this time by volunteering. In 2019, 1,718 bank employees made a personal contribution to a total of 23 projects as part of the initiative. Around € 132,000 was raised in total (including around € 19,000 from external Responsible donors). This provided assistance for hundreds of people. The success of the initiative is illustrated not least by the growing number of project proposals submitted and the reports from the organizations supported, as well as the banker many thank-you letters received. Raiffeisenbank has already supported 280 projects in the areas of education, culture, health, and society – including environmental protection – with more than € 1.5 million in funding as part of this initiative over the years. Corporate Volunteering Fairer partner – The various corporate volunteering initiatives at RBI help to make oneself feel part of a bigger picture, support Friedrich Wilhelm Raiffeisen‘s idea of helping others to help themselves in this day and age, and proactively live Employee up to one‘s social responsibility in cooperation and within society. H. Stepic CEE Charity – supported by Raiffeisen Bank International Founded in 2006 by former RBI CEO Herbert Stepic, the H. Stepic CEE Charity supports children, Fair partner – young people and women in Central and Eastern Europe. The form of support is adjusted to reflect Inhouse ecology the respective requirements. Thanks to its deep local roots, its pragmatic approach and the active support of the network banks, the charity gives the people it supports the prospect of an independent life away from poverty. Education is the key. All of the charity‘s projects are realized in cooperation with renowned local or international partner organizations and managed by voluntary employees of RBI in Vienna – as part of the Engaged corporate volunteering project since 2015 – and at its locations in Central and Eastern Europe. This serves to minimize administrative citizen costs, and all of the financial contributions go directly to the projects. In 2019, the charity again extended or launched numerous projects. One example is a new education project in Bosnia and GRI index and © H. Stepic CEE Charity Herzegovina. Almost one-fifth of all people in Bosnia and Herzegovina live without sufficient income. Educational deficits are a particularly big problem for children growing up in poverty. The charity runs three day care centers in Doboj, Zvornik and Srebrenica together with Assurance report the NGO ”Emmaus“. The ”Horte der Hoffnung“ (Day Care Centers of Hope) project is helping to reduce the Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 140 school dropout rate, giving 150 children access to high-quality leisure activities and hot meals, and supporting them both materially and psychologically. 150,000 children in Serbia live below the poverty line. Many of them miss out on completing their mandatory schooling. Together with the Zumtobel Group and a new local partner, Indigo, the charity has launched an additional educational project to address this problem. Like the existing projects for street children in Belgrade and Novi Sad, ”Bildung im Zentrum“ (Education in the Center) supports marginalized children during their elementary school years and provides them with solid foundations for their continued education. At the day care center in Niš, Serbia‘s third-largest city, they are looked after by a team of volunteers supervised by professional educators. The project ensures that children are enrolled for the first year of school in good time, attend lessons regularly and complete their elementary school education. The tuition and study classes are tailored to the needs of the individual pupils and teach them the skills they need to learn unaided in the medium term. The charity also expanded its focus in Ukraine in 2019: As part of the ”Werkzeuge für die Zukunft“ (Tools for the Future) project, it offers apprenticeships to young people in Uzhgorod who have already completed school with the association‘s assistance. Since the cooperation with the local project partner ”Helping Hand“ began in 2012, the charity has funded a bus, a heating system and an additional classroom. The apprenticeship scheme gives young adults the opportunity to learn a trade. Education is and remains the basis for an independent life out of poverty, and hence is the charity‘s focus in line with the principle of helping others to help themselves. The sustainable success of this approach is demonstrated by the many years of cooperation with trusted project partners and the achievements of the many projects. In 2019, RBI AG supported the ”Wärmestube“ (winter day shelter) operated by Caritas in Vienna for the first time. Although homeless people are invited in to the winter shelters of the various relief organizations at night, they have to leave again in the morning and are left to more or less rely on themselves during the day. The result is that most day centers are overcrowded. In addition, some people with homes can no longer afford to heat them and rely on the day shelters instead. As part of Caritas‘s winter package, the © RBI AG ”Wärmestube” day shelters are available every year from December until the end of March. Visitors receive more than just a hot meal and hot drinks for the afternoon: They are treated as valued guests and can ask questions or simply talk to other people. Between six and eight RBI employees spent three Fridays helping to prepare the premises in St. Francis de Sales parish for the guests. They handed out meals, made tea and coffee, and offered a sympathetic ear to visitors. As part of its social responsibility, Raiffeisen KapitalanlageGesellschaft m.b.H. has decided to sponsor ”Lichtblickhof e.motion“. This non-profit association gives young people in crisis situations and with incurable and life-limiting diseases access to therapy with specially trained animals, mainly horses. Since 2019, the company has sponsored a therapy horse and the associated costs for the coming years. As part of corporate volunteering, employees also helped to create something lasting by rebuilding a dilapidated small animal enclosure together. © RKAG Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 141 Foreword Overview As social responsibility is an integral part of its business activities, Raiffeisen BANK d.d. Bosna i Hercegovina seeks to address social issues and raise awareness of their importance. The fact that these matters are also important to employees is reflected in the year-onyear growth in the number of employees signing up to volunteer. Since 2005, Raiffeisen BANK has supported the work of the SUMERO organization to strengthen and rehabilitate people with disabilities in various ways. To date, more than 50 employees have Management volunteered to help. In 2019, Raiffeisen BANK continued its support © Srdan Dunderović for this organization with corporate volunteering sessions in Vogošća. of sustainability Raiffeisen BANK provided the necessary equipment and tools to allow funds to be raised for SUMERO from the sale of organic products. Raiffeisen employees and SUMERO members worked together to prune plants, sow seeds, and plant seedings from containers. Education and financial education initiatives Education is one of the most important issues of the 21st century. RBI contributes to the improvement of education, an important tool in the fight against poverty. It actively promotes an understanding of financial products and Responsible services, and imparts banking expertise as part of its advisory role in day-to-day operations. The nature of its core business means it has close links with the subject of financial education, i.e. the competent handling of banker money and financial matters, also referred to as ”financial literacy“. Appealing to various age groups and integrating employees into corporate volunteering programs makes it possible to reach everyone, from schoolchildren and students through to the wider public, via a variety of channels. Across various projects, considerable effort goes into improving individuals‘ everyday lives and, through financial education, to laying the foundations for the responsible handling of money in the future. For example, Raiffeisenbank a.s. in the Czech Republic supports Fairer partner – ”Junior Achievement“, the world‘s largest provider of educational programs for entrepreneurship and financial literacy, as a partner of Employee the ”JA STUDENT COMPANY“ educational program. Raiffeisenbank employees also act as mentors. The program lasts for one (school) year. Young people establish their own company and present the results to a national jury. The best team represents the Czech Republic at the annual international final. The competition also serves to Fair partner – expand the teachers‘ business knowledge. © Junior Achievement Inhouse ecology Raiffeisenbank employees also provide IT security and financial education expertise at the ”Bankers to School“ corporate volunteering initiative as part of high school workshops. Since 2017, Raiffeisenbank a.s. in the Czech Republic has funded the development of the online education platform Zlatka.In, which is available free of charge to schoolchildren and teachers. It has already been used by pupils from more than 4,000 classes. Engaged Equipped with the necessary know-how on the topics of money, finance and financial planning, teachers use the online tool to playfully citizen impart financial knowledge. The platform tailors the tasks to the level of knowledge of the individual pupil. In fall 2019, a special campaign © RBCZ was launched under which children collected virtual ”coins“ that they could voluntarily ”spend“ as donations to charitable organizations. GRI index and Raiffeisenbank made a corresponding monetary donation to the organizations selected by the children. Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 142 In March 2019, the ”PÉNZ7“ program was again held as part of Hungarian Money Week. The event series initiated by the European Banking Federation was launched in 2015 in conjunction with European Money Week. The development of business skills and expertise has now become a fixed element of the practical lessons and program series offered during Hungarian Money Week – which was not only the first money week in Europe, but one of the first in the world. 1,235 schools offered the program in the classroom in 2019. © PÉNZ7 205,000 pupils completed 14,000 courses in financial education, with thousands of teachers giving lessons at elementary and secondary schools. In 2019, 700 enthusiastic volunteers assisted with the lessons on financial and business education. They included 41 employees of Raiffeisen Bank Zrt., which supported the program for the fifth time. The ”Junior Achievement“ association is also supported by Raiffeisen Bank Sh.A. in Albania and Raiffeisen Bank S.A. In Romania, the concept of financial education has been realized at elementary and secondary schools since 2010 by familiarizing pupils with the topic using examples from their immediate environment. These programs reach more than 7,500 schoolchildren every year. In 2019, Raiffeisenbank (Bulgaria) EAD held its ”Learning from a Bank“ program for the third year in succession, offering courses aimed at improving the general financial education of children and young people. Bank experts have taught more than 1,200 students since the initiative began. Activities in 2019 focused on human resources management and different savings and investment options. One new topic for the pupils was corporate social responsibility and companies‘ commitment to social issues. © RBBG Raiffeisen Bank Kosovo J.S.C. supported the educational robotics competition in Kosovo, the ”Kosova Makers League“, which has been organized and led by the BONEVET foundation since 2018. The 2019 edition was held between April and June. The competition seeks to involve a wide range of school-age children in the subjects of robotics and automation. The children and young people were encouraged to solve tricky tasks under time pressure using a robot, working both on their own and as part of a team. They learned how © Adnan Beqiri to assemble and program the ”mBOT“ educational robot. The robots were initially loaned to the participants during the competition season before being given to them afterwards. The competition for elementary school children consists of five rounds and is divided into two categories based on age. Raiffeisen Bank Aval JSC in Ukraine is supporting the ”University HUB – Center of Entrepreneurship and Innovation“ project of the Kyiv National Economic University as part of a three-year partnership program (2019 to 2021). The HUB is aimed at enabling efficient interaction between students and professors at the university and representatives of business, authorities and the public sector. © Anastasia Rogachova Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 143 Foreword Cultural initiatives Overview Commitment in the field of art is diverse and focused on different art forms as well as on national and international projects in order to promote widespread interest in art. It also focuses on the local art and culture communities. Raiffeisen BANK d.d. Bosna i Hercegovina supports numerous cultural and educational projects in Bosnia and Herzegovina. One example is the Raiffeisen GALLERY at the headquarters of Raiffeisen Management BANK in Zmaja od Bosne/Sarajevo, which gives young artists the opportunity to present their works to the public. There have been a total of ten group exhibitions and over 50 of sustainability individual exhibitions to date. Each exhibition also supports the © Source Production doo young artists by enabling their artworks to be purchased. In 2019, this opportunity was given to six students from various disciplines (sculpture, graphic design, graphics, product design, education and painting). Raiffeisen BANK supports the exhibitions by advertising them in brochures and via other communication channels. Culture is key – this attitude is of particular importance for Raiffeisen Responsible Bank Kosovo J.S.C. In 2019, it again supported the largest and most important event in the Kosovo film industry: the Prishtina International banker Film Festival, or ”PriFest“ for short. The festival addresses the need to resume and rebuild the cinema culture that appeared to be lost after years of suppression and war. Every year, the film program includes the latest films from around the world and special programs focusing on topics such as human rights, Fairer partner – © Amir Vitija tolerance, and the lack of acceptance for minorities in society. It is the only festival in the Balkans to have a special LGBTIQ-themed film program (Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transsexual & Queer). Employee In addition to movies, the festival has an extremely good regional development platform offering training, presentations, inspirational master classes with high-profile guests, and extensive opportunities for filmmakers from Kosovo and neighboring countries. Filmmakers from Europe, and Kosovo in particular, can also present their film projects to European distributors and sales agents under the title ”Prishtina Rendezvous“. The festival also features the ”Prishtina KinoKabaret“ program, the ”Green Film Project“ and ”Kosovo Rising Stars“, which supports talented Fair partner – actors from Kosovo. Inhouse ecology The European Festivals Association (EFA) supports the annual Chopin Piano Fest ”Prishtina“. The music festival, whose high-quality staging of piano music is appreciated by critics, the media, fans and a growing audience in equal measure, brings together respected local and international pianists. In addition to works by Chopin, they perform interpretations of other famous classical and contemporary composers. In 2019, Raiffeisen Bank Kosovo J.S.C. again supported this traditional Engaged festival, which also serves as a platform for cultural exchange © Arben Llapashtica between artists from Kosovo and the rest of the world. citizen GRI index and Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 144 In 2019, AO Raiffeisenbank supported the eighth Austrian Film Festival, which was held from April until mid-November in six Russian cities. With the assistance of the Austrian Embassy in Moscow, the festival showed off the best of new Austrian cinema, including five remarkable premieres. The festival opened with ”The Tobacconist“, a good example of traditional narrative cinema with a fascinating plot and plenty of spectacle. Two episodes of the TV show ”M – A City Hunts a Murderer“ made a connection between the television industry and classic movies. The drama ”The Ground Beneath My © Mark Seryy Feet“, with its timely reflection on the role of women in the world, came straight from the Berlinale to Moscow. ”Break My Heart“ is a melodrama whose heroes are viewed as second-class citizens in Europe‘s major cities: Sinti and Roma from Slovakia who have settled in Vienna. ”Cops“ is an impressive combination of action and drama that takes its energy from the day-to-day tensions of the police in their life and work. Social initiatives The majority of the projects carried out during the reporting period were social initiatives. In conjunction with various national and international cooperation partners (such as Caritas), socially disadvantaged children and young people, along with single women, made up the majority of those offered aid. The Bauspartage organized by Raiffeisen Bausparkasse GmbH supported the SOS Children‘s Villages in Austria. SOS Children‘s Villages is a global relief organization that supports families in difficult situations. Children and young people who are unable to grow up with their parents are given a loving home and expert support on their way to independence. Every building savings agreement concluded during the promotional period in 2019 helped to make Christmas wishes come true at the SOS Children‘s Villages in Austria. © Viennashots/Pecka Raiffeisen Centrobank AG (RCB) supported ”Haus Amadou“, a social institution for refugees and migrants and one of the few such places to house families and children and give them corresponding advice and counseling. Residents live in shared apartments and organize their lives independently to the greatest possible extent. With this project, RCB is giving migrants and refugees the chance to find their feet again. Thanks to the support, employees of Caritas can ensure that children in Austria are enrolled in kindergarten or school and get to learn and spend their © RCB free time in a stable environment. Parents are assisted in finding regular work. Therapeutic support and legal advice are often also required. In order to send out a sign of solidarity, RCB matched its employees‘ donations to Caritas in spring 2019. ”Learn to Succeed“ is a program of the United Way organization aimed at preventing children from vulnerable communities in Romania from dropping out of school. To achieve this, a program has been developed to help children to complete school, establish the right conditions for them to improve their academic performance and give them the motivation to achieve long-term educational goals. At the same time, the project supports teachers‘ efforts to prevent children from dropping out of school and helps parents to overcome any Alex Damian for United Way Romania, © RBRO financial and social restrictions when it comes to giving their children a better life. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 145 Foreword Overview For the past 15 years, employees of Raiffeisen Bank S.A. in Romania have decided to donate a portion of their monthly salary to support United Way projects. The amount donated is matched by Raiffeisen Bank, resulting in a total of around € 100,000 every year. In December, the employees of Raiffeisen banka a.d. in Serbia organized a Christmas charity campaign for the eleventh time, purchasing gifts for children with disabilities, developmental problems, autism or no parental care. The amount raised was enough to fund Management around 700 gifts for children at a total of eleven institutions in seven cities and smaller towns in Serbia. The gift packages contained of sustainability sweets, age-appropriate toys and/or winter clothes. Many of the children come from very poor families, while others have no parental care. They live and/or learn at special institutions that require © The society for cerebral paralysis of the region of Šumadija, City of Kragujevac every kind of support. Sports initiatives For RBI, sports are not only a part of a brand‘s self-image, but also mean taking on social responsibility. For this Responsible reason, RBI has promoted sports for many decades – from upcoming talent to sports stars. banker In 2019, RBI AG was the official sponsor of the IIHF Ice Hockey World Championships for the twelfth time. The competition was held in Slovakia (Bratislava and Košice) in May. RBI AG‘s commitment was based on the high popularity that this sport enjoys in many countries in Central and Eastern Europe. A total of 16 teams played 64 matches to determine the world champion. The final in Bratislava Fairer partner – saw Finland crowned as world champion, with Canada finishing second and Russia third. The Ice Hockey World Championships is the largest winter sports event after the Winter Olympics. Employee © IIHF/HHOF But amateur athletes are not left out. Raiffeisen Bank S.A. in Romania has been the main sponsor of the Raiffeisen Bank International Bucharest Marathon, the country‘s biggest road race, since 2008. The number of participants is growing every year, with 20,000 people taking part in the event in October 2019. It comprises running Fair partner – competitions (a team relay, a 10k, a half-marathon and a marathon) as well as non-competitive events (fun runs for children, teenagers Inhouse ecology and adults). © RBRO The 2nd European Games were held in Minsk in June 2019. More than 5,000 athletes from 50 countries gathered to compete. Priorbank JSC in Belarus was one of the sponsorship partners for this major event hosted by Belarus. During the European Games, fans had the opportunity to visit three Priorbank fan zones and take part in Engaged competitions organized by Priorbank in some unusual sports: virtual track and field, virtual badminton, interactive cycle races, robot citizen battles, and more besides. More than 3,000 people signed up for the competitions in the hope of winning the top prize – tickets for the © Priorbank JSC closing ceremony. GRI index and Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 146 Environment/urban ecology Human influence in particular is responsible for climate change: Any form of energy use from fossil fuels, such as electricity, heating and hot water consumption, and of course the mobility sector, results in carbon dioxide (CO2). This is considered to be the main cause of climate change, because it absorbs heat radiation from the Earth and thus heats the atmosphere. RBI is seeking to address this problem by means of various projects and memberships. R aiffeisenbank Austria d.d. in Croatia wants to set an example when it comes to corporate culture and motivate its employees to drive ecological change and become active citizens. It has established a CSR platform, ”Yellow goes Green“, offering employees various voluntary and ecological initiatives. This is intended to raise employee awareness of socially responsible behavior both in and outside the workplace. In addition to sustainable urban development projects and educational programs on climate protection and climate change, it called for assistance in the biggest ever reforestation campaign following the devastating forest fires in Dalmatia in 2018. Raiffeisenbank participated in a planting campaign organized by the Scout Association of Croatia in cooperation with Croatian Forests and the Croatian Mountain Rescue Service. Working together, more than 50,000 new trees were planted. The ashes of the burnt pine trees were collected and made into crayons, or ”Boralice“. © RBHR Another project supported by Raiffeisenbank Austria d.d. is ”RokOtok“, organized by the association of the same name. This is an educational campaign in which the famous Croatian journalist and blogger ”Ribafish“ is aiming to raise awareness of the importance of ecology and environmental protection, while also showing how important it is to spend time with your children and use sports and learning to develop their curiosity, interests and inquisitiveness. © Association RokOtok The ”RokOtok“ project is initially scheduled for three years (20192021). During this time, Ribafish will swim to around fifty inhabited Croatian islands in three stages. In 2019, he swam to 17 islands. On each one, he held workshops for children illustrating the importance of environmental protection and the natural and cultural heritage of each island. Raiffeisenbank Austria d.d.‘s support for the public bicycle hire system ”nextbike“ reached its fourth anniversary in 2019. nextbike was the first and is also the largest provider of its kind in the region. 25 bicycles sponsored by Raiffeisenbank were available to residents and tourists in Zadar. As the bicycle is the most environmentally friendly form of transport, Raiffeisenbank has decided to support this project in Zagreb in 2020 with a total of 20 bicycles and three bicycle stations. nextbike is also becoming © Nextbike public sharing system d.o.o. increasingly popular as a means of public transportation. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 147 Foreword Overview As the main partner of the ”Via Transilvanica“ project, Raiffeisen Bank S.A. in Romania funded the infrastructure for 200 kilometers. The 950-kilometer route from Putna to Drobeta Turnu-Severin is intended to promote Romanian culture by creating an infrastructure that links the north and the south of the country. The route will also highlight Romania‘s natural riches and is intended as a public path for all hikers, nature lovers and sports enthusiasts. © Mihai Tutu for Tasuleasa Social Management of sustainability Sustainable entrepreneurship Commitment to sustainable framework conditions We maintain a culture of open dialog with a focus on the future issues of a sustainable financial sector. In doing Responsible so, RBI is taking a stance against corruption and economic crime. It also seeks active dialog with politics and public administration. banker RBI also goes outside the Group to share specific types of knowledge and experiences with others, in order to implement innovative ideas for charting a path into the sustainable future of the financial sector and our companies alike. In 2019, for example, Raiffeisen Bank S.A. supported the Aspen program ”Economic Opportunities and Financing the Economy“, which aims to formulate public policy recommendations. The program has established a community encompassing numerous stakeholders from the public, private and non-governmental sectors. Their Fairer partner – aim is to identify the main constraints and unexploited opportunities facing Romania‘s existing economic, investment and development model. In 2019, the program addressed the key topics of financial education, financial inclusion and digital transformation. Employee A further component of our commitment is collaboration with governmental and non-governmental organizations. We stand for the promotion of sustainable thinking and action. We are strengthening the drive for sustainable development in our own sphere of influence by lobbying (see page 25) where topics such as sustainability and safeguarding the future are concerned. Fair partner – Sustainable entrepreneurship and sustainable innovations To us, sustainable entrepreneurship means the awareness of responsibilities on one hand, and support for Inhouse ecology sustainable innovations among our customers and in society on the other: • We promote this awareness among our customers. We provide information and give advice on which opportunities companies can embrace in order to become economically successful and to make their contribution to protecting the environment and taking social responsibility. Engaged • We promote companies and organizations that act in a sustainable manner. This takes the form of partnerships and events, among other things. citizen • We encourage long-term success, competitiveness, and innovative strength in companies, which in turn boost the regional economy. For example, Raiffeisen Bank S.A. in Romania gave the attendees of a business breakfast an outlook on the topic GRI index and of macroeconomics and financial markets. This included an explanation and discussion of current developments and their immediate and long-term impact on business planning, management and investment decisions, as well as on business activity in Romania in general. The experts presented inputs on the determinants of economic Assurance report growth and the impact of the fiscal policy environment and regulatory policy on the economy. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 148 As part of its membership of the Netherlands Romanian Chamber of Commerce, Raiffeisen Bank S.A. worked with competitors to organize a program entitled ”Doing Business in the New Economy“, which supports entrepreneurs in developing their companies. To encourage a positive business environment, Raiffeisenbank Austria d.d. supported the award for ”Entrepreneur of the Year 2019“ in Croatia. Memberships Via select memberships and activities, RBI becomes involved in organizations that promote sustainable business and the relevant framework conditions. Some of them are listed below: ÖGUT ÖGUT, or ”Österreichische Gesellschaft für Umwelt und Technik“ (Austrian Society for Environment and Technology), is an independent non-profit organization that has been committed to a sustainable economy and society for over 30 years. It develops, communicates, and networks knowledge to this end, focusing on energy, gender and diversity, green investment, innovative construction, and participation as well as resources and consumption. In order to achieve its goals, ÖGUT develops strategies and supports strategy-making processes, as well as researching and providing advice in its areas of expertise. It also supplies information on current developments and communicates innovative and sustainable solutions. It organizes and moderates working groups and platforms on sustainability issues and presents the annual ÖGUT ”Umweltpreis“ (Environmental Award). www.oegut.at UNEP The United Nations Environment Programme was founded in 1972 and is headquartered in Nairobi, Kenya. Its tasks include the evaluation and collection of global, regional, and national environmental data, the development of political instruments for environmental protection, the strengthening of institutions that undertake important environmental management, and the improvement of the quality of people‘s lives without burdening future generations. www.unenvironment.org The financial initiative UNEP-FI – United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative – has been in a global partnership since 1992 with the Environment Programme of the United Nations and the private financial sector. Headquartered in Switzerland, it is dedicated to sustainable financing. RBI has been a member of this initiative since 1998. Its membership has since grown to include more than 300 financial institutions and over 100 supporting institutions (other companies in the financial system with sustainability as a key competence). Since it was established, a ”global roundtable“ has been held each year that is intended to promote exchange on sustainability topics. www.unepfi.org UNGC The UNGC – United Nations Global Compact – is the world‘s largest initiative for corporate responsibility and sustainability. It is based on the pledges of CEOs to comply with universal sustainability principles. Those who pledge to uphold the UNGC also declare their support of the UN goals, such as the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Sustainable economics and measures to promote social goals are achieved by orienting the strategy and business activities of the companies to the ten principles (in the core areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption) with the help of the UN Global Compact (see page 15). Signatories of the UN Global Compact thus contribute to making the globalization process fairer. The vision of the UN Global Compact is a worldwide movement of sustainable companies and stakeholders. At present, 10,409 companies in 173 countries have signed up to this initiative. 77,516 reports have been written so far, testifying to the high level of commitment. www.unglobalcompact.org Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 149 Foreword Overview VfU The VfU, or ”Verein für Umweltmanagement und Nachhaltigkeit in Finanzinstituten e.V.“ (Association for Environmental Management and Sustainability) was founded in 1995 and is oriented toward sustainability professionals in financial institutions. The VfU supports the contribution of the financial sector to sustainable development through its functions as an industry network, organizer, and think tank for its 49 members. RBI AG has been a member since 2006. The association seeks to create a competition-free, confidential space in which the member institutions can exchange viewpoints regarding sustainability topics and the integration of sustainability into their business operations. Management The VfU also offers networking opportunities with science, society, and politics. In 2015, a Scientific Advisory Board composed of researchers from the cross-sectional business areas of business management, banking, finance, and of sustainability sustainability was formed with the role of inspiring and assisting in the work of the VfU. www.vfu.de In addition, there were a number of other memberships in 2019: Raiffeisen KAG memberships Eurosif www.eurosif.org Forum Nachhaltige Geldanlagen (Forum for Sustainable Investments – FNG) www.forum-ng.org Forum per la Finanza Sostenibile (Italian Sustainable Investment Forum – ItaSIF) www.finanzasostenibile.it Association of Austrian Investment Companies (VÖIG) www.voeig.at Responsible banker Initiatives involving a voluntary commitment Montreal Carbon Pledge www.montrealpledge.org Raiffeisen Nachhaltigkeits-Initiative (Raiffeisen Sustainability Initiative – RNI) www.raiffeisen.at/nachhaltigkeit UN Principles for Responsible Investment (UNPRI) www.unpri.org Additional product-specific memberships and initiatives CDP and CDP Water www.cdp.net Fairer partner – Green Bond Principles/Investor w ww.icmagroup.org/green-social-and-sustainabilitybonds/green-bond-principles-gbp/ Green Infrastructure Investment Coalition www.giicoalition.org Employee Investor Statements on Green & Climate Bonds www.climatebonds.net/get-involved/investor-statement Ökofinanz-21 e.V., Netzwerk für nachhaltige Vermögensberatung ® www.oekofinanz-21.de (Network for Sustainable Investment Advice) Memberships of Valida Holding AG Fondsfrauen www.fondsfrauen.de Fair partner – Memberships at the network banks American Chamber of Commerce in BIH (Bosnia and Herzegovina) www.amcham.ba American Chamber of Commerce in Bulgaria (Bulgaria) www.amcham.bg Inhouse ecology American Chamber of Commerce in Ukraine (Ukraine) www.chamber.ua Association of Real Estate Experts (Bosnia and Herzegovina) www.facebook.com/udruzenjeeksperataizoblastinekretnina ASPEN (Romania) www.aspeninstitute.ro Bulgarian Business Leaders Forum (Bulgaria) www.bblf.bg Bulgarian Donation Forum (Bulgaria) www.dfbulgaria.org Engaged Business Leaders Forum (Slovakia) www.blf.sk/o-blf Debt Advisory Center – Counselling in Stringency (Czech Republic) www.financnitisen.cz/english_resume.php Engage (Pontis Foundation) (Slovakia) www.pontisfoundation.sk citizen Fintech Association (Russia) www.fintechru.org Inicijativa Digitalna Srbija (Digital Serbia Initiative) (Serbia) www.dsi.rs Kosovo CSR Network (Kosovo) www.csrkosovo.org GRI index and KRIB – Confederation of Employers and Industrialists in Bulgaria (Bulgaria) www.krib.bg Renewable Energy Association (Belarus) www.energy-aven.org Assurance report Romanian Business Leaders (Romania) www.rbls.ro You can find an overview of other memberships on our website at www.rbinternational.com. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 150 Raiffeisen Sustainability Initiative With 23 member organizations including RBI as one of the founding members, Raiffeisen NachhaltigkeitsInitiative (RNI) – the Raiffeisen Sustainability Initiative – is a platform for and driver of sustainable corporate management and social responsibility. For more than twelve years, initiatives and measures for a future worth living in have been conducted jointly in the action areas of the economy, the environment, and society. Examples of the measures, projects, and events realized in 2019 include: Raiffeisen Sustainability Award Since it was founded in 2007, the RNI has actively supported the Austrian “Jugend Innovativ” (Innovative Youth) competition. Apprentices and students between the ages of 15 and 20 can submit their ideas each year. The special category “Raiffeisen Sustainability Award” is sponsored by the RNI. The RNI aims to strengthen young people’s awareness of sustainability as early as possible. Young people should be encouraged not only to talk about sustainability but also to do something about it. The prizes are awarded by representatives of the relevant federal ministries at the end of the school © VOGUS, Wolfgang Voglhuber year. The Raiffeisen Sustainability Award is presented by the RNI. The “Smart street – sustainably redesigning the Kaiser Franz Josef Ring in Baden” project of HTL Mödling in Lower Austria was the winner in 2019. Four students used structural data modeling to present precisely calculated plans for making the center of Baden more sustainable. Organization of the Sustainability Weeks The Sustainability Weeks were held at the Raiffeisen employee restaurants in Vienna for the eleventh time in September 2019. The focus was on regional and vegetarian food. A competition was organized for employees in which five hampers of Austrian specialties were raffled off. The feedback was positive and many guests participated. As a result, the awareness-raising campaign will be held once again in 2020. © RBI “Ökoenergieblog” (Eco Energy Blog) The eco energy blog covers four different thematic areas: energy production and efficiency, the mobility sector, environment and economics, and sustainability. Contributions are made by internal as well as external authors (e.g. the RNI, RBI, Raiffeisen-Leasing, Raiffeisen-IT, Raiffeisenlandesbank OÖ, Raiffeisen Kapitalanlage, the Austrian Biomass Association, Ökosoziales Forum, Dachgold, and the Austrian Institute for Environment, Peace and Development/IUFE). The blog is a good communication channel for the RNI, its member organizations and topics. Further information: www.oekoenergieblog.at © RBI Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 151 Foreword Vehicle fleet assessment Overview RNI members have assessed their own vehicle fleet every year in cooperation with Raiffeisen-Leasing GmbH. This gives the participating organizations an overview of their vehicle fleet’s average CO2 emissions as well as a corresponding benchmark. The 2019 evaluation of the fleet survey shows that the CO2 value has fallen by an average of 4g CO2/km compared with the previous year, with the average now amounting to 126g CO2/km. Management © fotolia Ten of the 17 participating RNI companies are currently below the target of 130g CO2/km. of sustainability RNI Networking Event The seventh RNI networking event was held at RBI in mid-December in conjunction with the publication of a new book, “CSR and Climate Change”. The two editors of the book, Andrea Sihn-Weber and Franz Fischler, discussed the aims of the management book: to provide a detailed insight into how climate change is being combated in business practice and how Responsible to successfully deal with its direct and indirect consequences. The book also highlights the business potential and opportunities that could arise in various banker industries as a result of sustainable, climate-friendly economic transformation thanks to new business areas, products, and technologies. © Sabine Klimpt Cooperation with the “Genuss-Festival” Fairer partner – 2019 marked the fourth year of cooperation with the “Genuss-Festival” (Good Food Festival), which took place in the Stadtpark in Vienna from May 10 to 12. The “RNI Product Award 2019” was presented to environmentally friendly and sustainable products among the around 190 Employee exhibitors. There were more than 30 submissions in all. The specialties under consideration were selected by an expert jury on the basis of defined criteria, such as the raw materials used, lack of chemical additives, use of energy, environmentally friendly packaging, and use of local resources. The prizes were awarded to Wiener Schnecken Manufaktur Gugumuck, ADAMAH Fair partner – © Sabine Klimpt BioHof from the Marchfeld region, and farmgoodies. Cooperation with “For Forest” Inhouse ecology Raiffeisen Landesbank Kärnten and RNI supported a highly unusual art installation project, “For Forest”, in which a mixed forest of around 300 trees was installed in the Wörthersee Stadium in Klagenfurt from September 8 to October 27, 2019. The project was intended as a wake-up call and a Engaged reminder that people need nature and not the other way around. At a joint press conference in October, Gert Spanz, member of the Management citizen Board of Raiffeisen Landesbank Kärnten, and RNI Managing Director © RLB Kärnten Andrea Sihn-Weber presented information on the various environmentrelated projects being undertaken, with a particular focus on the climate strategy, the value added report, and the wide range of sustainable funds. GRI index and Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 152 Future outlook and Sustainability program Corporate citizenship initiatives RBI will also continue to make a contribution to improving the living conditions of as many people as possible by supporting various projects and initiatives. Numerous projects at the head office and the network banks, as well as the H. Stepic CEE Charity and the Tatra banka Foundation, will be continued with the respective long-term cooperation partners in 2020. The topic of digitization is still becoming an increasing factor in everyday life. The possibilities of making a difference in society range from impact-oriented investment over online volunteering at the push of a button to the use of online donation platforms. In this context, RBI is confronted with the topic of corporate digital responsibility and the expansion of traditional CSR approaches to encompass the digital aspect. To this end, the cooperation with the association”fit4internet“ is continuing. Whose platform, created in 2018 in a digital alliance between Post, RBI AG, and the Austrian Federal Ministry of Digital Affairs, has already proved successful. Various initiatives have been and are being implemented and continued by the association under the motto ”Road to Digital Austria“. In the area of digitization, RBI AG is also launching a new initiative with the implementation of ”Impactory“. It is using this platform to invite customers and the general public to make donations to the organizations it already supports. With Impactory, RBI is motivating people to make investments – not only in social projects, but also in culture, education, the common good, and economics. In 2020, RBI AG will continue the successful cooperation with EUROFI (The European Think Tank Dedicated to Financial Services) and the European Forum Alpbach at EU level and in CEE together with the network banks. The cooperation with EMI (European Movement International) will be intensified. Raiffeisen Nachhaltigkeits-Initiative (Raiffeisen Sustainability Initiative) The key focal points are the implementation of the RNI climate strategy within the member organizations and the regular monitoring of climate target attainment. The most important elements are the climate goals for 2030 and 2050. They provide the RNI member organizations with a framework for orientation and action for their respective climate-relevant business activities. In 2020, a meeting of the working group is planned to intensify work on the additional steps needed to implement the goals. Another focus project for 2020 is the cooperation with SV Group on the implementation of the Sustainability Weeks at the SV employee restaurants at the Raiffeisen offices in Vienna. In addition, the vehicle fleets of the member organizations will again be analyzed and assessed in terms of their contribution to the environmental targets. An important specific cooperative project is the long-term partnership ”Raiffeisen Sustainability Award“, which will again be continued and supported in conjunction with ”Jugend Innovativ“ (Innovative Youth) in 2020. RNI will continue to engage more closely with important topics within the social aspects of sustainability, such as diversity and corporate volunteering. Diversity management means viewing diversity within the company as an opportunity and harnessing it to achieve company success. Presentations by experts and a best practice exchange are planned. The goals are to raise awareness of this important topic, to transport the business case diversity and to discuss measures, especially in the core business. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 153 Foreword Excerpt from the Sustainability program Overview General objectives: Addressing social issues, strengthening democracy, and climate protection measures SDGs Objective Measure Status Progress CC: Fostering the relevant progress in Focused use of donation and membership resources in order to society – in civic, economic, academic, satisfy the objective (see page 136 onward) Management and cultural life – and supporting initiatives relating to social causes of sustainability CC: Revision of the internal policy for Publication of an updated policy handling donations, sponsorship and memberships CC: Strengthening digital literacy in Prominent companies, including RBI AG, are supporting the Austria ”fit4internet“ association (see page 152). CC: Fostering international exchange Focusing of support funding in EU and CEE in cooperation with and understanding with a particular the network banks, e.g. support and participation in EUROFI Responsible focus on the European Union in conferences, the Open Medical Institute (OMI) program and general and CEE in particular the European Forum Alpbach banker CC: Expansion of the current corpoDevelopment of new projects together with NGOs and rate volunteering program at RBI AG CC: Intensify cooperation with NGOs Cross-industry cooperation, particularly with NGOs and univerand scientific organizations sities CC: Control and support for the Full-year continuation corporate volunteering program at RBI AG Fairer partner – RNI: Implement the climate strategy Implementation of measures by RNI member companies and ongoing monitoring of target achievement RNI: Generating awareness for The focus of the Sustainability Weeks is on regional and Employee sustainable nutrition for employees organic products, and this project is implemented as part of the (Sustainability Weeks at the staff membership of the Raiffeisen Sustainability Initiative. restaurants in Vienna) RNI: Helping young people come up Sponsorship of the ”Sustainability“ category as part of the with creative and innovative ideas for Austria-wide student idea competition ”Jugend Innovativ“ sustainability by supporting the (Innovative Youth) Fair partner – student competition ”Jugend Innovativ“ (Innovative Youth) RNI: Continuation of vehicle fleet Assessment and comparison of the average CO2 emissions of the Inhouse ecology assessment vehicle fleet of all member organizations. RNI: Support for the ”Ökoenergieblog“ Continuation of the sustainability section to cover economic and (eco energy blog) social topics New In progress Complete Constantly Status (25% of target achieved per box filled) SDGs Engaged No High quality Gender Affordable and Poverty Education Equality Clean Energy citizen Decent Work and Industry, Innovation Climate Protection Peace, Justice and Economic Growth and Infrastructure Measures Strong Institutions GRI index and Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 154 Sustainability documented and audited: for transparency and clarity Image author: Horst Pozdena (R-IT) Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 155 Foreword GRI content index Overview Universal Standards GRI Code Description Reference Explanation Organizational Pro le 102-1 Name of the organization Imprint 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 10, 45–46, 52–54, 70–72, 75–81 AR RBI: 13–16, 66 102-3 Location of headquarters Imprint 102-4 Location of operations 10, 47 102-5 Ownership and legal form 10 Management AR RBI: 17–20, 59–60 102-6 Markets served 45, 47, 52 102-7 Scale of the organization 10 of sustainability AR RBI: 2–3 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 112 Temporary workers and security staff do not constitute a substantial part of the activities 102-9 Supply chain 125 102-10 Signficant changes to the organization and its 10 supply chain AR RBI: 6–12, 17–18, 47–51, 54 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 43–44, 53, 55, 58–59, 64–65, 67–68, 72–77, 117–118, 133–135 CoC 102-12 External initiatives 15, 18, 29–30, 59, 74–75, 99, 101, 147–149 Responsible 102-13 Membership of associations 15, 18, 25, 104, 148–149 Relates solely to the organizations relevant for sustainability. Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior descision-maker 4–54–5 banker 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 4–5, 19–20, 43–44, 88–89, 118, 135 Voluntary disclosure. AR RBI: 6–7, 42–51, 178–211 Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 15, 16–17, 21–22, 97 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about 21–24, 94–96 Voluntary disclosure. Seven ethics cases of breaches of the Code General Disclosures of Conduct were reported to Fairer partner – Compliance in 2019. All reports were and continue to be adequately followed up and the necessary consequences taken. Three of the seven cases Employee proved to be unfounded. Governance 102-18 Governance structure 18, 21 AR RBI: 21–32 102-19 Delegating authority 18 Voluntary disclosure. 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, 18 Voluntary disclosure. The CEO environmental, and social topics of RBI is the Chairman of the Sustainability Council. The CRO Fair partner – of RBI is a member of the Sustainability Council. 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, 18, 19, 35 Voluntary disclosure. environmental, and social topics Inhouse ecology 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body AR RBI: 21–31 Voluntary disclosure. and its committees 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body AR RBI: 21–24 Voluntary disclosure. 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest AR RBI:21, 25–31, 36–37 Voluntary disclosure. governance body 102-25 Con icts of interest AR RBI: 21–28, 38 Voluntary disclosure. 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting 18–19 Voluntary disclosure. purpose, values, and strategy AR RBI: 26–31 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 18–19 Voluntary disclosure. The topic Engaged of sustainable finance was citizen addressed as part of the fit and proper training. 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s Voluntary disclosure. The sustainability performance report is approved by the members of the Management Board of RBI AG. Key points are discussed in the Sustainability Council. GRI index and 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, 18–19, 26–27 Voluntary disclosure. environmental, and social impacts AR RBI: 26–31 102-30 Effectiveness of the risk management process AR RBI: 26–31 Voluntary disclosure. Assurance report 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social 7 Voluntary disclosure. The CEO topics AR RBI: 26-31, 39 of RBI is the Chairman of the Sustainability Council and the Diversity Committee. Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 156 GRI Code Description Reference Explanation 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability 7, 18, 161–162 Voluntary disclosure. reporting AR RBI: 37 The sustainability report is approved by the members of the Management Board of RBI AG. Key points are discussed in the Sustainability Council. 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 18, 94 Voluntary disclosure. AR RBI: 28–30, 58 Critical concerns are also communicated directly to the Management Board. 102-35 Remuneration policies AR RBI: 31–34 Voluntary disclosure. 102-36 Process for determining remuneration AR RBI: 31–34, 223–224 Voluntary disclosure. 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration AR RBI: 31–34 Voluntary disclosure. Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 32 General Disclosures 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 94 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 32 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 26–29, 33–35, 60–62, 125 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 35–38, 85, 115, 117–118, 131, 153 Reporting Practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial 8 statements AR RBI: 226–243 102–46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 8, 26–29 102-47 List of material topics 28–29, 31 102-48 Restatements of information 9 102-49 Changes in reporting 8–9 102-50 Reporting period 7 102-51 Date of most recent report 7 102-52 Reporting cycle 7 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 7 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the 7 GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content index 155–160 102-56 External assurance 163–164 Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 157 Foreword Overview Material Topics GRI Code Description RBI RBI AG Reference Explanation Material Topic: Commitment to society and the environment GRI 103-1,-2, -3 Management approach 4–5, 13–17, 19–22, 43, 55–59, 82–83 2016 GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies n n In 2019, 43 percent of employees or procedures received training on human rights as part of compliance training Management totaling 6,463 hours were invested. 412-3 Significant investment agreements and n n Human rights aspects are set out contracts that include human rights clauses in our Code of Conduct, which of sustainability or that underwent human rights screening must be observed by all employees and in all business transactions. Disclosures for the sector G4-FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services n n 82 for disadvantaged people Material Topic: Organizational management GRI 103-1, -2, Management approach 4–5, 13–17, 19–20, 55–63, 72–74 -3 2016 GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning n n 62 Responsible product and service information and banker labeling Disclosures for the sector Active Ownership G4-FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and 71–72 This indicator applies only to negative enviromental or social screening companies involved in asset Responsible banker management. G4-FS12 Voting policies applied to enviromental or 74 social issues for shares over which the reporting organization holds the right to Fairer partner – vote shares or advises on voting Product portfolio Employee G4-FS1 Policies with specific environmental and social 21–22, 55–59 components applied to core business G4-FS3 Processes for monitoring clients‘ The agreed credit terms are also implementation of and compliance with assessed as standard as part of environmental and social requirements the annual analyses all riskrelevant included in agreements or transactions transactions. G4-FS4 Process(es) for improving staff competency to 22–23, 59 implement the environmental and social policies and procedures as applied to business lines Fair partner – G4-FS5 Interactions with clients, investees and business 60–62, 740 partners regarding enviromental and social risks and opportunities Inhouse ecology Material Topic: Economic added value GRI 103-1,-2, Management approach 4–5, 13–17, 19–20, 43–46, 48–51, 55–56, 64, -3 2016 70–77 GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 201-1 Direct economic value generated and n n 46–47 distributed 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and n n 43–44, 55, 70–77, 117–118, 120 opportunities due to climate change GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 Engaged 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported n n 65–66, 68–69 citizen 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts n n 43–44, 64–69 Disclosures for the sector Product portfolio GRI index and G4-FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business n n 47, 69 lines by specific region, size and by sector AR RBI: 118 ff. and 184 ff. Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 158 GRI Code Description RBI RBI AG Reference Explanation Material Topic: Sustainability of products and services GRI 103-1,-2, Management approach 4–5, 13–17, 19–20, 43–45, 52–59 -3 2016 Disclosures for the sector Product portfolio G4-FS2 Procedures for assessing and screening 57–59, 73–74 environmental and social risks in business lines G4-FS7 Monetary value of products and services n n 65–66, 68–69, 72 designed to deliver a specific social benefit for each business line broken down by purpose G4-FS8 Monetary value of products and services n n 64–65, 67–69 designed to deliver a specific environmental benefit for each business line broken down by purpose Material Topic: Regulations and controlling GRI 103-1, -2, Management approach 4–5, 13–17, 19–20, 22–24, 54, 56, 59–60, -3 2016 62–63 , 72–74, 81 GRI 205: Anti-Corruption 2016 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to n n 24 In 2019, we assessed all 20 corruption group units included in this report, i.e. 100%, as part of a threat analysis. Responsible banker 205-2 Communication and training about anti n n 22–23 corruption policies and procedures 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and n n 22–23 No incidents of corruption were actions taken identified in the period under review as part of the continuous compliance review process. GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior 2016 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, n n 63 anti-trust, and monopoly practices GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches n n 57 of customer privacy and losses of customer data GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations n n 24 in the social and economic area Disclosures for the sector Audit G4-FS9 Coverage and frequency of audits to assess 24, 73, 80 implementation of environmental and social policies and risk assessment procedures Labeling of products G4-FS15 Policies for fair design and sale of financial 54, 56, 63 products and services Material Topic: Transparency and disclosures GRI 103-1,-2, Management approach 4–5, 13–17, 19–20, 25 -3 2016 GRI 415: Public Policy 2016 415-1 Political contributions n n 25 Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 159 Foreword Overview GRI Code Description RBI RBI AG Reference Explanation Material Topic: Work environment GRI 103-1,-2, -3 Management approach 4–5, 13–17, 19–29, 87–111 2016 GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover n n 112 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational n n 106 diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and Management number of work-related fatalities GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 404-1 Average hours of training per year per n n 113 of sustainability employee 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular n n 113 performance and career development reviews GRI 405: Diversity amd Equal Oppotunity 2016 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees n n 113 GRI 406: Non-Discrimination 2016 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective n n 97–98 No incidents of discrimination actions taken were reported to the whistle blowing hotline in the 2019 Responsible financial year. GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Colletive Bargaining 2016 banker 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right n n 95 In Austria and the countries to freedom of association and collective where this is required by law, the bargaining may be at risk staff councils represent the employees in all matters of labor and employment law. All legal conditions are strictly complied with in all countries. Material Topic: Inhouse ecology GRI 103-1,-2, Management approach 4–5, 13–17, 19–20, 117–128, 130-131 -3 2016 www.rbinternational.com/sustainabilitymanagement/ inhouse ecology Fair partner Fairer partner – GRI 301: Materials 2016 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume n n 121, 128 www.rbinternational.com/sustainabilitymanagement/ Employee inhouse ecology 301-2 Recycled input materials used n n 121, 128 GRI 302: Energy 2016 203-1 Energy intensity n n 121, 127–128 www.rbinternational.com/sustainabilitymanagement/ inhouse ecology GRI 303: Water 2016 Fair partner – 203-1 Water withdrawal by source n n 121, 128 www.rbinternational.com/sustainabilitymanagement/ inhouse ecology GRI 305: Emissions 2016 Inhouse ecology 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions n n 121, 124, 129 www.rbinternational.com/sustainabilitymanagement/ inhouse ecology 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions n n 121, 124, 129 www.rbinternational.com/sustainabilitymanagement/ inhouse ecology 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions n n 121, 124, 129 www.rbinternational.com/sustainabilitymanagement/ inhouse ecology 305-4 GHG emissions intensity n n 129 Engaged www.rbinternational.com/sustainabilitymanagement/ inhouse ecology citizen 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions n n 119–120, 124, 127, 129 www.rbinternational.com/sustainabilitymanagement/ inhouse ecology GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method n n 129 www.rbinternational.com/sustainabilitymanagement/ inhouse ecology GRI index and Material Topic: Organizational management Disclosures for the sector Product portfolio Assurance report G4-FS5 Interactions with clients, investees and business 125 partners regarding enviromental and social risks and opportunities Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 160 GRI Code Description RBI RBI AG Reference Explanation Material Topic: Commitment to society and the environment GRI 103-1,-2, Management approach 4–5, 13–17, 19–20, 133–153 -3 2016 GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 Engaged citizen 201-1 Direct economic value generated and 136 distributed Disclosures for the sector Product portfolio G4-FS5 Interactions with clients, investees and business 147, 150–151 partners regarding enviromental and social risks and opportunities Marketing and Labeling G4-FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type 137, 141–142 of beneficiary Status/Indicator: RBI, RBI AG: n Reported in its entirety n Reported in part n Not reported Key AR Annual report GRI Global Reporting Initiative CoC Code of Conduct RBI RBI Group FS Financial Sector RBI AG Raiffeisen Bank International AG Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 161 Foreword Statement of all legal representatives Overview We confirm to our best knowledge that the summarized, consolidated, non-financial report provided in accordance with the international framework ”GRI Standards” (option “core”) contains that information pursuant to sections 267a(2), 243b(2) of the Austrian Commercial Code that is necessary for an understanding of the course of business, business results and position of RBI as well as the impacts of its activities and at least refers to environmental matters, social matters, employee matters, the respect of Management human rights and the fight against corruption. The information comprises a description of the business model of RBI as well as the concepts followed with regard to the concerns of inclusively applied due diligence processes essential risks that will probably of sustainability have negative impacts on the matters as well as the results from the concepts and the most important performance indicators. Vienna, 28 February 2020 The Management Board Responsible banker Johann Strobl Chief Executive Officer responsible for Group Marketing, Group Regulatory Affairs & Data Governance, Group Sustainability Management, Legal Services, Chairman’s Office, Group Communications, Group Compliance, Group Executive Office, Group Human Resources, Group Internal Audit, Group Participations, Group Strategy & Innovation and International Banking Units Fairer partner – Employee Fair partner – Inhouse ecology Martin Grüll Andreas Gschwenter Member of the Management Board responsible for Member of the Management Board responsible for Group Active Credit Management, Group Investor Relations, Core IT, Group Data, Group Efficiency Management, Group Planning & Finance, Group Tax Management Group IT Delivery, Group Procurement, Cost & Real and Group Treasury Estate Management, Group Project Portfolio & Security and Head Office Operations Engaged citizen GRI index and Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 162 Łukasz Januszewski Peter Lennkh Member of the Management Board responsible for Group Member of the Management Board responsible for Capital Markets Corporate & Retail Sales, Group Capital Corporate Customers, Corporate Finance, Markets Trading & Institutional Sales, Group Investment Group Corporate Business Strategy & Steering, Banking, Group Investor Services, Group MIB Business International Leasing Steering & Product Management Management & IC Experience, Institutional Clients and and Trade Finance & Transaction Banking Raiffeisen Research Hannes Mösenbacher Andrii Stepanenko Member of the Management Board responsible for Member of the Management Board responsible for Financial Institutions, Country & Portfolio Risk Management, Group Asset Management, International Retail Business Group Advanced Analytics, Group Corporate Credit Management & Steering, International Mass Banking, Management, Group Risk Controlling, Group Special Sales & Distribution, International Premium & Private Banking, Exposures Management, International Retail Risk International Retail CRM, International Retail Lending, Management and Sector Risk Controlling Services International Retail Online Banking and International Small Business Banking Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 163 Foreword Assurance report Overview This report is a translation of the original report in German, which is solely valid. Management Independent Assurance Report on the Non Financial Reporting for the Financial Year 2019 of sustainability We have performed an independent limited assurance engagement in connection with the combined consolidated non-financial report 2019 (the “NFI-report”) of Raiffeisen Bank International AG, (“the Company“). Management’s Responsibility Responsible banker The Company's management is responsible for the proper preparation of the NFI-report in accordance with the reporting criteria. The Company applies the legal requirements of the Austrian Sustainability and Diversity Improvement Act (§§ 243b and 267a UGB) and the sustainability reporting guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI Standards, Option “Core”) as reporting criteria and publishes the NFIreport as “Sustainability Report 2019”. The responsibility of the legal representatives of the company includes the selection and application of reasonable methods for sustainability reporting (especially the selection of material topics) as well as the use of assumptions and estimates for individual sustainability disclosures that are reasonable under the Fairer partner – circumstances. Furthermore, the responsibility includes the design, implementation and maintenance of systems, processes and internal controls relevant for the preparation of the sustainability reporting in a way that is free of – intended or unintended – material misstatements. Auditors‘ Responsibility Employee Our responsibility is to state whether, based on our procedures performed, anything has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the NFI-report of the Company is not in accordance with the legal requirements of the Austrian Sustainability and Diversity Improvement Act (§§ 243b and 267a UGB) and the sustainability reporting guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI Standards, Option “Core”) in all material respects. The engagement scope included the Sustainability Report regarding the GRI Standards listed in the GRIFair partner – Index. References to other formats of reporting stated in the GRI-Index were not part of our engagement. Inhouse ecology Our engagement was conducted in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000) applicable to such engagements. These standards require us to comply with our professional requirements including independence requirements, and to plan and perform the engagement to enable us to express a conclusion with limited assurance, taking into account materiality. An independent assurance engagement with the purpose of expressing a conclusion with limited assurance is substantially less in scope than an independent assurance engagement with the purpose of expressing a conclusion with reasonable assurance, thus providing reduced assurance. In spite of Engaged conscientious planning and execution of the engagement it cannot be ruled out that material mistakes, unlawful acts or irregularities within the non-financial reporting will remain undetected. citizen GRI index and Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 164 The procedures selected depend on the auditor's judgment and included the following procedures in particular: Inquiries of personnel on corporate level, which are responsible for the materiality analysis, in order to gain an understanding of the processes for determining material sustainability topics and respective reporting boundaries of the Company; Conduct a media analysis on relevant information concerning the sustainability performance of the Company in the reporting period; Evaluation of the design and implementation of the systems and processes for the collection, processing and control of the disclosures on environmental, socialand employees matters, respect for human rights and anti-corruption and bribery, including the consolidation of the data; Inquiries of personnel on corporate level responsible for providing and consolidating and for carrying out internal control procedures concerning the disclosures on concepts, risks, due diligence processes, results and performance indicators; Inspection of internal and external documents in order to determine whether qualitative and quantitative information is supported by sufficient evidence and presented in an accurate and balanced manner; Visit of the network bank Tatra banka, a.s. (Slovakia) to assess local data collection and reporting processes and the reliability of the reported data via sample testing. Analytical evaluation of the data and trend explanations of quantitative disclosures, submitted by all sites for consolidation at corporate level; Evaluation of the consistency of the for the Company applicable requirements of the Austrian Sustainability and Diversity Improvement Act (§§ 243b and 267a UGB) and the GRI Standards (Option “Core”) with disclosures and indicators in the report; Evaluation of the overall presentation of the disclosures by critical reading of the NFI-report; The procedures that we performed do not constitute an audit or a review in accordance with Austrian professional guidelines, International Standards on Auditing (ISA) or International Standards on Review Engagements (ISRE). Our engagement did not focus on revealing and clarifying of illegal acts such as fraud, nor did it focus on assessing the efficiency of management. Furthermore, it is not part of our engagement to review future-related disclosures, figures from previous periods and statements from external information sources and expert opinions. Disclosures which were audited within the scope of the Annual Financial Statement were assessed for correct presentation (no substantial testing). The chapter “Ecological Footprint” was not part of our engagement. This assurance report is issued based on the assurance agreement concluded with the Company. Our responsibility and liability towards the Company and any third party is subject to paragraph 7 of the General Conditions of Contract for the Public Accounting Professions. The respective latest version of the AAB is accessible at http://www.kpmg.at/aab. Conclusion Based on the procedures performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the NFI-report of the Company is not in accordance with the legal requirements of the Austrian Sustainability and Diversity Improvement Act (§§ 243b and 267a UGB) and the sustainability reporting guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI Standards, Option “Core”) in all material respects. Vienna, February 28, 2020 KPMG Austria GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsund Steuerberatungsgesellschaft Mag. Peter Ertl Austrian Chartered Accountant Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 165 Foreword Abbreviations Overview AA AccountAbility ABC Anti-Bribery and Corruption AI Artificial Intelligence AML Anti-Money Laundering AR Annual Report ASRA Austrian Sustainability Reporting Award ASVG Allgemeines Sozialversicherungsgesetz (General Social Security Act) AT Austria AVAL Raiffeisen Bank Aval JSC, Ukraine Management B-1 ”Board minus 1“ – direct management level (or first management level) under the Management Board of sustainability B-2 ”Board minus 2“ – second management level under the Management Board BMSVG Betriebliches Mitarbeiterund Selbstständigenvorsorgegesetz (Corporate Staff and Self-Employment Provision Act) BREEAM Building Research Establishment Environmental Assessment Methodology BWS Gross value added CC Corporate Citizenship CDP Carbon Disclosure Project CE Central Europe Responsible CEE Central and Eastern Europe CEESEG CEE Stock Exchange Group banker CEO Chief Executive Officer CEF Customer Experience Framework CG Corporate Governance CO2e CO2-equivalent CoC Code of Conduct COP 21 21st Conference of the Parties (21. Climate Conference 2015 in Paris) CRO Chief Risk Officer Fairer partner – CSR Corporate Social Responsibility CTF Counter-Terrorism Financing DGNB Deutsche Gesellschaft für Nachhaltiges Bauen (German Sustainable Building Council) DSGVO General Data Protection Regulation Employee EACB European Association of Co-operative Banks EBA European Banking Authority EBR European Staff Council EBRD European Bank for Reconstruction and Development Fair partner – ECB European Central Bank EE Eastern Europe EEA European Economic Area Inhouse ecology EIB European Investment Bank EIF European Investment Fund ELBA Electronic Banking EMAS Eco Management and Audit Scheme EMEA Europe, Middle East, Africa EMI European Movement International ESG Environmental, Social and Governance Engaged citizen E&S Environmental & Social ESMA European Securities and Markets Authority ESMS Environmental and Social Management System EStG Einkommenssteuer (Income Tax) EUROFI The European think tank dedicated to financial services GRI index and EU European Union FNG Forum Nachhaltige Geldanlagen (Sustainable Investment Forum) FS Financial Sector Assurance report FX Foreign exchange Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 166 GRI Global Reporting Initiative GWh Gigawatt hour (Gigawattstunde) HHOF Hockey Hall of Fame HR Human Resources HTL Höhere Technische Bundeslehranstalt (Higher Federal Technical College) ICC International Chamber of Commerce IFC International Finance Corporation IIHF International Ice Hockey Federation ILO International Labour Organization IMAS Institut für Marktund Sozialanalysen Ges.m.b.H. (Institute for Market and Social Analysis Ges.m.b.H.) IPCC Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change ISIN International Securities Identification Number (Internationale Wertpapierkennnummer) ISO International Organization for Standardization (Internationale Organisation für Normung) Kathrein Kathrein Privatbank AG KCM Kathrein Capital Management GmbH KfW Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau (Reconstruction Credit Institute) KPI Key Performance Indicator KYC Know Your Customer kWh Kilowattstunde (Kilowatt hour) LC Large Corporates LEED Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design LED Light-Emitting Diode (Leuchtdiode) LGBTI Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transsexual, intersexual LGBTIQ Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transsexual, intersexual and queer LobbyG Lobbyingund Interessenvertretungs-Transparenz-Gesetz (Lobbying and advocacy transparency law) M&A Mergers and Acquisitions MiFID Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (Wertpapierdienstleistungsrichtlinie) MIGA Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency (Multilaterale Investitions-Garantie-Agentur) mona Nachhaltigkeitsmonitoring-Tool (Sustainability monitoring tool) MWh Megawattstunde (Megawatt hour) NaDiVeG Nachhaltigkeitsund Diversitätsverbesserungsgesetz (Austrian Sustainability and Diversity Improvement Act) NFI Non-financial information NGO Non Governmental Organization NPO Non Profit Organization NPS Net Promoter Score NWB Netzwerkbanken (Network banks) OeKB Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG ÖGNI Österreichische Gesellschaft für Nachhaltige Immobilienwirtschaft (Austrian Society for Sustainable Real Estate) ÖGUT Österreichische Gesellschaft für Umwelt und Technik (Austrian Society for Environment and Technology) ÖHT Österreichische Hotelund Tourismusbank GmbH (Austrian Tourism Bank) PKG Pensionskassengesetz (Pension fund Act) pkm Passengerkilometers PP Percentage points PRI Principles for Responsible Investment (Prinzipien für verantwortliches Investieren) PV Photovoltaics RBAL Raiffeisen Bank Sh.A., Albania RBBG Raiffeisenbank (Bulgaria) EAD RBBH Raiffeisen BANK d.d. Bosna i Hercegovina RBBY Priorbank JSC, Belarus RBCZ Raiffeisenbank a.s., Czech Republic RBG Raiffeisen Banking Group in Austria RBHR Raiffeisenbank Austria d.d., Croatia RBHU Raiffeisen Bank Zrt., Hungary RBI Raiffeisen Bank International Group Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 167 Foreword Overview RBI AG Raiffeisen Bank International AG RBKO Raiffeisen Bank Kosovo J.S.C. RBRO Raiffeisen Bank S.A., Romania RBRS Raiffeisen banka a.d., Serbia RBRU AO Raiffeisenbank, Russia RBSK Raiffeisen Bausparkasse Gesellschaft m.b.H. RCB Raiffeisen Centrobank AG RCM Raiffeisen Capital Management respACT Austrian Business Council for Sustainable Development Management R-IT Raiffeisen Informatik GmbH of sustainability RKAG Raiffeisen Kapitalanlage-Gesellschaft m.b.H. RLB Raiffeisenlandesbank (Raiffeisen regional bank) RL Raiffeisen-Leasing GmbH RNI Raiffeisen Nachhaltigkeits-Initiative (Raiffeisen Sustainability Initiative) RSC Raiffeisen Service Center RSI Raiffeisen Salzburg Invest SASB Sustainability Accounting Standards Board Responsible SDGs Sustainable Development Goals SEE South Eastern Europe banker SME Small and medium enterprises SREP Supervisory Evaluation and Review Process SRI Socially Responsible Investment TBSK Tatra banka, a.s., Slovakia TCO Total Cost of Ownership TIWAG Tiroler Wasserkraft AG (Tyrolean hydropower AG) tkm ton kilometers Fairer partner – TOM Target Operating Model UGB Unternehmensgesetzbuch (Austrian Commercial Code) UN United Nations UN-PRI United Nations Principles for Responsible Investment Employee UNEP United Nations Environment Programme UNEP FI United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative UNGC United Nations Global Compact UNIQA UNIQA Österreich Versicherungen AG (UNIQA Austria Insurance Ltd.) Fair partner – Valida Valida Holding AG VfU Verein für Umweltmanagement und Nachhaltigkeit in Finanzinstituten e.V. (Association for Environmental Management and Sustainability) Inhouse ecology WKO Wirtschaftskammer Österreich (Austrian Economic Chambers) WU Wirtschaftsuniversität Wien (Vienna University of Economics and Business) ZHS ZHS Office& Facilitymanagement GmbH Engaged citizen GRI index and Assurance report Raiffeisen Bank International I Sustainability Report 2019 Raiffeisen Bank Am Stadtpark 9 T: +43-1-71707-0 International AG 1030 Vienna www.rbinternational.com Sustainability Report 2019 (Consolidated Non-Financial Report)
