SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 KYOBO LIFE ABOUT THIS REPORT Humanity and the Future At Kyobo Life, we firmly believe that people are our most precious asset, and that corporations exist to serve people. Inspired by this philosophy, the company’s slogan ‘Humanity and the Future’ expresses our sincere commitment to people-centered management. Kyobo Life published the Sustainability Report in 2011 for the first time in Korean life insurance industry. This Report was published to transparently disclose the results of sustainability management activities in 2019 and communicate with stakeholders. Kyobo Life has been publishing the Sustainability Report every year, and the most recent Report was published in May 2018. This is the 10th Sustainability Report. Period and Scope of the Report This Report outlines the sustainability management activities carried out by Kyobo Life in FY2019 (From Jan. to Dec. 2019) and some of the activities and performance continued in 2020 based on the timeliness. As regards our quantitative performance, the data for the past three years are disclosed to show the changing trends, whereas data that do not correspond to this threeyear period are indicated with notes. If any data in the previous report have been revised, such revisions are made based on the data as of 2019, and indicated with notes. The scope of this Report includes domestic operations such as the headquarters and branches of Kyobo Life, and Customer PLAZAs, but excludes the company’s overseas branches. Our social contribution activities include the activities of Kyobo Life’s public foundation, including the Kyobo Foundation for Education . Meanwhile, the environmental data concern certain domestic operations, which are indicated with notes. The currency used in the Report is the Korean Won (₩), while other currencies are indicated by figures. Reporting Standards Report Assurance This Report was created in accordance with the Core This Report has been subjected to an assurance proOptions of GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Stancess administered by the Korean Standards Associadards for Sustainability Management Reports. Also, tion (KSA), and an independent assurance company in the Report was compiled on the basis of the major order to enhance validity and reliability of the data, in issues identified by the materiality test, and the finanaccordance with four principles (inclusivity, materialcial information included in the Report was prepared ity, responsiveness, and impact) of the AA1000AS Susbased on K-IFRS. tainability Report assurance standards presented in the 2018 Addendum, and the assurance type is Type II. Please refer to the Independent Assurance Report provided in the Appendix. Contact Details This Report has been published in Korean and English, Younghwa Lee/Minseo Kim and can also be viewed on the Kyobo Life website Corporate Planning Team, Kyobo Life (www.kyobo.co.kr). If you have any questions or comPhone : 02)721-2118, 2102 ments about this Report, please contact us via : Fax : 02)721-3849 E-mail : kyobocsr@kyobo.com SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 KYOBO LIFE CEO Message 02 Kyobo Life in 2019 – Highlights 04 The Four Seasons in 06 Gwanghwamun 2019 ~ 2020 01 About KYOBO LIFE Company Overview 08 Business Areas 10 03 Stakeholders Impact Vision & Strategy 11 Corporate Governance 12 Customers 38 Risk Management 14 Financial Planners 44 Ethics and Compliance Management 17 Employees 48 Special Page 20 Investors 54 Government and Local Communities 60 02 Sustainability at KYOBO Sustainability Management system 26 04 Appendix Kyobo Life Value Chain 27 Compliance with the Ten Principles of 72 UNGC Kyobo Life SDGs 28 Awards/Association and Membership 73 Stakeholder Engagement 29 Regarding Sustainability Management In-depth Customer Survey 30 GRI Standards Index 74 Stakeholder Interview 31 Third Party Assurance 76 Sustainable Management 32 Summarized Financial Statement 78 Expert Interview Declaration of VISION 2020 79 Materiality Test 34 02 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 KYOBO LIFE CEO Message Kyobo Life intends to be a Dear Stakeholders, I would like to express my sincere gratitude to all of you for your continued interest in, and support for, company respected and Kyobo Life. esteemed by customers Kyobo Life earned triple crown in sustainable management as it was selected as the top company in through constant the Korean Sustainability Index’s life insurance business category for ten consecutive years and customer-value innovation. inducted into the Hall of Fame for the first time in the life insurance industry in 2019, and awarded the first ‘Korean Sustainability Leader Award for CEO’ and the ‘Sustainability Readers’ Choice Award.’ This demonstrates the outside recognition of Kyobo Life's sustainable management philosophy and practice which makes it more meaningful. These achievements are attributable to all our stakeholders who have shown their continued trust and support, which is most sincerely appreciated. Once again, I would like to express my deepest gratitude to all stakeholders, including customers, Financial Planners, executives and employees, investors, partners, governments and local communities. In the context of the current business management environment, borders between industries are disappearing, while social trends are transforming rapidly due to the drastic development of digital technology. We anticipate that the speed of transformation into the digital economy will be accelerated as the trend of ‘non-contact’ consumption is surging as a result of the COVID-19 outbreak. ‘Digital Transformation’ is no longer an option, but rather a must for us to provide better products and services to customers who have accustomed to the digital culture. Kyobo Life has been actively promoting digital innovation to be responsive to such environmental changes. As a result, it introduced ‘BARO,’ the AI underwriting system, for the first time in the industry and won the ‘Technology Initiative of the Year’ at the Asia Insurance Industry Awards 2019. Kyobo Life will continue to accelerate its digital innovation focusing on customer value – we will provide more convenient customer service and improve business efficiency using new digital technologies while constantly strengthening our new growth engine by exploring new business models. CEO Message 03 The commitment and performance achievements of Commitment to ‘being a company that Kyobo Life achieved for our stakeholders in 2019 were as follows: wins with partner companies’ Kyobo Life strives to create a win-win relationship with partner comCommitment to ‘being a company that provides optimal panies through fair trade . The company implemented a compliance insurance coverage and ongoing service’ program and ensured transparency in transactions with partner As a life insurance company, Kyobo Life values its insurance coverage companies through the electronic purchasing system, the clean concapabilities the most. In 2019, the company aimed to improve custract system, and etc. to prevent unfair practices in the contract protomer convenience through digital innovation and faithfully implecess. Meanwhile, Kyobo Life selected and supported ten (10) start-ups mented customer-oriented management activities. For the first time in with new technologies under the Open Innovation policy for promothe insurance industry, Kyobo Life introduced an automated delivery of tion of digital transformation and tried to grow together with them by medical checkup service and provided a KakaoTalk-based Chatbot serbuilding collaborative business models in 2019. Improving each stakevice to enable customers to use the service more conveniently. In addiholder’s value under close cooperation with partner companies which tion, the company was recognized for its continuous customer-oriented understand Kyobo’s management strategy and philosophy, the corpomanagement activities, such as responding to customer complaints rate competency is an essential element to realize cooperation among promptly and proactively, and therefore acquired the Consumer Censtakeholders through sustainable management. Such corporate comtered Management (CCM) certificate for seven consecutive times. petency will become even more important when establishing the on-line corporate ecosystem beloved by the society and the market in Commitment to ‘being a company that succeeds together the era of digital transformation. Kyobo Life will acknowledge the imporwith our Financial Planners (“FPs”)’ tance of many partner companies and have distinct understanding that Kyobo Life supports Financial Planners’ competency in diverse ways so they are also major stakeholders of Kyobo Life. that they can deliver the value of life insurance appropriately, and succeed as recognized, trusted FPs by customers. The company expanded Commitment to ‘being a company that grows together digital education to provide various contents, including a real-time lecwith the government and communities’ ture broadcasting and e-books, so that FPs can receive qualified eduKyobo Life is committed to creating a healthy and caring world where cation anywhere and at anytime. In addition, we newly established the people coexist in harmony. To this end, the company actively par‘Rookie Training Center’ to support new Financial Planners' competicipates in resolving social problems related to the nature of the life tency enhancement and extended the initial training period to operate insurance business to help people overcome their adversities, guided the Center more systematically. Also, the “Kyobo MDRT Day” event is by the “Kyobo Dasomi Volunteer Service Center” founded in 2002. In held every year to strengthen the pride and motivation of outstanding particular, the ‘Kyobo Dasomi Dream Makers’ program fostered the Financial Planners. Moreover, Kyobo Life introduced the “Consultant development of underprivileged youths as the future talents in 2019; Inconvenience Support Center,” to resolve any difficulty Financial Planand the ‘Wow Dasomi Sound-and-light Program’ project supported ners encountered and support their smooth sales activities. medical examination and surgery expenses for children with hearing impediments. Moreover, Kyobo Life has strived to solve social probCommitment to ‘being a company that grows together lems and create new values by raising awareness through various with our employees’ social campaigns. Meanwhile, Kyobo Life is striving to fulfill its corKyobo Life respects its employees and strives to grow with them. Each porate social responsibility and generate stable, long-term profit by year, the company sets up a employee competency development key expanding its social responsibility investment, such as consideration tasks, provides a systematic competency-building program, and supof investment in companies with healthy business from the perspecports a fair evaluation and compensation system according to perfortive of ESG (Environment, Society and Governance). mance. In addition, Kyobo Life respects the diversity of its employees Kyobo Life, as a member of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), and actively supports individual growth and development. In particular, expresses unwavering support for the ten (10) principles suggested by the company strives to support the competency development of female UNGC in four (4) crucial areas (human rights, labor, environment, and employees through its Korea Women's Innovative Council (KWICK). anti-corruption), and actively reflects such principles throughout its management. Commitment to ‘being a company that is attractive to investors’ Kyobo Life recorded KRW 603.4 billion in net income and 5.46% in ROE Kyobo Life, through continuous customer-value innovation, is combased on consolidated financial statements in FY2019, and the ROE mitted to being a company admired by stakeholders in the pursuit of was the highest among the large life insurers in Korea. The company cooperative development with them. We sincerely welcome your conachieved a stable rate of return on investment of 3.95% by continutinued interest and support today and in the future. ously increasing alternative investment assets and actively responding to the market despite the challenging asset management enviThank you! ronment. Kyobo Life, in addition, established and has operated a group-level risk management system, which manages all types of risks comprehensively, to maintain its risk management at its best. Meanwhile, we have made various attempts to secure new growth engines, such as discovering new insurance and non-insurance businesses in Korea and overseas, strengthening the synergy by cooperating with affiliates and so on. Kyobo Life is building relevant infrastructures thorJuly 2020 oughly to minimize the impacts of IFRS17 and K-ICS in times of their Chang-Jae Shin, implementation in 2023. Chaiman and CEO, Kyobo Life 04 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 KYOBO LIFE Kyobo Life in 2019 Highlights 01 Kyobo Life ranked No. 1 in the insurance industry segment of the Korean Sustainability Index for the tenth consecutive year and inducted into the Hall of Fame. In 2019, Kyobo Life was ranked No. 1 in the Korean Sustainability Index’s life insurance business category of the ‘2019 Korean Sustainability conference’ for ten consecutive years, being inducted into the Hall of Fame for the first time in the financial industry. In addition, in 2019, Chang-Jae Shin, Chairman & CEO of the company, was selected as the first winner of the newly established ‘Korea Sustainability Leader Award for CEO’ for his efforts to create social value through sustainability management; and the company won three awards, including the 'Sustainability Readers’ Choice Award’. This clearly demonstrates Kyobo Life’s willingness to take the lead in fulfilling its social responsibility, and public recognition of its philosophy and practice of sustainable management that it develops together with stakeholders. 02 03 Successful Introduction of the Achieved the Highest Financial Solvency in Terms of RBC, ‘Next-Generation Insurance System V3’ International Credit Rating, Etc. based on Digital Innovation Kyobo Life continued to boast the best credit ratings in the industry Kyobo Life has prepared an IT platform based on by receiving top ratings from the world's leading credit rating agenwhich we can quickly respond to business changes cies the A1 rating from Moody's (USA) for five years in a row and the according to constant changes in customer needs A+ rating from Fitch (UK) for seven consecutive years. The A1 and A+ and the market environment. Through ‘Insurance credit ratings indicate that the company’s excellent financial soundness System V3,’ which is the 2nd transformation and and risk management capability have been recognized internationinnovation changing the way of work, Kyobo Life ally, which is very meaningful in that the company has accomplished it has solidified the foundation for business process even in difficult business environments. In addition, RBC of Kyobo Life innovation based on customer-oriented work prois rated the highest in the industry with 339% as of December 2019, and cesses, on-site sales activity support, and a flexible ROE of the company has been ranked the 1st since 2004. IT platform. 04 New Insurance System Opened Rookie Training Center…A reinforced system for FP.com nurturing rookies Credit System Kyobo Life has significantly improved its long-term Financial PlanRetirement Pension System ner (FP) nurturing system in order to achieve honest and faithful net increase of Financial Planners. A 17-month systematic training system Trust/Fund System was developed, and the Rookie Training Center was established for each FP Regional Support Unit to develop practical skills and habits. Through this, new FPs can be provided with practical training to ensure that they carry out standard activities and life-planning processes. Kyobo Life in 2019 Highlights 05 05 06 Being Awarded the Highest Grade in Assessment of Financial Consumer Protection Status…Results of consumer protection efforts In the assessment of financial consumer protection status announced by the Korean Financial Supervisory Service, Kyobo Life earned a rating of “good” or higher for nine out of 10 items, and received the best rating among life insurance companies. This shows that consumers can trust the coverage provided by Kyobo Life. This year, Kyobo Life received the Consumer-Centered Management (CCM) certificate for the 7th time since it received the first certificate Chatbot, AI Underwriter…Commencing Digital in 2007 and was inducted to the CCM Hall of Fame. Services in earnest Kyobo Life introduced “Lovers,” the chatbot, in order to increase customers’ convenience and enhance work efficiency of employees. Customers can use services like application for and repayment of insurance loans, while FPs and employees can handle their work without time and physical restrictions using AI technologies. Meanwhile, Kyobo Life was recognized externally for its ‘BARO’ – the world’s first natural language-based AI underwriting system – and received the Technology Initiative of the Year at the Asia Insurance Industry Awards for the first time among Korean insurance companies for improving work-efficiency and providing differentiated customer value. 07 Setting up Innovative Alliances with Startups and Launching Open Innovation In 2019, Kyobo Life pursued open innovation to develop new products and services together with startups with original ideas and technologies. A tripartite cooperation system between professional accelerators and a multiple number of startups will be established to develop joint business models. It is expected to explore new business ideas and enhance competitiveness in its main industries through collaboration with startups possessing innovative technologies and ideas in various fields such as healthcare, lifestyle, and digital fields. 06 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 KYOBO LIFE The Four Seasons in Gwanghwamun 2019 2020 Since its debut in 1991, Kyobo Life’s Gwanghwamun Billboard marks its 30th anniversary in 2020. Gwanghwamun Billboard was introduced for citizens with the desire to deliver comfort and encouraging words or messages that touched the hearts of those needing courage and inspiration in their lives. Whenever the seasons change, the Billboard delivers uplifting new messages to many citizens bringing love and hope in their lives. Gwanghwamun Billboard shares positive messages of life with many citizens in various other places, including Kyobo Tower in Gangnam, and the office building on Jeju Island. 2019 Spring I write to you that “the leaves are out after flows fell” and I write to you that “a bird sat after the leaves fell.” Spring Yes, we should live. You and me as balls. Like the round balls that do not fall. Stay still like seeds. Summer Summer Flowers blossom by the power of stillness. Good things do not disappear, such as the book that you paused reading and the words of love you were about to 2020 confess. Autumn A leaf bitten by a caterpillar is beautiful. A trace of life that you fed someone else is as beautiful as a star. Winter Your empty pockets will be no longer empty – it will be filled with your hands when the winter comes. ABOUT KYOBO LIFE Company Overview 08 Business Areas 10 Vision & Strategy 11 Corporate Governance 12 Risk Management 14 Ethics and Compliance Management 17 Special Page 20 08 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 KYOBO LIFE Company Overview Established in 1958 based on the philosophy of ‘promotion of education and formation of national capital,’ Kyobo Life has sought ‘good growth’ with the aim of growing together with all stakeholders for 62 years as a life insurance company pursuing honesty and sincerity. Kyobo Life has emphasized people-centered management activities as people are the most precious asset, and the company exists for people. Kyobo Life published the Sustainability Report for the first time in Korean life insurance industry and has been publishing the Report every year for communication with stakeholders. Kyobo Life has won the first place in the Korean Sustainability Index of the life insurance industry for the 10th consecutive year, thereby gaining recognition for its excellence. Company Facts (As of Dec. 2019) General Information Employees Company Name Kyobo Life Insurance Co. Ltd (敎保生命保險株式會社) Establishment August 7, 1958 Date CEO Chang-Jae Shin, Your-Hyun Yun Kyobo Building, 1, Jong-ro (Jongno 1-ga), Jongno-gu, Head Office Seoul, Republic of Korea No. of employees No. of FP Main business Life insurance, retirement pension, trust Republic of Korea, Japan, U.S., China, U.K., 3,822 14,427 Relevant Markets Myanmar (planned) Credit Ratings Domestic AAA (stable) International A1 A+ National Information & Credit Evaluation, Moody’s Fitch Korea Investors Service, Korea Ratings (5 consecutive years) (7 consecutive years) Major Financial Performance (based on consolidated financial statements) Total Assets Net Profit No. of Policy Holders RBC ROE KRW 116 trillion KRW 603.4 billion 4,128,000 persons 339 % 5.46 % Affiliates Kyobo Life has positively enhanced the brand and corporate values of Kyobo through active communication with its affiliates. Financial (8) Non-financial(4) Kyobo Securities Co., Ltd. Kyobo Book Center Co., Ltd. Kyobo AXA Investment Managers Co. Ltd. KCA Claim Adjustment Co., Ltd. Kyobo Realco Co., Ltd. Kyobo Life Asset Trust Co., Ltd. A&D Credit Information Co., Ltd. Kyobo Information & Communication Co., Ltd. Kyobo Life Asset Management Co., Ltd. (America) Kyobo Life Asset Management Co., Ltd. (Japan) Kyobo Data Center Co., Ltd. Kyobo Lifeplanet Life Insurance Co., Ltd. About KYOBO LIFE Company Overview 09 Corporate History Kyobo Life has written the history of the insurance industry in Korea based on the value of ‘Education is the future of the nation’. 1958~1980 1958 Foundation of Daehan Education Insurance Co., Ltd. Creation of Jinhak Insurance, the world’s first 1981~1996 education insurance. 1967 Becomes the best company in the insurance industry 1983 Founder Yong-Ho Shin awarded the ‘Founder’s Award’ with 32.7 billion won in insurance contracts just nine by the IIS (International Insurance Society) years after its founding 1991 Establishment of the Daesan Agriculture Foundation 1980 Establishment of Kyobo Book Centre Co., Ltd. 1992 Establishment of the Daesan Foundation 1995 Company renamed as Kyobo Life Insurance Co., Ltd. 1996 Founder Yong-Ho Shin inducted into the IIS Insurance 1997~2010 Hall of Fame. 1997 Establishment of Kyobo Foundation for Education 2011~2018 2000 Declaration of the ‘Ethics Charter of Kyobo people’ 2001 Declaration of Vision2010 and the CI of Kyobo people 2011 Declaration of Kyobo Vision 2015 2002 Foundation of the Kyobo Dasomi Volunteer 2012 Chairman & CEO Chang-Jae Shin wins the ‘Best Insurance Service Center CEO of the Year’ at the Asia Insurance Industry Awards 2004 Wins the Customer Satisfaction Grand Prize 2013 Establishment of Kyobo Lifeplanet Life Insurance Co., Ltd. (for the fifth consecutive year); inducted into the 2014 Wins the second ‘Beloved Corporate Government’ Hall of Fame. Presidential Award and the private company prize in the 2009 Selected as the Best Insurance Company of the process category for Porter Prize for Excellence in CSV Year in the Asia Life Insurance Industry. 2016 Declaration of Kyobo Vision 2020/ 2010 Joins the International Agreement for Corporate Received the ‘Grand Prize Award’ at the 12th Management Social Responsibility and the UN Global Compact. Transparency Awards 2017 Received the ‘Fair Trade Commissioner’s Commendation’ at the Consumer Rights Day Awards 2018 Wins the President’s Award at the Korea Digital Management Innovation Awards Chairman & CEO Chang-Jae Shin receives the Eungwan Order of Cultural Merit. Major Awards won in 2019 · Selected as a top company in the life insurance sector in the Korean Sustainability Index (KSI) for tenth consecutive year Inducted into the Hall of Fame for the first time in the financial industry ·C  hairman & CEO Chang-Jae Shin receives 'Korean Sustainability Leader Award for CEO’ · Chairman & CEO Chang-Jae Shin receives ‘Humane Entrepreneurship Award’ · Wins 'Technology Initiative of the Year' at the Asia Insurance Industry Awards · Inducted into the Hall of fame for the Consumer-Centered Management (CCM) ·W  ins ‘Award for excellent financial institution for customers’ from FSS 10 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 KYOBO LIFE Business Area Products and supplementary services of Kyobo Life, the partner for your life Kyobo Life provides various products to help customers overcome future adversity and pursue their precious dreams with strong reliability forever. In addition, Kyobo Life provides various additional services depending on the subscribed product so that customers can receive care for their entire health-related process, from disease-prevention by managing health conditions during normal times to follow-up management upon occurrence of disease. Prevention Post-care Protection Daily life management Post management Claim payment Health counselling Health maintenance Major Insurance Products Whole Life/ This insurance protects you and your Education/ This insurance provides education Term Insurance family in the event of an unfortunate Child Insurance funds for your child and covers accident. illnesses/injuries. (No-dividend) Kyobo Budget Whole-Life (No-Dividend) Kyobo My Child’s Insurance First Insurance Health/Integrated This insurance covers both major Deposit This insurance helps you save funds Insurance diseases and death. Insurance for diverse purposes. (No-Dividend) Kyobo Budget Health Plus (No-Dividend) Kyobo Big Plus Deposit Insurance Pension This insurance will provide Insurance for This insurance is exclusively designed Insurance assuranceduring the later days of your life the Disabled to provide benefits for people with which are expected to be longer than you disabilities. economically active period. (No-Dividend) Kyobo Gomduri Coverage My Future Pension Plan Kyobo Variable Insurance Pension InsuranceⅡ Major Supplementary Services An integrated health management service for the VIP customers who is subscribing Life Insurance and CI Kyobo Health Insurance that provides continued health management programs for improvement of health conditions Care Service during normal times and management of diseases after their onset through medical specialists, nurses, nutritionists, psychology counselors, sports therapists, etc. An education support service created through collaboration between Kyobo Life, Kyobo Book Center and Kyobo Edu experts from different areas for the customers who subscribed for Education Insurance and Children’s Care Service Insurance, to unveil the dreams and the talents of their children and to develop appropriate characters and desirable leadership and followership in the children. A dementia management service for the VIP customers who is subscribing Dementia Life Insurance and the Kyobo Dementia Dementia Insurance customers that help the dementia patients and their families by offering the dementia Care Service prevention services. Such services help them prepare for and discover dementia in advance and the dementia care services that carefully manage dementia according to the symptoms per stage. A digital health improvement service for the VIP customers who is subscribing CI Insurance that improves Kyobo Health daily habits by providing smart health management through a mobile application and makes them healthier Coaching Service by providing coaching program and personal consultation after analyzing the age equivalents of their organs. About KYOBO LIFE Vision & Strategy 11 Vision & Strategy Kyobo Life launched its Vision 2020 in 2016 and has been constantly trying to achieve the Vision. To achieve this Vision, we are establishing management directions and core tasks every year and actively implementing them. Korea’s Most Innovative Life Insurer in Product and Distribution by 2020 Vision2020 in Preparation for the Era of the Fourth Industrial Revolution Core purpose Our mission is to help everyone confidently pursue their dreams throughout their lives, overcoming every adversity through mutual support Core values We will always put our customers first in our in and actions We will always be honest and sincere in every respect 우리는 We will always 항상 새롭게 innovate, 시도하고 starting 실패해도 over again first 도전한다 if at다시 we do not succeed Management Directive Transfer to Digital Kyobo beyond survival of the company ❶ Speed up customer-centered digital ❹ Strengthen net increase of FPs and their innovation competency Major initiatives ❺S  trengthen asset management capabilities ❷ Expand customer coverage (assets held/ infrastructure) ❸ Strengthen customer contact activities ❻S  pread reliable customer protection culture 2019-2020 Business Environment and Responses Kyobo Life analyzes the rapidly changing business environment, identifies potential risk factors, and derives business potential from diverse opportunities in order to preemptively respond to future changes. Category Business Environment Future Responses ·E  nhancing product competitiveness, such as the development of differentiated products, by reflecting customers’ needs · Aging population and declining birth rate ·E  stablishing the marketing strategy from CPC Society · Increase in single-person and senior households (Channel·Product·Customer) perspective · COVID-19 pandemic · Improving channel expertise ·E  xploring non-contact strategy consumption culture according to non-contact consumption culture · Continuing trend of low growth and low interest rates · Limited economic recovery is expected due to increasing · Making use of overseas alternative assets Economy uncertainties in domestic and global financial markets ·A  sset management in response to increasing volatility in · Economic recession due to COVID-19 pandemic domestic and foreign financial markets · Strengthening of regulations on financial soundness, ·C  ontinuous strengthening of countermeasures in such as IFRS17 (to be introduced in 2023) and the response to regulations on financial soundness K-Insurance Capital Standard (K-ICS) · Expanding portion of socially responsible investment Politics · Increased legal liabilities of financial companies due to enhanced protection of financial consumers · Strengthening the competiveness of the insurance business by leveraging digital technologies · Diffusion of convergence in the financial industry Technology · Developing new growth engines based on digital technologies · Increased use of fintech/big data (INNOSTAGE) · Establishing digital team 12 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 KYOBO LIFE Corporate Governance Stable and transparent corporate governance are needed to provide sustainable growth and balanced value to all stakeholders. Kyobo Life's top decision-making body is the general shareholders' meeting and the board of directors and the company balances management activities through active participation by outside directors. In addition, Kyobo Life has strengthened internal control and increased corporate value by establishing and operating a compliance officer and an audit committee. The company is committed to enhancing the transparency and efficiency of decision-making activities by delegating authority to the subcommittees within the BOD regarding company’s business, except the works related to general shareholders’ meeting and the board meeting. Corporate Governance Chart General Shareholders’ Meeting Board of Directors Executive candidate Audit Committee Risk Management Remuneration Management Recommendation Committee Committee Committee Committee *Kyobo Life publishes its ‘Annual Report on Corporate Governance’ in accordance with the ‘Exemplary Norms on Corporate Governance of Financial Companies.’ The details of Kyobo Life’s corporate governance can be found at the corporate website (www.kyobo.co.kr). Board of Directors The board of directors of Kyobo Life sets and controls the company’s management goals and key strategies. As of December 2019, the board is composed of seven directors in total – two internal directors, four external directors and one non-standing director. There is no female director on the board. There are five committees under the board of directors, including the Audit Committee, the Executive candidate Recommendation Committee, the Risk Management Committee, and the Remuneration Committee and Management Committee. As prescribed by the Act on Corporate Governance of Financial Companies, the company annually appoints a Chairman of the Board to successfully operate the board of directors and appropriately carry out the roles and responsibilities required by the applicable laws and bylaws. Meanwhile, the general shareholders’ meeting finally appoints the directors after it reviews the candidates’ qualifications in accordance with the requirements of the applicable law, the Insurance Business Act, to ensure independence in the director appointment process. Especially with regard to the appointment of external directors, Kyobo Life has formed the Executive candidate Recommendation Committee of which guiding principle is to recommend external director candidates who hold no interest in the company, who are independent, and who possess capacities that correspond with the company’s management strategies and goals. Type of Date of appointment/ Category Name Title appointment date of expiration Chairman & CEO, Chairman of the Board of Chang-Jae Shin Reappointment Mar. 27, 2020 Mar. 26, 2023 Directors Directors Your-Hyun Yun Chief Operating Officer Mar. 29, 2019 Mar. 28, 2022 Former chairman of the Daesan Agriculture Jung-Hyo Lee Reappointment Foundation/ Chairman of the Kyobo Mar. 29, 2020 Mar. 28, 2021 Foundation for Education Affinity Equity Partners (S) Pte., Ltd., Sang-Hoon Lee Reappointment Mar. 27, 2020 Mar. 26, 2021 Outside Korea Branch/Representative of Korea directors Professor in Business Administration Beom-Ha Ji New appointment Mar. 27, 2020 Mar. 26, 2022 Department at Handong University Professor, Law School at Chonnam Soon-Seok Kim New appointment Mar. 27, 2020 Mar. 26, 2022 National University Other non-standing Managing Director and Partner at Hari R. Rajan New appointment Mar. 29, 2020 Mar. 28, 2021 director Corsair Capital About KYOBO LIFE Corporate Governance 13 Committees within the Board of Directors Committee Main Roles Audit Evaluates and improves appropriateness of the company’s overall internal compliance system and Committee management performance. Executive candidate Recommends candidates with capability and expertise that can satisfy the company’s strategic goals for Recommendation Committee the positions of representative director, outside director and auditor. Risk Management Establishes basic directions on and major policies related to risk management and approves the Committee risk-based management strategies. Remuneration Designs and implements the compensation system for executives and employees in connection with risk. Committee Management Makes decisions on the company’s major issues, such as establishing mid-to-long-term management Committee direction and management plans. Operation of Board of Directors On average, meetings of the board of directors are held once per month and meetings of the temporary board of directors can be held on an ad hoc basis when necessary. As of December 2019, Kyobo Life held eleven board meetings in total, with an internal director attendance rate of 100% and an external director attendance rate of 100%. 2017 9 2017 98.48% Number of BOD meeting BOD meetings 2018 10 participation 2018 100% held (times) 2019 11 rate 2019 100% *It is the average of participation rate per meeting. Evaluation & Remuneration of Executive Management The remuneration of the executive management is determined based on an evaluation of performance in each area, as reported to the board of directors at the end of each business year. The remuneration of directors is determined at a general shareholders’ meeting, and the details of external directors’ remuneration are disclosed at our website (www.kyobo. co.kr >> Disclosures >> Governance Disclosures). Ownership Structure The largest shareholder of Kyobo Life is Chairman and CEO Chang-Jae Shin, who holds a 33.78 percent share of the company. The majority shareholders have remained unchanged for the past three years. Shareholders(%) (As of June 30, 2020) 33.78% 0.36% Chang-Jae Shin Others Employee Stock Ownership Union 1.00% Meiji Yasuda Life 1.00% Goldman Sachs 1.07% Corsair Capital 9.79% AXA 2.24% Pantheon, Morgan Stanley AIP 2.30% Affinity 9.05% GIC* 4.50% Baring PE 5.23% OTPP* 7.62% IMM PE 5.23% Affirma Capital 5.33% In-jae Shin and two others 5.65% *Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan The Export-Import Bank of Korea 5.85% *Government of Singapore Investment Corporation 14 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 KYOBO LIFE Risk Management Company’s Overall Risk Management Kyobo Life systematically manages risks by quantifying them in order to proactively identify and manage risk factors that can cause losses to the company. The representative financial soundness index, the RBC (Risk Based Capital) ratio, reached 339% in 2019, resulting in a level that greatly exceeds the 100% required by the Financial Supervisory Service. Strategic Set limits for each risks and monitor if such limits are complied with, to obtain and maintain Risk Management to financial soundness Maximize Corporate Adopt ALM policy considering assets and liabilities Value Manage risk by including non-financial risks such as operation/strategy/reputation risk Measure and manage potential risks that may occur in the course of routine management practices Systematic Put in place a proactive risk management system to prevent losses that may arise from drastic Risk Management for changes in the financial market Management Stability Develop risk situation scenarios and establish appropriate response plans for each type of risk from the company’s perspective Pursuance of Continuously improve the asset/liability structure Stable Management of Build an asset portfolio to enlarge the sizes and durations of interest-bearing assets Long-term Risks Risk Management Organization Kyobo Life has established risk management regulations for systematic risk management, and set standards and procedures for risk management, including timely recognition, evaluation, monitoring and control of various risks. In addition, the company appoints a Chief Risk Officer(CRO) who supervises the risk management system and establishes a Risk Management Committee and dedicated departments in order to manage risks preemptively and systematically. Risk management Board of Directors related decisionmaking and final responsibility Risk Management Committee Risk Management Council ALM Council Integrated management of risk and ALM Risk Management Support Team Capital Management Team Variable Life Market Credit Interest Liquidity Insurance Non-financial Types of Risk Insurance Risk Risk Risk Risk Risk Risk Guarantee Risk Investment Asset Analysis Team Actuarial Risk Insurance Risk Primary risk Portfolio Variable Individual Personal Loan Infrastructure Management Management management Management Hedge Part Departments Marketing Team Support Team Team Team Team About KYOBO LIFE Risk Management 15 Risk Management Committee The Risk Management Committee is composed of one internal director and two outside directors who are appointed by the board of directors. The committee makes important decisions regarding risk management of entire company, such as risk management policies that align with the company’s business strategy, important business strategies that are based on risks and the company’s risk limits. In 2019, the Risk Management Committee held meetings on nine occasions to discuss major issues relating to the company’s risk management. Risk Management Council The Risk Management Council is a body that consults on the resolution of the Risk Management Committee and matters related to risk in advance. It consults on the the decisions made by the Committee, the detailed action plans of issues that the Committee has made decisions on, the limit allowances for each type of risk, and the causes and countermeasures to take, when a limit allowance is exceeded, or is expected to be exceeded. Risk Management Administrative Organizations The risk management administrative organizations that assist the Risk Management Committee and the Risk Management Council are divided into a enterprise risk management dedicated team and individual risk management teams, based on the roles involved. The Risk Management Support Team is the enterprise risk management dedicated team and is carries out Plan-See function independently in risk management such as setting the rule of risk management policies and plans of entire company, risk management related regulations, and setting risk limits. The seven (7) teams for the individual risk management carry out the ‘Do’ function for each type of risk. Risk Management Process Establishing Measuring and Controlling, Risk Management Recognizing Risks Reporting Risks Assessing Risks Monitoring Risks Strategy Risk Management and System Kyobo Life has established an Asset Liability Management (ALM) policy for stable asset management from a long-term perspective, and operates an asset and liability portfolio to continuously improve the structure of assets and liabilities. At the beginning of each business year, the company sets ‘limit for total risks and individual risk’, as well as limits or goals for all management indicators. In addition, Kyobo Life operates the “Risk Pre-Review” system to review risks once more before final approval to further manage important matters related to risks. In addition, the company has established a ‘Company Contingency Plan’ to respond to crisis situations by risk type to secure management continuity even under the worst conditions such as the global financial crisis, and has conducted mock exercises on a regular basis to enhancing responding capabilities. Kyobo Life classifies risks into financial risks (market, credit, interest rate, insurance, liquidity, variable insurance guarantee risk) and non-financial risks according to causes of occurrence, and monitored the risks management indicators on a daily/weekly/monthly/quarterly basis to actively respond to risks. 16 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 KYOBO LIFE Definition of Risks and Management Methods Category Definition Risks and Management Methods Possibility of loss to the company resulting from a Setting and monitoring market risk limits and loss limit Market risk drop in the price of stocks or bonds due to changes in for securities and derivatives stock prices, interest rates, exchange rates, etc. Possibility of loss due to bankruptcy of the trading Setting and monitoring credit risk limits and Credit risk company or default of individual debt transaction limits by borrower, group, and industry Possibility of loss due to differences in interest rates Setting and monitoring interest rate risk limits and Interest rate risks and maturities between assets and liabilities target duration Setting and monitoring insurance risk limits and Possibility of loss to the company due to more Insurance risk supplementing underwriting standards to prevent insurance claim than originally planned unfair insurance claim payments Possibility of loss due to sales of assets at cheap Monitoring through liquidity management Liquidity risk prices to raise funds due to lack of funds indicators all the time If there is a minimum guarantee obligation for Variable insurance variable insurance, there is a possibility of loss due to Measuring and analyzing through risk scenario guarantee risk additional cost burden due to insufficient guarantee method, and setting and monitoring the risk limits reserve Non-financial risks Possibility of loss to the company due to insufficient Executing the risk self-diagnosis according to the (operation, strategy, response to management strategies, laws, processes, scenario-based business environment changes. reputation) and IT systems Quantifying and monitoring the core risk Response to New Standards Response to IFRS17 and K-ICS In response to the implementation of the International Accounting Standard for Insurance Contracts (IFRS17) and the new solvency system (K-ICS), Kyobo Life is systematically preparing related infrastructure and systems. Kyobo Life will continue to monitor the impact of the new systems and work closely with financial authorities and the insurance industry to minimize the impact of the introduced new systems and increase asset quality. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 ·Operating a dedicated ·Declaring contingency ·Reclassifying asset ·Establishing and ·Establishing IFRS9 organization management system account and issuing stabilizing the (accounting for financial ·Identifying and hybrid securities accounting system instruments) application implementing action according to changes standards and system plans to increase in IFRS17 available capital and reduce required capital Financial group supervision system The Financial Supervisory Authority has developed and applied standard principles for the supervision of the financial group system since 2018 and is pushing for its legislation to supervise the various risks in terms of entire financial group. Kyobo Life has established and is operating a risk management system that can comprehensively and systematically manage the risks of the Kyobo financial group. *Major financial companies of Kyobo financial group : Kyobo Life Insurance, Kyobo Securities, Kyobo Lifeplanet Life Insurance, Kyobo AXA Investment Management, Kyobo Asset Trust ORSA System To help insurance companies develop their own risk management capabilities, the financial authorities have introduced the Own Risk and Solvency Assessment (ORSA) system, under which an insurance company assesses its risk and solvency on its own. In response to the introduction of this system, Kyobo Life has introduced ORSA, conducted an operation evaluation, reported the results to the board of directors, and reflected the evaluation result in the management policy to thoroughly manage risks. About KYOBO LIFE Ethics and Compliance Management 17 Ethics and Compliance Management Ethics Management As a financial company, Kyobo Life is clearly aware of the legal and ethical responsibilities that it has to fulfill, and strives to fulfill its social responsibilities and role as a corporate citizen. The company strives to improve corporate transparency by promoting ethical management, and is committed to establishing a culture of compliance by appointing compliance support managers to each department in addition to the dedicated division to ensure that all employees comply with the laws and regulations. Ethics, Compliance Management Organization Chart Board of Directors Representative director Appointment Internal control council Compliance officer Kyobo Life Employees’ Code of Professional Ethics Kyobo Life has enacted the Kyobo Life Employees’ Code of Professional Ethics to clarify its intention to pursue ethical management, and has created ‘Professional Ethics Guidelines’ for the employees by establishing the Regulations on Work Ethics and the Specific Instructions. In addition, all employees including the CEO are required to attend the ‘Kyobo’s Work Ethics Resolution’ event at the beginning of each fiscal year to reinforce the company’s ethical work culture. Employees' Code of Professional Ethics Regulations on Work Ethics As a guideline for Kyobo Life's practice of ethical management, it includes compliance with social regulations and company regulations, and rules for ethical insurance sales for stakeholders such as customers/consultants/employees/investors/government/ communities. Specific Instructions It issues specific instructions on the prohibition of giving and receiving money, etc. between employees and external stakeholders, or employees, as defined in the Kyobo Life’s Employees’ Code of Professional Ethics, or making dishonest solicitation to public officers, or making illegal promises. The Work Ethics Resolution in 2020 Communication for Ethical Management Kyobo Life communicates constantly with its employees to help them better understand and approach ethical management. This enables the company to create a culture of ethical compliance within the company and to encourage employees to practice ethical behavior. Kyobo Life conducts compliance and ethics training for each department every month and regularly provides on-line compliance and ethics training, so that all employees can share the job ethics issues and successfully carry out their work ethics. All employees of Kyobo Life have completed professional ethics training, and the average ethics-training period per employee is 17 hours. Meanwhile, Kyobo Life produces a bi-weekly webtoon based on real-life examples to help all employees easily understand the compliance and ethics management and strengthen their understanding. Status of the Completion of Work Ethics Education Category Unit 2017 2018 2019 Employee participation % 100 100 100 18 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 KYOBO LIFE Status of Work Ethics Education Manager Employee (Unit : Hours) 18 17 17 17 16 16 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 *Work ethics education hours per person *Manager : The leaders of organizations or above, such as the heads of sales branch or teams and the executives *Employee : Those other than the leaders of organizations Operation of Employee Grievance Counseling Office Kyobo Life operates the Grievance Counseling Office to listen to and actively resolve employees’ grievances that arise during the course of working to improve work productivity and form a pleasant and happy organizational culture. The Grievance Counseling Office guarantees anonymity and operates a hotline for prompt resolution of grievances. In addition to dealing with grievances, a counseling system was also established to prevent sexual harassment and abuse in the workplace. Grievance Handling Process Measures taken by grievance handling manager Counseling and Notification of Follow-up Grievance receipt Grievance handling fact checking results monitoring Up to 10 days Complaint Handling System for External Stakeholders Kyobo Life created a ‘reporting center’ page in its official website to help the stakeholders resolve their complaints. Kyobo Life not only implements the VOC system, but also listens to the voices of stakeholders through ‘legal violation reporting’ (for the illegal or unfair activities of Kyobo Life employees) and ‘fund sales complaint reporting’ sections. Kyobo Life will keep listening to the voices of all stakeholders and grow with them. Training for Improved Awareness of Disability and Respect for Disabled Co-workers Kyobo Life has developed and run a variety of education programs as part of its effort to establish a more stable work environment for employees with disabilities, and to eliminate any misunderstandings and prejudices among employees, by promoting a proper understanding of disability. Through consistent training and education, we have helped our employees to broaden their understanding of the definitions and types of disabilities and provided them with the information required to raise their awareness, including the rights of disabled employees, the prevention of discrimination against people with disabilities, and the provision of proper access to the workplace for disabled employees. Awareness of Disability Improvement Training Category Unit 2017 2018 2019 Employee participation % 100 100 100 About KYOBO LIFE Ethics and Compliance Management 19 Compliance Management Operation of Internal Control System Kyobo Life complies with the relevant laws and regulations for sound management, and clarifies the roles of the board of directors, management and compliance officers regarding internal control that it is required to follow in order to protect its shareholders, other stakeholders, and so forth. Kyobo Life has an internal control council led by the representative director in order to establish, maintain and operate the internal control system. It also monitors compliance with internal control standards and designates compliance monitoring personnel to report the results of any investigations to the Board in an effort to oversee the entire internal control system. In addition, the company appoints a compliance officer to oversee the internal control system by checking compliance with internal control standards and reporting the findings of violations to the audit committee and the board of directors. Kyobo Life evaluates internal control operation status to supplement the shortcomings. Objects and Items of Assessment Division subject to Assessment period : Assessment items : assessment : Jan. 2019~Dec. 2019 8 categories→41 items→171 check lists→ Work level Self-evaluation (57teams) (12 months) 638 check list detail Assessment process Tentative Confirming Reporting to the SelfAssessment Evaluation Result Tentative Evaluation Result board Working Level Compliance officer Audit committee Audit committee Verifying legitimacy of field (Audit Team) division’s assessment result Confirming legitimacy of temporary assessment result 2019 Report of Internal Control Assessment Results Assessment section Recommendation for improvement Related department It is necessary to prepare selection criteria for the selection of financial Accounting Team Accounting, institutions or branches to operate short-term liquidity funds. information and As the internal and external environment has changed since the application of communication the company-wide network separation in 2016, it is necessary to diagnose the Information system appropriateness of the application and operation of the network separation and Security Team to resolve any problems. The administrative guidance has been strengthened so that the judgment on whether or not a disease covered by the insurance policy is based on the Product development team 1 “Korean Standard Classification of Diseases (KCD) at the time of diagnosis”, so it is Product development team 2 necessary to reflect this in the basic documents such as the insurance policy. Insurance sales It is necessary to strengthen compliance with anti-money laundering regulations and improve work efficiency by improving the business process related to Compliance Officer transaction refusal and guidance on contracts that have not satisfied the Customer Due Diligence (CDD) for new transactions. It is necessary to strengthen compliance with the law and improve consistency with internal control standards by properly reflecting the obligations to prepare Policy Retention the “procedures and standards for litigation related to insurance claim payments” Claims team and Claims required by the Act on Corporate Governance of Financial Institution and the Supervisory Regulations. 20 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 KYOBO LIFE SPECIAL 1 Sound to the Silent World Hearing impairment is the second most common disability, with 2~ 3 out of 1,000 babies born with Q1 Why does Kyobo Life support congenital hearing impairment, which means that hearing-impaired youth? about 1,600 children are born with hearing impairments each year. If good rehabilitation is done after surgery before three years of age, more than 90% of children with hearing impairments can attend a general school, Two to three out of every one-thousand newborn but employment rate or social participation rate of babies are born with hearing impairments. Hearing people with hearing impairment is considerably lower impairment not only causes health problems, but than those with visual or physical disabilities due to also makes it difficult for those suffering from such difficulty in communication. Kyobo Life, together with ailments to communicate with others, live normal the social welfare organization, supports the socially lives and ordinarily receive education. This may cause marginalized youth with hearing impairments who live social problems for hearing-impaired persons feeling in an isolated and silent world, to help them recover excluded and isolated. Kyobo Life provides learning hearing ability and communicate with their families and opportunities for hearing-impaired children who society. could not undergo surgery due to financial difficulties by providing them with assistance for expenses for Kyobo Life supports funding for cochlear implant surgery and language rehabilitation. Kyobo Life is surgery to help hearing-impaired youngsters under the helping them to grow into healthy members of society age of 18 to recover their hearing and grow into healthy by enabling them to effectively communicate with their members of society; and at the same time, the company families and others by materializing its core mission of supports funding of replacing external cochlea devices overcoming adversities. so that the hearing-impaired youngsters can better by Manager Hye-rim Yung, KYOBO DASOMI Support Center communicate with the outside world. In addition, we provide financial support for speaking rehabilitation for one year to help children to recognize and hear Wow Dasomi Sound-and-Light sounds through a steady “rehabilitation” process after support status undergoing surgery. Accumulated number of persons to whom surgery Kyobo Life has established a social support system to and linguistic rehabilitation treatment supports help all children hear the joyful sounds of the world and were provided grow as normal members of society. 48 7 2019 2020 About KYOBO LIFE Sound to the Silent World 21 Q2 Have you noticed any changes as Kyobo Life progresses the program? The support targets and fields have been expanded. Not only has the number of children undergoing cochlear implant surgery and speech rehabilitation treatment increased, but also even children who have lost their cochlear devices as well as hearing-impaired people in blind spots receive the support. In addition, Kyobo Life is operating this program through a steering committee composed of experts such as medical personnel and social workers. As experts in each field gather and think about the beneficiaries in carrying out the project, they can provide practical support. Satisfaction level of the beneficiaries is very high. Q3 What is cochlear implant surgery? Q4 What are your plans for the future? This is a surgery through which an artificial cochlear We are trying to develop educational content for is implanted in the body. If the cochlear fails causing speech rehabilitation, which is as important as hearing impairment, the cochlear implanted inside the implant surgery. It is not necessary to hear and ear can recognize sound. In general, it is said that after understand all the sounds of the world immediately surgery, people will recover normal hearing ability; after having surgery. The trivial sounds we encounter but in reality, even if the person has received speech in our daily lives are good educational materials rehabilitation for more than one or two years, he/she for children, so we will test this campaign first might not be able to speak perfectly. After surgery, the with Kyobo Life’s employees. In order to make person will hear sound through the cochlear device, them become “true participants” of value to the but many of them feel hurt by people’s prejudice if community, changes in the perceptions of society they are seen wearing the device. It is thus important are most important. Besides being inconvenient due to overcome physical obstacles, but it is much more to physical impairment, people should be treated important to cure psychological wounds, so Kyobo Life equally in society, which is a healthy society. This works on programs to restore their self-esteem and is why I earnestly believe that small interests and improve their social adaptation. changes in awareness of Kyobo Life’s employees will be of a great help in creating such a new society. 22 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 KYOBO LIFE SPECIAL 2 Kyobo Life Digital Innovation As the digital technology evolves with the emergence of the Fourth Industrial Revolution, it is expected that the insurance industry will undergo a major transformation. Kyobo Life has clarified its willingness for digital innovation in earnest by adding ̒ In Preparation for the Era of the Fourth Industrial Revolution ̓ in its Vision 2020 in 2018, and conducted internal and external environmental analyses, and communication to set the direction of Kyobo Life's digital innovation in 2019. The company has also established a roadmap to the year 2025. Kyobo Life aims to become a company loved by all stakeholders through accelerated digital innovation. Directions of digital Support to become a company loved by all the innovation strategy stakeholders through digital innovation What to do Creating Internalizing Strengthening digital-based digital innovation competitiveness new growth engine capability in main field (Digital (Digital (Digitalization) Transformation) Innovation Infra) Providing differentiated digital Creating new concept Expanding intellectual information experience to customers products/services technology utilization infra Differentiated and efficient process Securing digital technology linked Strengthening digital innovation to outside capability How to do Phase-wise implementation Agile and flexible Constant test and learn and advancement Value for stakeholders Employees Investors/ Customer Financial planner Enhancing Local Communities/ enhancing Strengthening efficiency and Enhancing inovation convenience and expertise and strengthening ability and pursuing satisfaction level on-site support capability mutual growth Twelve 1. 2nd stage AI Chatbot 5. Support to target 8. D  istribution of RPA 11. IndustryAction plans FOR 24/365 customer customer marketing to enhance work academia-research support to strengthen sales productivity institute cooperation for for each 2. P  aperless culture competitiveness 9. Strengthening of open innovation stakeholder for better customer 6. Provision of digital capability to accelerate 12. Open innovation to convenience and work contents for increased the digital innovation secure new growth efficiency consultant activities 10. Improvement of engine 3. Introduction of 7. Automation of AI-based big-data utilization measurement system examination for and advancement of for customer experience subscription/payment infrastructure improvement 4. Establishment of selfservice-based insurance/ asset management ROBO advisor system About KYOBO LIFE Kyobo Life Digital Innovation 23 Kyobo Life has reorganized the management organization development of AI chatbot, digital contents, and industryand operated dedicated organization to accelerate digital academia-research cooperation projects. In addition, the innovation strategically. Through such efforts, the company use of RPA allowed the company to reduce the stress of is establishing strategies and implementing action plans employees and increase the productivity at the workplace, so that the company can utilize digital technology and and identify and foster domestic and foreign partner enhance its capabilities company-wide. Kyobo Life is companies, and secured new growth engines through open constantly striving to explore new digital markets and innovation based on strategic partnerships. Kyobo Life will create new customer values. Kyobo Life set its 2019 major continue to strengthen its business competitiveness based implementation as “Accelerating Customer-Oriented Digital on digital, secure future growth engine, and ultimately Innovation” in order to establish and pursue various action strive to provide better value to stakeholders through plans for each stakeholder and achieve fruitful results. As digital innovation. a result, Kyobo Life recorded various achievements such as Directions in 2020 2017 2018 2019 Directions in 2020 Main Initiatives VOC by Stakeholders Digital · Advancing work process through Strong points · E  stablishing open system(V3) which led by field establishment of insurance system V3 (strengthened) improves diverse work process division · Piloting digital innovation linked to new · Pursuing digital innovation pilot/POC technologies -Smart insurance claim, chatbot, RPA, etc. ·E  stablishing foundation for external cooperation and digital eco-system Digital shared by everyone · Pursuing open innovation Weak points · L ack of understanding despite (supplemented) consensus on purpose and necessary · Internalizing company-wide digital of digital innovation innovation competency · L ack of new business model and substantial performance Digital -Employees : inside hackathon, big data based education, etc. · L ack of implementation by field making real -E xecutives : benchmark digital-advanced division due to the implementation led change companies by digital division Digital Innovation Roadmap 2017~2019 2020~2022 2023~ Digital Kyobo Establishment of the Creation of Leading Digital Foundation for Digital Digital Innovation Innovation of Domestic Innovation Performance Life Insurers (Digital Starter & Literate) (Digital Performer) (Digital Leader) SUSTAINABILITY at KYOBO Satisfaction Level of Satisfaction Training hour provided customers Level of FP to each employee 72.8 70.0 pts 97 hours Total asset Weight of Socially Responsible Investment KRW 116.1 trillion 9.35 / 8,178.7 % KRW billion Sustainability Management system 26 Kyobo Life Value Chain 27 Kyobo Life SDGs 28 Stakeholder Engagement 29 In-depth Customer Survey 30 Stakeholder Interview 31 Sustainable Management Expert Interview 32 Materiality Test 34 Sustainability management of Kyobo Life Kyobo Life is striving to strengthen its business capabilities to create sustainable results. Under the philosophy of common growth for all stakeholders, Kyobo Life is creating values through sustainable management activities that correspond to the essence of insurance business in various areas of economy, society, environment, etc. 26 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 KYOBO LIFE Sustainable Management System Kyobo Life’s sustainability management is based on the company’s sustainability management philosophy of “Pursuit of Shared Growth with All Stakeholders.” Kyobo Life defined five groups of stakeholders based on the level of impact that can affect, or be affected by, the company’s achievement of its core mission. The company then specifies its promises to the stakeholders and fulfills those promises through its sustainability management activities. Kyobo Life’s stakeholders are its customers, Financial Planners, employees, and investors, as well as the government and local communities. The company’s sustainability management system consists of ① its commitments to its stakeholders, ② the principles according to which its promises are implemented and ③ key performance indicators (KPI). In this Report, stakeholder interests are treated as an important evaluation criterion in the materiality test. The company strives to communicate constantly with the stakeholders through the activities like communications and meetings with stakeholders. Sustainable Management Philosophy Pursuit of Shared Growth with All Stakeholders Stakeholders Customers Financial Employees Investors Government & Planners Local Communities Promise A company that A company that A company that A company that A company that provides optimum succeeds together grows together with grows together with is attractive to insurance coverage with our Financial the government and our employees investors and ongoing services Planners local communities ❶ We will listen to ❸ We will respect and ❺ We will maintain our ❽ We will continue to ❿ We will actively Principles our customers trust the Financial corporate culture of produce exceptional carry out corporate and manage the Planners as our joy, pride and trust. profits based on social responsibility company from their business partners. ❻ We will provide equal good growth. activities to grow perspective. ❹ We will establish fair opportunities and ❾ We will increase the together with our ❷ We will enhance standards and help rewards according value of the company communities. service quality Financial Planners to to fair evaluation through preemptive ⓫ We will manage throughout the engage in their sales criteria. risk management. our business in an policy life cycle, and service activities ❼ We will support our environmentally from subscription with peace of mind. employees’ growth friendly way, to persistency and ❺ We will support the and development as reflecting the nature benefits payment. development of our insurance experts. of our business. Financial Planners ⓬ We will grow into insurance together with our experts. partners through fair competition. KPI Persistency Rate Satisfaction Level of FP Training hour provided to ROE Social Contribution Ratio/ 77.8% 70.0pts 5.46% each employee Amount 97hours 6.75%/ KRW35.2 billion Satisfaction Level of Retention Rate RBC 34% 339% customers 72.8pts (those who work for Weight of Socially Total asset KRW 116.1 trillion more than 13 months) Responsible Investment Market Share 10.6% Ratio/Amount 9.35%/ KRW 8,178.7 billion Energy Consumption 15,668TOE *Persistency Rate : 13 months Contract Maintenance Fee/13months Underwriting Fee × 100 (2times overdue, based on total) *Market Share : Based on premium income as of December 2019 *Retention Rate : (No. of advanced Financial Planners/No. of newly registered Financial Planners) × 100 *Financial Planners Settled in the 13th Month includes those who sign one or more new contracts and retain 10 or more contracts signed as of the 13th month *Return on Equity (ROE) : Net Income/{(Capital at the Start of Period + Capital at the End of Period)/2} × 100, based on consolidated financial statements. *Risk Based Capital (RBC) : Available capital for insurance claim payments (payment capacity) /Required capital for risk management (RBC total risk) x 100, based on consolidated financial statements *Total assets : Based on consolidated financial statements *Social contribution ratio : Amount of social contribution/Net Income, based on consolidated financial statements. *Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) ratio : SRI investment/General account assets) x 100 *TOE (Tonnage of Oil Equivalent) : Amount of energy produced by burning one ton of oil, standardized in calorific units Sustainability at KYOBO Kyobo Life Value Chain 27 Kyobo Life Value Chain Kyobo Life exchanges opinions with its stakeholders in the value chain of sustainable management and shares values created in the process with each of its stakeholders. Kyobo Life pursues the harmonious growth with all stakeholders through sustainable management. Economic value creation and Insurance Product Planning distribution by stakeholders (2019) and Development Impact : Employees/Customers Reserve fund for claims Develop products and services Customers that consider the customers’ KRW 14.5560trillion needs from the perspective of financial consumers. Product Sales Fees and training costs Impact : KRW 588.4 billion Financial Employees/FPs/Customers Planners, Appropriately deliver products and Employees Salary, employee benefits service values of Kyobo Life to customers by continuously strengthening the capacities of KRW 439.0billion employees and FPs. Investment and Asset Dividends Management Investors Impact : KRW 153.75 billion Customers/Investors/ Local communities Pay insurance benefits safely to customers and provide earnings stably to investors by managing assets from the perspective of long-term investment. Manage non-financial risks and make socially responsible Donations, etc. Local investments considering sustainability. communities KRW 155.4 billion Customer Management Impact : Customers/FPs/Local communities/ Partners Help customers overcome diffi Tax, etc. culties and keep pursuing their Government dearest dreams by providing KRW 314.5 billion protection in a timely manner when difficulties arise for customers. 28 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 KYOBO LIFE Kyobo Life’s SDGs Sustainable Development Goals are the common goals the international community needs to accomplish from 2016 to 2030, so that everyone can enjoy a happier and more secure life. There are 17 goals and 169 detailed goals, and Kyobo Life first selected 7 out of the 17 goals, in which it can best participate and implement, and is engaged in activities to achieve them. Major Activities for Achievement of SDGs SDGs Major Activities Achievements · Ties of Love activities to support children from socially marginalized groups. ❶ No. of persons benefiting from Ties of Love activities : 1,426 ❷ No. of Sound and Light Project · Supporting underprivileged family with hearing impairments through the Kyobo Dasomi Sound and Light Program beneficiaries : 48 (accumulated) ❸ Seeds for extremely poor farmers : · Supporting poor farmers in Vietnam by providing seeds and farming tools for economic independence Provided 160,000 trees (accumulated) · Provision of health insurance and healthcare services ❶ Kyobo Health Care Service provided · Provision of the health checkup service and health information for customers to 7,039,340 persons Operation of education and scholarship projects · Kyobo Education Foundation : Implemented systematic social contribution activities through the Foundation · Kyobo Hope Dasom Scholarships : Provision of educational opportunities ❶ No. of persons benefitted from through scholarships Kyobo Hope Dasom Scholarships : 79 · Kyobo’s youth leadership program : Change’ ❷ No. of persons benefitted from · One company – One school, financial education Change : 145 ❸ Kyobo Life Youth Athletics Cup Operation of talent development program Championship : 3,498 persons · Kyobo Life Youth Athletics Cup Championship : Support for young athletes in ❹ No. of participants in Northeast Asia seven basic sports disciplines March for Undergraduate Students : · Kyobo Sports Talent Development Scholarship about 1,700 (accumulated) · Northeast Asia March for Undergraduate Students : Fostering of students into global leaders · Kyobo Dream Makers Prohibition of gender discrimination at work and promotion of gender equality · Fair recruitment and implementation of performance evaluation : to prohibit gender discrimination Support for capacity development of female employees ❶ Share of female employees : 41.7% · K WIN Mentoring : Capacity development and motivation for female employees : ❷ Increase in the share of female · Female Leadership Conference : Female employees are encouraged to pursue managers : 18.7% their personal growth and development and receive help in building their competences and establishing human resource networks · Declared gender equality through WEPs-UNGC · Dasomi Nursing Volunteer Group : Job creation by nurturing females from ❶ Created 33 professional caretaker low-income households as professional caregivers jobs ❶ Built 20 houses and four libraries in · Construction of house and library in underdeveloped regions, Vietnam the deprived areas in Vietnam ❷ Increased the SRI investment share · Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) : Construction of social infrastructures by expanding socially responsible investment by 9.35%. ❶E lectronic subscription : 2,712 · Implementation of an Electronic Subscription System : Consistent efforts to policies (monthly avg.) ❷ Energy-use : -1,208TOE(YoY) reduce paper usage ❸ Waste-recycling rate : 97% · Promotion of various energy-usage-reduction activities Good Clean Quality Gender No poverty Zero hunger health and water and education equality well-being sanitation Affordable Decent work Industry, Sustainable Responsible Reduced and clean and economic innovation, cities and consumption, inequalities energy growth infrastructure communities production Peace, justice Climate Life below Partnerships Life on land and strong action water for the goals institutions Sustainability at KYOBO Stakeholder Engagement 29 Stakeholder Engagement Kyobo Life classifies the groups that can affect, or be affected by, the achievement of the company’s key objectives into five groups such as customers, Financial Planners, employees, investors, and government and local communities, and redefines the stakeholders who have interests in the company. In particular, the five major stakeholder groups are listening to precious opinions through various communication channels to communicate continuously. Definition of Stakeholder and Communication Channels Stakeholders Definition Communication channel Issues* The company website, the customer ·Preemptive risk Individuals or groups subject to panel system, the customer satisfaction management subscription or potential subscription survey, the VOC system, ·Stable asset management of products created through Kyobo VIP customer invitation event, asset ·Spread of trust-based Life's economic activities Customers management seminar, blog and SNS customer culture An individual or group of individuals ·Stable asset management The company website exclusively for who are consigned by Kyobo Life ·Stronger financial soundness the FPs, the FP satisfaction survey, to broker subscription of insurance ·Information security and the excellent FP group, MDRT, the FP policies and handle ancillary works for personal information Financial Planners meeting, etc. retention and management of policies. protection The digital communication magazine, ·Creation of good working Activities by an individual or group the labor-management meeting, environment related to Kyobo Life and providing the labor-management council, ·Help FPs develop their certain work or services and receive workshops and conferences, the capabilities Employees corresponding compensation employee job commitment level ·Help employees develop survey, and the newsletter their capacities ·Stable asset management ·Implementation of customIndividuals or groups who provide The company website, IR, the gener-focused management capital to Kyobo Life with the aim of eral shareholders’ meeting, the BOD ·Information security and creating certain profits meeting Investors personal information protection ·Information security and personal information The company website (social Living communities that directly protection contribution), Kyobo Dasomi and indirectly influence Kyobo Life's ·Spread of trust-based Volunteers and the social contribution business activities customer culture Government and meeting ·Creation of good working Local Communities environment *Issue per stakeholder : Results from an online survey in April 2020 Stakeholder Survey Category Method Purpose Survey period Content summary To assess customer satisfaction with · Assessment of satisfaction with Kyobo Life and its major rivals, and to Kyobo Life vs competitors Satisfaction Aug. ~Sept. 2019 work out ways of raising the level of · Satisfaction with insurance products and satisfaction services, etc. Customers · Company awareness and customer loyalty To measure the company’s brand · Brand image of life insurance Brand power to use it for strategic brand Aug. ~Sept. 2019 · Survey on how customers use life insurance management companies · Assessment of customer satisfaction with the Financial Planners Financial To assess the satisfaction level of the · Identification of strengths and weaknesses Satisfaction Financial Planners and devise ways of Aug. ~Sept. 2019 that affect the competitiveness of the Planners improving satisfaction Financial Planners’ activities · Identification of complaints and needs of the Financial Planners 30 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 KYOBO LIFE In-depth Customer Survey Since 2018, Kyobo Life has changed the existing “meeting with external experts” into “meeting with stakeholders” in order to realize sustainable management and bring about meaningful changes. In 2020, Kyobo Life conducted surveys for each type of stakeholder instead of meetings due to the spread of COVID-19. Kyobo Life conducted the second in-depth survey for the customers, the core stakeholders, and we were able to hear various opinions on general/economic/social/environment issues that must be considered and managed importantly to assure sustainable management of the company. Period April 20 ~ 26, 2020 Description Selected major issues for sustainable management of Kyobo Life, checked implementation level thereof, etc. Major Issues for Sustainable Management of Kyobo Life General Issue Preemptive Risk Management · In 2020, the COVID-19 pandemic is raising various societal/ economic/ environmental/ institutional uncertainties, etc., requiring a rapid crisis response and risk management capabilities of the company to survive. · Since insurance is a long-term product, the company must preemptively respond to risks thereof to strengthen customer confidence. Economic Issue Stable Asset Management · Stable asset management is an important factor for customers to entrust their assets, especially stable management of the long-term investment product, ‘Insurance,’ which can affect customer confidence. · Sustainable management can be faithfully achieved through stable asset management, and social public services are possible based on such trust. Strengthened Access of the Vulnerable to Financial Service · Insufficient insurance products and information for the financially vulnerable has raised the necessity to develop products that include all customers. Environmental Issues Development of Eco-Friendly Financial Products · Customers are also aware of the importance of protection of the environment, such as reducing the use of disposable products, and Kyobo Life is obliged to participate as a company. Efforts are required to induce customers' participation in environmental activities through the development of financial products considering the characteristics of the business (e.g., providing insurance premium discounts for receipt of invoice via email or app) Social Issues Implementation of Customer-Centered Management · Activities covering all areas of subscription, retention and payment are important for the company to achieve sustainable growth. Accordingly, it is necessary to provide customer-friendly services such as customized products for customers and strengthened mobile services, to build trust with customers. · Among the activities of Kyobo Life, other companies are benchmarking many of our activities, but it is difficult for customers to experience such benefits directly. It is also necessary to instill in the customers the pride of being a customer of a good insurance company by actively promoting and marketing the remarkable activities of the company. Resolution of Social Issues · More and more people are investing or consuming in value and philosophy of the company. Thus, it is necessary to strengthen the social trust through active social contribution activities to ensure the sustainable management. · Corporate roles, including corporate social responsibility and response to climate change are required in society. For a company to grow sustainably, it must make special efforts, such as operating an ESG-related conference system, appointing female outside directors, etc. and constantly monitoring and actively responding to related issues. · It is necessary to show substantial responses to technological and social changes. It is a role of a company's sustainable management to make a positive impact on society by actively engaging in the development of social enterprises, and providing social funding to help solve social problems. Sustainability at KYOBO Stakeholder Interview 31 Stakeholder Interview Kyobo Life selected those who would represent the internal and external stakeholders and conducted interviews with them to carry out sustainable management and develop itself further in terms of sustainable management. We were able to hear different opinions on the company from many angles at the interviews, and we will continue to listen diligently to the opinions of stakeholders to achieve sustainable growth. As a customer, I think Kyobo Life's winning of customer trust is more important than anything else for its sustainable management. To win the customer trust, you need to protect the customers interests and fulfil the corporate social responsibilities also. We are interested greatly in environmental problems by recent worsening of the fine dust phenomenon and outbreak of COVID-19. I hope Kyobo Life will support various activities to help environmental issues Customer by carrying out public welfare projects, developing environment-friendly financial products, Kyungwha Lee making more responsible investments that consider ESG, and so forth. Also, I hope Kyobo Life will become a socially loved company by steadily expanding its existing social contribution activities, such as helping the hearing-impaired children. Kyobo Life pursues gender equality and strictly prohibits gender discrimination. The level of work-satisfaction is high, because the female employees can freely return to work after maternity leave. The executive level is highly interested in the D&I culture. They help female employees develop their abilities actively and constantly create environments, such as conferences, where we can create networks. Recently, they are trying to create an open atmosphere Employee by actively communicating with the MZ generation, and I, as an employee, appreciate it very Minseo Kim much. However, I think the company needs to systematically and actively manage the human (Kyobo Life at Corporate rights issues, because the world is raising its voices on human rights management beyond Planning Team) achieving gender equality and creating an open atmosphere. If it is possible for the company, I hope Kyobo Life would carry out the activities related to human rights, such as human rights impact assessment, action system, and so on. I think Kyobo Life has a well-organized training system for Financial Planners. It has a well-organized training system for each month and level, and I can join various training programs through online anytime. Also, knowing that there is Consultant Inconvienience Support CenFinancial Planner ter that can help me in my sales activities is very comforting. However, I feel that the company’s system to help the new Financial Planners grow stably is not strong enough. I hope Kyobo Dongwoo Yoo Life will improve the system gradually and become a company that grows together with Finan(KYOBO Life FP) cial Planners. Kyobo Life has been contributing to the good of the public by constantly increasing its investment is eco-friendly social infrastructure, such as wastewater treatment facilities. Also, it has been making efforts to carry out environment-friendly management in all its workplaces nationwide, such as controlling the amount of carbon dioxide emission. I hope Kyobo Life will go beyond simply managing the environment-related data and become strongly interested in the social impact bonds. The SIB projects related to diseases, such as prevention of cataLocal Communities racts and high blood-pressure, improvement of chronic disease patients’ lifestyle, provision Myeongji Seo of housing to the homeless, improvement of employment conditions for public sector employ(Representative ees, etc., were carried out in other countries; and there are precedents where the EIB projDirector of CSR Impact Co., Ltd.) ects, such as improvement of the environment for prevention of flooding, being carried out. I hope Kyobo Life, as a life insurance company, will become genuinely interested in solving social problems related to disease and environment using the social impact bonds. 32 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 KYOBO LIFE Sustainable Management Expert Interview For Kyobo Life to carry out its social responsibilities and grow sustainably, it selected five core sustainable management issues and interviewed sustainable management experts to listen to their suggestions on the issues. ESG Evaluation Improved Corporate Value by Actively Managing and Disclosing the ESG Performance Juwon Park “Lawrence Fink, the CEO of the world’s largest asset-management company, BlackRock, declared in his annual announcement last January that he would actively reflect the ESG Head of CSR Management elements to asset management. He also stated that he would not consider investing in the Center, Sustainability companies where fossil-fuel-related sales exceed 25% of their gross sales from the middle Management Foundation of this year. More financial institutions are strengthening their ESG investment activities. I commend Kyobo Life highly for its execution of sustainable management from the stakeholders’ perspective and for showing positive results continuously. In the future, Kyobo Life will need to show the results of sustainable management in the steps of strategy – execution program – results – feedback from the perspective of ESG. For this, Kyobo Life will need to establish a company-wide ESG management organization, manage and operate the ESG risk by itself and present the ESG investment and asset management strategies that use the financial leverage and their results systematically.” Social Contribution Request for an Active Interest in Diseases, Environment, Resolution of Social Problems and Social Impact Bond Myeongji Seo “Kyobo Life, in partnership with The Beautiful Foundation, has been providing close support, such as wide range of assistance, research & investigation, dedicated information Representative Director of network establishment, etc., for the families with premature babies that went through CSR Impact Co., Ltd. economic and emotional difficulties through its ‘Dasomi Little Breath Revival project since 2004. Conducting research & investigation on and providing emergency support to those who are in the blind spots of the government’s universal welfare policy. When the premature babies experience disabilities, their parents cannot fully handle the processes of discovering and recognizing the initial disabilities in the infanthood and they are not able to build a professional information network during their children’s growth process. Thus, we must take interest in providing support for this. Also, the Kyobo Foundation for Education operated by Kyobo Life provides various hands-on environmental education and character-building education programs and books for the employees’ children through Dasomi Volunteers. However, I recommend Kyobo Life that it goes beyond providing scholarships and materials to engaging in social contribution projects by creating educational foundations for the disabled and the socially vulnerable class. Also, the local governments, such as Seoul Metropolitan Government and Gyeonggi Province are highly interested in SIB – they have completed their respective projects and are preparing follow-up projects. In other countries, the SIB projects related to prevention of cataract and high blood pressure, improvement of chronic disease patients’ lifestyle, provision of housing to the homeless, improvement of employment conditions for public sector employees, etc., are being carried out, and there are precedents where the EIB projects, such as improvement of environment for prevention of flooding, being carried out. I recommend that Kyobo Life, as a life insurance company, show its genuine interest in solving social problems related to disease and environment and the social impact bonds.” Sustainability at KYOBO Sustainable Management 33 Expert Interview Human Rights/ Need to Systematically Manage Human Rights Achievements Through Prevention Labor of Non-financial Risks and Maintenance and Management Systems “As the UN emphasized prevention of human rights violations by corporations and responYonggu Kim sibilities of nations and corporations to relieve the victims, relevant laws and systems have been established or strengthened in Korea. Also, more consumers are exercising their Head of The Disabilities rights and the external pressure from institutions and experts that advocate the exerPolicy Monitoring Center cise of consumers’ rights is increasing. Especially, the scope of corporate responsibility is expanding to prevention of human rights violation by the supply chain and the agents who have business relationships with companies and to relief of victims. It is time when active response, such as conducting human rights investigation and establishing a due diligence implementation system that can systematically manage the human rights issues, must be implemented. Kyobo Life needs to identify actual and potential impacts on human rights that can occur because of its business practices, products or services and establish processes by which its risk management committee can consider the results in major decision-making steps. I hope Kyobo Life will repeat the process of non-financial risk prevention and alleviation process building; execution result tracing and monitoring; and feedback, to establish a system that can systematically manage the human rights results. Climate Change Need to Prepare for Practice of the Green Finance or the Climate Finance to Respond to Climate Crisis Jongoh Lee “Laws, systems and policies related to the green finance and the climate finance are being introduced all over the world because of the climate crisis. This is a set of measures to carry Secretary General of KoSIF out the Paris Climate Agreement – the world is currently facing the task of transforming from the high-carbon society to the low-carbon society, and we are experiencing the turning point of the paradigm. Knowing that the Korean financial regulators are supporting Korea becoming a member of NGFS and the TCFD, the task force on disclosing climate-related financial information, Kyobo Life must prepare for climate-related risks, which is the core issue of future climate-related issues. Since the TCFD-style disclosure of climate-related financial information is has become a global trend that no one can deny, Kyobo Life will need to disclose information on climate-change-related governance structures, strategy, risk management, indicators reduction targets, etc. systematically and specifically. I recommend that Kyobo Life take a step further from its simple responses to climate change, such as reducing electricity consumption by implementing the electronic subscription system, to identify what portion of the company’s assets are being used by the high-carbon consuming companies or projects as investment or loans; and approach the climate issue by evaluating how much the company is exposed to the climate change risk under the climate scenario.” UN SDGs Going beyond Simple Labeling to a Stronger Establishment and Execution of SGDs-based Strategies Eunkyung Lee “I admire Kyobo Life for its decades-long efforts to create a sustainable corporate culture and to contribute to the society, and I applaud such efforts. A company’s management Head of UN Global Compact activities that use its own resources and technologies to actively solve social problems Korean Association and grow together with its stakeholders represent the important role it must carry out to achieve the SDGs in a larger framework. Kyobo Life needs to aggressively link its sustainable corporate activities, such as family-friendly management, increasing the portion of female managers, protecting the private information of customers, strengthening the accessibility to financial services for the vulnerable class, increasing the socially responsible investment, engaging in various social contribution activities, etc., to and actively announce its contribution to SDGs by building goals and through continued evaluations and disclosures until 2030. Recently, global corporations and investors are strengthening their SDGs-based disclosures and investments, and I expect that such trend will accelerate. Kyobo Life should try to go beyond simple labeling and strengthen its SDGs-based strategy establishment and execution further. I wish Kyobo Life will grow into a strong partner of stakeholders and the local community through such efforts.” 34 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 KYOBO LIFE Materiality Test Kyobo Life has conducted materiality tests in order to identify items of interest of external/internal stakeholders and factors that will affect the business (including potential factors) of the company, and to identify the key issues to be carefully managed. Kyobo Life has prepared this Sustainability Report based on the key issues identified systematically through materiality tests. Selection of Material Issues Kyobo Life has conducted Relevance and Significance assessments on the related issue pools derived based on the materiality test method according to ISO 26000 and GRI Standards. The twelve issues were selected through matrix analysis based on the level of importance of business and stakeholders’ interests, and the twelve key issues were subdivided into major issues for each stakeholder and included in this Report. Materiality Test Process 1 Collect sustainability management issues through internal and external environmental analysis STEP · Analysis of global standards : Reviewing reporting requirements of related standards such as GRI Standards, ISO 26000, and UNGC · Analysis of previous year’s issues : Analyzing issues that were important in the 2018 Sustainability Report · Media analysis : Extracting effective articles considering the consistency with Kyobo Life’s social responsibility management activities between Jan. 2017 and Dec. 2019 · Benchmark : Collecting common material issues by analyzing domestic and foreign CSR excellent financial industry ESG activities and sustainability management reports · Mega Trend : Identifying sustainability management mega trends consistent with GRI Standards indicators · Management strategy : Identifying issues that are valued internally, such as Kyobo Life's management policy and strategy · Stakeholder and expert interview : Conducting interviews with five sustainability management experts to identify detailed issues in sustainability management 2 Determine material issues through materiality test STEP Formation of a pool of issues relevant to Kyobo Life out of various issues Relevance test · Formed a pool of 25 issues that were highly relevant to Kyobo Life by reviewing the global standards, such as GRI Standards, ISO 26000 and UNGC, the previous year’s major issues, the analysis of the media in three recent years, the same industry benchmarking, the mega-trends, the management strategy of Kyobo Life and the stakeholder interviews (or the in/external environment analysis). Identified major issues from the perspective of the stakeholders and Materiality test businesses of Kyobo Life among the relevant issues. · Based on the issues identified through the relevance test, Kyobo Life conducted an online survey of its major stakeholder groups and identified 12 major issues. 3 Validation STEP Establishing reporting plans after deciding the reporting level for critical issues such as scope and boundaries after reviewing whether the 12 selected major issues are major issues for Kyobo Life's sustainability management Sustainability at KYOBO Materiality Test 35 Survey Method Survey target Investors 3% FPs 22% Internal/external stakeholders of 6% Customers 19% Kyobo Life Local Community (106 internal stakeholders/142 Employees 5% external stakeholders) (General Mgr. and above) CSR experts 3% 4% Employees 38% (Staff-Senior Mgr.) Others Survey details Level of understanding Level of importance Level of Kyobo Life’s Kyobo Life’s necessity in sustainable Social issues Kyobo Life among Kyobo Life’s implementation for sustainable management per need to respond sustainable management of sustainable management stakeholder issues management Sustainable management – general Economy Society Environment Materiality assessment matrix ❶ Information security and personal SIGNIFICANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS information protection ❸ ❷ Stable asset management ❷ ❽ ❺ ❸ Support for Financial Planners’ capacity ⓬ ❶ building ⓫ ❼ ❻ ❹ Spread a culture of trusted customer ❿ ❹ protection ❺ Employees competency development ❾ (Nurturing talent/competency development) ❻ Practice customer-oriented management ❼ Creating a good working environment ❽ Enhancement of financial soundness ❾ Strengthening ethical management ❿ Proactive risk management ⓫ Transparent corporate governance SIGNIFICANCE TO KYOBO ⓬ Development of digital-based products and services Order Key issues GRI Standards Aspect Impact page 1 Information security and personal information Customers/ GRI 418 : Customer Privacy 42 protection Employees 2 Stable asset management GRI 201 : Economic Performance Customers/investors 57 3 Support for Financial Planners’ capacity building GRI 404 : Training and Education FPs 45 4 Spread a culture of trusted customer protection GRI 417 : Marketing and Labeling Customers 42-43 5 Employees competency development GRI 404 : Training and Education Employees 50-51 (Nurturing talent/competency development) 6 Practice customer-oriented management Customers 40 7 Creating a good working environment GRI 401 : Employment Employees 52 8 Enhancement of financial soundness GRI 201 : Economic Performance Investors 55 9 Strengthening ethical management Investors/Employees 17-19 10 Proactive risk management Investors 14-16 11 Transparent corporate governance Investors 12-13 12 Development of digital-based products and services Customers 39 STAKEHOLDERS IMPACT Persistency Rate Settlement Ratio of FP Return from parental leave 77.8 % 34 % 97.9 % (those who work for more than 13 months) RBC Energy Consumption 339 % 15,668 TOE Customers 38 Financial Planners 44 Employees 48 Investors 54 Government and Local Communities 60 38 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 KYOBO LIFE Management Approach Importance Customers are vital stakeholders in Kyobo Life’s mission to help its cusfor Customers tomers pursue their cherished dreams and overcoming every adversity in the future, by providing customer protection. We, at Kyobo Life, believe that all activities for customers, such as customer-focused management and customer protection activities, are vitally important. This is therefore a core issue for sustainable management, because it allows us to strengthen customer trust and deliver the essential value of insurance. Providing digital-based products and services is an important issue, because it helps customers use our services more conveniently, and creates new values. In addition, the increase of cyber threats and information security issues are becoming important matters, as technology grows more sophisticated. Management Methods Kyobo Life strives to assess the needs of customers through continuous communication via customer surveys, operation of the VOC council and a customer panel, and reflect them in the management activities. Kyobo Life is also striving to enhance customer satisfaction and trust throughout the process of subscription, retention and claim payments through differentiated Lifelong Care Service. In 2019, Kyobo Life sought to provide better value in all areas related to customers − by Kyobo Life thinks from the providing digital-based services such as the KakaoTalk-based chatbot service, and automated medical examination result transmission sercustomers’ perspective and strives vice − for the further convenience of customers. to provide more valuable products Key Activities in 2019 and services. • Innovations in product · service competitiveness aimed at customers • Provision of customer convenience using digital innovation • Continuous strengthening of customer-protection activities Certificated for CCM for seven consecutive times Future Areas of Focus Kyobo Life plans to accelerate customer-oriented digital transformation in order to implement true customer-oriented management. By Awarded ‘Grand Prix’ at the Maeil Financial developing and providing products and services based on digital innoProducts Awards vation, Kyobo Life will enhance customer convenience, continuously listen to customers’ voices through various communication channels, and Awarded ‘Technology Initiative of the Year’ reflect it in the whole process of subscription, retention and payment. at the Asia Insurance Industry Awards Furthermore, Kyobo Life strengthens internal process in order to protect the customers’ information and rights. Key Performance Indicators Customer satisfaction level Persistency ratio*(13th month) Market Share ratio* 77.8 % 10.6 % 2017 78.7 2017 10.2 72.8 Points 2019 2018 78.8 2018 11.0 2019 77.8 2019 10.6 *Persistency rate = (Retention contract premium/New *The market share rate is based on Premium Income. All contract premium) × 100 data are as of December 2019/Data from 2017~2018 were corrected (from ‘as of November’ to ‘as of December’) Stakeholders Impact Customers 39 Financial Planners Employees Investors Government and Local Communities Enhancing Customer Value through measurements, blood pressure, blood sugar, etc. in the mobile app, the system analyzes the risk of disease occurrence to help Digital-based Products and Services the customer prevent diseases in his/her daily life. Kyobo Life Introduction of Industry’s First Automated tries to provide services tailored to the customers through proDelivery of Medical Checkup Service fessional care, so that they will be constantly interested in their health and carry out healthy practices. Kyobo Life has established a network jointly with the National Health Insurance Service for the first time in the insurance Components of Health Coaching Service industry to introduce the mobile alternative diagnosis service. Alternative diagnosis refers to replacing a medical examinaDaily IoT-based exercise amount measurement and tion by submitting the previous medical examination results Challenge exercise status analysis to the insurance company when a medical examination is required to buy an insurance policy. With the introduction of Recording meals by taking pictures and Food Lense one-on-one menu consulting an alternative diagnosis service, the company simplifies the insurance subscription process by quickly and securely checkA 12-week health coaching program (provides ing the relevant medical history information of the insured the 5 programs of : exercise/nutrition/stress 5! My management/temperance/stop smoking) who just needs to consent to provide information on mobile Coaching Measures the health age and evaluates degree instead of submitting a written medical checkup. Kyobo Life of health risk plans to expand the application of this service to hospitals as Analyzes the bio-age and provides the health well as the National Health Service in the future. Check Check report when entered the health examination My Health results The Launch of Kyobo Life’s Digital Character ‘Lovers,’ a Service using KakaoTalk chatbot API Provides health information reviewed by Health professional medical practitioners and the Library Kyobo Life has launched ‘Lovers,’ KakaoTalk chatbot API, to webzine service enhance customer convenience. ‘Lovers’ is a chatbot specialOne-on-one Provides one-on-one chatting with the ized for loans, providing guidance on loan products, appliHealth Coach professionals and telephone consultations and cation for and repayment of advanced withdrawals, and Consulting the health webzine through KakaoTalk daily conversation. As of the first quarter of 2020, more than 200,000 customers used ‘Lovers,’ and customers can easily access ‘Lovers’ anytime, anywhere without installation to use Awarded ‘Technology Initiative of the Year’ at Asia our services more conveniently. Kyobo Life plans to expand Insurance Industry Award the chatbot service to all parts of our insurance business to provide greater convenience to more customers. Kyobo Life received the “Technology Initiative of the Year” award in recognition of its digital innovation as it introduced BARO, a natural language processing based AI underwriting system, for the first time among global insurance companies at the 23rd Asia Insurance Industry Awards in September 2019. BARO, an acronym of ‘Best Analysis and Rapid Outcome,’ is the AI-based underwriting system Kyobo Life developed, which integrates natural language processing and machine-learning technologies. When it receives an insurance policy subscription, the AI underwriter analyzes the subscription application and automatically approves the contract. Kyobo Life introduced BARO to its underwriting process in July 2019 and the AI underwriting system is answering up to 86% Upgraded ‘Kyobo Health Coaching Service’ of all questions related to subscription application. Kyobo Life Kyobo Life has provided ‘Kyobo Health Coaching Service,’ a plans to introduce BARO to various insurance services, such as mobile application-based health care service to care for cusbenefit payment requests, in stages and anticipates that it will tomers' health in daily life. This health improvement serprovide a greater level of customer satisfaction. vice helps customers to lead the right kind of lifestyle, and has been updated in 2020 to reflect new digital technologies and customer needs. The newly added service, ‘Food Lens,’ is a service that allows customers to easily enter and analyze ·23rd Asia Insurance their diet by simply taking photos and provides eating-habit Industry Award improvement and management services through chat or tele·Won the Technology phone consultation with a professional nutritionist. In addiInitiative of the Year tion, among the existing services, the ‘Check My Health’ service that provides health reports by analyzing the medical examina*T he Asia Insurance Industry Award is the only insurance-related award in Asia introduced in 1997. Kyobo Life received the ‘Life Insurer tion results has added a new item analyzing metabolic age. For of the Year’ award in 2009 and ‘CEO of the Year’ award in 2012. example, if a customer enters key health values such as waist 40 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 KYOBO LIFE Customer-centered Management Lifelong Care Service – Focus on ‘optimization of customer coverage’ Inducted to the Customer-Centered Management Kyobo Life has provided a service called the ‘Lifelong Care Ser(CCM) Hall of Fame vice’ to provide a better coverage and services to customers Kyobo Life has been pursuing customer-centered management in since 2011. As a ‘persistency service’ for its subscribers, the order to deal with any customer complaints, and thus to promptly Lifelong Care Service is a service whereby all Financial Planremedy and positively respond to complaints with the end ners pay regular visits to customers to explain the contents of goal of increasing customer satisfaction. The Customer-Cenexisting contracts, receive unclaimed insurance claims, check tered Management (CCM) certification is a system for assessing the coverage, guide health care and other diverse customer whether a company conducts all its activities from the customservices. Kyobo Life has been operating the Lifelong Care & ers' perspective, organizes its business Management Approach Customer Support Team dedicated to strengthening of implefocused on the customer, and tries to improve them constantly. mentation of the Lifelong Care Service and customer satisSince its adoption in 2007, the Fair Trade Commission is assessfaction management. In 2019, the company strengthened its ing companies with CCM certification. Kyobo Life has been digital-based customer services using tablets and chatbots to granted the certification on seven consecutive times as of 2019, provide high-quality services to customers. and thus being inducted into the Hall of Fame. Provision Status of Lifelong Care Service Category Unit 2017 2018 2019 Service Experience Rate % 80.7 81.6 82.7 (Cumulative data since project launch) Payments for unclaimed KRW accident insurance benefits 100 402 421 428 (Cumulative data since project launch) million Kyobo Nobiliaire Concert Consumer-Centered Management (CCM) Certification Ceremony Since 2012, Kyobo Life has been organizing and communicating with the customers through the Kyobo Nobiliaire Concert for VIP customers as a part of the arts & culture program. In Customer Satisfaction Survey addition to the standardized classical performances, the conSince 2000, Kyobo Life has conducted its annual customer satcert includes a wide spectrum of artistic genres such as litisfaction survey in order to respond swiftly to changes in the erature, film, and fine arts, thus making a deep and lasting market as well as changes among its customers. Kyobo Life impression on our customers. In 2010, Kyobo Nobiliaire orgauses the results of each survey to assess the level of cusnized a classical concert with the master conductor Chung tomer satisfaction and understand the customer needs, and Myungwhun’s Philharmonic Orchestra for the company’s custhen explore the ways of improving its services to raise customers living in Seoul, Gyeonggi-do, Gwangju, and Daejeon tomer satisfaction. The results of the 2019 survey show that on five occasions making an unforgettable impression on the overall customer satisfaction fell by 0.4 points to 72.8 points, attendees. In 2020, Kyobo Life plans to produce offline art although the company received high scores for corporate programs and art and cultural programs conducted over the image, loan products, and Customer Plaza employees/facility past eight years as digital content and regularly provide them management. to VIP customers. Kyobo Life is committed to pursuing shared growth with the customers through intellectual communicaSurvey subject Adults aged 20 64 who subscribed to life tion with them. insurance within the preceding three years No. of respondents 2,500 persons in total Period of survey August ~ September 2019 Customer Satisfaction Survey 73.8 73.4 72.8 2017 2018 2019 Kyobo Nobiliaire Concert Stakeholders Impact Customers 41 Financial Planners Employees Investors Government and Local Communities Enhancement of Products and Service Value Efforts for Product Innovation : Awarded Grand Prix at Maeil Financial Products Awards Kyobo Life is striving to provide differentiated and custom‘(No-Dividend) Kyobo Budget Health Plus Whole-life Insurer-centered insurance products and enhance the value of its ance’ was awarded a grand prize at the Maeil Financial Prodservices through product innovations. Kyobo Life will provide ucts Awards, receiving good evaluations in five categories, customer-oriented products and services promptly by sourcnamely : creativity; marketability; contribution to the develing various ideas inside and outside the company in order to opment of the financial industry; contribution to personal life secure value competitiveness. improvement; and public interest. The products provide varDevelopment and Launch of New Insurance Products ious health coverage in addition to the coverage for wholelife while lowering insurance premiums. In addition, Kyobo Kyobo Life is committed to developing insurance products Life reserves the largest number of exclusive commercialthat meet the needs of each customer at each life stage and ization rights*, patent rights to insurance products, among the changing needs of each customer as the environment domestic life insurance companies, continuously striving to changes, while developing products. In 2019, Kyobo Life introdevelop products and value-added products with outstandduced various new products through the efforts to develop ing value competitiveness that reflect needs of customers. All new products that satisfy customer needs. the employees of Kyobo Life are committed to developing creative products and enhancing product competitiveness as the Important new Products leader in innovating products. *Grand Prix at the Maeil Financial Products Awards : Maeil Daily Newspapers KYOBO LIFE INSURANCE 2020. 04. 13 상품개정 New (No-dividend) KYOBO LIFE INSURANCE WHOLE LIFE 2020. 04 신상품 출시 evaluates all the financial products introduced in all financial sectors such Kyobo Cancer 무배당 New as banks, insurance companies, securities (asset management), savings 교보실속있는New InsuranceⅡ New 무배당교보암보험 (갱신형) 건강플러스종신보험 보증비용부과형 (No-dividend) banks, credit cards, and fintechs that contributed to the development of the Kyobo Budget financial industries in a year. New 무배당교보암보험 New (No-dividend) Kyobo Cancer Health Plus *E xclusive Commercialization Rights : A system that allows a company that InsuranceⅡ 금리연동형 질병보장 실속있는 보험료 Insurance developed a creative insurance product to have exclusive rights to sell the 암보장 다양한 특약보장 (renewable) 이 상품안내장은 2020년 4월 13일 기준으로 작성되었습니다. product for a certain period. 이 상품안내장은 2020년 4월 13일 기준으로 작성되었습니다. K Y O B O L I F E I N S U R A N C E 2020. 04. 13 상품개정 K Y O B O L I F E I N S U R A N C E 2020. 04. 13 상품개정 무배당 교보 (No-dividend) 무배당 가족든든치매보험 보증비용부과형 Kyobo My 교보치아보장보험 갱신형 (No-dividend) Family Guardian Kyobo Tooth Dementia Insurance 금리연동형 치매보장 실속있는 보험료 InsuranceⅡ 금리확정형 치아보장 이 상품안내장은 2020년 4월 13일 기준으로 작성되었습니다. 이 상품안내장은 2020년 4월 13일 기준으로 작성되었습니다. KYOBO LIFE INSURANCE WHOLE LIFE 2020. 04. 13 상품개정 K Y O B O L I F E I N S U R A N C E 무배당 2020. 04. 13 상품개정 교보 (No-dividend) 무배당 무배당 실속있는치매종신보험 교보정기보험 (No-dividend) 보증비용부과형 Kyobo Budget 보증비용부과형 Kyobo Term Dementia Insurance Insurance 금리연동형 치매보장 실속있는 보험료 금리연동형 사망보장 납입면제특약 이 상품안내장은 2020년 4월 13일 기준으로 작성되었습니다. 이 상품안내장은 2020년 4월 13일 기준으로 작성되었습니다. Grand Prix awarded at the Maeil Economy Financial Products Award Kyobo Life’s 18 Products Granted New Product Development Profit (Exclusive Commercialization) Rights · (No dividend) Family Account Insurance (2002) . (No dividend) Kyobo Grandson Love Insurance (2013) · (No dividend) Kyobo All Love Whole-life Insurance (2003) · (No dividend) Kyobo Variable Pension Insurance (2014) · (No dividend) Kyobo EduCare Insurance (2004) · My Love Family (No dividend) Kyobo NEW Whole-life · (No dividend) Kyobo Group Disability Insurance (2005) Insurance (2015) · (No dividend) Kyobo Life Care Insurance (2006) · Keep-Your-Dream-Alive Kyobo Pension Insurance II (2016) · (No dividend) Kyobo My Child Future Variable · (No dividend) Kyobo Premier CI Insurance (2016) Insurance (2007) . (No dividend) Kyobo My Whole-Life Customized Health · (No dividend) Kyobo CI Whole-life Insurance Insurance (2017) (renewal type) (2010) · (No dividend) Kyobo Substantial Variable Whole-Life · (No dividend) Second CI Coverage Special Policy Conditions Insurance (2017) (renewable) (2010) · (No dividend) Kyobo In-Advance CI Insurance (2017) · (No dividend) Kyobo My Child Guardian Insurance (2012) · (No dividend) Kyobo Variable Education Insurance (2018) 42 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 KYOBO LIFE Responsibility for Insurance Claim Payment Kyobo Life Products and Services Kyobo Life currently disburses insurance payouts through 51 Customer PLAZAs and 35 insurance payout reception winKyobo Life aims to help its customers to correctly understand dows. In addition, for customers who are unable to visit the the value of life insurance, and is striving to provide better serreception windows in person, Kyobo Life provides assistance vices to its customers in all processes of subscription, retenwith insurance payment claim applications and collections tion and payment. through Financial Planner insurance claim proxy filing and Putting into Practice Faultless Insurance Sign-up insurance payout home delivery services. Procedures Status of accident claim proxy filing and payout home Kyobo Life is educating all of its Financial Planners on the delivery services importance of faultless insurance sign-up and has added the related provisions to the company’s internal standards to Category Unit 2017 2018 2019 ensure that all the Financial Planners strictly observe the faultAccident claim proxy 5,157 5,271* 5,473 less insurance sign-up procedures. filing KRW 100 Insurance payout home million 2,666 1,135 2,079 delivery service Faultless Insurance Sign-up *Amended figures for 2018 : by reflecting the differences between received cases and cancelled cases Compliance with · Issuance of a contract three principles containing the personal signatures of the Claims paid (Unit : KRW 100 million) 104,510 contracting party and the insurance subscriber · Full explanation of the 94,159 contract 90,057 · Delivery of contract copy to the subscriber Notification of · Clients are advised to fill requirements out all the requirements before signing on the form prior to signing 2017 2018 2019 Full · Clients receive a detailed Trusted Customer Protection Activities explanation and accurate explanation of information of all items requiring Kyobo Life strives to protect the information and rights of its that customers explanation, such as valued customers. To this end, the company is strengthening need to know product characteristics the awareness of all employees and Financial Planners regardand guarantees ing customer information protection systematize internal processes, and building a foundation for VOCs utilized in management. Protection of Customer Rights and Interests and Prevention of Unfair Trade Customer Information Protection Education Kyobo Life is committed to protecting the rights and interests To guarantee the protection of customers’ personal informaof its customers by complying with insurance-related laws and tion, Kyobo Life has established internal regulations and proregulations. It also operates an advertisement review sysvides education on personal information protection to all its tem that requires new product advertisements and insurance employees and Financial Planners on a continuous basis. As a brochures to be approved by the compliance officer. Furtherresult, no cases of customer information leaks have ever been more, it is committed to preventing unfair trade practices such reported to date at Kyobo Life. as unduly inducing the customers of its competitors. To date, the company has never violated any national laws and reguInformation Protection Training Status lations or self-imposed regulations related to the aforementioned issues. Category Unit 2017 2018 2019 Employees 11 11 11 Status of product advertisement and insurance product Financial Planner 12 12 11 brochure reviews IT Management Staff Hours 13 13 11 Category Unit 2017 2018 2019 Manager of Status of cases No. of Information Protection 28 28 16 971 1,038 878 under review cases Management Stakeholders Impact Customers 43 Financial Planners Employees Investors Government and Local Communities VOC Management Support Insurance Product Brochure for the Visually Impaired Kyobo Life regards the voice of the customer as an important Kyobo Life has produced a Braille-based product brochure asset of the company. The company thus utilizes the VOC sysand distributed it to customers with visual impairments in tem to analyze customer opinions and look for possible areas an effort to rectify any difficulties they may experience when of improvement. The company operates the VOC Manageusing our financial services. Although at present there are ment Working Group, a group of related departments, to prenot many persons with visual impairment among Kyobo Life’s pare a customer protection system based on VOC. In 2019, the customers, the company nonetheless treats them as valuable company hosted the VOC Management Working Group meetcustomers. The company produced this brochure reflecting ing, over 12 occasions in total, and of the 25 proposals made the opinions of the field managers who requested the comduring the meeting, 21 proposals were improved as of the end pany to deal with such handicaps for the disabled people. The of December 2019, while four proposals are currently under Braille-based brochure has thus been produced for a certain improvement. Among the improved proposals, a representaproduct for visually impaired customers. tive example was the creation of a foreign customer-dedicated monitoring service to enhance convenience for foreigners. K Y O B O L I F E I N S U R A N C E 무배당 2020. 04. 13 상품개정 Stricter Disclosures for Customer Protection Kyobo Life’s website has a section titled ‘Customers’ Plaza,’ 무배당 교보 곰두리보장보험 where, with just one click, customers can read all of the essential information on customer protection. The information provided in this section is regularly updated to guarantee the customers’ right to know. FSS Financial Customer Protection Survey 금리확정형 암보장 장애인 전용 In the 2018 Financial Customer Protection Survey conducted by the Financial Supervisory Service (FSS), which assesses 이 상품안내장은 2020년 4월 13일 기준으로 작성되었습니다. companies in ten categories, Kyobo Life was selected as the Gomduri Coverage Insurance brochure printed in Braille best company among insurance companies. And in 2019, the company received the ‘Excellence Award’ at the ‘2019 Financial Consulting services for customers with hearing or Customer Protection Awards,’ receiving ‘Good’ ratings in nine speech disabilities categories, and an ‘Excellent’ rating in five categories such as sustainability and financial accidents. Kyobo Life has been Kyobo Life operates a consultant service window through consistently implementing various customer activities, such as which customers with hearing or speech disabilities are prothe customer panel system, on-site customer protection servided support regarding financial services. A customer with a vice, etc., and applying the customers’ opinions directly to the hearing or speech disability can call a Kyobo Life counselor at management of the company by replaying the VOC at monthly the ‘Sonmal Eeum Center,’ which is operated by the National executive-level meetings. As such, Kyobo Life will address this Information Society Agency. When the customer sends a meschallenge with even more differentiated customer protection sage to the Sonmal Eeum Center sign-language interpreter efforts to establish a reliable customer protection culture. via video streaming (sign language), the interpreter delivers the message to the Kyobo Life call center consultant by voice. *FSS Financial Customer Protection Survey : A program for comprehensively evaluating the customer protection capabilities of a financial company Using the service described above, customers with hearing across ten categories in total or speech disabilities can obtain detailed information about insurance products, along with information on how to pay insurance premiums, and apply for insurance claims. Strengthening Accessibility of the Vulnerable to Financial Services Consulting Services in Foreign Languages for Foreign Customers Customers Sonmal Kyobo Life has gradually implemented monitoring of new conwith a hearing Kyobo Life Eeum tracts made in foreign languages (English and Chinese) for the or speech Call Center Center disability first time among insurance companies since October 2019, and the company provides consulting services in foreign languages (English and Chinese) through professional counselText or Voice video ors who can speak English and Chinese from February 2020. The company strives to minimize mis-sells that may occur with foreign customers at the sign-up stage and to provide a better quality of service to them. 44 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 KYOBO LIFE Management Importance In order to correctly explain to customers the products and service Approach values of Kyobo Life, and to be acknowledged as excellent financial experts, Financial Planners (FPs) are expected to develop their skills on a continuous basis. To this end, Kyobo Life provides comprehenfor Financial sive educational programs every year that are systematic and differentiated from those of its competitors. In 2019, the company created the Planners ‘Rookie Training Center’ to help newly registered FPs strengthen their capabilities, and operated a systematic program to improve knowledge and competency of Financial Planner, such as knowledge on products, computation, and digital utilization. In addition, Kyobo Life operates the Consultant Inconvenience Support Center to resolve inconveniences and grievances in sales fields and to support sales activities. Management Methods In order to correctly explain to customers the products and service values of Kyobo Life , and to be acknowledged as excellent financial experts, Financial Planners (FPs) are expected to develop their skills on a continuous basis. To this end, Kyobo Life provides comprehensive educational programs every year that are systematic and differentiated from those of its competitors. In 2019, the company created the ‘Rookie Training Center’ to help newly registered FPs strengthen their capabilities, and operated a systematic program to improve knowledge and competency of Financial Planner, such as knowledge on products, computation, and digital utilization. In addition, Kyobo Life operates the Consultant Inconvenience Support Center to resolve inconveniences and grievances in sales fields and to support sales activities. Key Activities in 2019 • Creation of Rookie Training Center • Operation of Consultant Inconvenience Support Center • Operation of Kyobo MDRT Day Kyobo Life continuously offers Future Areas of Focus Kyobo Life plans to actively support sales activities and create a workopportunities for its FPs to improve ing environment where the Financial Planners, the important business their capabilities, motivates them and partners and internal stakeholders of Kyobo Life, can work happily. Kyobo Life will constantly develop competitive competency develhelps them to become professionals. opment programs so that its FPs will be reliable and trusted financial experts for the customers. In addition, through the spread of the MDRT culture, the company will endeavor to lead the FPs to move beyond simply being insurance salespersons, by also playing the role of fulfilling social value and responsibility. Key Performance Indicators Financial Planner satisfaction level Financial Planner settlement ratio* Financial Planners (13th month) 70.0 Point 34.0 % 2017 70.8 2017 41.1 2018 70.1 2018 36.4 2019 70.0 2019 34.0 14,427 person *Financial Planner Settlement Ratio : (No. of advanced Financial Planners/No. of Newly Registered Financial Planners) ×100 Financial Planners Settled in the 13th month include those who sign more than one new contract and retain more than 10 contracts signed as of the 13th month. Stakeholders Impact Customers 45 Financial Planners Employees Investors Government and Local Communities Financial Planners Competency M-Learning Development Support Kyobo Life continuously provides various educational video contents such as qualification test for financial planners, inforFinancial Planners Training Support in 2019 mation security, and products through the ‘M-learning’ page In 2019, Kyobo Life instituted many changes in a drive to on its website. This allows FPs to receive quality education raise the skill levels of its Financial Planners. In particular, the anytime, anywhere. ‘Rookie Training Center’ was created in order to strengthen the capabilities of new FPs, and the initial training period was e-book extended. In addition, the company systematically trained Through the mobile education platform called ‘Kyobo Life the existing FPs by regularly conducting tailored training proe-Book,’ Kyobo Life has provided educational materials in vargrams. ious formats such as text, images, videos, voice, and quizzes In addition, the company has provided interactive training Existing Financial Planners through Q&A sessions, and exchange of know-how and opinKyobo Life subdivided the existing Financial Planners group ions among learners beyond simply providing content. according to competency, and conducted customized training. For high-performing Financial Planners, the financial planning e-Book contents center of the company regularly provided training on finance/ Learning course, tax for a period of six months, and for average performing Rookie Training Branch/support Financial planning FPs, training on the company’s products, finance, health, etc. Center team BTP prime course was provided for four months. New Financial Planners Kyobo Life has been piloting the ‘Long-term Training Program for New Financial Planners’ since 2017 to increase the job satisfaction of FPs and provide stable support differentiated from the competitors. In 2019, Kyobo Life applied the Program nationwide. Especially in 2019, Kyobo Life opened the ‘Rookie Training Center’ to train new FPs as part of the Program. The ‘Rookie Training Center’ targets FPs within three months of commencing employment and provides systematic training to improve knowledge and competency of the FPs, such as knowledge on products, computation and digital utilization. Sales Approach for Financial Planners After completing the three-month training, new FPs are transferred to the branch to form a new training team centered on Operation of the Consultant Inconvenience the branch manager and to focus on making individualized Support Center learning to have the right habits and attitudes rather than just Kyobo Life established a ‘Consultant Inconvenience Support learning simple knowledge and skills. Center’ in 2018 to handle inconveniences and difficulties experienced by Financial Planners in the process of providing cusExpansion of Digital Training tomer service, and support smooth customer coverage activiKyobo Life expanded the scope of digital training to help its ties to create a happy workplace. FPs can request counseling FPs strengthen their capabilities using digital technologies. and assistance via the sales support system or by phone, and The Financial Planners can receive various high-quality educasuch requests are relayed to the corresponding departmental tion contents anytime, anywhere using smartphones and tabmanagers to ensure quick process and the processing result is let PCs. directly conveyed to FPs. The number of complaints reported to the ‘Consultant Inconvenience Support Center’ was 169 (in Live talks monthly average) in the first quarter of 2020, which increased Kyobo Life has created an education broadcast platform from the previous year, but the number of processing days called ‘Livetalk’ to provide real-time information on products, and immediate processing rate have been improved to internal and external financial market trends, and educaactively support FPs activities. In addition, important mattion of external instructors according to broadcasting schedters for the company are presented to the Consultant Inconule. In addition, after the broadcast was over, the video was venience Support Committee so that its solution can be disuploaded to ‘M-learning’ to allow FPs to access and learn cussed. Kyobo Life actively supports its FPs so that they can again at a convenient time. successfully engage in their activities. 46 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 KYOBO LIFE Prime Leaders Club Luncheon Meeting Operation Status of Consultant Inconvenience Overseas Program for Financial Planners with Support Center Outstanding Performance in Customer Coverage Category Unit 2019 2020.1Q Kyobo Life selected Financial Planners with the most outstanding performance in customer coverage and sent them Number of complaints reported case 134 169 on overseas trip. In 2019, the FPs were sent on a seven-day and counseled (monthly average) trip to the UK. This event was sponsored for the purpose of Number of processing days day 3.5 3.1 motivating FPs who produced top results in customer cover(monthly average) age, and providing them with an opportunity to recharge and Immediate processing rate % 72.1 77.2 continue producing high performances. The participating FPs (monthly average) visited historical sites and experienced the art and culture of a foreign country. Overseas Language Program for Children of Introduction of Kyobo Lovers Resale High-Performing Financial Planners Mobile Phone Plan For the past 16 years, Kyobo Life has been providing the ‘OverIn 2019, Kyobo Life introduced a resale mobile phone plan seas Language Program for Children of High-Performance for the first time in its industry. The resale mobile phone Financial Planners’ with the objective of nurturing a sense of refers to the service that borrows mobile phone networks pride in their achievements. This semi-annual program gives from the existing mobile telecommunication businesses the children of a select group of high performers the opportuand provides the services of same quality at cheaper prices. nity to go overseas on a language study program, in summer The customers can simply replace the USIM chips to use the and in winter. The selected children receive English classes resale mobile phone service. This service was introduced appropriate to their level of ability in the overseas country and to help the FPs in their sales activities by saving their teleget to live with a host family, directly experiencing how people communication expenses, and Kyobo Life is considering a from other countries go about their daily lives. In 2019, 20 stufollow-up introduction of another rate that combines smartdents from elementary school to high school had opportuniphones and tablet PCs. ties to visit New Zealand. Kyobo Life was the first company in the insurance industry to introduce this type of program. The Support for High-performing Financial program is entirely overseen by the company, and parents Planners thus trust it implicitly when it comes to their children’s safety, while the study costs are also covered by the company. For Financial Planners Prime Leaders Club Conference these reasons, the program is extremely popular with the FPs. ‘Leading High-performance Culture’ Kyobo Life holds ‘Financial Planner Prime Leaders Club Conference’ every year to contribute in settling high performance culture through active field-oriented support by listening to various opinions from the fields. Through the conference, the company communicates on the development of new products, special contract clauses, FPs activities, and other related systems, and tries to solve the difficulties faced in the sales field. The Prime Leaders Club consists of high-performing FPs representing Kyobo Life. The leading FPs who contribute to achieving the vision of the company hold the meeting on a regular basis. Club members are provided with a variety of benefits to improve their pride, develop competencies and Overseas Language Program for Children of support activities. High-Performing Financial Planners Stakeholders Impact Customers 47 Financial Planners Employees Investors Government and Local Communities Operation of Kyobo MDRT Day Before starting the event, FPs pledged to practice social valTo instill a sense of pride among the top-performing Financial ues beyond being mere purveyors of insurance products Planners and boost their motivation, Kyobo Life held the ‘2019 by chanting the MDRT culture* pursued by Kyobo Life, and Kyobo MDRT mentoring Day’ event under the theme of ‘Senior shared the knowledge and experience of excellent FPs with to lead junior, and Junior to respect senior.’ The event provided junior FPs. diverse programs such as talk concerts and lectures, etc. *Kyobo Life’s MDRT Culture · Achieve even greater success by giving generously. ·W  ork with passion to achieve one’s goals with a sense of duty. · Be cheerful, optimistic and perform challenging work dynamically. · Show a passion commitment to learning (training). · Senior employees must lead junior employees, and junior employees must show respect to senior employees. · A im for long-term, continuous success. · Provide a lending hand to neighbors in difficulty (social volunteer work). 2019 Kyobo MDRT Mentoring Day Establishing Kyobo’s MDRT Culture 2014~2016 2017~2022 2023~ Recognize and Share the Culture Learn, Spread and Internalize the Culture Master and Build the Culture Skills enhancement/motivation Sprout Kyobo Life’s MDRT culture Blossom Social responsibility activities Bear fruit MDRT Day Mentor-Mentee Interview Two special mentor and mentee participated in this MDRT Day : Mentor Bu-kyun Jung, FP Manager at Busan central Branch and mentee Hae-jin Ryu, who grew up as an MDRT. This is an interview with the mentor and mentee achieving MDRT at the same time. ‘The best donation I can give is to cultivate Mentor Mentee ‘I just follow the advice of my mentor’ good juniors’ What is the most important competency as a mentor? What was the most difficult thing as a rookie and how did you I think that it is a strong motivation. To achieve your goals, you overcome it? have to quickly understand the strengths and weaknesses Before becoming an FP, I already introduced all of my acquainof the mentee. You need to know what you can do and which tances to other FPs so I could not make contracts with them. I was method is more effective. It is also important to give feedback able to overcome this because I followed the coaching of my menaccording to the preference of the mentee. For a mentee who tor. Now I don’t go home unless I have a contract with at least two wants something clarified, you have to offer a product strategy, customers. and when they need empathy, you may go for a social drink Do you have a special episode for you and your mentor with the mentee. One day, one of my acquaintances wants to subscribe a whole life What did you focus on while mentoring? insurance for her husband. However, her husband had no time to I provided feedback twice a day in the morning and evening. sign the document because he was a driver. The mentor told me We communicated today’s plan in the morning, and results in to get the signature at the service area while he stops by the area. the evening. When I listen to the story of failure, I understand Therefore, I drove from Busan to Pohang to get the signature. I what part the mentee missed. Upon identification of probcould not turn on the air conditioner due to the lack of gasoline so I lem, I contact with the customer to make an appointment and used the hand fan, and I finally entered the contract with him. visit the customers with the mentee. Through mentoring, we Which is the best know-how you received from your mentor? can eliminate our weaknesses, which lead to the conclusion of more contracts. Mentor has informed that analysis of existing insurance policies of customer is the first step in signing a contract. In addition, I also What advice would you give to future mentors? call the call center and ask questions about other company's prodI want to say 10 years to sow, 10 years to reap, and 10 years to ucts that I do not know I explain in detail the merits of the insurshare. FP is a job where we grow together. I think the best talance policy that the customer has already subscribed, even if it is a ent donation I can do is to cultivate good juniors. I hope that other company's product. Instead, I encourage customers to sign the mentee will grow into a wonderful mentor who will share up if Kyobo's products could offer the better coverage. The most what they have learned and received from the mentor. important thing is to gain customer's trust. 48 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 KYOBO LIFE Management Approach for Employees Importance Employees of Kyobo Life are important stakeholders and key players in the company’s sustainable growth. Kyobo Life creates an open culture and a good working environment, and supports employees' growth and development as professionals through systematic competency building programs. To this end, the company should respect all employees, prevent discrimination in terms of performance and compensation and support the employees so that they can grow on their own proactively. Management Methods Kyobo Life sets the direction for training employees to meet the changes of the times every year, and provides systematic competency building programs. In addition, the company applies a fair and equitable evaluation and compensation program to create an environment in which employees want to work, prohibits discrimination between male and female employees, and measures employee engagement status and job stress on a regular basis to create a friendly working environment. In particular, in 2019, the company held the ‘2030 Communication and Empathy Workshop’ with the millennial generation to reduce conflicts between executives /head of organization and staff, and introduced Robotics Process Automation (RPA) to relieve employees’ stress and improve work engagement. As such, Kyobo Life strives to enhance employee satisfaction. Key Activities in 2019 • The 2030 Communication and Empathy Workshop • Declaring support for Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) Kyobo Life is providing a lot of • introducing RPA • Providing diverse competency improvement program support to employees to develop their capabilities, and Future Areas of Focus Kyobo Life strives to create a culture of joy, pride and trust to become striving to create a happy and a company that grows with employees. Also, Kyobo Life will strive to enjoyable workplace. enhance the satisfaction-level of all employees by recognizing the importance of human rights management and strengthening relevant systems so that all employees are respected at work and receive compensation based on fair evaluation. Key Performance Indicators Training hours per person Parental leave applicants Return from parental leave 97 Hours 97.9 % 2017 94 177 Persons 2018 97 2018 91.9 2019 97 2019 97.9 Stakeholders Impact Customers 49 Financial Planners Employees Investors Government and Local Communities Employee Status The total number of Kyobo Life employees was 3,822, a were on the company’s payroll, representing a hiring rate of increase by 198 persons from the previous year. In 2019, there 0.9%. There were 147 female managers (executive levels) repwere 115 newly hired employees, and 95 employees retired resenting 18.7% of the total workers and this figure has been (2.49%). The total number of employees comprised 1,512 steadily increasing for the past three years. Average service regular female employees (41.7%), and 2,112 regular male years of male employees is 17.1 years, while that of female employees (58.3%). There were 35 employees with disabilities employees is 14.6 years. Employee Status (As of December 31, 2019) Category Unit 2017 2018 2019 Males 2,101(59.6) 2,135(58.9) 2,112(58.3) Females 1,426(40.4) 1,489(41.1) 1,512(41.7) Permanent* Person(%) No. of female managers (ratio) 137(16.7) 140(17.6) 147(18.7) No. of employees with disabilities (ratio) 29(0.8) 29(0.8) 35(0.9) Executives 45 41 41 Non-permanent* Males Person 121* 112* 99 Females 65* 62* 58 New hires No. of persons hired Person 40 189* 115 Retirees No. of persons retired Person(%) 73(1.94) 79(2.06) 95(2.49) *A mended no. of full-time employees between 2017 and 2018 : This is calculated based on the annual report as of end of December. *A mended no. of non-full-time employees between 2017 and 2018 : This is calculated based on the annual report as of end of December. *A mended no. of newly hired employees in 2018 : This is calculated based on the annual report as of end of December. Details on employees Number of Employees per Region Category Unit 2017 2018 2019 Region Unit 2019 Staff (staff~ general manager) 3,566 3,646 3,623 Seoul 2,278 Rank Over head of department Person 147 152 158 Gyeongin 326 Executives 45 41 41 Busan 316 Person 10s 20 51 25 Jungbu 286 20s 464 440 425 Daegu 324 30s 1,295 1,309 1,300 Honam 292 Age Person 40s 1,654 1,635 1,546 *T he employees were classified based on the FP Headquarters. The employees in Seoul include 50s 321 398 521 those who work at the corporate headquarters Over 60s 4 6 5 (in Gwangwhamun) and the Gangnam and the Gangbuk FP Headquarters. *Job placement of employees with disabilities : IT3 persons/Field19 persons/HQ-13 persons *No. of full-time female managers : This is calculated based on the managers who are hired for employment improvement Parental Leave Status Category Unit 2017 2018 2019 Usage rate (Male) 6 6 11 Use of Parental Leave Usage rate (Female) Person 215 172 166 Usage in the year concerned (Total) 221 178 177 Return rate (Male) 6(100) 6(100) 10(91) Return rate (Female) Person 195(90.7) 162(94.2) 148(89.2) (%) Return Rate Total 201(90.7) 168(94.4) 158(89.3) % of returning employees who stay on the job (Male) (100) 6(100) (greater than 1 year) Continuous Service % of returning employees who stay on the job (Female) Person (%) Rate (83.8) 85(97.7) (greater than 1 year) Total (91.9) 91(97.9) 50 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 KYOBO LIFE Digital Competency Development Competency Development and Human Resource Training Digital School II To raise employees’ understanding of digital innovation and Employee Competency Development Key Tasks in 2020 to reach consensus, Kyobo Life has set up the ‘Digital School II’ program, which provides a course for enhancing digital literacy. This program invites industry experts including renowned academics and startup founders to give talks about Goal Nurturing Kyobo Life Employees who can digital technology. For example, a typical topic could be block Contribute to achieving Vision and Strategies chains, platform business, or AI. The talks were given once a month for a total of eight months at the company’s GwangHow hwamun office in Seoul. At the end of each lecture there was Establishing on-time learning support system time for a separate Q/A session, which provided an ideal to respond to changes opportunity for the audience to acquire a better understanding of each topic. The lecture contents were later produced in the form of videos and reading materials and made accessible SelfFieldDigital/ regulated based Fun through smartphones to allow all Kyobo Life employees not learning learning based based in the company HQ office to view them. Themes of Lectures Category Lecturer Theme What Diverse learning program and learning motivation Ho Young Yoon Beyond Banking, Financial May 1 2 3 (KaKao Bank) Innovation and Paradigm Shifts Jae-seung Jung Future of Human-brain June Promoting Expanding Strengthening (KAIST) like AI voluntary support for funding for Seung-yun Lee Era of individual creators, participation competency learning and July (KonKuk Univ.) Digital marketing strategy in learning development motivation Working style and organization at the field Hyun Yoo Kim culture in the digital era October (Google) (working culture in Silicon Valley) Digital Transformation Strategy Young-seo Cho of Shinhan Financial Group November (Shinhan Financial and best practice for start-up Competency Development Training Support Costs Holding Company) incubating Category Unit 2017 2018 2019 Total amount 783,602 818,518 846,754 1,000 Support cost won 202 249 259 per person* *Support cost per person refers to a training support costs related to competency development out of total training c]osts. Employee Capacity Development Status Category Unit 2017 2018 2019 Average per perso Hours 94 97 97 Digital School lecture for employees outside the company premise Male Hours 95 99 97 Kyobo Life Learning Spoon Female Hours 93 95 96 Hours Organizational Kyobo Life operates the ‘Kyobo Learning Spoon’ to support Details 60 60 56 heads employees’ competency development. Kyobo Learning Spoon Hours Organizational is a digital learning platform that supports self-learning in the 94 97 104 members workplace by providing personalized content based on perAnnual training Hours 328,819 330,009 360,299 sonal preference and competency using digital technologies such as AI and big data. The AI (deep learning) analyzes perTraining costs per 1,000 1,122 1,248 1,266 sonal preference, job capacity and study patterns to recomperson won mend contents, and provide personalized programs so that *Training costs per person is calculated based on total training costs/numthe employees can develop their capacities. ber of persons (except voluntary trainees) Stakeholders Impact Customers 51 Financial Planners Employees Investors Government and Local Communities Holding Open Innovation for Employees vate the growth and development of female workers, and pass Kyobo Life held an open innovation to strengthen competon their experience and knowledge, as well as coaching them itiveness in the main field and discover new business modwhen necessary. In 2019, the program was structured around els.Open innovation refers to the activities of identifying new the topics of personal growth, which the participants were business opportunities through collaboration with external able to experience through a practical and experience-based experts by procuring technologies, ideas, and knowledge that program format. Male or female department heads or assiscompanies need from the outside and creating new prodtant heads provided their services as mentors, while the menucts and services. Open Innovation, in which all employees tees largely consisted of female employees below manager of Kyobo Life participated, was held on the topic of improving level. Kyobo Life will continue to operate and support growth business processes using platform business ideas and digiprograms aimed at enhancing the professional skills of female tal technologies, and a total of 265 novel ideas were collected employees. *D&I (Diversity and Inclusion) refers to a culture of diversity and inclusion, from the participants. which accepts and converges differences among individuals based on an attitude that recognizes differences and respects them. 2019 KWIN (Korea Women’s Innovative Network)/ W20 Conference Kyobo Life has been organizing and hosting the annual KWIN D&I Conference to inspire the growth and development of female employees, help them develop their careers and leadership skills and spread the culture of inclusivity and diversity inside the company. The conference organizers at Kyobo Life felt that in this era of digital revolution, the conference should serve to increase female employees’ leadership capabilities and contribute to helping them achieve superior results Kyobo Life Open Innovation Employee Awards Ceremony at work. In 2019, with the theme of ‘Sustainable Growth and Diversity of the Enterprise in changing times,’ the company invited prominent lecturers with wider topics than ever to Support for Female Employees’ enhance employees’ competencies and contribute to the Skills Development organization's performance. In addition, after the conference, the ‘W20 Talk Concert’ was held by Korean representatives of Support for Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) the G20 Women's Economic Conference to share their opinWomen’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) is an initiaions on policies to strengthen women’s economic capacity tive jointly launched by the United Nations Global Comand their career development. On the day, President and CEO pact (UNGC) and the UN Women in 2010. Based on a total of Your-Hyun Yoon, in his welcoming address, emphasized, ‘The seven principles, WEPs sets global standards for the enterarea that every company should pay more attention to today prises which voluntarily strive to achieve gender equality and is sustainable growth and diversity. The organization can empowerment of women in the workplace, markets, and comdevelop only by overcoming discrimination within the organimunities. Kyobo Life is actively supporting the development of zation and realizing individual creativity.’ women’s competencies. Kyobo Life has announced that it supports the female capability enhancement principles of WEPs in 2019 and incorporated such principles in the company’s internal control standards for gender equality/abolition of discrimination against women (Article 33 : Prohibition of Discrimination and Prevention of Sexual Harassment). 2019 KWICK (Korea Women’s Innovative Council in Korea) Mentoring Program Many companies support the career development efforts of female employees and are investing considerable resources in utilizing the hidden potential of females. Kyobo Life also considers female workers as valuable resources of the company and runs various programs to encourage growth and devel2019 Kyobo Life KWIN/W20 Women Leadership Conference opment of female workers. The KWICK is a mentoring program for female employees and a part of Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) initiative offered to make them grow, develop and motivated in the organization. Through KWICK, the senior female colleagues act as mentors to junior female colleagues, moti52 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 KYOBO LIFE Employee-Friendly Work Environment Culture of Cooperative Labor-Management Kyobo Life aims to advance its labor-management relations. Kyobo aims to create a good working environment by reducIn 2019, there were 3,781 employees who were allowed to ing the number of repetitive works using digital technoljoin the labor union, and 2,593 of them (69%) joined the labor ogy, and implementing the 52-hour workweek ahead of its union. The results of collective bargaining for 2019 were enforcement date. Kyobo Life will constantly improve the entirely applied to the regular employees. working environment so that all its employees can work ene getically and grow together with the company. *T he number of employees allowed to join the labor union is not the same as the number of incumbent employees. Implementation of the 52-hour Work Week System Kyobo Life is trying to create a happy workplace through the Adoption of RPA for Work Smart family-friendly management policy, by improving its employKyobo Life applied the Robotics Process Automation (RPA) to ees’ quality of life so that they can maintain a harmonious balsimple and repetitive works, to ensure successful implementaance between their family life and career and improve work tion of the 52-hour workweek system and accelerate the digiproductivity. To this end, Kyobo Life adopted the 52-hour tal innovation centered around customer value. Since its start workweek earlier than other financial institutions did, and in 2017 as a pilot project, the company applied RPA to 11 tasks is thus aiming to protect the work-life balance of its employin 9 departments in 2019 from the perspective of value chain, ees. Moreover, in September 2018 the company introduced such as product, sales/marketing, contract management, its ‘flexible working system’ earlier than anticipated to ensure payment, administrative management, etc. We are working that its employees are never asked to work longer than what together with Digital Worker to improve the company-wide is legally permitted, and to enable the company to manage its productivity by increasing efficiency and accuracy of formuworkforce more effectively. laic and repetitive works through RPA and to allow employees to focus on creative and high value-added works by reducing Flexible working hours 3,920 hours of work per year. In 2020, Kyobo Life will spread RPA to all areas and daily works of the company, identify 50 tasks through participation of each department and try to creSelective working hours ate a better working environment by aiming to reduce 20,000 workhours. This policy allows employees to choose when they Arrive at and depart from the workplace, while abiding by the eight hours per day mandated by the Korean labor law. No. of subject (persons) : 1 Flexible working hours This policy allows employees to adjust their working hours for a three-month period, which may be extended under certain circumstances. (The workload will be factored in to allow a person to do this.) No. of subject (persons) : 294 RPA112 Campaign for Employees Establishment and Operation of Protection Guidelines Safe Working Environment for Customer Service Staff Kyobo Life has established and is currently operating ‘CusOccupational Safety and Health Committee tomer Service Staff Protection Standards’ for the employees Due to the nature of the insurance business, Kyobo Life does who provide customer services at the points of contact with not have any employees in position that are exposed to a customers. Through periodic training such as training on high risk or possibility of accidents or diseases. Items regard‘Manual (Instructions) on Handling Problematic Customers’ ing employee health and safety are reflected and monitored and such organizations as the ‘Customer Service Staff Grievin the employment regulations (Chapter 6 Health and Safety), ance Council,’ Kyobo Life provides assistance to the members and the company has formed the Occupational Safety and of its customer service when dealing with on-the-job stress Health Committee under Chapter 19 (Occupational Health of working as a customer service operator. At the same time, and Safety Committee) of the Act on Occupational Health and the company has adopted measures designed to help the cusSafety. tomer service staff do their jobs, such as preventing the recurrence of customer-induced stress. Stakeholders Impact Customers 53 Financial Planners Employees Investors Government and Local Communities Communicative Management Human Rights Management 2030 Communication and Empathy Workshop Kyobo Life is driven by the belief that the precious values upheld by people must be respected and realized in pursuing Kyobo Life held workshops to facilitate horizontal communishared development with all stakeholders including employcation between executive/head of organizations and staff to ees. Kyobo life is committed to protecting the dignity and innovate the corporate culture with the millennial generation, labor rights of employees by strictly prohibiting discrimination as the number of millennial generation employees increased in the workplace. In addition, the company actively supports and the communication with the millennial generation became and complies with the principles of human rights and labor as more important socially. Through communication workshops, defined in the UN Global Compact (protection of and respect Kyobo Life shares ideas about the current status of Kyobo Life for human rights; prevention of human rights abuses; upholdand the parts to be improved with the members of Kyobo Life ing the freedom of association and effective recognition of the and exchanges opinions on how to embrace failures motivate right to collective bargaining; elimination of all forms of forced employees to take on challenges, improve the working enviand compulsory labor; abolition of child labor; and the elimironment and processes, draw the company's future vision and nation of discrimination in employment and occupation). share new ideas. In addition, through the workshop, executives/heads of organization have an opportunity to understand Prohibiting Discrimination in Employment and the millennial generation and to prepare measures for continuOccupation ous cultural innovation activities by the 2030 generation. Kyobo Kyobo Life provides equal employment opportunities regardLife strives to minimize conflict among employees and to comless of gender, age, ethnic group, religion, and social status municate with all employees. through its blind recruitment procedure. All opportunities and decisions relating to base pay, promotion, compensation, training, and retirement are made fairly and solely based on individual performance and capability. Also, Kyobo Life does not engage in gender discrimination in terms of wage structure. The base salary for new college graduate employees in 2020 is 188% of the minimum wage (KRW 42.53 million), and the same base salary and remuneration rate applies to both male and female employees. At the beginning of each fiscal year, all employees, including the Chairman and CEO, sign the Kyobo’s Work Ethics Resolution which contains a clause related to prohibition of factionalism to draw attention to the discrimination that can take place in the workplace. 2030 Communication and Empathy Workshop Protection of and Respect for Human Rights Kyobo Life is actively trying to prevent sexual harassment in workplace. Kyobo Life is actively emphasizing the company’s stance against sexual harassment during its manager training sessions conducted by compliance officers, and the company Comments from the participants to the 2030 holds sexual harassment training sessions for all Financial Communication and Empathy Workshop Planners and employees under the supervision of the head of the organization. In addition to regular group training, It was a useful time for people of similar age to get Kyobo Life provides additional resources via the intranet and together and empathize and communicate, and I hope it in-house satellite broadcasts in comic, animated, and other will be a catalyst for a change in a company. forms of media to strengthen the effect of the training. MoreI expect that the ideas will be passed on to the over, Kyobo Life does not recruit employees below the age of management and implemented to create a good working 15 years so as to prohibit child labor, and limits the employenvironment. ment of teenagers below the age of 18 years. The company I hope this training will be provided and spread not also prohibits all forms of forced labor that infringe upon the only to the 2030 generation, but also to the heads of free will of employees. organizations and other members of organizations to bring about the change. I hope that this will not become a one-off event, Status of Sexual Harassment Training but a continuous communication channel between the Category Unit 2018 2019 2020 company and its members. Employee participation % 100 100 100 54 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 KYOBO LIFE Management Approach for Investors Importance Investors are key stakeholders of Kyobo Life. To them, improving financial soundness, stable asset management, and proactive risk management become very important issues for corporate sustainability management due to the sustained economic downturn and increased financial volatility. Generating stable profits and maintaining financial soundness are thus the first priority of Kyobo Life, which strives to enhance corporate value through preemptive risk management. Management Methods Kyobo Life adopts the Asset Liability Management (AML*) policy that comprehensively considers assets and liabilities to create profits and maintain financial soundness through long-term strategic asset allocation and short-term tactical asset allocation. In addition, the company actively responds to the introduction of new systems to preemptively manage risks and strive to fulfill its social responsibilities by expanding socially responsible investment. Key Activities in 2019 • Received the ‘A1’ rating from Moody’s for the fifth consecutive year • Received the ‘A+’ rating from Fitch for the seventh consecutive year • Expanded socially responsible investment, etc. Future Areas of Focus As financial market uncertainty continues and the economic recession is likely to be prolonged, Kyobo Life plans to strengthen both the Kyobo Life generates profit through structure and infrastructure of its holding assets. Kyobo Life intends stable asset management and tries to expand domestic and foreign alternative investment assets that can generate stable profits, and continue investment in long-term to fulfill its social responsibility high-quality bonds, while preemptively inspecting the quality of existby increasing socially responsible ing assets and strengthening management. In addition, the company endeavors to become an attractive company for investors by strengthinvestments. ening organizational capabilities in response to changes in the financial environment and continuously improving investment processes such as investment in ESG. Key Performance Indicators (Based on Consolidated Statements) Total Assets Return on Equity (ROE) Risk Based Capital (RBC) KRW 116.1 trillion 5.46 % 339 % 339 2017 104.5 2017 7.3 311.8 2018 108.8 2018 5.6 296.0 2019 116.1 2019 5.46 2017 2018 2019 Stakeholders Impact Customers 55 Financial Planners Employees Investors Government and Local Communities Enhancement of Financial Soundness Socially Responsible Investment Moody’s awards Kyobo Life an ‘A1’ Rating for the Kyobo Life has set as an assessment philosophy, ‘Sustainable 5th-consecutive year, while Fitch gives Kyobo Life company that engages in sound businesses’ to improve the an ‘A+’ Rating for the 7th-consecutive year asset soundness of the company, support stable profit genIn 2019, Kyobo Life was awarded an ‘A1’ rating by Moody’s eration, and contribute to the shared prosperity of the com(Moody’s Investors Service), a world-leading credit rating pany’s stakeholders. Based on such philosophy, the company agency. ‘A1’ is the highest credit rating ever received by any considers not only the corporate value but also ESG (enviKorean life insurance company. Moody’s acknowledged Kyobo ronment, society, and corporate governance) in the investLife’s excellent business soundness, solid capital adequacy ment decision-making process. Moreover, the company stipand low financial leverage by awarding it an ‘A1’ rating for the ulates in its regulations that it should apply the impact of ESG fifth-consecutive year. Fitch Ratings, another global credit ratin the credit evaluation of investment assets and companies, ing agency, gave Kyobo Life an ‘A+ (Stable)’ rating for the sevrestricting investment in cigarettes or weapons-production enth consecutive year evaluating profitability and financial companies, etc. In 2019, Kyobo Life invested KRW 178.7 bilsoundness of Kyobo Life comprehensively. lion not only in social infrastructure, such as roads and ports, but also in eco-friendly facilities, such as sewage treatment facilities and waste material processing facilities. In addition, Kyobo Life has recently expanded its ESG investment by A1 A+ Moody’s Fitch Ratings investing in overseas ESG ETF (KRW 87.7 billion) and funds for the fifthfor the seventh(KRW 25.7 billion). consecutive year consecutive year *ESG Investment : An investment that considers corporate social responsibility and sustainability such as ESG (environment, society, and AAA corporate governance) as well as financial factors of the company to improve profits upon making investment decisions. Korea Ratings, Korea Investors Service, NICE Credit Rating Socially responsible investment status Amount of socially responsible investment Amount of eco-friendly financial investment (Unit : KRW 100 million) (Unit : KRW 100 million) 81,787 75,199 32,084 66,793 25,027 20,620 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Percentage of socially responsible investment (Unit : %) Percentage of eco-friendly financial investment (Unit : %) 39.2 33.3 30.9 9.35 9.11 8.50 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 56 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 KYOBO LIFE ESG Investment Plan Kyobo Life is aware of the importance of ESG, and plans to gradplement existing regulations related to ESG in order to estabually strengthen infrastructure throughout the investment lish detailed guidelines on investment that comprehensively decision-making process, including the company regulations, reflect ESG policies, strategies, standards, etc. The company is investment process, investment strategy, and related organiconsidering whether it will apply the ESG factors gradually in its zations and promote ESG investment by actively responding decision-making processes and develop its own ESG evaluation accordingly. To this end, Kyobo Life plans to review and supmodel/system to set up the ESG investment system. Future ESG Investment Plans 1st stage : Preparation for 2nd stage : Establishment of As-is ESG Investment ESG Investment System ·Incorporating ESG investment ·Supplementing ESG related regulation in the company rules after reviewing it A sset management regulations : ·Establishing detailed guideline on ESG asset management considering investment Regulations ESG Reflecting ESG policies/strategies and A sset review criteria : check and standards, etc. comprehensively evaluate the effect and harm of ESG ·Reflecting ESG factors in part ·E xpanding application of ESG factors ·Reflecting ESG factors across the -Upon screening investment in making investment decisions process assets, ‘ESG effect’ is reflected -Systemizing ‘ESG effect’ review -Establishing strategies, screening, Investment in the checklist, and it is used as method managing and risk management, process a factor affecting credit rating. etc. -Preparing ESG scoring -Inspecting investment subject ·Developing its own ESG evaluation to negative screening in model/system advance ·Alternative investment ·Alternative investment ·Promoting ESG related -Investing in social -Identifying and investing in alternative investment/ infrastructure, eco-friendly new sectors in addition to social investment in securities ESG-related finance, etc. infrastructure, eco-friendly finance, ·Managing ESG investment asset ·Securities etc. within portfolio management -Operating equity ESG fund ·Securities -Operating bond ESG fund -Actively utilizing equity/bond ESG funds with high performance by monitoring investment performance ·Negative screening, ·Integrating existing strategy +positive ·Utilizing diverse strategies from ESG investment strategy focusing screening, ESG (in part) a perspective of creating excess investment on sustainability theme profitUtilizing diverse strategies strategy from a perspective of creating excess profit International ·No membership ·Preparing for membership of UN PRI ·Pursuing membership of UN PRI conventions Stakeholders Impact Customers 57 Financial Planners Employees Investors Government and Local Communities Stable Asset Management Kyobo Life’s Asset Portfolio (Unit : %) It is very important to stably generate profit from a long-term Stocks 1.9 perspective so that we can provide the coverage we promised Bonds 37.2 to our customers. To do so, Kyobo Life adopted the Asset LiaCash and bility Management (ALM) policy which is appropriate for the deposits 2.1 Overseas liability structure of life insurance companies. Also, Kyobo 2019 securities 22.3 Real estate 2.4 Life secures excess earning by stably generating profit from a long-term perspective through Strategic Asset Allocation Beneficiary certificates 10.6 (SAA) and by actively responding to the changes in the finanLoans 23.5 cial market from a short-term perspective through Tactical Other securities Asset Allocation (TAA). 0.0 *A LM (Asset Liability Management) : A kind of decision-making process to maximize the financial value of a company by comprehensively managing assets/liabilities according to changes in the financial environment to Stocks 1.9 optimize return against risk Bonds 40.7 Cash and Asset Management Performance in 2019 deposits 2.3 Overseas In 2019, Kyobo Life established and implemented an asset 2018 securities 19.8 Real estate 2.5 management strategy in response to the uncertainty and volBeneficiary atility in the financial markets. Kyobo Life could thus successLoans 24.7 certificates 7.9 fully expand the high-yielding assets and defend the decrease of holding period return under the uncertain financial marOther securities 0.2 ket situation by using overseas markets, while proactively responding to the market and realizing capital gains through shortand long-term debt rebalancing. This allowed the company to achieve an asset management profit margin of 3.95%, which is higher than the industry average. Asset Management Strategy in 2020 2019 Asset Management Strategy and Action Plans The uncertainty about the financial market is expected to continue in 2020. Also, the global pandemic of COVID-19 will lead to a short-term recession, increasing volatility in financial mar·Continuously identify and invest in assets that Focus on kets. In response to these environmental changes, Kyobo Life produce high returns relative to risk. maintaining ·Actively adjust the portfolio when the market has selected the ‘enhancement of the soundness of managed competitive situation changes. assets and asset management capabilities’ as one of the key advantage ·Respond pro-actively in bond and stock in returns initiatives in 2020, and the company plans to establish and markets (both home and abroad). implement the asset management strategies as follows : Respond to ·Prepare the response to the international regulatory financial reporting standard (IFRS17) and changes the Korea Insurance Capital Standard (K-ICS) 2020 Asset Management Strategy in the market scheduled to be enforced in 2023. Strengthen ·Respond pre-emptively to risk situations abilityto Establishing portfolio in through the management of risk assets respond 1 ·Improve the financial soundness of preparation for low-interest to risk rate and strengthened household debt situations regulation Actively utilizing overseas Return on Investment (Unit : %) 2 markets to overcome limits in domestic markets 3.95 3.9 3.9 3 Securing assets soundness Strengthening manpower 2017 2018 2019 4 and capability in asset *Return on Investment (ROI) = [Investment Gain/{(assets at the start of management sectors period + assets at the end of period – Investment Gain)/2}]×100 58 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 KYOBO LIFE Key Financial Performances Growth Profitability Kyobo Life engages in customer coverage insurance sales Net income for FY 2019 amounted to KRW 603.4 billion, showactivities that are faithful to the core aims of the life insurance ing an increase of 14.3% from the previous year, mainly due to company and seeks to generate profits based on long-term the company’s ability to preemptively manage the risks. ROE stable asset management. Its total assets at the end of FY and ROA of the company recorded 5.46% and 0.5%, respec2019 stood at KRW 116.1 trillion, showing an increase of 6.6% tively. from the previous year. Total assets (Unit : KRW billion) Net icome for period (Unit : KRW billion) 116,053.4 104,564.7 108,819.9 640.0 603.4 528.0 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Capital (Unit : KRW billion) ROE (Unit : %) 7.55 12,384.6 5.6 5.46 9,853.0 10,564.3 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 *ROE = Net Income/{(Capital at the Start of Period + Capital at the End of Period)/2} × 100 Premium income (Unit : KRW billion) General account ROA (Unit : %) Separate account 12,435.6 12,168.3 11,621.3 4,998.8 0.5 4,834.3 0.6 0.5 4,007.4 7,613.9 7,436.7 7,334.0 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 *ROA = Net Income/{(Asset at the Start of Period + Asset at the End of Period)/2} × 100 Stakeholders Impact Customers 59 Financial Planners Employees Investors Government and Local Communities Stability Strengthening of Growth Momentum As of the end of FY 2019, the RBC Ratio of Kyobo Life was 339%, an increase of 27.6% over the previous year. Through The Korean life insurance market is going through difficult continuous structural improvements of assets and debts, and times due to the ‘three lows’ of low growth, low birth rate and thorough management of risk, the company manages RBC low interest rate. As the Korean life insurance market was sateffectively, resulting in a level that greatly exceeds the finanurated and the IT companies with new technologies expand cial soundness regulation standard of 100%. into the financial business, the competition is becoming fierce. Kyobo Life is making various attempts to turn this crisis into an opportunity, such as discovering new insurance and non-inRBC (Unit : %) surance businesses, creating a customer-centered ecosystem through collaboration with other industries, strengthening 339 synergy through cooperation with affiliated companies, etc. 311.8 Acquisition of Kyobo Asset Trust 296.0 Kyobo Life acquired a 50% share in Sangbo Real Estate Trust from Samsung Life and turned it into a 100% owned subsidiary in July 2019, to strengthen the corporate value and the synergy between affiliated companies. Sangbo Real Estate Trust was renamed to Kyobo Asset Trust in January 2020. 2017 2018 2019 Kyobo Asset Trust created excellent results, such as the average ROE greater than 20% in recent 3 years, the annual average net profit growth rate (CAGR) passing 90%, and so Insurance Sales Performance on. Kyobo Life will create profit and maximize the synergy In 2019, the expansion of ICT companies into financial busibetween affiliated companies through collaboration with affilness was accelerated, and difficulties continued in the domesiated companies, such as Kyobo Securities and Kyobo Realco. tic economy because Japan strengthened its export regulations and the U.S.-China trade conflict worsened. Despite the Review and promotion of expansion into overseas downturn of consumer sentiment, Kyobo Life actively supmarkets ported the sales activities. The company strengthened sales/ Growth potential and profitability of Korean life insurance retention capabilities by providing financial market informabusiness has become more uncertain due to low-birth and tion and outlook for each asset to the sales force, subdivided aging. Kyobo Life is trying to expand into the overseas marthe market in response of the diversified market, selected the kets as a part of its efforts to secure new growth engines. In target markets and implemented different marketing pro2020, we will establish an office in Myanmar, a country with grams for each target market. Also, the company strengtha high level of economic growth rate and potential, which ened competitiveness of its products and channel to secure is likely to become an economic and geopolitical hub of the the competitiveness of insurance products themselves. Kyobo ASEAN, to promote the establishment of a joint venture comLife was able to grow its insurance premium income by 2.2% pany and to expand into other ASEAN countries over time. (KRW 12 trillion 436 billion) compared to that of 2018 by proIn addition, Kyobo Life has been seeking opportunities to viding the products that suit the customers’ needs in timely expand into the Chinese market. Kyobo Life has Kyobo Life manner and actively supporting the sales activities under the Investment Managers in the U.S. and Japan and local offices in difficulties created by low-growth trend. Beijing, China and London, the U.K. China UK Japan USA Myanmar Planned 60 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 KYOBO LIFE Management Importance The community is the fertile soil in which Kyobo Life's roots can continue Approach to grow and develop, as well as helping Kyobo to become a key stakeholder acting as a valued member of society. Kyobo Life focuses on social contribution activities that are aligned with the nature of the life insurfor Government ance business, and the company continues its activities from a sustainability approach. In addition, Kyobo Life is committed to fulfilling its role as and Local a member of the local community by promoting shared growth with the local community and practicing environmentally friendly management. communities Management Methods The most important elements of the company’s activities for the community are consistent principles, direction, and sustainability. Kyobo Life respects the precious values that the nation's people have pursued, and strives to support the realization of such values. Led by the “Kyobo Dasomi Social Volunteer Group,” founded in 2002, the company helps people in the community to overcome adversities and support children and adolescents to develop themselves as matured personalities who practice sharing with a healthy mind and body. In 2019, through a partnership with non-profit organization ‘Wow Dasomi Sound-and-light Program,’ Kyobo Life supported children with hearing impairments, but with high rehabilitation success rates, and tried to create social value to support youngsters who will be the leading players in the nation's future, through ‘Kyobo Dasomi Dream Makers.’ In addition, Kyobo Life recognizes that it is required to create a sustainable environment as a core member of the local community, and thus engages in responsible activities, such as reducing the use of energy, building paperless office environments, etc. Key Activities in 2019 • Wow Dasomi Sound-and-light Program • Kyobo Life Youth Athletics Cup Championship • Kyobo Dasomi Dream Makers • Establishment of a foundation for paperless office environment Future Areas of Focus Kyobo Life will strive to help its neighbors overcome adversities by themKyobo Life is fulfilling its roles selves and live harmoniously with the local community by continuously and responsibilities as a member engaging in public welfare projects and social contribution activities. We also recognize the importance of environmental issues, such as climate of society through sharing for change, environmental pollution, etc., and try to be eco-friendly in all aspects of our management activities. Starting with the improvement of the local community. the working environment through the reduction of energy consumption and the creation of a paperless office environment, we actively engage in environmental management. At the same time, we intend to support public welfare projects and social contribution activities that reflect the characteristics of the life insurance business. With all the aforementioned efforts, Kyobo Life will strive to fulfill its roles faithfully as a member of the local community. Key Performance Indicators Social contribution ratio/amount* Socially responsible investment (SRI) Energy consumption* -1,208 TOE(YoY) ratio/amount* 6.75% 8.5 9.1 9.35% 2.4 1.9 35.2Bn 75,199 81,787Bn 2017 17,430 66,793 146 103 2018 16,876 2019 15,668 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 *Social contribution ratio : Amount of social *Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) ratio : SRI *TOE (Tonnage of Oil Equivalent) : Amount of contribution/Net income investment/General account assets) x 10 energy produced by burning one ton of oil Stakeholders Impact Customers 61 Financial Planners Employees Investors Government and Local Communities A Healthy Society, a World of Togetherness, school. Kyobo Life will continue to serve as a cradle for nurturing future sports talents, helping them grow as leaders not Becoming Good Neighbors only in sports sectors, but also in various other fields in the Kyobo Life respects the precious values that people pursue, community. and thus strives to help people realize such values. Led by the Kyobo Dasomi Social Volunteer Group, founded in December Kyobo Life Youth Athletics Cup Championship 2002, the company helps communities overcome adversities Since 1985, Kyobo Life has organized the Kyobo Life and support children and adolescents to grow up and live as Youth Athletics Cup Championship to help young people developed personalities who practice community sharing with develop their physical strength, virtue and knowledge, a healthy mind and body. Kyobo Life contributes to society by and become talented individuals who can lead the future helping them to learn to overcome adversities on their own, of the nation. ‘Kyobo Life Youth Athletics Cup Championby conducting ongoing social contribution activities rather ship’ is the only national youth athletic competition held than just one-off actions. by a private company. It is a national competition, with young persons competing in athletics, swimming, judo, table tennis, gymnastics, ice skating and tennis, held in Helping People Live Healthy Lives local cities in collaboration with local governments to contribute to the vitalization of the local economy. The Wow Dasomi Sound-and-light Program 2019 Kyobo Life Youth Athletics Cup Championship was Hearing impairment is a disability where more than 90% held in Jeolla province, with the participation of 3,498 of students with such disorders fortunately still attend athletes in total. In particular, in 2019, certain sports, school after having surgery and rehabilitation before the such as swimming, were aired on Sports TV and YouTube age of three years. Hearing impairment, the second most channels for real-time viewing so that even those who common disorder in children, shows a genetic probabilcould not attend the events were able to watch them. ity of 50%, and about 1,600 people are born with hearKyobo Life's support for Youth Athletics is considered to ing impairments each year. Kyobo Life supports surgery be a stepping-stone for development of sports by promotand medical treatment of hearing-impaired children of ing basic sports and nurturing future sporting prospects. low-income families who are suffering from economic and emotional difficulties. The company also supports language rehabilitation treatment of the people with Status of support for the Kyobo Life Youth hearing disorders for one year after the surgery so that Athletics Cup Championship they can discern sounds and speak properly. The comCategory Unit 2017 2018 2019 pany provided Cochlear implants and linguistic rehabilNo. of itation to (accumulated number of) 48 children in 2019 participating persons 3,424 3,688 3,498 and to 7 more of them as of 2020, to help them grow as athletes healthy members of society. Sponsorship KRW 1,000 350,000 378,000 317,000 amount Children who benefited from Kyobo Wow Dasomi Sound-and-light Program Kyobo Life Scholarship for Youth Athletics Since 2019, Kyobo Life has funded the ‘Kyobo Life Scholarship for Youth Athletics’ to support sport prospects identified through the Kyobo Life Youth Athletics Cup Championship and to help them develop their physical strength, becoming talented individuals who can lead the future of the nation while making positive influences. Kyobo Life selects two excellent athletes or each category through the ‘Kyobo Life Youth Athletics Cup Championship’ and provides KRW 2 million scholarships and club management service (mentoring + personality education) annually, for students from middle school to high Kyobo Life Youth Athletics Cup Championship 62 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 KYOBO LIFE Ties of Love Campaign Beneficiaries in 2019 Since 2003, Kyobo Life employees have been voluntarily participating in the ‘Ties of Love’ campaign to help underprivi145 Beneficiaries in 2019 leged children from families with financial constraints, such as minor children as head of family, single parent families, or the persons ‘baby box’ children − so that they can overcome adversities, grow up to be healthy adults, and study in a better environNo. of indirect 300 beneficiaries ment. Employees support the children by donating a part of their monthly salaries together with the funds provided by the company. As of 2019, as many as 1,426 employees have propersons vided funding of KRW 360 mil. through the ‘18-year-old Ties of Love’ campaign. Kyobo Dasomi Dream Makers Kyobo Dasomi Dream Makers is an education donation and social contribution project for the youth linked to the 4th Industrial Revolution, which helps our young heroes of the future to grow into digital talents. Kyobo Dasomi Dream Makers program is divided into the ‘Dasomi ICT Future Talent Nurturing Program’ and the ‘Dasomi Convergence ICT Future Experience Program’ according to the subjects and programs. The Dasomi ICT Future Talent Nurturing Program helps those who are 24 years old or younger to get nationally recognized licenses and certificates that will be essential in the era of Ties of Love Campaign the 4th Industrial Revolution, such as a 3D printer operator license, a drone pilot license, a coding program certificate, etc., and provides advices related to their path of education, so that they can grow into healthy members of the society. Jung-wha Ha, employee at Seongju FP branch, who participates in the Ties Dasomi ICT Future Talent Nurturing Program of Love Campaign Kyobo Life provides training on 3D printer operator license, drone pilot license, coding I wanted to start a donation right after I joined the company program certificate, etc., which are highly and received a salary, but I did not know how I could do that. necessary for the 4th industrial era, to enable Fortunately, I came to know about ‘Ties of Love’! The fact trainees to obtain a national accreditation that I can trust the organization because I donate through certificate, and the company helps people the company was very attractive to me. That is how I started grow as healthy members of society through donating, and I have been making donations ever since. It academic and career support. is also reassuring to donate with the company’s support and convey a small part of my heart. If you want to practice sharing, I would encourage my colleagues to join the ‘Ties of Dasomi Converged ICT Future Experience Love’ campaign. Program Kyobo Life fosters creative talents suitable for the 4th industrial era by providing youth, the future leaders of our society, opportunities to experience new culture based on ICT. Kyobo Life Youth Leadership Program CHANGE <Change> is a youth leadership program of Kyobo Life intended to help the youth, the leaders of our future society, grow into healthy, talented persons through specialized training programs. Kyobo Life wishes to develop wholesome persons who create positive changes by actively practicing leadership and followership in the places where they belong by continuously providing leadership & followership education and humanistic education to the youth. Kyobo Life Dasomi Dream Makers Stakeholders Impact Customers 63 Financial Planners Employees Investors Government and Local Communities Asia March for Undergraduate Students Beautiful Lives shared Together Since 2002, Kyobo Life has been providing a program called the ‘Northeast Asia March for Undergraduate Students’ with Kyobo Dasomi Volunteer Work the objective of teaching college students how to become The employees of Kyobo Life regularly participate in voluntary global talents endowed with leadership skills. ‘Northeast Asia and meaningful public welfare activities to actively practice March for Undergraduate Students’ has been carried out for the company’s core mission and communicate with the local 19 years (as of 2020) according to the founding philosophy of community. The 182 volunteer social work teams, composed founder Yong-ho Shin, namely, “Development of talent is the of employees and Financial Planners, are engaged in various only way for Korea to revive.” As many as 1,700 students (as forms of volunteer works such as DIY, as well as participating of 2019) have participated in the program. In 2019, the year in community-based volunteer activities for community develmarked the 100th anniversary of the Samil Independence opment related to community welfare organizations. Movement and the establishment of the Provisional Government of the Republic of Korea, Kyobo Life has helped young Employee Volunteer Social Work people develop historical awareness based on the theme of Category Unit 2017 2018 2019 ‘Traveling Siberia to Find the Roots of Independence.’ During Time of volunteer the eight days of travel, youths visited the Russian regions Hours 6.5 6 5.5 work per 1 person of Ussurisk and Vladivostok in the footprints of the indeTotal amount of social pendence activists who fought for the independence of the work performed by Hours 24,531 23,042 21,109 nation abroad, and visited the site of Shinhanchon, the gathemployees ering place of anti-Japanese nationals. Kyobo Life will continue Total no. of employees to help college students develop their leadership through who participated in volunteer social work Persons 10,002 10,107 10,415 on-site visits and cultural exchanges with Asian countries that are economic and historical partners and competitors. (cumulative) 2019 Asia March for Undergraduate Students Kyobo Dasomi Volunteer Work 2019 Asia March for Undergraduate Students : Seeking the future of youth through the national independence movement history Jung-hwan Moon “What a special Independence Day!” For me, National Liberation Day this year was so special because I fortunately could participate in the Asia March for Undergraduate Students. During this commemoration, I visited the historic sites of the Independence Movement and followed the footprints of the independence activists. As I saw in person where they had been, I could directly feel the weight of their painful and dangerous lives. In particular, for me the most impressive place was the “Ahn Jung-gun monument. When I touched the monument, I felt as if I shared in his determination for independence. The friendships developed with other participants were brief but strong. At first, I felt a bit awkward with strangers from all over the country. However, on the journey that required a 10-kilometer hike with a backpack, we walked together − receiving encouragement from each other, in order to complete the challenge. As we relied on each other to complete the tight schedule, the relationships strengthened, and when I said good-bye at the airport on the last day, I regretted the short schedule of eight days. Thank you for giving me a great opportunity for developing my historical awareness and for new experiences and fellowship. 64 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 KYOBO LIFE Kyobo Life Hope Dasom Scholarship 2,000 hand sanitizers and 10,000 masks that are handmade Adolescents from orphanages and group homes and adolesto the vulnerable, and Kyobo Life grants special support for cent breadwinners suffer from limited educational opportuCOVID-19 affected customers, so that they can postpone the nities due to financial hardships and social prejudices. Since payment of insurance premiums and loans for six months. 2003, Kyobo Life has been granting scholarships to such Employee Global Volunteer Social Work youths who have a passion for learning and hope for the future even in a difficult environment. Kyobo Life plans to conSince 2011, the “Dasom Global Volunteer Group,” composed tinue its support for the youth with limited opportunities so of employees, has participated in volunteer works to improve that they will not lose their passion for learning and hope for the educational environment and residential environment of the future even in challenging environments. underdeveloped countries every year. Kyobo Life improves the educational environment in the impoverished rural areas of Vietnam and Laos to help children realize their hopes of learning, and building housing to provide a comfortable home for families. In 2019, over two occasions in the first and secHope Dasom Scholarship ond half of the year, the employee volunteers visited Ben Tre Category Unit 2017 2018 2019 Province, Vietnam, and Pisajal in Laos, to help the local people by building houses and planting trees. In particular, Kyobo No. of recipients persons 89 88 79 Life has been continuously supporting poorer farmers in VietAmount received KRW 357 346 367 nam to plant trees for self-sufficiency by generating income per person 1 million for nine years. A student being awarded the Dasom scholarship Employee ‘One Company, One School’ Financial Education To live up to the founding principles of the company, ‘Promotion of National Education’ was launched to ensure that the young people of future generations can develop financial competence by reducing the financial literacy gap. Kyobo Life actively participates in the national “One Company, One School Financial Education” project. Under this project, FP Branches and FP Support Units are matched with elementary, middle and high schools countrywide to provide various types of financial education. One of the objectives of the program is to instill students with a proper attitude toward their personal finances at a young age. In 2019, the company was matched with 481 schools to provide financial education. Supporting COVID-19 Affected Customers Kyobo Life joined the fundraising campaign with employees to help communities affected by the COVID-19 pandemic. For three days, from March 4 to March 7, 2020, Kyobo Life employees donated KRW 200 million raised by employees and the Employee Global Volunteer Social Work company to the Korea Disaster Relief Association. The money will be used to provide sanitary goods to the underprivileged. In addition, Kyobo Life employees have donated more than Stakeholders Impact Customers 65 Financial Planners Employees Investors Government and Local Communities Eco-friendly Social Contribution Green Dasomi Family Volunteer Work The Kyobo Life Green Dasomi Family Volunteer Group is dedicated to practicing environmental protection and creating a sustainable society, and 48 families participate in the related activities every year. Through volunteer works related to environmental themes, such as creating urban forests, recycling resources and other recycling, the company spreads the meaning and value of volunteer works and creates a desirable weekend leisure culture for families. In addition, the company contributes to strengthening family ties and forming a healthy Dasomi Nursing Volunteer Group family culture by practicing love for neighbors. Beautiful Companion Kyobo Green Dasomi Family Volunteer Work – Status Kyobo Life engages in the public project in professional and efficient ways through public agencies. Help families feel family love, be ecologically sensitive, practice sharing, and create the Purpose future where they live together with others by Daesan Agriculture Foundation participating in a volunteering program where all family members participate. The Daesan Agriculture Foundation is Korea’s first public foundation supporting agricul‧In April : Creating the urban forest tural and rural cities, and it hosts the Dae‧In May : Resource recirculation and reuse san Agricultural Culture Award, the award Description having the greatest authority in the field of ‧In September : Protection of wild animals ‧In November : Climate change and energy agriculture, nurtures the next generation of agricultural talents, and implements farmer-led research on agricultural practicality. Through various public interest projects, such as rural experiences that enhance and empathize with agricultural values, projects of building consensus between urban and rural areas, and support for regional cultural events, Kyobo Life contributes to a sustainable society where urban and rural cities can live together in harmony. Daesan Foundation For the development of Korean literature, the globalization of Korean literature, and nurturing of youth and culture education, DaeGreen Dasomi Family Volunteer Work san Foundation hosts the Daesan Literary Award, the Daesan Creative Fund, the Daesan University Literary Award, and the DaeResolution of Social Issues through Job san Youth Literary Award. Kyobo Life carries out diverse public projects such as financial Creation support for the translation of publications of Korean literature and foreign literature, Dasomi Nursing Volunteer Group Seoul International Literature Forum and the Kyobo Life Dasomi Nursing Volunteer Group contributes to Book Love Movement. solving social problems by training female heads of low-inKyobo Foundation for Education come households as professional caregivers to create jobs, helping them become economically independent, while offerThe Kyobo Education Foundation is a speing free care services to patients from the low-income class cialized education foundation established in 1997 with the contribution of Kyobo Life and elderly people who have no family members to care for to contribute to the promotion of education them. In 2019, there were 33 active caregivers, and 1,350 perfor the people and the creation of human sons received the free caregiving service. culture. Kyobo Life pursues continuous selfgrowth with a sincere commitment and attiAnnual Results of Dasomi Nursing Volunteer Group tude, and carries out various educational projects such as the Kyobo Education Award, Category Unit 2017 2018 2019 Personality Education Support, Leadership No. of nurse persons 482 134 33 Education Support, and Life Education Support. No. of beneficiaries persons 6,597 3,014 1,350 66 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 KYOBO LIFE Win-win Cooperation Kyobo Life pursues win-win cooperation with its transaction partners and the local communities in implementing management activities. By pursuing development of Kyobo Life along with the shared growth with its partners and local communities, Kyobo Life has been able to successfully maintain a virtuous cycle of win-win development. Product vendors, affiliated hospitals, etc., are the partners of Kyobo Life, and there are 25 product vendors and 147 affiliated hospitals who have been working constantly with Kyobo Life as of 2019. Kyobo Life designates the affiliated hospitals considering how easy they are for the customers to get to and whether they can provide an appropriate level of diagnosis. Also, Kyobo Life regularly visDA-WIN Service Activities its those hospitals to give one-on-one training and management related to the entire diagnosis process, including how to apply for diagnosis, how to enter data through websites, how Kyobo DA-WIN Service Program to send the results, etc. CS Quality Improvement Partner & Vendor Status We enhance service competitiveCategory Unit 2017 2018 2019 ness of the company by improving customer-service. Procurement-related No. 26 36 25 vendors Affiliated hospitals No. 159 151 147 Organizational Activation We upgrade HR competitiveness of the company by creating a sound organization culture and pleasant working environment. . Strengthening win-win cooperation DA-WIN Service for Mutual Growth with Partners Compulsory Education Kyobo Life operates the DA-WIN service program for We support compulsory education mutual growth by sharing the accumulated know-how of its programs of the company. award-winning customer satisfaction service with its partners. DA-WIN is Kyobo Life’s own distinctive program creating shared value (CSV), through which the company practices the Employee Benefit Support management philosophy of sharing and favoring, while supWe support employees so that porting public agencies, medical agencies and general comthey can pursue a healthy balance panies, by providing CS education (consulting) for customer between work and life psychologisatisfaction, an organizational activation program, and comcally and economically. pulsory education (covering the prevention of sexual harassment in the workplace, and the protection of personal information). The name of this service, DA-WIN, means win-win growth and development of Kyobo Life and partners. Status and Performance of DA-WIN Service Category Unit 2017 2018 2019 Service No. of recipients 1,030 1,199 1,430 partners (No. of companies) Service recipients Persons 63,399 71,714 66,619 (No. of persons) Stakeholders Impact Customers 67 Financial Planners Employees Investors Government and Local Communities Operating “Innostage”, a Win-win municate with Kyobo Life's related departments at all times Cooperation with Startups for smooth collaboration with Kyobo Life. In order to support In 2019, Kyobo Life launched and operated ‘Innostage,’ a sustainable growth of the startups, the company held a demo collaboration program with startups, to provide innovative day event where the startups present the synergy created insurance services to customers through collaboration with through collaboration projects with Kyobo Life to the employcompetitive startups. The 10 startups selected based on the ees of Kyobo Life, VC, and follow-up investors. In 2020, Kyobo possibility of collaboration with Kyobo Life were provided Life is supporting the round-2 Innostage start-ups and we are with financial support of KRW 30 million for each start-up and committed to creating a virtuous win-win cycle through a colspace required for a 12-week collaboration project, and were laborative business model with startups, leading digital innogiven mentoring service through FuturePlay, a specialized vation, and identifying new growth engines. training institution for startups.In addition, Kyobo Life sup*Innostage : As a combination of innovation and stage, this refers to a new stage to create a collaborative ecosystem for digital innovation of Kyobo ported an open API, a cloud-based application development Life and win-win with startups. environment, and an environment that allows people to comParticipants Major Services Changes after participating in Innostage ·An AI solution that helps one to keep record of ·Received KRW 10 billion investment from Green Cross Health Care Dooing Lab his/her meals by taking a picture ·Applied to Food Lens, Kyobo Life’s health coach service and the number of users tripled ·Delivery of customized breakfast based on ·Received KRW 1.2 billion investment from Translink Capital, a Silicon Valley investor Wehuddling personal diet habit data ·Its sales is rapidly growing after its business model was changed from BWB to B2C ·AR-based children’s dental care training & ·E xpected to receive KRW 5 billion investment in the second half of 2020 Kitten Planet smart brush ·service for dementia insurance subscribers that prevents dementia, improves habits and monitors conditions ·Mobile will/message delivery service that is easy Later (miaB) to use and delivers messages at designated time ·On-line infant care consulting platform based on ·Great success in a recent SNS challenge program, with accumulated participation Growing Mom data analysis of 48,000 users. ·Its monthly on-line service sales increased by 500%. ·Received KRW 6.3 billion Series A investment in late March 2020 ·Hour-based childcare matching service that ·Kyobo Life employee welfare * Jjakkak Alligator, Jjakkak Island tie-up. matches parents seeking nannies and ·Provided additional service to the existing Educare members Jjakkak Alligator job-seeking college students and nursing (Expanded the service area) teachers ·Carried out on-line care program for the disabled children at Purume Children’s Rehabilitation Hospital ·Operates Korea’s largest diabetes self-care ·Song Jeyoon, the representative, was selected as Forbes’ 30 most influential leaders Doctor Diary service and on-line commerce dedicated to in Asia under 30 in 2020 diabetes ·A platform that provides fashion suggestions ·E xpansion into the affiliate commerce using the senior fashion influencers The New Gray and off-line styling to the seniors and produces & developed through styling. shares contents ·Defines persona using personal life pattern ·Collects and processes (including data crawling) customized data and provides Searches information and identifies the needs and ideas of analysis service for identification of products sold by certain customer and trends users and market. of competitors ·Caregiver matching and caregiver service H Partners management platform Opening Ceremony of Innostage Co-working Space DEMODAY OF INNOSTAGE 68 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 KYOBO LIFE Establishing a Fair Trade Culture Interview with the Innostage Manager Kyobo Life operates a supplier evaluation, Kyobo electronic purchasing system, and K-Marketplace to realize win-win The round-2 of Innostage to be administered cooperation through fair transactions with suppliers. In addition, for even better operation, we are continuously trying to Please introduce Innostage briefly. Kyobo Life is administering Innostage as a part of its open develop related data by managing related data and collecting innovation. Through Innostage, we plan to discover capable opinions on improvements. start-ups with new digital technologies and business models in early stage and create collaborative ecosphere for digTransparent Transactions with Vendors ital innovation with them through development, business collaboration and investment Kyobo Life has implemented systems and policies that can assure transparency in transactions with external vendors What are Kyobo Life’s investment and development related to major business activities of the company. philosophies? Kyobo Life intends to provide programs suitable for the needs per each stage of growth to the start-ups with highgrowth potential, commercialize the business models by jointly developing them with applicable organizations of the Kyobo Electronic Purchasing System company and establish a virtuous cycle of creating financial profit by increasing the corporate value. Kyobo Life manages the entire procurement What are your future plans? process using the cyber-procurement sysRound-2 of Innostage was launched on July 3, 2020 to contem to operate the process transparently tinue the promotion of open innovation, and we are adminand fairly. Through this system, vendors can istering round-2 of Innostage by working with Crypton, process the procurement works free from a professional accelerator. The start-ups in the areas of the physical limitations imposed by time and healthcare for promotion of health, future tech that can space, and Kyobo Life is assuring transparbe applied to insurance products and innovation that will ency in vendor selection by conducting nonchange the existing lifestyle will be invited as the round-2 of face-to-face, competitive bidding. Innostage, and 342 start-ups have applied for their places in the program. We will engage in a 16-week program with the finally selected 5 start-ups and introduce the results and Administration of Clean Contract System services we will have developed jointly with the company’s working-level departments at the Demo Day in the second Kyobo Life prohibits collusion and unfair half of the year. trade practices in the course of negotiating for or carrying out product purchases. Jueun Koh, Assistant Manager, Service or construction contracts and the Digital New Business Team adopted ‘Clean Contract System,’ which is aimed at promoting win-win relationships among stakeholders by establishing a trade practice where request for or acceptance of money, valuables or treatment are not tolerated. Compliance Program Kyobo Life held the Declaration Ceremony for Voluntary Practice of Fair Competition and thereby declared that it will voluntarily comply with the laws related to fair trade and engage in fair competition in the finance and insurance markets. Kyobo Life designated Voluntary Fair Trade Compliance Managers, established an organization dedicated to compliance, and implemented related systems and processes, while conductLaunch of the round-2 of Innostag ing continued training and monitoring of its employees. Stakeholders Impact Customers 69 Financial Planners Employees Investors Government and Local Communities Environmental Management Reinforcement of Waste Management Kyobo Life entrusts the waste generated by its office spaces Kyobo Life is a company that manages its life insurance busito an approved waste-processing company. Waste from the ness, which covers diverse life and health threats, but reccompany’s major buildings, including the headquarters, is disognizes that the environment is a critical issue that has both charged and recycled separately, and the annual amount of direct and indirect effects on life insurance. As consumer waste discharge is recorded and managed accordingly. demands for an eco-friendly Management Approach are increasing, Kyobo Life sees this as a new opportunity for, Promoting Eco-friendly Transportation Methods rather than a limitation of, its growth. Kyobo Life prohibits its employees from traveling to and from the training institute in Cheonan (Gyeseongwon) by private car, and instead pays its employees’ transportation costs Eco-Friendly Management based on KTX train fares to reduce carbon dioxide emissions during their commutes. In addition, Kyobo Life has estabElectronic Subscription System for Environmental lished a nationwide satellite broadcasting system for all its Protection sales and service sites, so that employees can participate in Lots of paper gets used in the entire insurance policy submajor events without having to assemble in one place. scription from customer information registration to prepaReducing Electricity Usage ration of application. Kyobo Life works under the Electronic Subscription System to minimize the environmental impact, Kyobo Life minimizes the operation of employee elevators save costs and improve productivity by reducing the amount other than during rush hours and lunch hours and maintains of paper it uses. The Financial Planners can access the Electhe building temperature above 26℃ during summer and not tronic Subscription System using their tablet PCs and handle more than 20℃ during winter to reduce energy consumption. the entire process of subscription from acquiring customers’ Furthermore, since 2008, Kyobo Life has been conducting permissions, to delivering policy design form, and acquiring the ‘three voluntary energy and resource saving campaign’ the electronic signature with the System. The Electronic Subwhereby it encourages employees to turn off unnecessary scription System is also available through Kyobo Life’s official lighting and unused computers and to use office resources website. economically. Electronic Subscription Process Customer information registration/revision Customer consent Entering data on the subscribed product Filling out the electronic subscription Status of Electronic Subscription Item Unit 2017 2018 2019 Electronic subscription Policy 14,309 16,638 19,350 (monthly average) Creation of Paperless Office Environment Having recognized the importance of environmental protection, Kyobo Life is striving to create a paperless office environment to reduce the amount of paper it consumes while increasing work efficiency. We plan to apply the paperless system mainly to the Customer PLAZAs and expand the scope to all parts of the company. Especially in the second half of 2020, we will convert the Comprehensive Insurance Policy Information Booklets, which are delivered to some two million customers through mail in paper form to a mobile version. 70 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 KYOBO LIFE Status of Environmental Management The following data have been compiled from 38 company buildings managed by Kyobo Realco Inc. However, the data for office paper and toner usage and waste discharge originate only from the Headquarters. Office Paper and Toner Usage Water Usage Category Unit 2017 2018 2019 Category Unit 2017 2018 2019 Office paper Box 4,764 4,730 4,662 Total usage TON 511,151 491,385 466,353 Toner Unit 3,514 3,514 3,358 Recycled amount TON 6,088 5,865 5,241 Recycled ratio % 1.2 1.2 1.1 Carbon Dioxide Emissions Waste Emissions Category Unit 2017 2018 2019 Category Unit 2017 2018 2019 Direct tCO2 5,283 5,535 4,750 Total emissions TON 329 283 277 Indirect tCO2 30,774 28,821 27,130 Recycled amount TON 319 274 268 Total tCO2 36,057 34,356 31,880 Recycled ratio % 97 97 97 *‘Waste’ refers to regular office waste produced by the company buildings. Energy Usage Category Unit 2017 2018 2019 Direct energy Gas TOE 2,032 2,179 1,834 Oil TOE 347 321 301 Subtotal TOE 2,379 2,500 2,136 Indirect energy Electricity TOE 15,020 14,333 13,502 Regional heating TOE 31 43 30 Subtotal TOE 15,051 14,376 13,532 Grand total TOE 17,430 16,876 15,668 Compared to the previous year TOE -889 -554 -1,208 *TOE : Amount of energy produced when burning one ton of oil, standardized in calorie units Stakeholders Impact Customers 71 Financial Planners Employees Investors Government and Local Communities APPENDIX Compliance with the Ten Principles of UNGC 72 Awards/Association and Membership 73 Regarding Sustainability Management GRI Standards Index 74 Third Party Assurance 76 Summarized Financial Statement 78 Declaration of VISION 2020 79 72 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 KYOBO LIFE Compliance with the Ten Principles of UNGC Kyobo Life joined the UN Global Compact (UNGC) in September 2010 and declared its commitment to adhere to the principles of the UNGC. This Sustainability Management Report contains information on the Company’s observance of the ten core principles. Principles Key report contents Page 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of ㆍKobo Life Employees’ Code of 17 internationally proclaimed human rights; and Professional Ethics ㆍProtection of and respect for 53 Human Rights human rights 2.Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses ㆍPromotion of customer 42-43 protection activities 3.Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the ㆍCulture of cooperative labor 52 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; management relations 4.The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; ㆍPrevention of forced labor 53 Labour Standards 5. The effective abolition of child labor; and ㆍPrevention of child labor 53 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and ㆍPrevention of discrimination in 53 occupation. the workplace 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to ㆍEco-friendly social contribution 65 environmental challenges; activities 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental ㆍEnergy saving activities 69-70 responsibility; and Environment 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally ㆍE xpansion of eco-friendly 55-56 friendly technologies. financial investment ㆍProgram of ethical education 17-18 and practice 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, ㆍPrograms of autonomous 68 including extortion and bribery. compliance with fair trade Anti-Corruption ㆍClean contract system 68 ㆍCyber purchase system 68 Appendix Compliance with the Ten 73 Principles of UNGC Awards/Association and Membership regarding Sustainability Management Kyobo Life’s Awards for Sustainability Management Date Description Kyobo Life ranked No. 1 in the insurance industry segment of the Korean Sustainability Index for the tenth consecutive year and Dec. 2019 was inducted into the Hall of Fame. Chang-Jae Shin, Chairman and CEO of the company, was selected as the first winner of the newly established ‘Korea Nov. 2019 Sustainability Leader Award for CEO’ Kyobo Life received the Grand Award in the area of service industry from the Korean Readers’ Choice Award (KRCA) for the fifth Nov. 2019 consecutive year Chang-Jae Shin, Chairman and CEO of the company, was selected as the first winner of the newly established ‘Human-focused Nov. 2019 Entrepreneurship Executive Award’ Feb. 2016 Wins the 12th Transparent Management Grand Prize jointly hosted by five economic organizations. Oct. 2015 Wins the Grand Prize at the 4th Financial Customer Protection Grand Awards (Financial Supervisory Service Director Award). Dec. 2014 Wins the Private Corporation Award in the process sector at the 1st Porter Prize for Excellence in CSV. Oct. 2014 Wins the 2nd ‘Most Loved Company’ Presidential Award. Nov. 2013 Awarded the Consumer Grand Prize by the Korean Society of Consumer Studies Nov. 2013 Wins the UN Global Compact Best Practice Award Wins the Grand Prize in the life insurance category at the Financial Consumer Protection Grand Awards hosted by the Korea Nov. 2012 Economic Daily (Financial Supervisory Service Director Award). Oct. 2012 Chairman and CEO Chang-Jae Shin named ‘Personality of the Year’ by the International Reinsurance Conference (IRC). Wins the Presidential Commendation for ‘Contribution to Children’s Welfare’ at the Children’s Day event hosted May. 2012 by the Ministry of Health and Welfare. Wins the Minister’s Award from the Ministry of Knowledge and Economy at the 6th Sustainability Management Awards Nov. 2011 (Grand Prize in the ‘First Sustainability Management Report’ category). Feb. 2011 Wins the Minister’s Award from the Ministry of Health & Welfare in recognition of its efforts to promote welfare for the disabled. Wins the Grand Award in the ‘financial product and service innovation’ category at the 2010 Korea Financial Sept. 2010 Innovation Awards for (No dividend) ‘Kyobo Life 100 Year Life Variable Pension Insurance’. May. 2010 Chairman and CEO Chang-Jae Shin wins the ‘2010 Korea CEO Award’ hosted by the Korea Management Association. May. 2010 Chairman and CEO Chang-Jae Shin wins the ‘19th Mont Blanc Cultural Art Supporter Award’. Mar. 2010 Ranked No. 1 in the insurance industry as one of ‘50 Respected Korean Corporations’ by Fortune Korea. Association and Membership Regarding Sustainability Management Organization Key Activities Year joined Shares information designed to raise and promote awareness of health insurance by Life Insurance Association disseminating a sound insurance culture and supporting the formation of reasonable 1958 insurance policies. Korea Insurance Society Conducts research on insurance-related theories, laws, and practices. 1964 Introduces various insurance policies, holds seminars, and exchanges information with Institute of Actuaries Korea 1978 the international actuary community. Life Office Management (LOMA) Shares reliable insurance industry data and knowledge. 1978 Insurance Development Institute Suggests fair and rational insurance rates and conducts insurance-related studies. 1990 Discusses information protection policy directions with other financial institutions and Financial Safety Forum 2002 the Financial Supervisory Service. Ethical Management (Yunkyung) Shares the ethical management practices of Korean companies and conducts joint 2005 SM Forum research on sustainability management. Engages in various information protection activities, including inspection, prevention, Financial Safety Agency 2006 and countermeasures against hacking Korea Fair Competition Federation Shares information aimed at raising awareness and understanding of fair-trade practices 2006 Conducts research on risk recognition and loss as well as providing information Korea Risk Management 2006 through business exchanges. Life Insurance Marketing & Conducts research, consulting, and training on life insurance. 2007 Research (LIMRA) UN Global Compact Korea Exchanges information on the implementation of corporate social responsibility (CSR). 2010 74 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 KYOBO LIFE GRI Standards Index Universal Standards Topic Disclosure Page Verified GRI 102 : General Disclosure 102-1 Organization name 8 102-2 Activities, main brand, product and service 8, 10 102-3 Location of the headquarters 8 102-4 Location of business places 8 102-5 Organization ownership and legal form 13 102-6 Market area 10 Organizational Profile 102-7 Size of organization 8 102-8 Information on employees and workers 49 102-9 Organization supply chain 66 102-10 Major changes to the organization and supply chain No major change 102-11 Approach or principle related to prevention 16, 69 102-12 External initiative 28, 72 102-13 Memberships subscribed 73 102-14 Name of top decision maker 2~3 Strategy 102-15 Major influence, risk and opportunity 11 102-16 Value, principle, standard and code of conduct of organization 11, 17~19 Ethics and Integrity 102-17 Ethics related consulting and complaint handling system 17~18 102-18 Governance structure 12~13 Governance 102-35 Remuneration policy 13 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 29 102-41 Collective bargaining agreement 52 Stakeholder 102-42 Identification and selection of stakeholders 29 Engagement 102-43 Stakeholder participation method 29 Core topics and issues of interests suggested by stakeholder 102-44 29, 34~35 participation List of entities included in the organizations' consolidated 102-45 financial statements 8 102-46 Definitions of reported contents and boundary of topic 35 102-47 List of material topics 35 Footnote to be added 102-48 Re-statement of information when necessary Footnote to be added 102-49 Change to major material topic and boundary of topic when necessary Reporting Practices 102-50 Reporting period about this report 102-51 The most recent date when the report was published about this report 102-52 Reporting period about this report 102-53 Contact detail for any question on the report about this report 102-54 Reporting method under the GRI Standards about this report 102-55 GRI Content Index 102-56 External verification Appendix GRI Standards Index 75 GRI Standards Index Topic-specific Standards Topic Disclosure Page Verified GRI 200 : Economy Explanation on material topics and boundaries, management GRI 201 : 103 38 approach method and composition Economic results 2016 201-1 Generation and distribution of direct economic value 27 GRI 300 : Environment GRI 302 : Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 70 100% water and 303-1 Water withdrawal by source sewage GRI 303 : Water 2016 303-3 Water recycled and reused 70 GRI 306 : Waste water and material 2016 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 70 GRI 307 : Compliance to Number of fines and sanctions due to violation of environmental law environment laws 2016 307-1 and regulation None GRI 400 : Society Explanation on material topics and boundaries, management GRI 401 : 103 approach method and composition 48 Employment 2016 401-3 Parental leave 49 GRI 403 : Industrial Occupational disease occurrence rate or worker with high risk of health and safety 2016 403-3 52 occurrence Explanation on material topics and boundaries, management 103 44, 48 approach method and composition GRI 404 : Training and 404-1 Average hour of training for one worker in a year 50 education 2016 Program for strengthening of workers' capabilities and management 404-2 50~51 of career GRI 405 : Diversity and equal 405-2 Rates of base pay and incentive per gender 53 opportunity 2016 GRI 412 : Human rights evaluation 2016 412-2 Employee training on human rights policy and procedure 53,18 Explanation on material topics and boundaries, management 103 approach method and composition 38 Law and procedure related to product and service information and 417-1 labeling 42~43 GRI 417 : Marketing and labeling 2016 Law related to product and service information and labeling and No case of violating 417-2 voluntary violation of regulation relevant law No case of violating 417-3 Violation of law related to marketing communication relevant law Explanation on material topics and boundaries, management 103 approach method and composition 38 GRI 418 : Protection of customers' private No complaints were Number of complaints related to the violation of rules on the protection raised regarding this information 2016 418-1 of customers' private information, and loss of customers' information matter 76 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 KYOBO LIFE Third Party Assurance To the management and stakeholders of Kyobo Life ■ Foreword The Korea Standards Association (hereinafter “the Assurers”) was commissioned to perform an independent audit on Kyobo Life’s Sustainability Report 2019 (hereinafter “the Report”). The Assurers have provided an independent opinion based on a review of the data contained in the Report prepared by Kyobo Life (‘the Company’), and all the statements and performance data included in the report are the responsibility of Kyobo Life. ■ Independence The Assurers, as an independent assurance body, have no professional interest in Kyobo Life other than in providing this third-party assurance on the Report, and they are not related to the Company in any way that may undermine its independence or cause a conflict of interest. ■ Assurance Standards The Assurers have verified the inclusiveness, compliance with the principles of materiality, responsiveness and Impact, and reliability of the data disclosed in the Report at the“moderate” level in accordance with the AA1000 Assurance Standard with 2018 Addendum; and the GRI Standards have also been applied in the verification process. ■ Type and Scope The Assurers conducted (the) Type 2 verification according to the AA1000 verification standards (AA1000AS), which means that the audit assessed the accuracy and reliability of the Company’s statements and performance data provided in the Report. The verification scope is from January 1, 2019, to December 31, 2019 and the assurance focused on systems and activities including policies and goals, businesses and programs, standards, and achievements of the Company’s sustainability management. In addition, the financial audit was conducted on environmental and societal data and economic performance in a broad sense. The Verification of stakeholder engagement was limited to a review of the Company’s materiality test process. ■ Methodology The Assurers collected data, information, and evidence by using the following method. •Review and analyze media coverage on the Company’s sustainability management •Visit Kyobo Life Headquarters and interview with sustainability managers •Review systems and processes that were used in improving the performance of sustainability management and preparing the Report •Crosscheck between the financial performance data in the Report and the data in the Assurers’ report on the Company’s financial statements and disclosures •Examine internal documents and basic data ■ Results and Opinions [Principles & Process] The Assurers have reviewed the content of the draft report and offered our opinions, and the report has been revised accordingly. The Assurers have not found any material errors or inappropriate statements regarding the content of this report. The Assurers offers the following opinions on Kyobo Life’s Sustainability Report 2019 : Inclusiveness Did the Company include stakeholders in the process of strategically responding to issues of sustainability management? The Assurers have verified that the Company is aware of the importance of stakeholder participation and is striving to establish a process that will increase their participation. The Company has identified its customers, financial planners, employees, investors and government/ local communities as stakeholder groups. The Assurers have verified that the Company possesses communication channels for each stakeholder group and is collecting different opinions through those channels. Materiality Did the Company include material information that can assist stakeholders to make informed decisions? The Assurers find that the Company has neither omitted nor excluded any material information that stakeholders need to know. We have confirmed that the Company conducted a materiality test on the key issues that were identified in the analysis of the internal and external environment(s) and prepared the report based on the results of the analysis. Responsiveness Did the Company respond to the demands and interests of (the/its) stakeholders? The Assurers have verified that the Company is properly responding to the demands and interests of its stakeholders by reflecting the opinions collected from stakeholders (them) on the Report. The Assurers have found no evidence that the Company’s responses to material issues involving stakeholders were (have been) misrepresented or misstated in the Report. Impact Does the Company appropriately monitor its impact on the stakeholders? The Assurers have verified that the Company is monitoring and assessing its impact on the stakeholders by conducting an enhanced verification of its standard business activities. Furthermore, it has been verified that the Company appropriately publishes its findings in the Report. Appendix Third Party Assurance 77 ■ GRI Standards Application The Assurers have verified that the Report was written in accordance with the Core Option of the GRI Standards. Based on the documents provided by the Company, the Assurers have verified that the Report complies with the requirements specified in the indices of the Universal Standards and the Topic-specific Standards. Universal Standards The Assurers have verified that the Report complied with the requirements of the Universal Standards of Core Option, and reviewed the following indices : 102-1 to 102-13 (Organization Profile), 102-14 to 102-15 (Strategy), 102-16 to 102-17 (Ethics and Integrity), 102-18 and 102-35 (Governance), 102-40 to 102-44 (Stakeholder Participation), 102-45 to 102-56 (Reporting Practice), 103 (Management Approach) Topic-specific Standards The Assurers have verified the detailed items on the material aspects identified through the process of determining the reporting items and reviewed the following indices Economy : 201-1 Environment : 302-1, 305-1, 303-1, 303-3 Society : 401-3, 403-3, 404-1, 404-2, 405-2, 412-2, 417-1, 417-2, 417-3, 418-1 ■ Opinions and Recommendations [Performance /Issues] The Assurers offer the following proposal to implement strategies in sustainability management in response to the issues with coherence at the organizational level. Economic performance Kyobo Life pursues human-centered management and is continuously promoting ‘good growth,’ through which the company grows together with all stakeholders, based on the vision of becoming ‘the no. 1 life insurance company in product and channel innovation,’ to prepare for the era of the 4th Industrial Revolution. To overcome the national crisis triggered by COVID-19 and prepare for the post-COVID-19 period, Kyobo Life is committed to continuously and comprehensively improving its ability to deal with changes in the global management environment. It will do so by continuing to manage financial and non-financial risks, while cooperating with its various customers and numerous partners. Environment The investment decisions by institutional investors in the era of environmental crises caused by climate change are becoming increasingly important. Accordingly, international organizations and global financial institutions are striving to increase responsible investment. We need to better understand and actively participate in environmentally responsible investment in the areas of high-efficiency energy technology, renewable energy and clean fuel. Kyobo Life, as an institutional investor, is positively interested in and participates in socially responsible investment. Kyobo Life need to suggest principles, directions and goals of environmental investment and specifically define the details on all issues related to our environmental investment activities according to the future environmental investment policies of the global financial community, such as the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Social Based on the strong intentions and commitment of its management, Kyobo Life has been carrying out the stakeholder management and steadily sharing goals, activities, and achievements with its stakeholders through the sustainability management report for the past 10 years. The financial industry needs to carry out sustainable management in various areas, as do other industries, and it can spread socially positive influence through asset management that considers ESG. Kyobo Life established a phased plan to reflect ESG elements in its investment decisions and disclosed the plan through this Report. We believe these efforts played a leading role not only in the life insurance companies, but also in all Korean financial institutions. We hope that Kyobo Life will establish an effective system and produce good results so that the ESG investment of Kyobo Life can be presented as best practices in the future. July 2020 Sang-Jin Lee, KSA Chairman & CEO The Korean Standards Association (KSA), established as a special corporation in accordance with the Law for Industrial Standardization in 1962, serves as a knowledge service provider that distributes and disseminates such services as industrial standardization, quality management, sustainability management, KS certification and ISO certification. The KSA is committed to the sustainable development of Korean society as an ISO 26000 national secretary, certified GRI training partner, AA1000 assurance provider, KSI (Korea Sustainability Index) operator, and UN CDM DOE (development operational entity), and as an assurance provider of the Korean government’s greenhouse gas energy target management system. 78 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 KYOBO LIFE Summarized Consolidated Financial Statements Summarized Statement of Financial Position (Unit : KRW Bn) 2017 2018 2019 Total asset 104,564.7 108,819.9 116,053.4 Cash and due from banks 1,563.8 2,383.2 2,649.7 Securities 58,411.7 61,079.9 66,181.6 Loans 18,781.4 20,720.0 20,762.6 Investment in associates 92.3 96.9 35.2 Investment property 1,102.5 1,083.5 1,129.5 Property and equipment 1,299.3 1,288.6 1,367.7 Intangible assets 50.8 72.8 328.9 Other assets 4,204.1 3,303.3 3,323.1 Separate account assets 19,058.7 18,791.7 20,275.1 Total Liabilities 94,711.7 98,255.6 103,668.8 Liabilities under insurance contracts 66,713.3 69,488.0 71,926.1 Policyhilders' equity adjustment 736.8 894.8 1,416.5 Other liabilities 7,784.3 8,617.2 9,588.2 Separate account liabilities 19,477.3 19,255.6 20,738.1 Capital 9,853.0 10,564.3 12,384.6 Capital controlling ownership 9,455.8 10,151.0 11,935.2 *Based on Consolidated Statements Summarized Profit and Loss Statement (Unit : KRW Bn) 2017 2018 2019 Operating revenue 15,353.0 14,671.0 15,495.8 Operating cost 14,395.1 13,863.9 14,624.8 Operating profit 957.9 807.1 871.0 Non-operating profit -20.5 -23.4 3.3 Income before corporate tax 937.4 783.6 874.3 Corporate tax 263.4 219.3 231.6 Net income 674.0 564.4 642.7 Net income controlling ownership 640.0 528.0 603.4 *Based on Consolidated Statements Vision2020 Declaration Our mission is to help all our customers to confidently pursue their most cherished dreams throughout their lives by overcoming future adversity through mutual cooperation. To this end, we will always put our customers first in our thoughts and actions, be honest and sincere in every respect, and take up new challenges and try again even if we fail. When we achieve Vision2020, Kyobo Life will become the best company in the insurance industry, a company that does not falter in any environment and whose employees will be recognized as the best insurance experts. Through this process, Kyobo Life will grow together with its customers, Financial Planners, investors, communities, and all stakeholders, as well as contributing greatly to the national economy and enhancing public welfare. If we all come together with strong teamwork, we will definitely achieve our vision. Designed by ReddotBranding
