Communication on Progress Report 2020 CONTENTS • TRAYTON GROUP • CEO’s MESSAGE • HUMAN RIGHTS & LABOR • ENVIRONMENT • ANTI-CORRUPTION • SOCIAL BENEFIT • COVID-19 Response INTRODUCTION Founded by Danish entrepreneur Mr. Simon Lichtenberg in 1995, Trayton Group is a multinational company and one of the largest furniture manufactures and retailers in China. Our main business is design, branding, manufacturing and distribution of upholstery furniture, retailing of furniture and lifestyle products and trading businesses and service. With 20 years development, the Group has grown to a multinational furnishing company. Registered at Hong Kong, the Group is globally headquartered in Hong Kong and Shanghai, and set up offices and owns subsidiaries in the U.S., Hong Kong and China mainland. The Group produces upholstery products in China and distributes products all over the world. Being one of the largest furniture manufacturers in China, the Group has 3 factories in Shanghai and Zhejiang with 93,000 m2 production space and 2000 employees. In 2004 the brand “Simon Li” was born, the name itself came from the shortened form of Simon Lichtenberg, Trayton Group CEO. The company had been producing upholstery furniture since 1997 for other brands the business was growing, it was time to create our own brand. In 2016 Simon Li was started in China with establishment of online stores. In September of 2018, the first retail store of Simon LI Brand in China was opened. Trayton also acts as the exclusive agent of Kvadrat. The business of Kvadrat started in Chinese market in the spring of 2010, the product – fashion designoriented textiles has been introduced into China's architectural and interior design industry. We believe that our success is partly due to the way in which we integrated social responsibility and respecting for CEO’s MESSAGE human rights into our business. Besides unwavering business efforts to develop, produce and promote quality products for a better way of living, we always show our commitment to create best living environment for all people through helping the disadvantaged community, protecting the environment and fostering the youth generation. To ensure safe working conditions for the employees with respect and dignity, the Group conducts regular internal audits to ensure all standards to be executed properly. Continuous attention on improving labor’s working conditions has won globally recognized reputation and respect for the Group from its customers. Trayton Group believes that people make the ultimate difference in success of business. People’s development is the focus of the Group’s human resource management approaches. We encourage an open, healthy, vigilant and creative corporate culture. Trayton introduced RICE –Responsibility, Innovation, Engagement, and Care as our corporate values. These have been embraced well by all of our employees and will have a lot of positive influence on our actions and performance in the years to come. In addition, multiple communication channels have been set up for more transparent and accurate information revealing and efficient communication between front-line employees and supervisors as well as the top management, such as Open Day, Workshop Communication Committee, and Employee Representative Committee etc. We have committed ourselves to observe all principles of the United Nation’s Global Compact. We will continue to incorporate the basic principles and elements of sustainable development into our strategies, business flow and corporate culture. We will work hard and join hands with our stakeholders to promote sustainable development and advance ourselves to be responsible corporate citizenship. Simon CEO Trayton Group Lichtenberg HUMAN RIGHTS & LABOR PRINCIPAL ON HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOR BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS BUSINESS SHOULD ENSURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES BUSINESS SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION Trayton considers that respect for human BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF rights is the basis for sustainable INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS development. This is why we have defined our value system. Our values clearly reflect our position on human rights. Ensuring safe In order to apply these values into our day-to day business, we carried out a series of working conditions and products with no programs as well. From Aug. 2019 to Aug. 2020, we organized outward bound health risks to employees and customers is activities and outing for our managers and staff and Annual Parties. We hold another aspect to embody our commitment Trayton Summer Concert and outdoor Olympiads, summer camps for employees’ to human rights. children, outings, festival parties, singing competitions every year. We consider the first and foremost thing in We have built the employees’ clubs of badminton, mountaineering, self-driving tour, Trayton is people. We believe that putting basketball, swimming and Yoga , which not only enriches our employees’ lives, but also our Values into practice creates long-term enhances trust, communication and cooperation among our employees. And we provide benefits for shareholders, customers, health check for all staffs and workers. employees, suppliers, and the communities we serve – and ourselves! To keep the sustainable development of Trayton, we have Trayton Group’s core values as Responsibility Innovation, Engagement, and Care. We practice our values well in our daily work under the guidelines of each value. We provide our staffs with abundant activities and chances to enjoy and explore the goods in life. SAFE WORKING CONDITION VARIOUS LIFE CONTIGENCIES REWARDING POLICY Evaluation of Occupational Hazards Social Insurance System 5 Excellent Teams Award Occupational Disease Examination Supplementary Medical Care Insurance Team Buildings Protective Equipments Skill Competition First-aid Equipments Disaster Prevention, Safety and Occupational Health Committee SAFE HEALTHY HAPPY BUSINESS SHOULD ENSURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES Trayton Group provides competitive paid leave, maternity leave, paternity leave, convalescence systems and practices according to the law and above similar to other big companies in our industriy. What’s more, Trayton Group always shows it commitment to enrich employees’ leisure time, and provides a series of employee clubs for entertainment. RELAX FUN TEAM KNOWLEDGE AND SKILL BUSINESS SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Trayton Group supports the employees' rights to form groups and collective negotiation, and established labor unions in both Shanghai and Jiashan, Trayton Fund, and employee communication convention. BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR Trayton Group follows Chinese Labor Law strictly and all the employees have offered their work voluntarily. ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION We provide equal career development opportunity for each employee. BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR Trayton Group clearly forbids hiring child labor or teenager workers. Trayton Group evaluates the high risk of using child labor, and formulates the measure of elimination child labor according to the related laws and regulations. ENVIRONMENT SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH BUSINESS SHOULD UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL AND DIFFUSION OF RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY Trayton holds a successful history of TECHNOLOGIES environmental protection. But we don't want to With the economic development, people are stop here we want to continue to work to growing awareness of protecting the natural We evaluate the risks, develop safety, protect people and the environment. environment. In Trayton Group, we always health and environmental protection pursue the concept of sustainable development, concepts and check that they are Trayton Group ensures compliance with conserving resource, reducing energy implemented correctly. applicable laws and classification regulations consumption and mitigating business operation relating to purchasing, storage, handling, use and impacts on environment. We check strictly for raw materials, and transportation of chemicals. We have a valid request the contents of formaldehyde in permit for chemicals that are legally restricted or Trayton completed transformation of the road Wood-based Panel should be higher controlled. lights in Shanghai Plant to solar light, and have than the national standard, and we use installed 750 kWp of solar panels on the roof of European E1 standard. The productions Trayton Group ensures compliance with our Jiashan factory. Today this installation covers that are sold to North America should applicable laws & regulations relating to handling, about 35% of our entire power consumption at be above CARB P2level. The glues we storage, transportation, recycling and disposing of our main factory. use are environmental protection glues, hazardous and non-hazardous waste. and the contents of formaldehyde, toluene and methanol accord with In order to strengthen the consciousness of standard. against mouse and insect pest, and protect environment as well, Trayton Group has We strictly ensure the overall formulated the control system against mouse and formaldehyde emissions of our products, insect pest. so that decrease the environmental pollution. ANTI-CORRUPTION BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST While we design and carry out the anti-corruption program, we learn from the international CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, advanced anti-corruption methods. INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY Trayton Group encourages fair competition, and do not adopt the business strategy of We comply with the laws and respect the good dumping and monopoly. Our business strategy is: lowest total cost, key account focus, anti-corruption practices of the countries in production and service sophistication. Trayton Group follows the country laws and which we operate. We work against corruption in regulations, respects requirements from customers, and wins the customer trusts and social all its forms, including extortion and bribery. praise. Trayton Group observes the regulations related with anti-monopoly, protecting fair competition in the market, improving efficient economic development, maintaining Trayton Group and the subordinate subsidiary customers’ benefits and social benefits, so that we contribute to economic development. companies implement the method of punishing and preventing corruption, and prevent the corruption through effective risk prevention and control system. Trayton Group’s anti-corruption management Focuses on the requirements of the Global Compact, Deepening company culture and the work of the anti-corruption campaign, Continuing to promote the construction of anti-corruption. We strengthen internal oversight, Getting into promoting the building of corporate integrity, and preventing and controlling the possible risks of corruption. SOCIAL BENEFIT TRAYTON CARES FOR THE SOCIETY AND CHILDREN Trayton Group has been trying its best not only taking care of its employees but also contributing to social development. We are the co-founder of REED----Rural Early Education Development Fund, which now helps around 4500 children in south-western China. We have established 100 classes in 60 villages with education materials, teachers and all things that help the children there get better education and teach them to improve living habit. And we organize our staffs to visit children there every year to better understand the importance on helping others. Due to the Covid-19, children in REED POF classes were not able to get back to school as planned in Mar. But our team had provided online training courses to the teachers so they were able to teach and organize the children and families there to protect themselves. Since June, children were back to school with good protective methods and procedures. COVID-19 RESPONSES 49 DAYS OF HIGH INTENSITY RESPONSE From January 26th, 2020 – the government advised virus alert Till March 15th when the only new cases in China for the past 14 days have been people travelling in from overseas. 7 intense weeks What we were facing: n Any of us may be infected n No-one knows how far or bad it would go n We are not allowed to resume work on 31 Jan n We need to apply for the work resumption permission, we do not know when or how we could do that n We need to have establish a super safety management to conquer the virus n Our people could not come back, and they are deeply worried n Our capacity hit the big rock ... customers need their products A serious situation where Trayton never been stuck, as China... What we did during those 49 days 1. Set up working Teams/Systems immediately TF Virus safety team Hubei team Each PU team Shanghai and JS office team 2. Daily Monitor and report Trayton people’s health status Big workload due to the timely follow up with more than 1000 people 3. Transparent Communication More than 22 letters we had sent out to all our people to keep them updated 4. “Grab” all the safety goods to fully equip our factory 50k+ masks 1673L disinfectant fluid 8 tents 2 container houses for quarantine 300K expense 5. Diligent factory sanitize work Twice by daily in workshops Four times by daily in canteen 6. Proper training materials to our people, to make our people confident Videos letters 7. Self-developed online system for health registration & declaration Fill the form Upload temperature Record the health code“健康码” Input travel record “漫 游记录” 8. Government developed APPs to monitor which areas you (your mobile) have been to, to avoid spread from affected areas. Download two APPs Renew record every day “Green pass” you can go Show at arrival to any company, compound or home 9. More than 10 times application to shanghai and jiashan government for resumption with millions of papers Each work needs to be confirmed to have: Basic information form with signature Letter of commitment with signature Correct and safe return method Health certificate/status Qualified traveling record … 10. Gate strict control system 11. Bus to pick up our people Organized two times to Anhui, four buses in total Closely work with government to pick up workers from Sichuan, Yunnan and others form more than 5 times. 12. Solve the problem of employee’s dormitory – for controlled quarantine One contract hotel in shanghai One contract hotel in Jiashan Provided food to our workers as well 13. Strict control of canteen Temperature measuring Sanitize the hands Personalized food box Two times clean per meal 14. Solve living places for all the people. Some villages or compounds did not follow the government rules, to overprotect themselves. Visited rental apartments Meeting with Xiulong village governors 15. Studied more than 100 papers/policies Quick action to reply to government What were the achievements? 1. Factory resume fast with 0 infected. Shanghai February10th Jiashan – approved on 12th , resume on 13th 2. With a delay of a total of 42 days 90% of our people were already back safely middle of March and all people were back by end of March. We had 99 people from Hubei where the virus hit badly but all of our Hubei people got back safely by end of March. 3. Lots of Media recognition and using us as an example for other companies Minhang People’s Congress Chairman Shanghai Commerce Vice Director Many papers and social media Thank You!
