Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Index 03 Message from the Chairman of the Board of Directors 05 Message from the CEO 07 About our Report 08 Materiality Matrix 12 2019 Highlights 14 Movement 17 Our purpose 20 Business model 24 Direction 27 Governance Project 30 Governance structure 33 Active business management 34 Risk and process management 36 Compliance Program 40 Internal audit 41 Management for sustainability 42 Impulse 44 Manufactured capital 49 Human capital 53 Intellectual capital 54 Natural capital 60 Social and relationship capital 62 Financial capital How to use this document 63 Strategy MENU Navigate through ARROWS HOME PRINTING 65 GRI Annex the side menu to the Navigate page by page through Click the icon to Use this shortcut to chapters of your interest the arrows on the left side return to the index print the PDF content Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Message from the Chairman of the Board of Directors The year of 2019 represented for CCR its moment of effective deliveries since 2018 when the challenges of management and reputation became evident. Evolving without losing the legacy of operational quality, revisiting the strategic 3 positioning and long-term vision to ensure the sustainability of the business, its perpetuity with all effects for the company and society. For CCR, Sustainability reflects its business objectives, its talent management and the belief in a society that should develop as a whole, with income and citizenship generation from private investment, its investment capacity, job production, wealth, technological innovation and taxes. Messages Bringing the company to a new level of integrated management, governance, controls and risks, as well as repositioning the company according to its new purpose and from About our Report it building its expanded business strategy. The new positioning reflects the legacy of excellence in infrastructure now focused on mobility. The concept of providing services Highlights for the clients’ experience and the continuous improvement of quality of life brought by Movement our modals and assets are expanded. Direction Based on this vision of the business, the Board of Directors and Advisory Committees Impulse conducted a review of the governance processes and interactions with the Executive Board, with a review of policies and levels. Strategy The strategy was also used to revisit talent management, reinforcing the belief in GRI Annex meritocracy with a total revision of the Short, Medium and Long Term Remuneration Policy in line with the objectives of having, retaining and developing the best talent. Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 In 2020, the results of investments aimed at modernizing the Freeway, also under our concession, and aiming to deliver governance structure and corporate culture will continue the same level of quality of services measured in customer to make concrete contributions in business, in the positive satisfaction surveys. effects of income generation and taxes, but also on the fronts of people management and the dissemination of the CCR To continue to grow and deliver positive results for culture and its values. shareholders, we will need to expand our business, invest in the renewal of concessions and new concessions and related As a result, our clients, our employees, our stakeholders and services in intermodal connections. our shareholders will have in CCR a company with constant review of processes and business portfolio. Revisiting our strategy and our policies and governance has determined a new pace of transformation and improvement, 4 It is our purpose to make the users of our mobility services which allows the perpetuity of our business within the from highways to airports, from subways to LRVs the definers realities of our clients, granting power and the environment. of our financial results from their satisfaction, trust in our mobility assets and safety to live their life paths. It was the most intense year of cultural and organizational transformation that we have ever experienced, without Our Integrated Report (ASR) and GRI indicators allow us to measuring efforts and treating ethical and business analyze our performance in ESG (Environmental, Social and challenges with professionalism and transparency. Governance). We will work more on social inclusion through Messages health and education and improve our investments in the The execution of all the transformation, in such a short period environment. of time, highlights the focus on ensuring the company’s About our Report competitiveness, aligned with the important cycle of We have rigorously and pragmatically evaluated our investment and development of the country’s infrastructure, Highlights opportunities to obtain new concessions, both in Brazil and a fundamental pillar for the sustainable resumption of Movement abroad. economic growth already estimated for 2020. Direction We renewed our belief in the development of Brazil through Impulse the mobility infrastructure by winning the auction on February Ana Maria Marcondes Penido Sant’Anna 21, 2020 of the BR 101 highway, in the stretch from Paulo Chairman of the Strategy Lopes to São João do Sul, allowing relevant synergies with CCR Group Board of Directors GRI Annex Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Message from the CEO The year of 2019 was marked by intense work by all the CCR Group employees to consolidate and finalize structural projects that had begun a year earlier, in accordance with the strategic guidelines set by the Board of Directors. The revision 5 of the corporate governance system and the Compliance Program, the creation of an area for the centralized management of corporate risks and internal controls, and the restructuring of Internal Audit are some examples of deliveries that strengthen our company and will sustain a new cycle of growth. The changes we have made in the management model have been accompanied by a profound transformation in the corporate leadership framework. Our Executive Board has been reformulated and the company is now managed by new professionals identified in Messages the market and by employees who, throughout our history, have been prepared to take on the challenges and give continuity to the strategic plan to transform Brazil’s mobility About our Report infrastructure. This process, which began in 2018 with the hiring of new executives to fill the positions of Vice-Presidents, will be finalized in 2020 with the appointment of a new Highlights CEO, a change that will be disclosed to all stakeholders with full transparency. Movement The technical capacity of the employees was one of the pillars on which the CCR Group Direction relied over the last 20 years to become one of the largest infrastructure concession Impulse companies, diversifying its business and expanding its operations to other countries besides Brazil. In this sense, the valorization of the professionals and the recognition for Strategy their deliveries are fundamental to drive new achievements and the overcoming of the challenges inherent to our sector. Therefore, the construction of a new model for variable GRI Annex remuneration offer, with more objectivity and linked to long-term goals, is another project that we completed in 2019 and deserves to be highlighted. GRI 102-14 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 In recent years, our company has experienced challenging moments after identifying past behaviors that have hurt our standards of We are ready to leave behind behavior and corporate values. We have been transparent with an even more positive legacy, with public agencies and other stakeholders, conducting thorough internal investigation work. Our clients have demonstrated our stronger processes and our confidence in our purpose and have recognized the quality of leadership prepared to lead teams in the service we provide and the improvements we make in the concessions we manage. a sustainable business model We are even clearer that if we are to continue to be recognized by society, we must not neglect ethics and integrity. Being connected to principles such as the Global Compact and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), initiatives proposed by the 6 United Nations (UN), has become essential for us to continuously strengthen our practices to combat corruption, degrading forms of work, discrimination and other situations that are against an effectively sustainable business environment. Innovation is the key that will open the door to a new chapter of success in the history of the CCR Group. Conquering new concessions and connecting them to new technologies is only Messages one part of that path. We must rethink processes, seek new ways to work and be more efficient, and invest with a focus on creating About our Report value and improving the well-being of customers who use the infrastructure we manage. Highlights Movement Our society is in transformation, searching for alternatives to build an economic model less dependent on fossil fuels and more Direction sustainable. Our leaders are prepared to direct the work of their Impulse teams in this new context. Our management processes have been reviewed and are strengthened. I am sure and confident that our Strategy company is ready to be part of this global change and leave an even more positive legacy. GRI Annex Leonardo Vianna Chief Executive Officer of the CCR Group GRI 102-14 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 About our Report The year of 2019 represented a milestone for the CCR Group. A transversal change that enhances our capacity to develop new business models and bring safety, quality, comfort and well-being to the millions of clients that use our highways, urban mobility assets and airports in 7 Brazil and abroad. We want to share our journey with all our audiences and therefore this edition of the Annual and Sustainability Report (ASR) In 2019, the Annual and has more than special value. Sustainability Report was Like all the internal movement we are going through, this Report combines innovation with our corporate values. We bring a new approved by the CCR Group Board structure and a more refined look to communicate the main levers of of Directors. This development value in our business, without leaving aside everything that already Messages differentiated our accountability among the best market practices. flow reflects the document’s About our Report The document is aligned with the Integrated Reporting framework relevance to our leadership, Highlights proposed by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) and evidencing our commitment to of which we are one of the pioneers in implementation since 2013. Movement Seeking synergy with other corporate transparency mechanisms and accountability to society. reaching out to all our audiences, the ASR is complemented with an Direction online version and an Executive PDF, which allow a faster reading of our Impulse main achievements, learning and perspectives. Strategy To GRI Annex learn more Go to www.grupoccr.com.br/2019/en and see all the publications that make up the 2019 Annual and Sustainability Report Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Materiality Matrix Throughout this publication, we count the important advances we have made in corporate governance and risk management, the process for building a corporate purpose statement to be released in 2020, and we highlight the main achievements and deliverables of our operations 8 to generate value in a sustainable manner. Each of these issues is related to our materiality matrix, which brings together the issues identified as most relevant to our activities. In 2019, we began a process to update this matrix, which will include a broad and deep engagement with internal and external audiences and a critical Messages assessment of trends, risks and opportunities in our business model. Important inputs to this About our Report study have already been gathered over the past year, such as individual interviews with our Highlights executives and the mapping of corporate projects Movement that can contribute to materiality analyses such as the review of risk management processes. Direction In 2020, this process will be completed with Impulse stakeholder consultation and prioritization of the CCR Group’s new material issues. Strategy To learn GRI Annex more See page 66 to understand how we prioritize and engage our stakeholders in defining our Report’s Materiality Matrix Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Click on the material themes Capitals of Integrated Browse this interactive diagram to better understand Reporting Manufactured Human Intellectual Natural Social and Financial the issues addressed in each of the topics and capital capital capital capital relationship capital capital their correlation with the main global agendas for sustainability management and reporting. Business Principles of strategy and economic the Global Governance performance Compact and ethical conduct Relationship with 1. Respect for stakeholders and human rights development of the regions in which it operates 2. Non-participation in human rights 17 1 violations 9 Qualification 16 2 3. Support for of human freedom of capital 15 3 association 4. Eradication of forced labor 14 4 Quality of service Sustainable 5. Abolition of 13 Development 5 child labor Messages Goals About our Report 6. Elimination of 12 6 discrimination Highlights Safe operation Movement 7. Addressing 11 7 environmental Direction challenges 10 8 9 Impulse Operational 8. Environmental ecoresponsibility Strategy efficiency GRI Annex 9. Dissemination of environmentally friendly technologies Back 10. Fight against to corruption top GRI 102-47 | 103-1 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 CCR in 20 years Group companies in 1999 Group Companies in 2019 Roads Roads Urban Mobility Companies Participation Companies Participation Companies Participation CCR Ponte 100% CCR NovaDutra 100% ViaQuatro 75% CCR NovaDutra 100% CCR ViaLagos 100% CCR Barcas 80% CCR RodoNorte 86% CCR RodoNorte 87.2% VLT Carioca 74.87% CCR AutoBAn 100% CCR AutoBAn 100% CCR Metrô Bahia 100% 10 CCR ViaLagos 100% CCR ViaOeste 100% ViaMobilidade Linhas 5 e 17 83.3% Renovias 40% ViaMobilidade Linha 15* 80% CCR SPVias 100% * Under homologation. 5 Businesses ViaRio 66% CCR MSVia 100% Services CCR ViaSul 100% R$ 1.9 billion CCR RodoAnel 99.58% Companies Participation Messages in revenue CCR Actua 100% CCR Engelog 100% About our Report CCR EngelogTec 100% Highlights SAMM 100% Movement The portfolio 26 Business Direction Airports diversification and Impulse the conquest of new R$ 10.8 billion Companies Participation Strategy concessions abroad mark in revenue Quiport 50% GRI Annex Aeris 97.1% the CCR Group’s trajectory Curaçao 79.8% during two decades BH Airport 38.2% TAS 70% Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 2.2 million 4,788 km vehicles per day on of optical managed roads fiber Accidents with fatalities on the roads 119 114 CCR AutoBAn 228 CCR NovaDutra 92 83 160 The graphs show the evolution of accidents 73 150 CCR ViaOeste with fatal victims since 2010, when we started 11 130 implementing the Accident Reduction Plan (ARP) 114 45 CCR RodoNorte 99 88 in line with the guidelines of the “Decade of Road CCR SP Vias 74 Safety” movement, proposed by the UN. 36 32 32 64 CCR MSVia CCR MSVia became part of the portfolio in 2014, so 34 21 41 35 15 there is no data on accidents before that period. CCR RodoAnel 22 CCR ViaLagos 4 15 14 16 0 3 8 CCR ViaSul became part of the portfolio in 2019. 2010 2017 2018 2019 2010 2017 2018 2019 That year, 34 accidents with fatalities occurred. Messages About our Report 44.90 46.60 41.91 Highlights Contribution to the society 37.68 Movement Investments in R$ billion 31.62 Direction 25.55 21.35 19.17 Impulse 14.98 16.83 10.98 12.83 Strategy 7.97 9.03 5.26 5.78 6.17 6.93 6.07 6.06 2.67 4.43 4.20 4.23 2.99 GRI Annex 1.50 1.75 0.84 0.39 1.04 1.05 1.95 1.85 2.15 1.85 2.34 2.17 1.70 1.18 1.18 0.51 0.77 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Annual investment Cumulative investment Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 2019 Highlights Review of corporate governance structure and policies R$ 9.5 billion R$ 1.4 billion • Restructuring of the Advisory Committees in net revenue* in net *Does not include profit to the Board of Directors, Executive Board of the construction revenue CCR Group and Business Divisions R$ 5.8 billion • Review of the Bylaws, creation of new corporate of adjusted EBITDA** policies (policy of consequences, corporate risks, 61% margin interaction with public agents and others) and review 12 **Calculated excluding non-cash expenses: depreciation and amortization, provision for maintenance and of all existing policies (transaction with related parties appropriation of prepaid expenses from the grant and others) In 2019, CCR invested in improvement • New decision-making model: works, maintenance and purchase of equipment more transparent and agile, for the units privileging shared decisions R$ 1.7 billion invested Messages About our Report R$ 2.1 billion in taxes collected Highlights Movement R$ 386.7 billion Structuring Compliance Review Direction paid in grants the corporate assessment in of Variable risk matrix 9 units in Brazil and Remuneration Impulse R$ 7.1 billion 2 abroad Policy and Goals Strategy in operating costs and GRI Annex administrative expenses R$ 1.05 billion paid in wages and benefits Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 2019 Highlights Airport Council International (ACI) Conquest Accreditation Program of the Monorail Line 15-Silver concession BH Airport CAP in São Paulo a pioneer in Brazil, has (operator of Curaçao the ICA Level 2 and ISO Airport) 14.064-1 certification holds Level 1 of ACI 13 Increase of (greenhouse gas emissions) Quiport participation Aeris Quiport obtained at Concessionária do 1 in Central America to st Level 3 (Optimization) VLT Carioca S.A. Now, obtain Level 2 the company holds control of the consortium, Messages with 74.87% About our Report Highlights Movement Signing of the 25.7% Contract for Direction 447.7 MWh reduction the Rodovia de Impulse saved with in waste Integração do Sul Strategy eco-efficiency generation (Concessionária das projects GRI Annex Rodovias Integradas do Sul S.A.) Movement Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Improving the quality of life of our customers is the greatest value we generate with our concessions By land, sea and air, humanity moves ever more rapidly towards a technological and digital future. Every day, people and dreams connect through a complex network of highways, tracks, sea and air routes that cover our entire planet and create the background for a more sustainable society. Our company, the largest in the segment of infrastructure for mobility in the country, exists to transform the way we travel this journey. We know that 15 there will always be a more comfortable, agile, intelligent and efficient way to overcome distances and reach our goals. And so, for 20 years, we have been working so that each client of our concessions can experience the best of the chosen path. We are alongside students who bring inspiring new ideas to their notebooks and minds, truckers who transport food from the countryside to the cities, fathers and mothers who look after their children, travelers who cross Messages oceans in search of new languages and cultures. That’s why we research and incorporate technologies that make people more welcome on roads, at About our Report airports, on trains and on boats. Highlights Movement Direction Impulse Strategy GRI Annex GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 We know the landscapes of Brazil because we are in seven different states and of four other countries in the Americas. To preserve natural wealth, we invest in more efficient models to generate electricity from renewable sources, techniques to reuse waste, initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and protect biodiversity around our paths. We admire and respect the traditions and cultural expressions of the communities that are connected by our concessions. In this sense, we created the CCR Institute to join efforts and make relevant investments in social projects that strengthen education, citizenship, road safety and promote culture and environmental preservation in the regions where we operate. 16 We believe that as important as getting to the destination is the legacy we leave during the journey. Our journey is long, since each concession we win is the renewal of a commitment we have made to society for decades. Responsibility, ethics, transparency and sustainability is what drives us to move forward to deliver more safety, well-being, comfort and quality to all our clients. This is the brand of the CCR Group. Messages About our Report Highlights Movement Direction Impulse Strategy GRI Annex GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Our purpose The history of our company goes hand in hand with the assets of our business model and can be further development of the infrastructure concession model in enhanced with innovation, technology and enhanced Brazil. In the last 20 years, we have been pioneers on customer focus. several fronts: we signed and finalized the first contract for the management of a road asset the Rio-Niterói The welcome for drivers and passengers, in all modes Connection we were the first listed company in B3 of mobility, is the result of fortresses that we have built S.A.’s New Market and we expanded frontiers to manage up over the last two decades. The qualification of our and operate airports abroad. In 2019, we took a new look employees, the diligence in carrying out investments at our business to discover the new paths we will take. and in complying with contractual requirements, the absolute priority for safety and the integrated It was with this objective in mind that we conducted an management of the social and environmental impacts unprecedented diagnosis of our culture and corporate of our activities are the differentials of a company 17 values. Throughout the year, with the support of recognized for its excellence in providing services. specialized consulting firms, we held internal workshops involving our employees, directors and members of the From 2020, we will continue to work to internalize Board of Directors. this new corporate culture aimed at offering the best experience to our customers. We will share with our One of the main benefits of this project was to confirm employees and all external audiences the purpose of that the greatest value of our operations is the wellour company, a statement of what motivates us to being of our customers. Excellence in service and tread new paths and has been collaboratively built Messages respect for those who use concessions are key intangible by all of us here at CCR. About our Report Highlights Movement Direction Business vision Impulse Strategy To be an infrastructure company focused on GRI Annex mobility that, with high impact local and international projects, ensures that the customer experience is transformed into a better quality of life. GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Institutional reputation Our business model, based on the provision of infrastructure services granted, is strengthened when the quality of our operations and other positive aspects of the company are recognized by clients, employees, opinion leaders, local communities and other audiences with which we relate. Therefore, monitoring corporate reputation before stakeholders is relevant to identifying the materialization of our purpose in society and 18 finding opportunities for improvement so that our performance contributes to the development of a mobility infrastructure with excellence, safety and efficiency. In 2019, we started the Institutional Reputation project, aimed at building a model for determining, consolidating and monitoring a reputational index. Messages With the support of consulting firms specialized in this area, we conducted a study of the best practices About our Report adopted by other companies and discussed in internal meetings what are the dimensions and attributes Highlights to be researched for the composition of the We are building a model that Movement company’s reputation. will allow us to monitor the Direction The preparation of such a management model will company’s reputational index, Impulse continue throughout 2020. Our goal is to complete a process of engagement with our audiences during the facilitating the development of Strategy year and thus have an initial basis for monitoring our action plans that contribute to company’s reputation. Starting in the coming years, GRI Annex we will be able to establish action plans to address the recognition of CCR opportunities and thus continue to strengthen our among its audiences company’s reputation. GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Assessment of our customers’ satisfaction It is important that society and the granting In the airport segment, this evaluation is carried 19 authority recognize the quality of the service out through the Passenger Satisfaction Survey, a provided so that CCR can generate value by federal government initiative with results released expanding its business, adding other concessions quarterly. BH Airport, the concessionaire that to its portfolio and making investments in current manages the Confins Airport (Minas Gerais), assets to improve its infrastructure. With a cuttingachieved an overall score of 4.57 points, on a scale edge performance, clients realize the benefits of 1 to 5, in the fourth quarter of 2019. resulting from tariff collection and the importance Urban mobility concessions assess customer of the partnership between the State and satisfaction through internal indicators that Messages private initiative. monitor waiting time, equipment cleanliness and About our Report To monitor the quality of services, customer service punctuality. These indicators cannot be satisfaction surveys are conducted in all managed disclosed because of regulatory issues. Customer Highlights modes. On the roads, this evaluation is done by communications through channels such as the Movement Datafolha Institute, one of the most recognized Ombudsman, e-mail, telephone and SMS are research institutions in Brazil. In 2019, more than also a reference for assessing service quality and Direction 4.8 thousand people were interviewed who know establishing improvement plans. Impulse and use the concessions among car and truck The corporate management model is a factor that drivers, fleet owners and opinion makers. The has driven the improvement of service quality in Strategy overall perceived satisfaction index was 78.5%, a recent years. Since 2018, concessions have been reduction of 1.5 percentage points compared GRI Annex managed in four different divisions CCR Airports, to 2018. CCR Mobility, CCR Infra SP and CCR Lam Vias (learn more on page 33). GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Business model Click on each number to understand how we generate and share value in our operations 2 3 20 1 4 5 Messages About our Report Highlights Movement Direction 8 6 Impulse 7 Strategy GRI Annex Back to top Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Get to know some indicators Financial capital Intellectual capital from 2019 • Net revenue R$ 9.5 billion* • 134 professionals that show our • EBITDA R$ 5.8 billion** involved in the first year of the Lean Journey generation of • Investments R$ 1.7 billion • Quicko application has already value in the *Does not include construction revenue **Calculated excluding non-cash expenses: been installed on 95,500 six capitals depreciation and amortization, provision for maintenance and appropriation of prepaid mobile devices proposed by expenses from the grant the Integrated Manufactured capital Report Human capital 21 • About 2.2 million trips on the roads • 50,700 trainings carried out through the Nosso Mundo do • About 2 million passengers Saber platform used our urban mobility services every day • 44.6% reduction in accident severity rate* • 22.8 million airport boarding passengers per year • 13.61 hours of training per employee (average in the year) Messages *Does not consider the units ViaRio, Renovias, light rail Carioca and airports abroad. About our Report Natural capital* Highlights Movement • 7.5% reduction in urban mobility water consumption Social and Direction relationship capital • 25.7% reduction in waste Impulse generation by the CCR Group • About 1.2 million participants in Strategy • 447.7 MWh of energy saved in the CCR Institute actions energy efficiency initiatives GRI Annex • 78.5% satisfaction in the survey *Does not consider the units ViaRio, Renovias, with road clients light rail Carioca and airports abroad. Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Quicko Technology to travel better in big cities What’s the best way to get around a big city? The answer to this question involves several factors, such as the cost of the trip, the distance and the means of transportation available. The most important of these, however, is the power of choice of each passenger or driver. To help people make up their minds with more information and intelligence, we are investing in Quicko, 22 a technology startup that combines all urban mobility options for transport in major metropolises. The platform was initially made available to the metropolitan region of São Paulo and has already been downloaded on more than 95,500 mobile devices. Quicko was born to integrate the various existing possibilities of locomotion and, with the analysis of big data Messages in real time, show travelers the various possible routes and their advantages and disadvantages. The shortest route is About our Report not always the fastest, the cheapest or the most pleasant. With more information and connectivity, each person can Highlights choose whether to walk, rent a bike or ride the subway Movement and live the best experience on each trip. Use the QR Code beside Direction to download Quicko’s The possibilities offered by the platform are completely Impulse aligned with our purpose. We want, more and more, to application on your transform the way our clients move, adding comfort and smartphone and take Strategy convenience to their paths. Innovation and digitalization are the routes that will take us in this direction. advantage of this platform GRI Annex to choose the best path for your day Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Innovations that delight our customers • ViaQuatro brought to Brazil the first models of remote-controlled trains, without the use of drivers. A new safe way to travel underground in São Paulo on Line 4-Yellow of the subway. • Our facial recognition technology at CCR Metro Bahia helped the Military Police monitor major events in the city of Salvador. • We put NovaDutra FM CCR radio, which operates on the 107.5 MHz frequency and operates along the entire length of Presidente Dutra Highway. Information and services, from end to end, for drivers who travel on the main road axis in Brazil. • We innovate with the indication panels of capacity in the wagons 23 of the Line 4-Yellow trains. A system that warns where the empty spaces are to increase comfort during the journey. • On our roads, we use artificial intelligence systems that recognize vehicles by their physical characteristics and plates. Cutting-edge technology aims to increase safety and combat toll evasion. • At CCR Metro Bahia, we combined the fiber optic network with artificial intelligence resources to identify undue interventions in the Messages subway line. The project seeks to reduce intrusion situations, which lead to the reduction of speed or the stopping of trains. About our Report Highlights • We launched “Leitura na ViaMobilidade” and “Estação Leitura”, projects that encourage the donation and sharing of books in the stations Movement of Line 5-Lilac subway (São Paulo) and CCR Metro Bahia (Salvador). Passengers can take copies from the shelves, without any kind of Direction registration, and return them later. Impulse • We started to use drones to inspect viaducts, footbridges and other structures of our highways. It is more technology to Strategy increase safety and ensure the comfort of drivers, GRI Annex passengers and pedestrians Direction Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate governance is the compass that guides the paths to growth of the CCR Group For a safe journey, drivers need road signs, reflective road lines and various other signage instruments. Likewise, our company depends on policies, processes and internal regulations that direct the best way for growth and business diversification with responsibility, ethics and sustainability. Corporate governance is the central system of this broad set of rules that guide the way we run, monitor and drive our activities. The solidity of this 25 structure is essential to give transparency and traceability to strategic decisions, which generates security so that all our company’s professionals know how to act to preserve our institutional reputation, protect our assets and increase customer satisfaction in our concessions. The year of 2019 was marked by the conclusion of an in-depth review of the governance structure, corporate policies and decision-making process in our company, as a consequence of a decision of the Board of Messages Directors disclosed at the end of 2018. We created the Vice-Presidency for Governance and Compliance, which reports directly to the Board About our Report of Directors, also covering the area of Internal Audit and Corporate Management. We structured and began practicing a new governance Highlights model, inspired by best practices and tailored to our needs, privileging Movement collegiate discussions and deliberations at the different levels of the company and ensuring greater adherence of the decision-making Direction process to our strategic objectives and always in the best interest of our Impulse stakeholders. In conjunction with these changes, we review the criteria and structure of variable remuneration throughout the company, directing Strategy management towards achieving sustainable, long-term results. GRI Annex GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 We have updated the structure, regulations and scope of action of the committees that advise our Board of Directors, composed of qualified and empowered members to represent and defend the We strengthen the interests of all shareholders. entire compliance Good corporate governance practices are strengthened with the revised system, risk and expanded Compliance Program. A system based on clear policies and standards that place our employees as protagonists in promoting management and ethics and our values in relations with public agents, suppliers and all internal controls other audiences that interact with our company. of the company, in Also as a result of the Board’s decision in 2018, one of the big four accordance with best audits was contracted to support the risk mapping and structuring 26 of the CCR Group’s risk management area. market practices These movements consist of the natural unfolding of pioneering initiatives already adopted by the company, such as the entry into the New Market and the creation of a Governance Committee in 2002. Messages About our Report Highlights Movement Direction Impulse Strategy GRI Annex GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Governance Project The Governance Project is an initiative that transforms the way we make strategic decisions and conduct our company by winning new business, innovating and diversifying revenues in existing concessions. It is based on two pillars: the renewal of the decision-making process and a new model of remuneration and goals. To build the first pillar, we rely on the support of external consultants to map out all the critical decision processes for our business model and, from there, redefine the instances of evaluation, discussion and final direction. This is a change that goes beyond simply setting limits and approval levels on investments and values. 27 The new model determines that essential themes, with the possibility of impacting on financial soundness, reputation, relationships with the public and other relevant aspects, be taken to a collegiate analysis of leaders. The decision-making flow is fully recorded in corporate systems and traceable. The second pillar of the project concerns a new design for our employees’ remuneration system and targets, developed on the basis of internationally Messages recognized methodologies and which came into force in January 2020. The goal is to make this instrument, valuable for the recognition of our About our Report employees, even more transparent and directed towards the sustainable growth of the business. Highlights Movement Direction Impulse Strategy Based on two pillars, the Governance GRI Annex Project involved a new deliberation model for critical issues and the redesign of the variable remuneration system GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 In 2019, we presented this new format to all employees be able to understand, through the process and discussed the benefits of its adoption. In of competence assessment conducted by the The Governance Project is an initiative aimed at practice, the Profit Sharing (PS) offer is related to the People Management area, the objective criteria guiding business growth and diversification in the face achievement of quantitative and qualitative targets, that influenced the PS achieved. of market changes, increased competition and the making it possible to recognize both the results identification of opportunities driven by innovation and obtained and the way they were delivered. In this way, our governance structure and new digital relationship tools. At the same time, the processes reflect the new corporate culture. initiatives undertaken on this front are in line with the In the new system, alignment with the competencies Transparency and collaboration among people recommendations of the Independent Committee for and values of the corporate culture is equivalent underpin our assessments and decisions the Board of Directors, resulting from the in-depth and to the achievement of goals. Thus, employees will to drive company growth. meticulous investigation work in 2018 of events cited in testimonials published in the media and related events at odds with our values and good market practices. 28 At the end of its work, the Independent Committee recommended to the Board of Directors the In 2019, the Governance Project involved, among other measures: conduction of action plans to improve internal controls and the governance structure of our company, the detailed assessment of risks related to the Implementation of governance portal for activities of the holding company and subsidiaries considering the sector of operation and the level of Review of the various management forums of the interaction with public agents, and the permanent Messages Advisory companies belonging to the CCR Group monitoring of this work plan. About our Report Committees to the Board of Improvement in The Independent Committee acted from February 28 to Highlights the formalization of Development December 5, 2018 and conducted the verification work Directors of an internal tool with complete independence and freedom. Formed by Movement deliberations and experts in the legal area and in corporate governance, it Reduction their traceability of for monitoring contributed to the gathering of confidential information Direction from 6 to 5 decision-making processes processes that that was forwarded to the Public Prosecution Service of Impulse committees, depend on the the State of São Paulo and subsidized the celebration of Strategy with adaptation approval of a Self-composition Agreement with the authorities. In 2019, based on the same investigations, CCR RodoNorte of compositions, Mapping the main different levels signed a Leniency Agreement with the Federal Public GRI Annex scope and decision-making and involvement of Prosecutor’s Office in Paraná. respective processes of the support areas names CCR Group GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 The pillars A new remuneration model Clarity Transparency Meritocracy The restructuring of corporate governance Employees understand Employees have Individual remuneration gives greater autonomy and responsibility the mechanism by visibility into their is related to the behavior to executives and employees in the decisionmaking process and, therefore, it is important to which their targets are performance and the and performance of each redefine the incentives and processes that support set and their variable elements that affect employee and business this management model. The changes in the remuneration is and define their unit rules and criteria, however, have not altered the calculated variable compensation competitiveness policy already adopted by the company nor the total amount paid for remuneration. Three components make up the short-term The LTGP (Long Term Gratification 29 The remuneration of the executives of the variable remuneration Program) has also changed Board of Directors is composed of four parts: fixed, variable, indirect and situational. The Financial Goals • The goal is to retain talent and base salary is determined according to the 1 Part of the individual remuneration is based on align interests, contributing to position occupied by the professional and the the achievement of financial objectives of the the company’s continuous and values practiced in the market. The variable company, division and business unit to which sustainable growth in the long remuneration of the executive officers is linked to the employee is dedicated. term. medium and long-term goals, in accordance Messages with the Profit Sharing Plans. • More competitive, simple and Individual Goals transparent for participants. About our Report The quantitative targets, with percentage weight, All employees will have individual goals based • Clear and transparent are linked to the aggregation of Economic Value Highlights on their priorities for the year. The agreement, communication on the eligibility 2 Added (EVA) and minimum dividend distribution. management and verification of these goals criteria for employees who will Movement Qualitative targets are also taken as a basis, are only possible due to the new governance participate in the LTGP. including stakeholder relations, operational Direction model and the collegiate forums for talent improvements, qualified portfolio growth and management, which give more balance, security Impulse sustainability targets. Situational compensation and transparency to individual goals. applies only in specific situations and under Strategy previously determined rules. There is also the Long Term Gratification Program (LTGP), GRI Annex Assessment of Skills which consists of a value generation policy that 3 The new model will also reward the way the allows some executives to acquire rights results are delivered. It is expected that results based on stock appreciation, cash generation will be delivered in a manner that adheres to the and dividend rate distributed. corporate values. GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 102-35 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Click on the name of the Committees to understand the assignments of each of them Governance structure Results and Finance Committee Our company’s shares, traded at B3 S.A. Brazil, Stock Exchange, OTC (in English, B3 Brazil Stock Exchange and Over-the-Counter Market), are listed on the Novo Mercado (New Market), recognized for requiring the adoption of the best practices of corporate governance New Business Risk and Reputation Fiscal and relationship with minority shareholders. Therefore, we adopt and Committee Board of Committee Council comply with the guidelines of this listing segment’s regulations Directors in the management of our business. The Board of Directors is the highest governance body and indicates People and Governance Audit and Compliance strategic guidelines for growth and portfolio diversification, assessing Committee Committee economic, environmental and social aspects that may positively and 30 negatively impact the capacity to generate value for all stakeholders. According to the Bylaws, it must be formed by a group between 8 (minimum) and 15 (maximum) members. This definition is made by the CEO Ordinary General Meeting (OGM) of shareholders, which, in 2019, elected 12 effective members and 10 substitute members. Compliance VP Back to Corporate In its current composition, the body has three independent directors, top Management VP whose professional experiences and knowledge of the sector have allowed Messages the qualification of discussions in the largest body of our governance structure. All nominations follow the requirements established by the About our Report Display Policy of Directors, Advisory Committees of the Board of Directors and the Fiscal Council. Highlights Movement Direction Our Advisory Committees to the Impulse Board of Directors were reviewed Strategy in 2019, contributing to the agility GRI Annex and quality of the deliberations in To the governance bodies learn more for the Internal Regulations of the Board of Directors and Advisory Committees GRI 102-18 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 The Board of Directors meets on a monthly basis, on an Click on the policy name in the diagram ordinary basis, and, on an extraordinary basis, when necessary below to access the entire document in the interests of the company, upon convocation by any of its members. Its performance is supported by Advisory Committees, bodies responsible for deepening evaluations and recommendations for the deliberation of certain matters. The number of committees, their attributions and regulations have been completely revised in the last year, aiming at giving more Bylaws agility and quality to the decision-making process. As in previous years, in fiscal year 2019, our company counted Code of Conduct and Ethics on the installation of the Fiscal Council, a non-permanent body that acts in an independent manner to supervise the acts of 31 the management and the conduct of business, as approved in the OGM. Three effective members and their respective Environmental Social Governance alternates were elected, highlighting that, in this process, the Corporate Policy Clean Company Risk Management Display Policy was also observed. on Climate Policy Policy Change Social Related Party Environmental Responsibility Transaction Policy Policy Policy Display Policy Our policies Messages Compensation The Company’s Bylaws, the Code of Conduct and Ethics, Policy About our Report the Internal Regulations of the Board of Directors and its Administration Advisory Committees and the different corporate policies are and FC Highlights instruments that define the criteria and guide the strategic Disclosure and Movement decisions taken in all instances of our corporate governance. Trading Policy The Governance Project we conducted allowed all these Direction instruments to be reviewed and updated between 2018 and Impulse 2019 (with some being approved in the first month of 2020), providing a more agile process aligned with both the strategic Strategy objectives and the demands of external audiences. GRI Annex GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Performance evaluation and compensation The performance evaluation of the Board of Directors, Advisory Committees, Executive Officers and the Board Secretariat takes place at each term of office of its members, in accordance with B3 S.A.’s Novo Mercado (New Market) regulations in force since 2018. It is the responsibility of the People and Governance Committee to manage this process, which involves a set of stages and the support of a specialized company. The members of the Board of Directors and the Executive 32 Board fill out an evaluation questionnaire, which is sent in unidentified closed envelopes to an external consultant for analysis. The consolidated result of this evaluation is returned to the People and Governance Committee, which prepares an opinion on action plans and improvements for discussion within the Board. The third-party analysis also provides CCR with a matrix of skills of Board members, contributing to the understanding of the complementarity Messages of knowledge of its members, as well as possible alternatives for improvement in its composition. About our Report The remuneration of the effective members of the Board Highlights of Directors is 100% fixed. The members of the Advisory Movement Committees are members of the Board of Directors itself and The People and Governance could receive additional remuneration for each attendance Direction at a meeting of these bodies. However, the practice of Committee is the body Impulse additional compensation for participation in committees has responsible for developing been discontinued, with approval at the General Meeting Strategy held at the election of the new members of the Board of the CCR Group’s GRI Annex Directors in April 2019. evaluation processes and remuneration policies GRI 102-28 | 102-35 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Active business management The execution of the strategy and the conduct of business diversification and new business development, with is a company providing services related to high in accordance with the corporate governance guidelines more efficiency and synergy in all processes. capacity data transmission by means of fiber optics policies are the responsibility of the Executive Board. Formed deployed along the highways and the Line 4-Yellow by 11 executives with recognized experience in their areas The Service Centers and Shared Competences CCR of the subway. The CCR Institute strategically of expertise, this collegiate of leaders guides the way we Actua, CCR Engelog and CCR EngelogTec support the articulates the promotion of socioeconomic and qualify and develop our business, prepare and strengthen our Group companies with teams specialized in people cultural development in the regions where the employees and manage the risks to preserve the capacity to management, engineering and technology. Samm CCR Group is present. generate value. In the last two years, the Board of Directors has appointed new professionals to fill these positions, following the plan Board of Directors of the Leadership Identification and Development Program 33 conducted by the company since 2014. In the current Board of Directors, there is a positive combination of professionals Presidency already working in the company with other contractors in the market, with new visions and ideas for our growth. Compliance Communication & Also in 2019, the beginning of the CEO succession process Sustainability was announced to the market, which should be concluded in 2020. In a transparent manner, the succession process has been conducted with the support of the current Chief CCR CCR CCR CCR Corporate Management INFRA SP LAM VIAS MOBILIDADE AEROPORTOS Messages Executive Officer himself and the Board of Directors, and thus About our Report puts into practice the guidelines and nomination criteria defined by the new corporate governance system. Highlights Finance & IR Movement The Vice Presidency of Corporate Management is the body that monitors all corporate, administrative and operational Legal Direction processes. Thus, we ensure that the management model and NovaDutra ViaLagos Impulse good practices are disseminated to all the units that manage Planning, Control & Risk the concessions and also to the companies in our Shared Management Referência de cores: Referência de cores: Referência de cores: Referência de cores: PANTONE 484 PANTONE COOL GRAY 11 Assinatura Secundária PANTONE 484 PANTONE COOL GRAY 11 Assinatura Secundária PANTONE 484 PANTONE COOL GRAY 11 Assinatura Secundária PANTONE 484 PANTONE COOL GRAY 11 Assinatura Secundária C-0 M-90 Y-100 K-40 C-0 M-0 Y-0 K-70 C-0 M-90 Y-100 K-40 C-0 M-0 Y-0 K-70 C-0 M-90 Y-100 K-40 C-0 M-0 Y-0 K-70 C-0 M-90 Y-100 K-40 C-0 M-0 Y-0 K-70 Strategy Services and Competence Center. GRI Annex In order to enhance business management, we have People Referência de cores: PANTONE 484 PANTONE COOL GRAY 11 Assinatura Secundária C-0 M-90 Y-100 K-40 C-0 M-0 Y-0 K-70 Referência de cores: PANTONE 484 PANTONE COOL GRAY 11 Assinatura SecundáriaReferência de cores: C-0 M-90 Y-100 K-40 C-0 M-0 Y-0 K-70 PANTONE 484 PANTONE COOL GRAY 11 Assinatura Secundária C-0 M-90 Y-100 K-40 C-0 M-0 Y-0 K-70 organized our corporate structure with four business divisions responsible for coordinating road concessions, urban mobility and airports. Thus, we strengthen the strategic action axes and potentiate the opportunities for Referência de cores: PANTONE 484 PANTONE COOL GRAY 11 Assinatura Secundária C-0 M-90 Y-100 K-40 C-0 M-0 Y-0 K-70 Referência de cores: PANTONE 484 PANTONE COOL GRAY 11 Assinatura Secundária C-0 M-90 Y-100 K-40 C-0 M-0 Y-0 K-70 GRI 102-2 | 102-6 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Risk and process management The size of our business and the diversification of our portfolio of concessions require from our company a solid model aligned with best practices for the management of corporate risks, control of internal processes and identification of opportunities. This structure ensures the ability to generate long-term value and maintain ethical and transparent relationships with shareholders, investors and other stakeholders. By creating a specific area to support corporate risk management, we have accelerated our evolution on this front. The approval of our Risk Management Policy by the Board of Directors and the new regulations for the New Market, the listing segment of B3 S.A. in which our actions are listed, were the driving forces behind this change. 34 In deciding to move in this direction, we evaluated the guidelines of the U.S. SarbanesOxley Act (SOX), considered the most evolved in the world to guide the creation of corporate audit and security mechanisms. Thus, the entire structure that we began building and operating in 2019 will be aligned with this legislation, even though our company is not obliged to follow it because it does not have papers negotiated in the United States. We study the best practices of the market and of companies that are recognized as a reference in risk management, regardless of their sector of operation. With the support Messages of a specialized consulting firm, we conduct interviews with all members of the Board of Directors, in addition to members of the Executive Board, external legal and communication About our Report advisors, directors of concessionaires and companies of the Shared Services and Competencies Center, and we also count on the engagement of superintendents, managers Highlights and analysts of strategic areas of the company. Movement This gathering of internal and external information has provided a broad view of the risks to Direction which our business and operations are exposed. To group and prioritize them, we use rules Impulse that assess the severity of impacts in relation to financial, operational, regulatory and reputational aspects. Strategy The application of this methodology allowed us to build the Heatmap in 2019. GRI Annex This is a corporate matrix that indicates what are the priority residual risks for which we should define and implement action plans. GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 102-15 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 The Heatmap identifies our priority risks and from it, the Risk Management, This map will be continuously updated, allowing our risk management to be dynamic and respond to market changes and new demands from society. Internal Controls and Internal Audit To this end, we have begun implementing digital systems to record internal teams plan actions to mitigate risks and controls and manage risk protection flows work that will continue in 2020. strengthen control systems Together with the structuring of the systems, we will train all our employees so that the culture of risk management is internalized and practiced in all areas and units. Our risk management becomes even more efficient through the performance of the Internal Controls area, also created in 2019, aimed at evaluating the internal controls of operational and administrative processes. This team will be responsible for, 35 based on a work plan defined annually, evaluating the procedures we adopt for the registration of operations and proposing improvement plans based on risk management processes. Internal Audit acts to monitor controls and risk management practices, aimed at ensuring that corporate areas act to minimize business risks and improve operations and internal controls. Linked to the Vice-Presidency of Compliance, this area acts independently and ensures quality in Messages monitoring and accountability to the company’s management. About our Report The Board of Directors monitors the evolution of issues related to risk management by means of reports and evaluations made by its Advisory Highlights Committees. In this sense, the Audit and Compliance Committee and the Movement Risk and Reputation Committee work together to qualify the analyses and support the decision making. Direction Impulse Thus, we have created a system of corporate governance that feeds back to ensure that decisions are made in accordance with the Strategy strategic objectives and long-term vision of shareholders, following the methodologies we have established for tracking and recording To GRI Annex processes and based on accurate and reliable information. learn more Click here and refer to sections 4 and 5 of the Reference Form for more information on our risk factors and the mechanisms we have adopted to manage them GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 102-15 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Compliance Program We develop our business based on ethical principles, transparency that establish norms and standards of expected behavior, training and respect for human rights. The corporate values that reinforce of employees, programs for the adoption of corrective measures this position are expressed by the Code of Conduct and Ethics combined with action plans and communication channels for the and the Clean Company Policy, developed in accordance with denunciation of attitudes that go against our norms and values. the Anti-Corruption Law (12,846/2013). Thus, we comply with the strictest anti-bribery and anti-corruption rules and legal provisions In addition, our company and its subsidiaries are signatories of the in force in Brazil and worldwide, in addition to complying with the UN Global Compact, especially the initiatives proposed by the Antideterminations of the Novo Mercado (New Market) regulations, Corruption Thematic Group, and are therefore committed to the segment of B3 S.A.’s listing. adoption of the Construction Sector Integrity Booklet. Our success is based on principles of integrity and respect, our values described in The practice of these values is accompanied by the Compliance the Code of Conduct and Ethics and the Clean Company Policy, aligned 36 Program, in place since 2015 and composed of a series of tools with the guidelines defined by the Novo Mercado (New Market). Law no. 12.846/2013: provides for the administrative and 2019 Compliance in numbers civil liability of legal entities for the practice of acts against the public administration, national or foreign, and makes other provisions. Decree no. 8,420/2015 regulates Law no. 120 donation 12,846/2013. and sponsorship Messages 208 occurrences FCPA (United States): Foreign Corrupt Practices Act projects evaluated 24 hours of About our Report of the Confidential Article 42 of Decree no. 8,420/2015 was widely considered and analyzed, training for Channel (Ethics Highlights in the preparation and implementation of the Compliance focusing on employees in the Line) treated and Program, both in the preparation of internal rules and compliance risks Compliance area Movement policies and in the design of the pillars. Finalized Direction • Commitment of senior management Impulse • Rules for donations and sponsorship 21 different types of • Third party due diligence 9 national and 23 internal Strategy • Process monitoring internal training for 2 international policies and • Procedures for interaction with public agents CCR employees on GRI Annex units visited by procedures • Guidelines for conduct in election periods and during various compliancethe Compliance reviewed and/or bidding and M&A processes, among others related issues area developed and approved GRI 102-16 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 We constantly reinforce, with the support of senior workshops are part of this improvement program, which management, the continuous disclosure and updating represents the creation of intellectual capital and an of the Compliance Program, which guides all employees, important differential for cooperation in consortia and shareholders, administrators and third parties, at all shared management in different operations. levels, on the need for sustainable business development and in compliance with internal policies and standards, The Confidential Channel (previously called Ethics as well as in compliance with the legislation of the Line) completes the instances of our Compliance countries in which they operate. Program, as it makes room for any employee, manager, shareholder or third party to report acts We are constantly seeking the best market practices, fighting that do not comply with our standards, policies corruption, bribery, kickbacks or facilitating payments. In this or the legislation of the country. The occurrences sense, the Program contains several policies and standards are recorded in an environment controlled by an that deal with risk assessment of third parties, donations and independent and external company, recognized in the sponsorships, gifts and gifts, interaction with public agents market for its performance in the compliance area. 37 and conflicts of interest. We monitor compliance with these procedures and map eventual nonconformities, which will be The channel can be accessed through the company’s subject to disciplinary measures, if applicable. website, dedicated phone line, e-mail and letter. Employees are also encouraged to seek out their We constantly carry out training and communication campaigns immediate leader or the company’s Compliance area in order to engage everyone in the compliance culture. The update to report violations of conduct guidelines. Messages About our Report Highlights Movement Direction Impulse Strategy GRI Annex GRI 102-17 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 The observance of the rules that compose the CCR’s Code of Conduct The audit is monitored and evaluated by the Audit and Compliance and Ethics which deal objectively with issues related to the conflict Committee, which reports periodically to the Board of Directors. of interests, donations and contributions in general, the relationship with politically exposed people, money laundering and the recording of CCR S.A. and some of its subsidiaries entered into a operations in its accounting books, among others -, is a precondition Self-composition Agreement (from Civil Inquiry no. for the employability of all the company’s employees and, especially, 14.0695.0000295/2018) with the São Paulo State Public Prosecutor’s its leadership, which must watch over its effectiveness at all times. Office, approved by the State Courts and which is confidential. CCR S.A. has undertaken to pay R$ 81.53 million in two installments for This is also the case with the Clean Company Policy which deals the dates of March 1, 2009 and March 1, 2020. These facts were specifically with the conduct of our employees in relation to public publicly announced through a Material Fact on the same date. On agents in general. The policy aims to provide transparency and July 15, 2009, the State of São Paulo appealed against the approval traceability to the necessary relationship of CCR, in the fulfillment of the Term, as disclosed in the Material Fact of CCR of July 18, 2009 of its corporate purpose, with public agencies and their agents, (which is available on CCR’s Investor Relations (IR) website). On 38 thus seeking to mitigate risks of inappropriate conduct. Doubts and 02/04/2020, the Court of Appeals of the State of São Paulo rejected possible deviations of conduct are dealt with by the Confidential the appeal, maintaining in full the sentence that ratified the SelfChannel (Ethics Line) of CCR, an independent and anonymous Composition Agreement. communication channel that helps the company to monitor the adherence of its employees to the rules and principles of governance. On March 6th, 2009, Rodonorte Concessionária de Rodovias Integradas S.A. entered into a Leniency Agreement with the Federal Through the established standards and policies, continuous training, Public Prosecutor’s Office through the Paraná State Prosecutor’s communication program and risk assessments, the CCR Group’s Office, which was later forwarded for judicial homologation, as Messages Integrity and Compliance Program has been acquiring maturity, disclosed by the CCR in Relevant Fact (which is available on the CRR mitigating corruption risks and increasing corporate security. IR website) on the same date. By the Agreement, CCR RodoNorte About our Report pledged to pay R$ 35 million as a fine under the Improbity Law and CCR maintains in its business units a structure of internal controls that to pay R$ 350 million as a 30% reduction in the toll fee in favor of Highlights acts strongly in the prevention of deviations and illicit acts, as well the concessionaire’s customers for at least 12 months, in addition Movement as an internal audit program carried out by an independent external to carrying out works on the highways under its operation which consultancy covering the collection processes, conservation and total another R$ 365 million and to submit to an external compliance Direction maintenance contracts, service management (including operation), monitoring process under the terms contracted there. The Leniency Impulse relationship with granting power, supply management, fixed assets, Agreement was entered into under the PA No. 1,25,000,004899/2018fleets, information security, investment contracts, human resources and 42, conducted by the Federal Public Prosecutor’s Office, which Strategy payroll, treasury, insurance, accounting and management reports, legal had the purpose of ascertaining, among other issues, certain facts process management, environmental, health and safety management. involving the company and some of its subsidiaries. GRI Annex GRI 205-3 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Supplier management We base our relationship with suppliers on ethics and adopt the best governance practices, in line with the guidelines of the Code of Ethical Conduct and the Clean Company Policy. Purchasing and contracting are managed by the Shared Services and Competencies Center and include, in all standard minutes, termination clauses in the event of evidence of forced, slave or child labor, as well as health and safety 39 aspects. The categories of priority suppliers (consultancies, brokers, construction and conservation) and medium risk suppliers (software development, project companies, law firms, marketing, communication and events, NGOs and philanthropic institutions) are subject to due diligence processes. Messages Number of suppliers by 2019 2018 2017 About our Report region Highlights Brazil 5,493 5,599 5,634 Movement Center-West 314 330 336 2,608 supplier Direction Northeast 347 479 510 and partner analyses Impulse North 2 3 2 (third-party due Southeast 4,116 4,327 4,211 diligence) Strategy South 714 460 575 Foreign 107 98 85 GRI Annex TOTAL 5,600 5,697 5,719 GRI 102-9 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 2019 Highlights 16 processes audited in 13 Internal audit Creation and structuring of the Corporate Divisions, Business Internal Audit area, working together Units and Shared With a view to strengthening corporate governance practices, the Services and Vice Presidency of Governance, Compliance and Internal Audit with a consultancy firm specialized in internal audits performed on the Competence Center restructured the Corporate Governance, Compliance and Internal Audit areas and adapted the reporting structure of these areas. The Group’s processes Risk and Internal Controls areas were also structured. The objective is to establish a coordinated and continuous process Contracting of a GRC (Governance, of risk, compliance and internal controls, validated by Internal Risk and Compliance) tool to provide Audit. The synergy between these four areas is fundamental for the an integrated solution to the 13,640 hours conduction of activities, demonstrating to the areas in the first line areas of Risk Management, contracted of defense a complete approach of identification and solution of the fragility and normalization of control. Compliance, Internal Controls and for internal 40 Internal Audit, to be implemented in audits The Internal Audit performs an independent function and its scope the first half of 2020 of action is broad, aiming to contribute to the reliability of financial reporting, safeguarding of assets and compliance with internal laws and regulations. Bi-monthly meetings with the Audit and Activities under the responsibility of the Internal Audit Compliance Committee to present the results of • Implement the annual internal audit plan according to the internal audits and follow up on the status of the Messages priorities of the Board of Directors, planning and monitoring the internal audit action plans previously carried out work to be carried out in the various areas. About our Report • Observe compliance with procedures, standards and Highlights organizational policies and detect deviations from their Defensive Lines Movement application by the company, suggesting their correction. 1 2 3 Direction • Assess the internal control environment, with emphasis on the Impulse risks of the audited process. Compliance and External Internal Audit: Strategy Audit Reporting to the Vice President • Assess and validate the implementation and effectiveness of the Operations Risk Internal of Governance and Compliance company’s risk management, compliance and internal controls and Business Compliance Audit GRI Annex Units Internal Controls by means of monitoring and periodic testing of processes, with emphasis on priority risks. Regulatory Risks and Internal Controls: Bodies Report to the Planning • Communicate new risks to the Risk and Weakness Management First Second Third and Control Board team for the Internal Controls team. Line Line Line Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Management for sustainability Besides expanding and diversifying our business, with we participate in the selection process for the financial return for shareholders and customer satisfaction, Corporate Sustainability Index (CSI) of B3 S.A. and, our company aims to contribute to the evolution of society in 2019, we were selected for the ninth consecutive towards a more sustainable mode of production and year to compose the portfolio. consumption. The social and environmental development of the territories and communities located in the regions of We are also part of the global actions of the Carbon our operations is one of the foundations on which we build Disclosure Project (CDP), which aims to engage NO ZERO GOOD HEALTH our business model. companies around the world in a model of impact POVERTY HUNGER AND WELL-BEING assessment and accountability for action to mitigate In the system of corporate governance that we practice, climate change. In the last year, we received an A rating the Social Responsibility Policy establishes the guidelines from the CDP Climate Change program, after making that we follow in our relationship with our stakeholders. our responses to the international entity’s questionnaire QUALITY GENDER CLEAN WATER 41 EDUCATION EQUALITY AND SANITATION Our premise is to ensure alignment between the company’s available. We are also participants in the Global Reporting strategic objectives and society’s demands for environmental Initiative’s (GRI) Community program, a collaborative, preservation, respect for human rights and ethics in multi-stakeholder network that seeks to constantly interactions between companies and governments. update and share knowledge and trends in sustainability AFFORDABLE AND DECENT WORK AND INDUSTRY, INNOVATION and reporting. CLEAN ENERGY ECONOMIC GROWTH AND INFRASTRUCTURE Therefore, we have sought to connect our activities and operations to the goals proposed by the 17 Sustainable Our sustainability culture permeates all businesses and is Development Goals (SDGs), a United Nations (UN) driven by a management structure dedicated to assessing Messages platform that aims to engage governments, businesses, risks, improvement opportunities and measuring the REDUCED SUSTAINABLE CITIES RESPONSIBLE NGOs and citizens in favor of sustainable development. environmental, social and economic impacts of our INEQUALITIES AND COMMUNITIES CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION About our Report We understand that this agenda, discussed in an operations. This area, integrated with the Center of internationally qualified forum, represents society’s Shared Services and Competences through CCR Atua, Highlights greatest desires and, therefore, is the best compass to relates directly with the units and facilitates the exchange Movement guide our business in creating a positive legacy. of knowledge and good practices through interaction with CLIMATE LIFE LIFE ACTION BELOW WATER ON LAND employees who act as Sustainability Outposts. Direction We are also part of the Brazilian Network of the Global Impulse Compact, a UN initiative that disseminates 10 Principles The Board of Directors continuously monitors and to be followed by companies that aspire to act with assesses the evolution of management towards Strategy responsibility and sustainability. Thus, we place these sustainability, supported by the Risk and Reputation PEACE, JUSTICE AND STRONG PARTNERSHIPS INSTITUTIONS FOR THE GOALS aspects as one of the criteria to be evaluated when making Committee. The members of this committee have, GRI Annex decisions for our business. among their competencies, the ability to identify trends and support the formulation of an action strategy that This vision marks our participation in other forums for positions our company as an inducer of sustainable discussion and promotion of sustainability. Every year, development throughout the value chain. GRI 102-12 Impulse Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 CCR Group’s activities create and share value with all stakeholders that conect to the infrastructure concessions model The efficient management of the concessions we manage generates value for all the audiences with which we relate. Our activities provide a positive impact that goes beyond the financial return to the capital invested by shareholders and capital market agents. In addition to relieving public accounts by assuming the management of concessions that were previously funded by the government, we also contribute to wealth generation through the payment of taxes applicable to our operations. 43 To provide transparency and communicate this value, we were one of the first companies in Brazil to follow the Integrated Reporting guidelines proposed by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). The main objective of this framework is to explain to stakeholders how the company generates value over time, in different types of capital and in different periods. Improvement works and maintenance on the roads, associated with traffic education campaigns, lead to a reduction in the number of accidents in the Messages long term. Since 2010, the base year of the National Plan to Reduce Accidents, we have reduced the rate of fatalities by 43%. About our Report The studies and initiatives we have developed to generate and consume Highlights renewable energy in the concessions, together with plans for mitigation and Movement adaptation to climate change, will help to provide more sustainable travel on roads and in large cities, improving the quality of life for the entire population. Direction Impulse These and other benefits associated with our business model enable us to continue our operations over the long term and recognize that our company Strategy contributes to the country’s economic growth with respect to people and the environment. Thus, we have earned and renewed our social license to expand GRI Annex our portfolio, innovate and make route corrections when necessary. Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 2 million passengers used our urban mobility assets 15.1 square every day kilometers managed at BH Airport in 22.8 million Minas Gerais airport boarding Manufactured capital passengers The assets managed by our company are mobility infrastructure 480 winches, ambulances concessions in different types of modals: highways, airports and urban mobility assets (subway, barges and light rail). In Brazil and and support vehicles for abroad, these business units are responsible for the maintenance drivers 44 and operation of high value-added equipment and a transportation network through which thousands of people travel every day. 3,700 kilometers 2,553 emergency The assets are organized in four different business divisions. This of highways model allows for a more asset-focused management and targeting the roadside managed in search for new opportunities according to the investment profile. Until 2019, the Airports division was the only one with operations in other 5 Brazilian states telephones countries. Messages In 2019, we invested a total of R$ 1.7 billion in our units. The dealers 46 monitored 24 boats 7,980 About our Report that invested the most were CCR ViaSul, CCR NovaDutra and Aeris, representing 28.2%, 18.7%, 10.7% and 9.1% of the total, respectively. subway operating in monitoring Highlights The investments of CCR RodoNorte focused on duplications and stations Rio de Janeiro cameras on Movement restoration works in multiple stretches. At CCR ViaSul, there were disbursements with pavement recovery, equipment acquisition and our assets Direction signage, mostly. Aeris’ investments focused on the construction of Impulse a new terminal and a parking area for equipment used in ground services. Strategy because it allows us to add new business Our structure also has three specialized service companies: CCR with agility, promoting efficiency and maintaining GRI Annex Actua, CCR Engelog and CCR EngelogTec. Located in the municipality quality in the provision of services. of Jundiaí, these units comprise the Shared Services and Competence Center (SSCC) and support our concessions with administrative Our company’s head office is in the city of São Paulo and management, engineering and information technology solutions. The concentrates the professionals of corporate areas that SSCC is a significant competitive differential of our business model, support the operations, as well as the Executive Board. GRI 203-1 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Performance map Click on the map legend to know the location and scope of the CCR Group operations Corporate Services Offices 45 Messages About our Report Highlights Movement Direction Impulse Strategy GRI Annex Back to top GRI 102-2 | 102-4 | 102-6 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Safety of operations Respect for human rights is a premise that we follow when At the BH Airport, conducting business. Article 3 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, to which Brazil is a signatory, states that “every monitoring of human being has the right to life, liberty and security of person”. impacts on local Our company, committed to the principles of the United Nations fauna is also relevant (UN) Global Compact, understands that reducing the risks of to ensure the accidents with employees, customers and third parties who provide services in the concession units is essential to generate operational safety value to shareholders and other stakeholders in a sustainable of aircraft on landings manner and connected to the corporate purpose. and take-offs 46 At airports, urban mobility systems and roads there are several risks that can compromise the safety of employees and third parties. Diverse activities of maintenance, cleaning and operation of assets can result in serious and even fatal accidents. For this reason, there are safety procedures that must be followed both by the professionals themselves and by third parties who provide services in the units. Messages Among the measures adopted are the use of safety equipment to carry out maintenance activities, the guidance About our Report for the installation of flags and containment barriers to avoid collisions with vehicles, machines and equipment, the Highlights requirement for training for the execution of activities such as Movement interaction with the electrical grid, among other aspects. The operational leaders are responsible, in the units, for following Direction and monitoring the compliance with these guidelines. Impulse Through digital systems, we monitor the evolution of Strategy accident rates and the severity of occurrences in our business. In the units, the programs designed to increase employee safety GRI Annex follow the Occupational Health and Safety Normative Instruction, a document that establishes guidelines for stopping risks and protecting people. GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 The Corporate Health and Safety and Quality of Life areas are responsible for monitoring this information, seeking to identify opportunities for improvement in the development of action plans that allow the continuous improvement of the company’s performance. CCR Actua consolidates the corporate monitoring of health and safety indicators, which are monitored daily by the units. In 2019, the frequency of injuries was 13.7% higher among employees. However, the severity rate of these occurrences was 44.6% lower, mainly because the number of fatal accidents rose from nine in 2018 to one in 2019. The fatal occurrence involved a 47 professional from a road unit in the Southeast region. Customer safety is also a priority for the company and the issue is mainly driven by investments in improvement works that increase asset quality and reduce the risk of accidents. On the highways, for example, the installation of protective barriers and the maintenance of signage obligations provided for in the contracts are aimed at reducing the number of collisions. In subway Messages systems, the installation of automatic doors in stations prevents customers from having access to the railway line, reducing falls About our Report and injuries. In airports, one of the greatest risks is the collision Injury rate among Lost days rate among between birds and aircraft, which can cause equipment failures CCR Group employees* CCR Group employees** Highlights that is why the concessionaires adopt systems that scare away this Movement type of fauna and make landing and take-off operations safer. 98.34 14.73 12.95 Direction 11.48 69.39 In addition to these initiatives, we understand that increasing Impulse safety and reducing risks is related to raising people’s awareness. 38.43 For this reason, we invest in training and capacity building for Strategy employees and educational campaigns for drivers, pedestrians and other types of concession users. This communication is continuous GRI Annex and carried out by the units under the guidance of corporate 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 guidelines, according to the opportunities for improvement *Injury rate: number of Work Accident Communications *Lost days rate: number of days of attestations associated (WACs) recorded in the period / total hours worked to the WACs registered in the period / total hours worked * identified in each modal managed. * 1,000,000. Considers all levels of injuries (except 100,000. Considers all levels of injuries (except occupational occupational diseases) and types of accidents (route or diseases) and types of accidents (route or typical). typical), including communications resulting from deaths. GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 403-2 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Reduction of road accidents The investments in roads that we have managed Other initiatives we have undertaken include have led to a significant reduction in the number the installation of metal fences between of accidents with fatal victims in the last decade. the lanes, the construction of walkways, the Since 2010, we have monitored the rates through installation of monitoring cameras, warning the Accident Reduction Plan (ARP), developed in line systems and information panels. In addition with the guidelines of the “Decade of Road Safety” to these actions, the duplication of the roads movement, proposed by the UN with the objective themselves one of the main benefits of the of reducing by 50% the number of deaths from road concession projects increases the safety accidents by 2020. of drivers and contributes to reducing the number of accidents. In 2019, the accident rate remained stable in relation to the previous year, while that of injured victims Education campaigns for safer transit are also showed a slight reduction of 0.9%. The fatality rate, important for the evolution of these indicators. 48 however, increased 11.8% in the annual comparison. The units invest in communication actions and In the consolidated view, the advance compared to the CCR Institute, through investment in social the base year of 2010 is evident: a decrease of 33.8% projects, disseminates the importance of road in the accident index, 27.0% in the number of injured safety among society. victims and 43.0% in the number of fatal victims. Messages Road accidents Injured victims Fatal victims About our Report 1.2745 64.5919 2.9362 Highlights 0.9328 53.8358 0.8439 0.8440 47.6259 47.1740 Movement 1.8326 27,188 25,810 1.6732 Direction 23,029 23,455 14,632 1.4969 13,209 12,756 13,110 Impulse 616 497 465 383 Strategy GRI Annex 2010 2017 2018 2019 2010 2017 2018 2019 2010 2017 2018 2019 Accident index* Index of injured victims* Fatal casualty index* Number of accidents Number of injured victims Number of fatal victims *Accident index = (number of accidents of any kind * 1,000,000) / (length *Index of injured victims = (number of injured victims * 100,000,000) *Fatal victim index = (number of deaths on site * 100,000,000) / of the stretch in kilometers * average daily volume of vehicles in the / (length of the stretch in kilometers * average daily volume of vehicles (length of the stretch in kilometers * average daily volume of vehicles homogeneous segment * number of days in the period). in homogeneous segment * number of days in the period). in the homogeneous segment * number of days in the period). GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | Segurança Viária Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 50,700 trainings carried out through our “Nosso Mundo do Saber” platform Human capital R$ 1.05 billion 12,200 paid in wages and To offer innovative solutions to customers and increase employees benefits satisfaction with the services provided, our company relies on the technical knowledge and experience 49 of employees working in various administrative and operational areas. 22.6% 166,300 hours of leadership Therefore, we consider as a positive value for the of training and company our ability to retain talent and promote positions held employees to new challenges according to the growth capacity building and diversification of the portfolio. In 2019, about by women 800 of our professionals had new opportunities in the Messages company, assuming leadership positions or in transition to different areas in which they worked, reinforcing the About our Report CCR Group’s commitment to develop and prioritize the use of employees in internal opportunities. 13.7% Highlights increase 44.6% Movement One of our greatest challenges in human capital management is the continual mapping of employees in accident reduction Direction who demonstrate interest and competence to fill frequency in the accident positions as leaders in new businesses. This will be one Impulse of our priorities for the year 2020. rate severity rate Strategy GRI Annex GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 To conduct this process, we have structured a new model for evaluating employee skills. The format adopted from 2020 onwards favors transparency and objectivity, collective decision-making and seeks to minimize subjectivity for processes involving promotions, variable remuneration offers and other aspects. The corporate areas and units now have the support of specialists in human resources issues (compensation, training, etc.). With this new structure and way of acting, the People Management area acts closer to the leaders to identify the needs of each team, indicate the best solutions and support the resolution of challenges with more agility and in accordance 50 with our internal policies and processes. Another initiative we will conduct in 2020 is a climate survey among employees. This practice will allow us to identify the positive points of the relationship that the company establishes with the professionals and the opportunities for improvement on other fronts. Messages About our Report Distribution of Distribution of Distribution of Highlights employees by gender employees by region employees by age group Movement 8% 6% 8% Direction 11% 37% Impulse 63% 75% 36% Strategy 56% GRI Annex Men Center-West Up to 30 years of age Women Northeast Between 30 and 50 Southeast years of age South Over 51 years of age GRI 102-8 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 405-1 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 People development We promote several actions for the continuous qualification of employees. The training programs include mandatory, technical, functional and strategic training. In 2019, the online portfolio, which covers 45 courses (19 of them in behavioral skills), reached the mark of 13 thousand hits. Among the other training courses, the following initiatives stood out: • Workshop Feedback and PDI, aimed at analysts, coordinators and above, aims at developing leadership in line with the company’s strategic objectives; 51 • Development of a customized graduate course in Project Management in partnership with the Vanzolini Foundation, with a 100% subsidy for 18 employees; • Involvement of 300 leaders in face-to-face and online actions in the service-oriented continuing education program called Aprimorando. Messages In 2019, the average number of hours of training per employee About our Report was 13.61, an increase of 2.5% over the previous year. The leadership categories (coordinators and above) were Highlights particularly noteworthy, mainly for conducting the Feedback Movement and IDP Workshops. 10.4 thousand employees Direction Last year we also conducted the second class of the Nova were trained by the Nosso Impulse Jornada Program, which helps employees understand retirement as another phase of life, perceiving it in a positive Mundo do Saber program, Strategy way. The program supports participants in reflecting on in face-to-face and online possibilities and gradually planning this new moment. The GRI Annex second class comprised employees from the age of 58. actions GRI 404-1 | 404-2 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Performance evaluation To evaluate deliveries and promote the development of our employees, In 2018, we established that AMG professionals and Assistants we apply methodologies that meet the demands and specificities of will receive annual performance evaluations. The cycle was held the different administrative and operational functions. In this context, at the end of that year and, therefore, we acted in 2019 in the we divide our team into three groups: Service Delivery Group (SDG), improvement actions of these professionals. As of 2020, the Analysis and Management Group (AMG) and Assistants. evaluation and development cycle will take place in the same year. This periodicity is foreseen in the corporate scope, but each For SDG, the process takes place every two years and the objective unit may request, depending on the local context and strategy, is to measure individual performance, serving as a reference for evaluations of its employees. qualification planning, calculation of profit-sharing and merit-based salary changes. For AMG and Assistants, the focus is to evaluate Thus, in 2019, only new employees went through the cycle of performance in relation to culture and organizational values, performance evaluation by experience. The processes for SDG, subsidizing training plans and succession planning. In addition to these AMG and Assistants were not applied in the period on a corporate 52 two models, the company also performs a competency assessment per basis. Exceptionally, by demand of CCR Barcas, the professionals trial period, applicable to all new employees during the year. of this unit were evaluated last year. Percentage of employees who received performance Messages evaluation 2019 2018 2017 About our Report By gender Men 38.19% 81.21% 33.58% Highlights Women 34.22% 84.67% 32.46% The employee performance Movement By functional level evaluation model has two Direction Board of Directors 0.00% 88.68% 7.81% approaches for different Impulse Managers 0.00% 84.54% 10.08% groups of professionals, Coordinators 0.00% 88.59% 10.34% Strategy Supervisors 16.41% 89.93% 29.86% in addition to specific GRI Annex Administrative 8.10% 86.53% 15.54% evaluations for the Operational 42.08% 85.90% 38.58% employees hired during GENERAL 36.71% 82.49% 33.14% the year *Learners and interns have not received performance evaluations in the past three years. GRI 404-3 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 The Quicko 134 professionals Intellectual capital involved in the first application has already been year of the Lean installed on 95,500 Innovation aimed at overcoming the challenges of concessions, Journey modernizing customer service and making our processes more efficient is mobile devices a lever that drives our business model. Our professionals are stimulated to challenge themselves and seek new ways of performing tasks, finding solutions that lead both to adding value to current businesses and to 53 conquer new markets. allows customers to have more convenience in purchasing and receiving products in the departure lounges, making better use of time while waiting The Shared Services and Competence Center companies play a central role for a flight. in driving and spreading the culture of innovation throughout the company. Thus, we have been able to incorporate new solutions that benefit clients At CCR Engelog, our unit specialized in developing civil engineering from concessions and, at the same time, improve and unbureaucratize solutions, the culture of innovation and efficiency drives the development of several internal procedures, giving more agility and efficiency to processes. new construction methods and projects that bring more comfort and safety to users, less environmental impact and gains in competitiveness. This work Messages In 2019, we completed the first year of the Lean Journey at CCR Actua, an model is carried out in partnership with suppliers, driven by the know-how initiative aimed at identifying and improving the various process flows and experience of our employees. About our Report that we carry out in the company that provides administrative services to concessions. The employees actively participated in projects of continuous In this sense, our company studies and invests in actions to improve the Highlights improvement, automation of tasks and changes of routines that reduce flow of vehicles on the highways which generates a reduction in pollutant Movement refining and give more reliability to information in several areas legal, emissions and give more fluidity to passenger movements at the boarding financial, supplies, fleet management, among others. stations which brings comfort and well-being. Research into the use of new Direction asphalt materials and reuse of waste are other examples of improvements Impulse CCR EngelogTec, dedicated to supporting information technology and data that our engineering expertise has provided to all concessions. processing services, has also innovated in the search for solutions that Strategy increase the competitiveness of our business. The vision of the unit is to At airports, energy efficiency projects were implemented to reduce the allow the incorporation of technologies that promote cost reduction, enable consumption of electricity and fossil fuels, which enabled the reduction GRI Annex investments and generate new revenues, but, as a priority, promote a of greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, the use of electrical energy better service for our customers. was optimized for underground lighting and the aircraft yard, with the readjustment of the service road, which reduced the displacement of This strategy has driven the development of a marketplace platform for vehicles operating in the yard. We also replaced the lighting system at the Aeris, the concessionaire that manages the airport in Costa Rica. The tool Passenger Terminal with LED lamps. Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 8.5% increase in energy consumption Natural capital 2.4% 25.7% 447.7 MWh growth The development of mobility infrastructures improves reduction of electric in water the quality of life in large urban centers, allowing customers in waste to choose the most efficient, fast and environmentally energy consumption friendly means of transport. The replacement of vehicles with generation 54 subway systems, for example, makes it possible to reduce savings emissions from CO₂ in cities, with positive effects on air quality and traffic reduction. Airports and highways also bring environmental gains to locomotion over long distances with more speed, safety and comfort. To expand the positive environmental impact of these concessions, we work to make operations more efficient in Messages the use of natural resources such as energy and water. The company adopts mechanisms for business activities to emit less CCR Actua, which provides administrative services for the About our Report greenhouse gases (GHG) and to reuse the waste generated in the units, continuously monitors the indicators and actions improvement works of the assets. developed by each unit with a focus on operational ecoHighlights efficiency. With this centralized vision, CCR is able to Movement The Shared Services and Competence Center is a key structure identify both opportunities for improvement and good for the materialization of this strategic vision on operational practices adopted by a unit that can be adapted and Direction eco-efficiency. CCR Engelog and CCR EngelogTec put their team shared with other concessions or in new businesses. Impulse of engineering and technology experts at the service of the search for innovations and new methodologies that can reduce In addition to the initiatives, investments are made in Strategy the environmental footprint of the different types of managed communication campaigns, training and the training concessions. Thus, it is possible to structure and make viable of leaders so that the search for operational ecoGRI Annex solutions through the installation of solar panels for energy efficiency permeates the work of employees on a daily generation, water reuse processes for train washing, reutilization basis. Individual awareness helps businesses to have an of civil construction waste, among other initiatives. increasingly smaller environmental footprint. GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 The governance structure, revised in 2019, Approach on the allows the issue to be dealt with collectively by precautionary principle the leadership. Within the Executive Board, the Eco-efficiency of operations and opportunities In our units and operations, we observe the precautionary for improvement are analyzed by the Business principle to assess environmental, health and safety Departments, which manage the concessions risks to people in all phases of a concession’s life cycle in their different modals, together with the planning, implementation, operation and demobilization. Communication and Sustainability Department, In these stages, no activity is initiated if any risk factor responsible for the integrated management of the with serious or irreversible impacts is identified. economic, social and environmental impacts of This process is strengthened by the actions of the the company’s business model. Corporate Risk Management area and the Risk and Reputation Committee, which advises the Board of For the Board of Directors, the most relevant Directors, guided by the Risk Management Policy in 55 aspects are addressed through periodic reports force since 2019. Through multidisciplinary discussions and the evaluation of the Risk and Reputation involving the company’s managers, the main corporate Committee. In this sphere of governance, global risks including environmental and health and trends such as the fight against climate safety risks have been mapped and are monitored change and compliance with the guidelines together with the management areas of the action plans established by internal policies, in particular the prepared to promote the mitigation or minimization of Environmental Policy and the Policy on Climate these aspects (learn more on page 34). Change, are observed. Messages About our Report Highlights Movement Direction Impulse Strategy GRI Annex GRI 102-11 | 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 In mobility assets, the full operation of ViaMobilidade and Energy and emissions ViaQuatro led to an increase Energy is one of the main inputs we use in our highways, urban in fuel and electric power mobility assets and airports. To reduce the impact on the use of this resource, ViaRio and CCR RodoAnel were equipped with photovoltaic consumption plates that generate part of the energy used in toll plazas. The same solution was considered in the ViaSul CCR operation project, which manages the Southern Integration Highway (RIS), a concession that we started to administer in 2019. In urban mobility assets, the consumption of energy generated from fuels grew 14.2%, due to the full operation of ViaMobilidade and ViaQuatro, in In addition to reducing costs, the option for self-generation São Paulo, the increase in maintenance with the operational fleet (roadof solar energy contributes to reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) rail truck, terberg and cars) at CCR Metro Bahia and the entry of a new 56 emissions. In order to monitor our impact in this regard, we have vessel in the fleet of CCR Barcas. Fuel consumption on the highways did adopted the methodology of the Brazilian GHG Protocol Program not show significant changes in 2019. and, annually, we publish our emissions inventory on the public registration platform maintained by the entity, with data The full operation of the subways managed in São Paulo also had an verified by an external company. impact on electricity consumption, which increased 37.1% over the previous year and reached 1.2 million GJ in the consolidated view. In 2019, four projects implemented on the highways generated ViaMobilidade, which operates the line 5-Lilac of the subway in São Paulo, combined savings of 447.7 MWh (avoiding the emission of operated for the first full year. ViaQuatro, in turn, expanded the extension Messages 33.13 tCO2e), equivalent to 1.6 thousand GJ and enough to supply covered throughout the period with the inauguration, in 2018, of the São about 2.7 thousand homes in Brazil for one year. From 2020, the Paulo Morumbi station. Considering only the urban mobility modal, the About our Report CCR AutoBAn, CCR NovaDutra, CCR RodoAnel, CCR ViaOeste, ViaRio, increase was 53.5% in the annual comparison. CCR ViaLagos and CCR Barcas units will migrate from the captive Highlights energy market to the free market, allowing the purchase of energy Movement with a guarantee of renewable origin. In CCR ViaSul, we will implement microgeneration photovoltaic plants in an area of Direction Energy generated from the fuel Acquired electric power 30 thousand square meters, allowing the supply with solar energy consumption of the CCR Group (GJ) consumption (GJ) Impulse of equipment along the highway. Strategy 642,870.42 1,235,979.81 Last year, energy consumption from fuel combustion grew 8.5%, 634,798.75 totaling 642,900 GJ. This variation occurred mainly because of the 901,399.08 GRI Annex adoption of hybrid landing (with more intense circulation of diesel 597,606.20 buses) and the supply of electric power to the aircraft on the ground, which demands diesel generators, by BH Airport. 592,484.25 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 GRI 302-1 | 302-4 | 305-5 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 At BH Airport, consumption increased by 8.7% because of the more precise management of the energy reimbursement (since part of the energy in the airport bill is passed on to the commercial establishments located at the unit). On the roads, the reduction in electricity consumption was 16.6%, reflecting initiatives in several units to raise employee awareness and optimize the use of rooms and air conditioning equipment. Direct GHG emissions (scope 1) in 2019, by contrast, were lower in the annual comparison. This result is a reflection of the decrease in the volume of road works, which reduced the need for vegetal suppression and, therefore, the impact related to land use change. 57 Indirect energy GHG emissions (scope 2) have increased as a result of the expansion of urban mobility asset operations. In scope 3, which highlights the carbon footprint of activities in the value chain, 90% of emissions occur at BH Airport, mainly due to fuel consumption in aircraft taking off and landing at the airport. The result obtained in 2019 was slightly lower than the previous year in the consolidated view. Messages CCR Group GHG Emissions (tCO2e)* About our Report Highlights Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Movement 25,777.05 Direction 64,434.54 794,925.51 61,711.00 18,074.18 Impulse 15,398.71 Strategy 707,407.01 55,562.24 690,139.22 GRI Annex 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 *Includes CO2, CH4, N2O, HFC, PFC, SF6 and NF3 gases, reported in CO2 equivalent according to the Brazilian GHG Protocol Program guidelines. This information is preliminary. The final and audited version of the GHG emissions inventory of the CCR Group will be available at www.registropublicodeemissoes.com.br/participantes/1956. GRI 305-1 | 305-2 | 305-3 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Water and effluent Train washing Our water consumption is mainly directed to the maintenance equipment installed and washing activities of equipment, trains and vehicles and at CCR Metro Bahia facilities and to the supply of building facilities. Most of the water resources are supplied by municipal supply systems, raised the volume and the disposal of the used volume occurs in a correct way, of reused water in the sewage collection networks. to 79.8% In the consolidated view, the water consumption of our units increased 2.4% in 2019. Demand for water increased mainly in road operations and at BH Airport. More than 70% of the 58 water consumed is supplied by the local sanitation networks and only in the highways and ViaQuatro there is direct collection in relevant volumes. Our operations, therefore, do not generate significant impacts on water sources. Even so, in a continuous search for efficiency, the units promote In 2019, water disposal totaled 527,500 cubic meters awareness campaigns and adopt measures to avoid waste. of effluent, a volume 3.1% lower than the previous year. This reduction was provided by various actions in the different To improve our performance, we encourage our units to adopt modal concessions. On the highways, there was a 2% decrease, Messages rationalization and water efficiency measures. Three units while urban mobility assets reduced disposal by 2.2%. The have mechanisms for water reuse. At CCR Metro Bahia, an biggest drop (4.8%) occurred at BH Airport. About our Report automatic washer treats and reuses the water used to clean the trains. Acquired in 2018, it was used throughout 2019, Highlights which increased the reused volume by 79.8%, reaching 10.1 CCR Group water consumption (m3) CCR Group effluent discharge (m3) Movement thousand cubic meters. On the highways, CCR AutoBAn and CCR ViaOeste have reuse mechanisms, which allowed the 644,824.62 Direction reuse of 545.1 cubic meters in the year. In the consolidated 613,721.15 515,236.23 527,481.68 Impulse view, the volume reused by these units totaled 10,665.64 cubic meters and was equivalent to 1.74% of all water 544,039.62 Strategy consumed in the period. 599,154.70 GRI Annex 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 GRI 303-1 | 303-2 | 303-3 | 306-1 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Waste Another environmental impact of our activities that we evaluate is the generation and disposal of waste. In 2019, we disposed of 91,000 tons of non-hazardous waste, a 25.7% reduction in the annual comparison. This performance was driven by the lower number of road works, which led to an 83% reduction in the volume generated in this modal. On the other hand, the full operation of Via Mobilidade throughout the year raised the generation in urban mobility by more than 10 times, increasing the representativeness of these 59 operations over the total generated from 5% to 77%. In relation to hazardous waste, the total volume discarded during the year was 883 tons, compared to 924 tons in 2018 (a 4.4% reduction). All waste is transported by duly licensed suppliers, with documentary verification by the units. Messages CCR Group Waste Disposal (t) About our Report Highlights Non-hazardous waste Hazardous waste Movement 460,099.07 923.87 The CCR Group’s premise Direction 883.01 in waste management Impulse is to improve the reuse Strategy 781.22 of materials in other GRI Annex 122,515.70 90,993.18 production chains 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 GRI 306-2 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 152 municipalities benefited by the initiatives Social and relationship capital 50 projects R$ 16 million executed The interaction and dialogue with the communities of the managed by the 60 municipalities served by our concessions are important factors CCR Institute in building a positive reputation for our company. The company’s approval of our services and the way we conduct operations contributes to the dialogue with public authorities and a better understanding of the investments we make through the receipt of toll fees and public transportation. 1.2 million 12 awards participants received To enhance the positive aspects of this relationship, we created the CCR Institute five years ago, a non-profit institution in the Messages operating independently of our business units. Its main objective sponsored actions is, through the organization of incentive laws and application About our Report of the company’s own resources, to promote the realization of social projects focusing on the areas of health, education Highlights and social inclusion, working sustainability transversally with Among the projects carried out, “Caminhos para a Movement innovation and environmental protection projects. Cidadania” and “Estrada para a Saúde” stand out. The first is aimed at training teachers and training students Direction This operating model, carried out in accordance with statutory in the public school network, focusing on road safety Impulse rules and policies approved by the Board of Directors and in and promoting citizenship. The second is aimed at truck compliance with legislation, allows centralized management of drivers on the roads administered by the company, Strategy resources made available by the concessionaires for private social providing various services to improve their health and investment. The amount made possible each year meets the quality of life, reinforcing the importance of traffic GRI Annex requirements of the Culture Incentive Law, the Sports Incentive safety, respect for legislation and combating the sexual Law and the Child, Adolescent and Elderly Support Funds. exploitation of children and adolescents on the roads. GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 The CCR Institute also promotes the engagement of our employees in social actions, through voluntary initiatives and support to social support institutions. The campaigns carried out throughout the year are connected to themes such as cancer prevention and combat, donation of clothes in winter and toys for children in need at Christmas, among other examples. In 2019, the CCR Institute began a restructuring in its governance and revision of the premises of donations and sponsorships, aiming at the continuous improvement of processes and traceability and transparency in the use of the company’s social investment. Our plan is to structure an investment strategy that, supported by the valorization of culture and education, is even more connected to our purpose of satisfying our 61 clients and improving the quality of the service we provide. In 2019, the sponsored actions made it possible to carry out 50 projects that benefited the population of 152 municipalities. The initiatives impacted around 1.2 million people, of which 216.2 thousand through proprietary programs (“Caminhos para a Cidadania” and “Estrada para a Saúde”), 771.9 thousand through projects supported by the incentive law and 245.3 thousand through campaigns conducted by the CCR Institute. Messages Among the highlights of the year were the launch of the Distance Learning Platform (EaD) of “Caminhos para a Cidadania” and the record About our Report number of participants in the 4th Edict of the CCR Institute for Cultural Projects: more than 700 initiatives participated, with 17 selected. In 2019, the Highlights CCR Institute Movement completed five Direction Social investment of the years of operation Impulse 2019 CCR Group (R$ thousand)* Strategy Direct 2,764** Incentive 13,855 To GRI Annex learn TOTAL 16,619 more *Data do not consider investments via ViaQuatro Click here to access the CCR and ViaMobilidade incentive law. Institute website and learn more **In assurance process. about the projects developed. GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 | 413-1 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 16.7% increase in consolidated 83.7% growth net revenue* in net income Financial capital The conquest of new business, the diversification of the portfolio 42.2% and the growth of revenues in the concessions are determinant so growth R$ 1.5 billion in that we can continue the investments that improve the mobility infrastructure directed to the clients. The generation of financial in adjusted dividends paid to our 62 value and the ability to raise funds in the market underpin EBITDA** shareholders the company’s performance model, enabling the continuity of operations in the long term. The conquest and entry into operation of new concessions is a lever for the growth of operating revenues. In 2019, we expanded our *Does not include construction operations in highways and urban mobility assets (learn more in In our business model, the economic and financial results revenue. **Calculated excluding disclosure item 102-10, on page 69). are directly impacted by the country’s economic activity. non-cash expenses: depreciation Messages With the low GDP growth in recent years, Brazil has not yet and amortization, maintenance provision and appropriation of The efficient management of investments and the control managed to resume a pace of industrial activity growth prepaid expenses from the grant About our Report of operating costs led to an adjusted EBITDA of R$ 5.8 billion last or significantly reduce the share of the unemployed or year, with a margin of 61%. Total revenues were R$ 9.5 billion informally employed population. This scenario impacts Highlights (excluding construction revenues), representing an increase on the reduction of the flow of vehicles on roads and Movement of 16.7% over the previous year. This result demonstrates the passengers at airports and urban mobility systems. resumption of the company’s capacity to generate cash and Direction maintain its financial strength in the face of a scenario of low The national government has been looking for alternatives Impulse economic growth in the country. to restructure public accounts and boost economic activity. Partnership with the private sector is seen as Strategy Net income in 2019 was R$ 1.4 billion, an increase of 83.7% one of the priorities for the resumption of investments in compared to the previous period. This evolution also evidences infrastructure, a driver for other productive sectors. For this To GRI Annex the success of the strategy of managing assets with more agility reason, strengthening our management model was essential learn more and competitiveness, a model provided by the formation of so that we could take advantage of the opportunities the business divisions supported by the Shared Services and and broaden the positive impact we generated with the Click here to access the CCR Group’s financial Competences Center (SSCC). concessions we manage. results disclosure and learn more about our performance in the year. GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Strategy Investment in infrastructure is essential for the resumption of Brazilian economic growth and increased competitiveness of all productive sectors in the country. With more integrated and efficient logistics, Brazil would generate value for states and municipalities in all regions, taking advantage of the potential of each location for the flow of industrial and agricultural production and for passenger transportation. 63 The Transport and Logistics Plan, prepared by the National Confederation of Transport (NCT), identified 2,663 priority projects to unlock mobility in national territory. According to the study, it is necessary to invest around R$ 1.7 trillion in airport, road, railway, waterway, port and boarding terminal infrastructure. Only the formation of partnerships between the private sector and the federal, state and municipal governments is able to fill this national gap. Messages Through efficient cost management and the relationship with the capital market, companies are able to drive improvements in roads, airports and About our Report passenger transportation systems. The State, in turn, has the capacity to mobilize the federation entities around public policies that speed up the Highlights concession processes and direct investments to the most strategic and Movement urgent projects for the country. Direction In this context, the greatest opportunities for our company to expand Impulse its business and the ability to generate financial and other value for all stakeholders are present. With a structured corporate governance Strategy system and compliance practices that ensure an ethical and transparent relationship, we are able to win new business and diversify our portfolio, GRI Annex adding innovation, technology and new services to the assets we manage. GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Our strategy is based on the mapping of opportunities and We are attentive development of projects that add value to the company and bring more safety, comfort and well-being to customers. In 2019, for to opportunities example, we signed the contract for the concession of Rodovia in Brazil and de Integração do Sul (Concessionária das Rodovias Integradas do Sul S.A.) and won the concession of Line 15-Silver of the train abroad and to system in the state of São Paulo. innovation in our By 2020, the federal government and other states plan to hold current business, new fairs for the concession of important road sections, which always seeking opens opportunities to strengthen our portfolio in this modal. Besides, we have started to prepare ourselves to be competitive to generate value in the search for the renewal of the current concessions, whose to our audiences 64 deadlines will end in 2021 CCR NovaDutra and CCR RodoNorte. and the growth of Besides Brazil, we are aware of foreign markets. In the the company airport segment, our knowledge of the operation of these assets in other countries accredits us to seek opportunities in other countries in Latin America and the United States, where we operate with TAS, a provider of airport services. In Brazil, we are following the upcoming events and in evaluation for the Messages construction of a new airport to serve the population and visitors to the city of São Paulo, expanding the synergy of this modal About our Report with the highways granted. Highlights Our strategy also seeks to optimize current business, with Movement innovation and new technologies. By offering new services and incorporating systems that increase our operational efficiency, Direction we add new revenues to our assets and achieve reductions in Impulse operating costs, maximizing return on investment. Strategy GRI Annex GRI 103-1 | 103-2 | 103-3 GRI Annex Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Annex • 102-40 and 102-42 List of stakeholder groups and Identifying and selecting stakeholders In 2016, the CCR Group held a workshop to identify CCR Group Airports and select stakeholders, based on an analysis of the Collaborators and senior Service assignees, passenger impact of operations in the different segments of the management, suppliers, transportation companies, airport 66 company’s operations on its various audiences. The municipalities, users, regulatory community, employees, users, process was conducted with the support of an external agency, granting power, supervisory bodies, suppliers, consulting firm, involving representatives from all areas institutional partners and the service providers, shareholders and culminating in the validation of its results by senior community. and granting power. management in 2017. The mapped stakeholders were prioritized in a workshop with modal managers, based on the levels Messages and approaches of engagement of each audience. The Priority three criteria used in this prioritization were: Stakeholders About our Report • Media used for each audience: non-existent, limited Highlights or diverse Movement • Quality of engagement with each audience: low, Urban mobility Roads medium or high Employees, press, users, Press, users, regulatory body Direction • Nature of the relationship with each public: short, regulatory body and granting and granting power, suppliers Impulse medium or long term power, labor unions and employee (including service providers representatives, municipal outsourced companies and works), Strategy In 2019, the CCR Group began a process of updating government (secretariats and municipal government, employees, its materiality matrix, to be completed in 2020, which city council), shareholders and shareholders, communities and GRI Annex will include a new review of the company’s public investors, suppliers, financing road policing. bodies and state government. prioritization. Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 • 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement In 2019, a broader process of updating the In the continuous mechanisms of engagement, the The engagement specifically aimed at updating the materiality matrix began with individual interviews most recurrent or significant issues of each public materiality matrix is conducted every year in order to with company executives. Consultation with external are evaluated by the various areas of the company continuously improve the sustainability reporting of the audiences is scheduled for 2020. to take measures that contribute to the quality of CCR Group. The approach to this engagement is defined the relationship with stakeholders, institutional each year according to the analysis of the context In the ongoing mechanisms of engagement with transparency and continuous improvement of of that moment and the most relevant inputs for the audiences, engagement approaches are distinct operations. All manifestations receive feedback, improvement of the materiality matrix. and defined from the nature of the relationship according to common practices of the areas with each stakeholder. For employees, the units responsible for the respective channels or provided In 2016, this process involved two distinct approaches. provide channels via e-mail and, in some cases, an for in internal procedures and regulations. On the one hand, the various audiences prioritized in internal radio. Users, on the other hand, have at the workshop with managers were invited to answer their disposal contacts in the Ombudsmanships, Among the employees, most of the contacts are 67 an online consultation questionnaire. On this front, 170 including by telephone 0800, and channels Contact related to suggestions for internal disclosure and responses from employees, local communities, investors, us via institutional websites and official profiles opportunities for improvement in management suppliers, the press, public authorities, NGOs and users, in the social media, in addition to being heard practices and participation in internal surveys on among others, were consolidated. In parallel, individual periodically in satisfaction surveys. In 2019, CCR various topics. Among users, the most frequent interviews were conducted with 9 CCR Group executives Group suppliers were engaged on issues related requests refer to doubts or demands for support in and 12 external experts. to sustainable development through a newsletter the use of services and the evaluation of the service and a quiz. Investors participated in an annual provided in the units of the various modals. In 2017, there was no direct stakeholder engagement meeting called CCR Day. In addition, the company Messages specifically focused on the materiality matrix, so its promotes mechanisms for dialogue with entities Suppliers and investors show greater interest review and update was based on formal feedback from and institutions involved in the work of the CCR in the strategic alignment and clarity of the About our Report the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) on Institute via the institutional e-mail box and possible assumptions and expectations of the CCR Group. the 2016 base year report and questions from investors meetings. For the first group, the critical issues are related Highlights and rating agencies received daily by the company. to the requirements for supplying and valuing the Movement partnership with the contracted companies. In the In 2018, improvements in reporting were incorporated capital markets, the focus is more on operating Direction from feedback from IIRC and the GRI Stakeholder • 102-44 and financial results, including medium and longImpulse Engagement and Materiality Disclosure Review conducted Key topics and concerns raised term prospects. In its interaction with third sector on the 2017 base year report after its publication. This The main topics and concerns raised by stakeholders entities, the CCR Institute receives mainly demands Strategy engagement with the GRI provided feedback from in the engagement conducted specifically to define about the rules of participation in the calls for the stakeholders’ perspective, helping to clarify the the materiality matrix have been consolidated proposals and partnership opportunities. GRI Annex information presented in the disclosure items submitted into the seven material themes of the CCR Group for this assessment. presented in disclosure item 102-47 (page 9). Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 • 102-45 The prioritization of topics considered the influence of stage, considering risks and opportunities to the Entities included in the consolidated financial various aspects on stakeholder decision-making and business model, and in the regrouping in 2017, statements the impact of these same topics on corporate strategies. consolidating the opportunity for synergies among the The information related to the GRI disclosure items This analysis was based on direct engagement inputs material issues. covers the operations in Brazil with operational control and document analysis, and had as main criteria for of the company: : CCR NovaDutra, CCR ViaLagos, CCR prioritization the risks and opportunities associated with RodoNorte, CCR AutoBAn, CCR ViaOeste, CCR RodoAnel, each topic, the significant impacts of the Group’s activities, CCR SPVias, CCR MSVia, CCR ViaSul, BH Airport, ViaQuatro, and the relationship of these aspects with the Sustainable • 102-48 ViaMobilidade, CCR Barcas, CCR Metro Bahia, CCR S.A., Development Goals (SDOs). In this process, the CCR Group Restatements of information CCR Actua, CPC (CCR Engelog and CCR EngelogTec), offices identified 21 material themes, which were presented to the In each disclosure item, where applicable, the in Rio de Janeiro and Brasília and Samm. The disclosure Board for deliberation and approval. At the end, ten themes information restated and which diverges from the data items related to the staff (102-8, 102-38, 102-41, 205-2, were prioritized and guided the content of the 2016 Annual reported in previous years was highlighted. 403-2, 403-3, 404-1, 404-2, 404-3, 405-1 and 405-2) also and Sustainability Report. include the third parties of CCR NovaDutra and the entities SPCP, ATP, FiveTrilhos and Toronto. In 2017, the topics went through a process of maturation and 68 incorporation into management, based on the opportunities • 102-50, 102-51 and 102-52 Only the financial disclosure items (102-7, 201-1 and for improving reporting identified with the IIRC and capital Reporting period, Date of most recent report and 203-1) have the same scope as the consolidated financial market representatives. Based on this, the material themes Reporting cycle statements of the CCR Group, including, in addition to were regrouped into five corporate themes and two related The report covers the period from January 1 to the entities listed above, the legal entities CCR España, to modals (highways, urban mobility and airports), reflecting December 31, 2019. This is the 14th edition of the MTH, CIIS, CCR Infra SP, CCR Lam Vias, CCR Mobilidade, structure and management synergies. The theme Excellence Annual and Sustainability Report, published annually CCR Ponte, Inovap 5, CCR España Emprendimientos, and Innovation was incorporated into Service Quality, and by the CCR Group. The most recent previous report was Alba Concessions, Alba Participations, Aeris Holding, Relationship with Granting and Regulatory Power was published in March 2019. Messages Aeropuertos, Desarrollos, Terminal, CCR Costa Rica, absorbed by Governance and Ethical Conduct. This updating IBSA Finance, IBSA, Green Airports, CCR Costa Rica, SJO process was approved by the then Executive Sustainability About our Report Holding, CAP, CARE, CAI, CPA, SPAC, CIP, CCR USA and TAS. Committee, within the Board of Directors. Highlights • 102-53 In 2019 there was no change in the scope and boundary of Contact point for questions regarding the report Movement material themes. A new process of updating the materiality Questions and comments on the report can be directed Direction • 102-46 and 102-49 matrix is underway, with completion scheduled for 2020. to sustentabilidade@grupoccr.com.br. Defining report content and topic Boundaries and Impulse Changes in reporting The principles for defining the content of the report defined The process of defining the material themes of the CCR by the GRI guided all the work steps described. Direct Strategy Group had as inputs the direct engagement of audiences listening to the public for specific purposes of materiality • 102-54 and 102-56 in 2016, analyses of the sectors of activity and business or permanent engagement ensured the inclusion of Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI GRI Annex strategy, identification of trends and challenges for stakeholders in the process. The alignment with the ODS Standards and External assurance sustainable development in the main global agendas, and the perspective of the CCR Group’s action scenario of This report has been prepared in accordance with the feedback from the International Integrated Reporting the 2016 consultation cycle, in turn, respected the principle GRI Standards: Core option. The publication has been Council (IIRC) in 2017 and daily questions from investors of sustainability context. Finally, the materiality and subject to external verification (for more information, and rating agencies. completeness guidelines were ensured in the prioritization see the Assurance Report on page 108). Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 • 102-1, 102-3 and 102-5 • 102-10 Name of the organization, Location of headquarters and Ownership and legal form Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain The CCR Group’s holding company is CCR S.A., a publicly traded company On January 11, 2019, CCR ViaSul signed Concession Contract No. that pioneered the New Market, the environment of B3 (Brazil, Stock Exchange, 01/2019 with the Federal Government, through the National Land OTC) that brings together corporations with the best management practices. Transport Agency, for the operation of infrastructure and public The Group’s headquarters is located at Av. Chedid Jafet, 222 Block B 5th floor, ZIP service provision of recovery, operation, maintenance, monitoring, CODE: 04551-065 Vila Olímpia São Paulo (SP). For information, access: conservation, implementation of improvements, expansion of http://en.grupoccr.com.br/grupo-ccr/about-grupo-ccr. capacity and maintenance of the service level of the road system composed of stretches of BR-101/290/386/448/RS, in the State of • 102-7 Rio Grande do Sul. Scale of the organization On March 11, 2019, the ViaMobilidade Line 15 Consortium, led by CCR Group Size 2019 2018 2017 the CCR Group (80% participation), had its proposal declared as Indicators (R$ million) the best ranked for the execution, under an onerous concession, Net revenue* 9,494 8,137 7,538 of the public service of passenger transportation of the São Paulo 69 subway Line 15-Silver, with monorail technology. On November 28, Gross debt 19,031 17,026 16,905 2019, the CCR Group learned from news published in the press that Shareholders’ equity 8,440 8,433 8,492 the Court of the 11th Circuit of the Public Treasury of the Court of Justice of São Paulo judged the request formulated in a popular TOTAL ASSETS 33,262 30,816 30,612 lawsuit, filed in face of the Public Treasury of the State of São Paulo *Does not include construction revenue and the Company of the São Paulo Subway and others, to declare null and void the bidding for the concession of Line 15 Silver. The Number of employees per modal in 2019 CCR Group is not part of such lawsuit, and this decision may be Messages appealed. 7.89% 2.95% About our Report Roads On May 31, 2019, the celebration of the Ninth Amendment to the Urban mobility Shareholders’ Agreement of CCR S.A. was disclosed to the market Highlights Airports in order to update the percentage of shares linked to the referred Services and Movement 36.69% 52.48% Shareholders’ Agreement (44.5767% of the shares issued by CCR) corporate offices and adjust the parts of this Agreement, considering the merger of Direction shares of AGC Participações Ltda. by Andrade Gutierrez Concessões Impulse S.A. and of this by its parent company Andrade Gutierrez Participações S.A., without changing the control block of CCR. Strategy On July 23, 2019, the CCR Group announced the increase of its GRI Annex shareholding in the VLT Carioca S.A. concessionaire. Currently, the company controls the consortium, with 66.95%. 14.86% 14.86% 15.05% 55.23% Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 • 102-13 Participation in associations Scope of Main entities with which Through its participation involvement CCR Group companies are involved in public discussions and Corporate Associação Brasileira da Infraestrutura e Indústrias de Base (Abdib) class associations, the CCR Associação Brasileira de Captadores de Recursos (ABCR) Group contributes to the articulation of efforts in favor Associação Brasileira de Comunicação Empresarial (Aberje) of the agendas of its sectors Benchmarking do Investimento Social Corporativo (BISC) and sustainable development. Conselhos regionais de administração, engenharia, agronomia, medicina, enfermagem e farmácia, de acordo com a qualificação técnica dos colaboradores GRI American European LLC* GRI Latam Club* 70 Grupo de Institutos, Fundações e Empresas (GIFE) International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) Pacto Global (ONU) Roads Associação Brasileira das Empresas de Serviços de Telecomunicações Competitivas (Telcomp) – por meio da Samm Associação Brasileira de Concessionárias de Rodovias (ABCR) Associação Brasileira de Ouvidores (ABO) Messages Associação Comercial do Rio de Janeiro (ACRJ) – por meio da CCR ViaLagos About our Report Associação Mata Ciliar – por meio da CCR AutoBAn Highlights Conselho Consultivo do Parque Estadual da Pedra Branca (PEPB) – por meio da ViaRio Federação das Indústrias do RJ (Firjan) – por meio da CCR NovaDutra Movement Urban mobility Associação Latino-Americana de Metrô e Subterrâneos (Alamys) – por meio da ViaQuatro Direction Associação Nacional dos Transportadores de Passageiros sobre Trilhos (ANPTrilhos) Impulse Airports Associação Comercial e Empresarial de Minas (ACMINAS) Strategy Airport Council International (ACI) Associação Nacional das Empresas Administradoras de Aeroportos (ANEAA) GRI Annex AV Norte – Associação dos Desenvolvedores do Vetor Norte Belo Horizonte Convention & Visitors Bureau Câmara Ítalo-Brasileira de Comércio, Indústria e Agricultura de Minas Gerais Federação das Indústrias de Mínas Gerais (FIEMG) * This means an association to the GRI Club an association that promotes meetings, conferences and discussions about infrastructure and Real State in the world. It does not refer to Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 • AO G4-4 and AO G4-7 • AO G4-8 and AO G4-9 Number of professionals working at Operational limits of services offered, Catchment area for passengers and cargo and Size Confins International Airport (MG) controlled or influenced by the organization and scope of airport operations 7,862 and Ownership and legal form The BH Airport site occupies an area of 15.12 square 7,544 In Brazil, BH Airport has been managing the kilometers and has a runway for landings and 6,536 Belo Horizonte International Airport, in the take-offs, 3 thousand meters long and 45 meters municipality of Confins (MG), since 2015. wide. The airport structure includes the passenger Established as a public-private partnership, terminal, with 54 thousand square meters, the cargo 4,836 6,170 5,756 BH Airport is responsible for ensuring the terminal, with 18.4 thousand square meters and operation of the airport, carrying out the annual capacity of 40 thousand tons of cargo, vehicle maintenance and expansion of the terminals parking area, with 34.2 thousand square meters, 71 and coordinating the infrastructure necessary and aircraft yard, with 86 thousand square meters. 1,254 1,250 1,403 for the operation of other companies on site. The In 2019, six airlines operated at BH Airport, totaling 446 442 385 services provided by these companies, such as 102,265 landings and take-offs for 47 scheduled and 7 2017 2018 2019 airlines and commercial enterprises within the seasonal destinations. Own professionals airport, are not under its management. Contractors/subcontractors Airport community* *Companies, institutions and municipalities that operate within the airport but are not contracted to BH Airport as airlines and merchants. Messages About our Report Flight destinations from Highlights Confins International 2019 2018 2017 Movement Airport (MG)* Direction Brazil 49,500 48,850 48,194 Argentina 431 705 538 Impulse Central America 331 347 357 Strategy North America 164 386 345 GRI Annex Europe 320 325 282 Other 341 na na TOTAL 51,087 50,613 49,716 *In 2019, Latam, Gol, Azul, Avianca, TAP Portugal and Copa Airlines operated at BH Airport. Besides these, American Airlines operated in 2018 and 2017. Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Business strategy and economic performance LINKS TO THIS TOPIC INTEGRATED REPORT Financial Capital GLOBAL COMPACT Focused on business competitiveness, the CCR 72 Group acts with the objective of maximizing Support for freedom the generation of financial value to its of association investors. The solidity of the business and the constant investments in the operations, Eradication of supported by systematic risk management, forced labor ensure the capacity to bring results in the short, medium and long term. Abolition of child labor Messages Elimination of About our Report discrimination Highlights SDG Movement Addressing environmental Direction INDUSTRY, INNOVATION The effectiveness of the strategy challenges AND INFRASTRUCTURE and the solid growth of the CCR Impulse Group foster the development of Environmental quality, reliable, sustainable and responsibility Strategy resilient infrastructure. GRI Annex Dissemination of environmentally friendly technologies GRI 103-1 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 • 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed The added value of the CCR Group totaled R$ 6.8 billion in the last year, an amount 12% higher than in 2018, due to the increase in the added value received in transfer. Community investments, accounted for among the inputs acquired from third parties, include donations and tax incentives and totaled R$ 16 million in 2019. Distribution of 2019 2018 2017 value added (R$ million) 73 Staff 1,301 1,212 1,009 Taxes, fees and contributions 1,749 1,557 1,706 Remuneration of third-party capital 2,371 2,711 3,264 Return on equity 1,426 636 1,783 TOTAL VALUE ADDED 6,847 6,116 7,762 Messages About our Report Distribution of value added in 2019 (R$ million) Highlights Movement 1,426 1,301 The value added by Direction the CCR Group in 2019 Impulse 2,371 was 12% higher than in the Strategy previous year 1,749 GRI Annex Staff Taxes, fees and contributions Remuneration of third-party capital Return on equity Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Governance and ethical conduct LINKS TO THIS TOPIC INTEGRATED REPORT Social and Relationship Capital GLOBAL COMPACT The institutional reputation of the CCR Group is Respect for human 74 based, among other aspects, on the excellence rights of corporate governance and compliance management. The conduct of business in absolute compliance with applicable legal Non-participation requirements and in line with the main market in human rights benchmarks is recognized by stakeholders. violations Support for freedom of association Messages About our Report Eradication of SDG forced labor Highlights Movement PEACE, JUSTICE The adoption of best corporate Abolition of AND STRONG Direction INSTITUTIONS governance practices and the child labor highest standards of compliance Impulse contribute to responsive, inclusive, Elimination of participatory and representative Strategy discrimination decision-making. GRI Annex Fight against corruption GRI 103-1 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 • 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio Proportion of 2019 2018 2017 total annual basic salary A. Total annual base salary of the 1,714,705.20 1,265,273.00 1,985,430.00 highest paid employee (R$) B. Average total annual base 35,535.16 36,742.14 38,123.88 salary of other employees Proportion times (A/B) 48 34 52 75 • 205-1 Operations assessed non-compliance with national and international 12 units were for risks related to corruption With the consolidation of the Corporate Risk Management anti-corruption laws, fraud and acts of corruption. All were evaluated corporately involving the Risk selected in 2019 Messages area, we have defined a consolidated matrix of corporate Management and Compliance areas, in order to to be evaluated About our Report risks (learn more on page 34) and matrices for each of the Divisions (CCR Lam Vias, CCR Infra SP, CCR Mobilidade establish mitigation measures and respective implementation deadlines. regarding risk Highlights and CCR Aeroportos), as well as an approach to Central prevention Movement Management, which encompasses CCR Holding and the Shared Services and Competences Center (CCR Actua, CCR The vision is corporate and applicable to 100% of the company; however, to allow greater detail of risks and control Direction Engelog and CCR EngelogTec). and mitigation actions, 12 units were selected for mechanisms. This Impulse This work has made it possible to identify and evaluate the evaluations, which represent 57% of operations: Corporate Center, CCR AutoBAn, CCR Rodonorte, view is applicable the main corporate risks of the CCR Group, including ViaQuatro, BH Airport, CCR NovaDutra, CCR Barcas, to 100% of the CCR Strategy those related to compliance issues, such as conflicts of interest, noncompliance with policies and standards, CCR ViaLagos, ViaRio, CCR Engelog, CCR Actua and CCR EngelogTec. Group GRI Annex Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 • 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures Disclosure of In 2019, the training sessions were punctual in anti-corruption guidelines for Board 2019 2018 2017 the areas of Compliance in Communications, members* Number Percentage Number Percentage Number Percentage Certification in Compliance and Donations and Sponsorships. The Code of Ethical Conduct is being Communicated counselors 0 0.00% 8 44.44% 11 78.57% revised in 2020, with the launch of the new version; Trained counselors 0 0.00% 0 0.00% 0 0.00% training and broader communications will be promoted to the entire internal public. 76 *All the members of the CCR Group governance are in the Southeast region. Employees in the Southeast region communicated on Employees trained anti-corruption guidelines on anti-corruption Northeast Southeast South in 2019* Number Percentage guidelines in 2019* Number Percentage Number Percentage Number Percentage Messages Board of Directors 30 90.91% Board of Directors 0 0.00% 5 15.15% 0 0.00% Managers 68 81.93% Managers 0 0.00% 22 26.51% 0 0.00% About our Report Coordinators 137 88.39% Coordinators 1 6.25% 5 3.23% 1 5.56% Highlights Supervisors 220 97.78% Supervisors 0 0.00% 0 0.00% 0 0.00% Movement Administrative 499 85.45% Administrative 2 4.76% 39 6.68% 0 0.00% Direction Operational 7,515 96.84% Operational 1 0.09% 5 0.06% 1 0.12% Trainees 275 95.82% Trainees 0 0.00% 0 0.00% 0 0.00% Impulse Interns 57 100.00% Interns 0 0.00% 0 0.00% 0 0.00% Strategy TOTAL 8,801 95.83% TOTAL 4 0.30% 76 0.83% 2 0.20% GRI Annex *The percentage is less than 100% because no *In the Midwest no training on anti-corruption disclosures were made at BH Airport, ViaRio and Quicko. guidelines has been conducted. In the other regions, all employees from all regions and functional levels were communicated. Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 • 307-1 • 415-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and Political contributions regulations In accordance with Law no. 13,165/2015, the companies of In 2019, the CCR Group paid R$ 8.6 thousand in the CCR Group did not make political donations in 2019. fines for environmental non-compliance at its concessionaires. The total amount and in each unit is not considered significant in relation to the company’s revenues in the period. The concessions • 419-1 involved were CCR ViaLagos, CCR SPVias, CCR Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social NovaDutra, CCR AutoBAn and ViaQuatro. The control and economic areas and monitoring of fines is performed by the SisJuri The fines paid in the year by the CCR Group due to penalties and FlexChain systems. imposed by the granting power totaled R$ 2.6 million. 77 • 406-1 Unit Amount paid in 2019 (R$) Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions CCR RodoAnel 933,839.59 taken CCR ViaOeste 863,229.96 In 2019, no cases of discrimination were registered by the Ethics Line. CCR MSVia 460,422.61 CCR AutoBAn 306,199.60 Messages BH Airport 17,301.25 About our Report • 412-3 TOTAL 2,580,993.01 Significant investment agreements and contracts Highlights that include human rights clauses or have Movement inderwent human rights screening Significant investment contracts are those entered Direction into with related parties or with third parties whose Impulse value exceeds R$ 20 million and whose approval depends on a resolution by the Board of Directors. The CCR Group’s Code of Ethical Strategy All contracts of this type have specific clauses that Conduct is being revised, and an GRI Annex ensure compliance with human rights aspects. In 2019, 21 significant contracts were signed, compared updated version will be released to all to 71 in 2018 and 52 in 2017. employees by 2020 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Relationship with stakeholders and development of the regions in which it operates LINKS TO THIS TOPIC GLOBAL COMPACT Respect for INTEGRATED REPORT SDG human rights Social and Non-participation GOOD HEALTH Initiatives of the CCR Relationship Capital in human rights AND WELL-BEING Institute, such as “Estrada 78 para a Saúde”, expand access violations The engagement with to health services, acting in Support for freedom surrounding communities the prevention of diseases. of association and the private social investment projects developed by the CCR Eradication of Institute contribute to the forced labor reputation of the Group QUALITY Support for education initiatives, before its audiences Abolition of EDUCATION especially “Caminhos para a Messages and to the constructive child labor Cidadania”, broadens access to relationship with the local quality educational development. About our Report populations. This social Elimination of license is fundamental to Highlights discrimination the proper development of Movement the business. Addressing Direction environmental RESPONSIBLE The dialogue with communities challenges Impulse CONSUMPTION and private social investment AND PRODUCTION Environmental projects amplify efforts for Strategy responsibility sustainable development by raising awareness and raising Dissemination of GRI Annex the awareness of the CCR Group’s environmentally network of stakeholders. friendly technologies Fight against corruption GRI 103-1 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 • 413-1 • AO8 Operations with local community engagement, impact Number of persons physically or assessments, and development programs economically displaced, either voluntarily or involuntarily, by the airport operator or on its behalf by a governmental or other entity, Local engagement, impact assessment 2019 2018 2017 and compensation provided and/or development programs* In 2019, there were no resettlements of communities near BH Airport. The procedures A. Operations with programs to assess local impacts and/or 19 20 19 for this type of situation are foreseen in the 79 community engagement and development Expropriation Program, prepared by the unit B. Total number of operations 21 21 23 in the context of the Environmental Impact Percentage over total (A/B) 90.5% 95.2% 82.6% Study and respective Environmental Impact Report (EIA-RIMA). For the airport expansion *Data do not consider investments via ViaQuatro and ViaMobilidade incentive law works, specifically the new runway and takeoff and other complementary structures, Decree No. 646 was published in 2013, which provides for the affected areas. The EIAMessages RIMA of this project remained throughout 2019 in technical analysis by environmental About our Report agencies and awaits release. Once approved for execution, the expansion works will take Highlights place in the municipalities of Lagoa Santa Movement and Confins and will demand, in the future, the expropriation of a small area currently Direction outside the airport site. Impulse Strategy GRI Annex Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Qualification of human capital LINKS TO THIS TOPIC INTEGRATED REPORT Human Capital GLOBAL COMPACT The SSCC carries out the management and 80 supports the professional development of the Respect for more than 12 thousand employees of the CCR human rights Group. People management prioritizes retaining talent, training the workforce and ensuring a motivating work environment, strengthening Non-participation the identification of each professional with the in human rights strategic business objectives. violations Messages Support for freedom of association About our Report SDG Highlights Eradication of Movement forced labor DECENT WORK AND The CCR Group’s people Direction ECONOMIC GROWTH management contributes to the promotion of full and productive Impulse employment, decent work and Abolition of the eradication of degrading labor child labor Strategy practices. GRI Annex Elimination of discrimination GRI 103-1 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 • 102-8 • 404-1 Information on employees and other workers Average annual training hours per year per employee The CCR Group closed 2019 with 12,220 employees, an increase of 1.5% over the previous year, reflecting the organic growth of the business. There is no seasonality in the workforce or significant activities performed by non-employees. The data was compiled from the payroll, considering the region in which Average hours of each company is allocated. training* 2019 2018 2017 By gender Number of employees by 2019 2018 2017 Men 14.67 16.85 14.45 type of job Men Women Men Women Men Women Women 11.83 7.20 11.55 By functional level Full time 7,397 4,358 7,221 4,184 6,490 4,195 Board of Directors 9.57 6.75 4.28 Part time 259 206 351 279 301 247 Managers 14.79 6.38 13.22 TOTAL 7,656 4,564 7,572 4,463 6,791 4,442 81 Coordinators 24.34 10.80 17.28 Supervisors 24.56 27.01 25.56 Administrative 15.00 6.88 12.15 Number of employees with 2019 2018 2017 a contract of indefinite Operational 13.09 14.13 13.04 duration Men Women Men Women Men Women Trainees 9.41 9.41 12.12 Center-West 425 298 449 293 508 331 Interns 20.01 9.27 19.14 Northeast 1,010 284 1,031 326 1,050 366 GENERAL 13.61 13.27 13.29 Messages Southeast 5,464 3,334 5,533 3,367 4,699 3,308 *Does not consider counselors. About our Report South 545 366 318 228 322 224 The data has been consolidated from CCR’s training management platform, “Nosso Mundo do Saber”. Highlights TOTAL 7,444 4,282 7,331 4,214 6,579 4,229 Movement Direction 2019 2018 2017 Impulse Number of employees with a fixed-term contract Men Women Men Women Men Women Strategy Center-West 7 16 9 13 6 7 GRI Annex Northeast 14 4 67 10 70 36 Southeast 162 224 153 195 119 145 South 29 38 12 31 17 25 TOTAL 212 282 241 249 212 213 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 • 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 2019 2018 2017 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Number Percentage Number Percentage Number Percentage over total over total over total CCR NovaDutra1 1,259 95.71% 1,289 96.48% 1,378 96.30% CCR ViaLagos 180 95.56% 177 97.25% 181 95.76% CCR RodoNorte 574 95.12% 564 95.76% 559 94.81% CCR AutoBAn 1,173 95.82% 1,198 96.07% 1,253 98.88% CCR ViaOeste 731 95.49% 748 96.14% 775 97.42% CCR RodoAnel 474 97.68% 450 95.14% 456 95.61% 82 CCR SPVias 628 95.54% 669 95.98% 680 95.74% CCR MSVia 722 96.68% 742 97.12% 839 98.45% CCR ViaSul 361 95.84% na na na na BH Airport 348 96.55% 390 97.01% 398 96.48% ViaQuatro 1,123 96.97% 1,138 94.83% 1,027 93.18% ViaMobilidade 2 1,120 97.14% 991 96.49% na na Messages FiveTrilhos 3 1 100.00% 1 100.00% na na CCR Barcas 827 96.01% 837 95.55% 857 97.78% About our Report ATP4 1 100.00% 1 100.00% na na Highlights CCR Metrô Bahia 1,255 95.46% 1,346 93.86% 1,448 94.89% Movement CCR Holding (corporate offices) 101 99.01% 123 98.40% 126 98.41% Direction CCR Actua 278 93.88% 304 94.12% 299 95.32% CCR Engelog 133 95.49% 136 95.77% 163 96.32% Impulse CCR EngelogTec 381 93.70% 358 96.50% 345 97.68% Strategy Samm 59 96.61% 59 98.33% 58 98.28% GRI Annex MOBUP (Toronto)2 23 100.00% 7 100.00% na na SPCP na na na na na na CONSOLIDADO 11,729 96.02% 11,528 95.79% 10,842 96.39% 1. CCR NovaDutra data includes third parties. 2. ViaMobilidade and MOBUP (Toronto) were established in 2018, so information from previous years is not applicable. 3. ViaMobilidade subsidiary company, therefore information from previous years is not applicable. 4. CCR Barcas’ subsidiary; until 2017 it was consolidated in the unit’s figures. Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 • 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Composition of 2019 2018 2017 functional levels Men Women Men Women Men Women by gender Composition of governance 2019 2018 2017 Board of Directors 86.49% 13.51% 90.57% 9.43% 95.31% 4.69% By gender Managers 81.63% 18.37% 80.41% 19.59% 84.03% 15.97% Men 92.59% 90.57% 84.21% Coordinators 73.60% 26.40% 72.28% 27.72% 71.26% 28.74% Women 7.41% 9.43% 15.79% Supervisors 82.98% 17.02% 84.23% 15.77% 80.90% 19.10% By age group Administrative 59.19% 40.81% 49.46% 50.54% 49.09% 50.91% Up to 30 years of age 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Operational 62.65% 37.35% 64.36% 35.64% 61.28% 38.72% Between 31 and 50 years of age 40.74% 45.28% 26.32% Trainees 42.51% 57.49% 49.53% 50.47% 47.13% 52.87% 83 Over 51 years of age 59.26% 54.72% 73.68% Interns 45.90% 54.10% 54.43% 45.57% 59.74% 40.26% CONSOLIDATED 62.65% 37.35% 62.92% 37.08% 60.20% 39.80% 2018 Composition of 2019 2018 2017 functional levels Up to 30 Up to 30 Up to 30 Messages years of Between 31 and Over 51 years years of Between 31 and Over 51 years years of Between 31 and Over 51 years by age group age 50 years of age of age age 50 years of age of age age 50 years of age of age About our Report Board of Directors 0.00% 40.54% 59.46% 0.00% 45.28% 54.72% 0.00% 29.69% 70.31% Highlights Managers 1.02% 69.39% 29.59% 1.03% 62.89% 36.08% 0.84% 65.55% 33.61% Movement Coordinators 8.12% 77.16% 14.72% 5.98% 76.63% 17.39% 5.17% 76.44% 18.39% Direction Supervisors 12.77% 71.73% 15.50% 12.42% 72.82% 14.77% 13.54% 71.53% 14.93% Administrative 21.85% 70.33% 7.81% 34.97% 59.09% 5.94% 35.46% 57.46% 7.08% Impulse Operational 35.65% 56.82% 7.53% 36.97% 55.26% 7.77% 38.18% 53.89% 7.84% Strategy Trainees 100.00% 0.00% 0.00% 100.00% 0.00% 0.00% 99.68% 0.32% 0.00% GRI Annex Interns 100.00% 0.00% 0.00% 97.47% 2.53% 0.00% 93.51% 6.49% 0.00% CONSOLIDATED 35.89% 56.19% 7.92% 37.85% 54.17% 7.99% na na na Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 • 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Number of Number of women in people with leadership disabilities by functional level* 2019 2018 2017 positions 2019 2018 2017 Managers 3 3 4 Board of Directors 5 5 3 Coordinators 12 9 8 Managers 18 19 19 Supervisors 11 11 7 Coordinators 52 51 50 Administrative 7 70 58 CONSOLIDATED 75 75 72 84 Operational 348 289 260 Trainees 1 7 7 CONSOLIDATED 382 389 344 • 405-2 *There are no people with disabilities among directors and interns. Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Messages About our Report Ratio of basic salary for women to men 2019 2018 2017 Highlights Board of Directors 72.9% 69.0% 57.0% Movement Managers 88.9% 85.0% 83.3% Women held 22.6% of Direction Coordinators 106.7% 98.0% 96.3% the leadership positions Supervisors 104.5% 102.0% 97.3% Impulse Administrative 87.8% 72.0% 72.1% in the CCR Group at the Strategy Operational 73.1% 67.0% 66.3% end of 2019 GRI Annex Trainees 100.8% 95.0% 104.2% Interns 99.6% 101.0% 104.5% CONSOLIDATED 68.1% 66.0% 60.2% Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Quality of service LINKS TO THIS TOPIC GLOBAL COMPACT INTEGRATED REPORT Respect for human Intellectual Capital Social and Relationship Capital rights Investments in asset quality are a User satisfaction is the primary goal Non-participation 85 fundamental premise for providing of all units. By constantly monitoring in human rights quality services to users. The satisfaction rates and implementing violations CCR Group adopts cutting-edge improvements, the CCR Group technology in its operations, with strengthens its image and reputation Support for freedom SSCC as a differentiated structure before this audience, which recognizes of association for continuous improvement. the quality of service delivery. Eradication of forced labor Messages Abolition of About our Report SDG child labor Highlights INDUSTRY, INNOVATION Excellence in Elimination of Movement AND INFRASTRUCTURE modal operations discrimination and corporate Direction Through its innovation improve SUSTAINABLE CITIES Addressing the technological AND COMMUNITIES operations, environmental Impulse capabilities of the the CCR Group challenges Strategy sectors. provides access to safe, accessible Environmental GRI Annex and sustainable responsibility transport systems. Dissemination of environmentally friendly technologies GRI 103-1 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Safe operation LINKS TO THIS TOPIC INTEGRATED REPORT GLOBAL COMPACT Manufactured Capital Respect for 86 Investments in modal improvement and expansion human rights ensure the adoption of the most modern technologies and continuous operational efficiency of assets. Excellence in management also increases Non-participation in human the capacity to generate value in operations, making rights violations the best possible use of physical resources. Messages About our Report SDG Highlights Movement Direction GOOD HEALTH Road safety management SUSTAINABLE CITIES The safety of operations, AND WELL-BEING continuously seeks to reduce AND COMMUNITIES employees and modal users Impulse the occurrence of accidents is fundamental for access to Strategy and fatalities on roads under transport systems and inclusive concession from the CCR Group. urbanization. GRI Annex GRI 103-1 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 • 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities Injury rate among CCR Group Absenteeism rate among employees* 2019 2018 2017 CCR Group employees* 2019 2018 2017 By gender By gender Men 15.36 13.81 10.49 Men 1.75 2.70 2.53 Women 13.63 11.49 12.10 Women 2.97 2.65 2.15 By region By region Center-West 7.79 6.69 8.79 Center-West 1.42 1.69 1.68 Northeast 10.12 9.38 9.18 Northeast 2.37 2.20 1.69 87 Southeast 16.29 13.97 12.27 Southeast 2.26 2.01 1.85 South 12.47 15.72 10.28 South 1.92 1.53 1.32 CONSOLIDATED 14.73 12.95 11.48 CONSOLIDATED 2.19 1.99 1.79 *Injuries rate: number of Work Accident *Absenteeism rate: number of days lost for medical Communications (WACs) recorded in the period / total hours worked * 1,000,000. Considers all levels of injuries (except certificates (except maternity leave) / total hours worked * 1,000. occupational diseases) and types of accidents (route or typical), including communications resulting from deaths. Messages Lost days rate among Occupational disease rate among About our Report CCR Group employees* 2019 2018 2017 CCR Group employees* 2019 2018 2017 Highlights By gender By gender Men 55.82 57.74 5.06 Men 0.00 0.00 0.00 Movement Women 7.88 89.15 155.84 Women 0.14 0.00 0.00 Direction By region By region Impulse Center-West 0.00 0.00 0.00 Center-West 7.95 0.00 5.90 Strategy Northeast 4.40 246.26 2.38 Northeast 0.00 0.00 0.00 Southeast 8.67 53.86 132.13 Southeast 0.07 0.00 0.00 GRI Annex South 420.22 8.18 2.99 South 0.00 0.00 0.00 CONSOLIDATED 38.43 69.39 98.34 CONSOLIDATED 0.05 0.00 0.00 *Lost days rate: number of days of attestations *Occupational diseases rate: number of WACs associated to the WACs registered in the period / total hours worked * 100,000. Considers all levels of injuries (except registered with the type of accident “2Illness” / total hours worked* 1,000,000. There was registration only in urban occupational diseases) and types of accidents (route or typical). mobility operations, resulting in an occupational disease rate for this modal of 0.18 in the Southeast, 0.66 among women and 0.13 in the consolidated view. Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 • 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities Injury rate among Absenteeism rate among roads employees* 2019 2018 2017 road employees* 2019 2018 2017 By gender By gender Men 15.30 13.82 12.30 Men 1.37 1.27 2.63 Women 14.29 11.36 14.26 Women 2.81 2.62 1.17 By region By region Center-West 7.79 6.69 8.79 Center-West 1.42 1.69 1.68 88 Southeast 16.43 13.33 14.69 Southeast 2.17 1.97 1.89 South 12.47 15.72 10.28 South 1.92 1.53 1.32 CONSOLIDATED 14.82 12.95 13.40 CONSOLIDATED 2.05 1.89 1.81 *Injuries rate: number of Work Accident *Absenteeism rate: number of days lost for medical Communications (WACs) recorded in the period / total hours worked * 1,000,000. Considers all levels of injuries certificates (except maternity leave) / total hours worked * 1,000. (except occupational diseases) and types of accidents (route or typical), including communications resulting from deaths. Messages About our Report Lost days rate among roads employees* 2019 2018 2017 Highlights By gender Movement Men 114.81 6.86 5.28 On the roads, the accident Direction Women 8.57 131.25 298.75 severity rate remained By region Impulse Center-West 7.95 0.00 5.90 relatively stable, with growth Strategy Southeast 8.15 81.53 223.57 of 1.4% in the annual GRI Annex South 420.22 8.18 2.99 comparison CONSOLIDATED 65.03 64.13 170.43 *Lost days rate: number of days of attestations associated to the WACs registered in the period / total hours worked * 100,000. Considers all levels of injuries (except occupational diseases) and types of accidents (route or typical). Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 • 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities Injury rate among Absenteeism rate urban mobility among urban mobility employees* 2019 2018 2017 employees 2019 2018 2017 By gender By gender Men 16.04 15.06 9.64 Men 2.07 1.93 3.03 Women 11.85 10.64 12.02 Women 3.77 3.06 1.73 By region By region Northeast 10.12 9.38 9.18 Northeast 2.37 2.20 1.69 89 Southeast 2.42 2.16 2.30 Southeast 17.33 16.65 13.15 CONSOLIDATED 15.22 14.11 11.45 CONSOLIDATED 2.40 2.17 2.04 *Injuries rate: number of Work Accident *Absenteeism rate: number of days lost for medical Communications (WACs) recorded in the period / total hours worked * 1,000,000. Considers all levels of injuries certificates (except maternity leave) / total hours worked * 1,000. (except occupational diseases) and types of accidents (route or typical), including communications resulting from deaths. BH Airport* health and safety indicators 2019 2018 2017 Messages Lost days rate among urban mobility Injury rate About our Report employees* 2019 2018 2017 Men 18.79 10.05 14.85 Highlights By gender Women 33.09 50.82 3.83 Movement Men 9.22 118.15 0.59 CONSOLIDATED 21.95 19.38 6.90 Direction Women 7.31 2.92 2.45 Lost days rate By region Men 1.88 0.00 6.93 Impulse Northeast 4.40 246.26 2.38 Women 2.21 0.00 0.19 Strategy Southeast 10.69 11.31 1.72 CONSOLIDATED 1.95 0.00 2.07 GRI Annex CONSOLIDATED 8.85 93.45 2.00 Absenteeism rate Men 2.58 2.05 2.95 *Lost days rate: number of days of attestations associated to the WACs registered in the period / total hours worked * 100,000. Considers all levels of injuries (except Women 5.71 5.48 1.90 occupational diseases) and types of accidents (route or typical). CONSOLIDATED 3.27 2.83 2.19 *BH Airport operates in the Southeast region. The rate consolidation formulas are the same as those adopted in other modes and corporately. Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 • 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 2018 2019 2018 Third party CCR Group Roads Urban Airports CCR Group Roads Urban Airports injury rate* mobility mobility By gender Men 18.16 26.78 3.85 4.27 3.47 4.49 4.60 2.08 Women 2.39 0.00 3.82 0.00 5.06 0.00 6.99 5.67 By region Center-West 166.82 166.82 na na 7.59 7.59 na na Northeast 3.59 na 3.59 na 3.85 na 3.85 na 90 Southeast 11.42 17.60 3.97 3.93 3.51 3.90 8.05 2.47 South 50.08 50.08 na na 2.51 2.51 na na CONSOLIDATED 14.82 24.24 3.83 3.93 3.70 4.19 5.42 2.47 *Injuries rate: number of Work Accident Communications (WACs) recorded in the period / total hours worked * 1,000,000. It considers all levels of injuries (except occupational disease) and types of accidents (route or typical), including communications resulting from deaths, occurred in the most significant groups of third parties in each modal: conservation activities on the highways; property security at CCR Barcas; and civil maintenance, conservation and cleanliness at ViaQuatro, ViaMobilidade, CCR Metro Bahia and BH Airport. Two third party companies were considered for each business unit, except CCR Atua and CCR ViaLagos, where only one company was considered. Messages 2018 Rate of occupational 2019 2018 About our Report diseases among CCR Group Roads Urban Airports CCR Group Roads Urban Airports third parties* mobility mobility Highlights By gender Movement Men 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 8.82 17.63 2.76 2.43 Direction Women 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 13.48 0.00 12.22 25.50 Impulse By region Strategy Center-West 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 12.66 12.66 na na Northeast 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 4.82 na 4.82 na GRI Annex Southeast 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 9.41 16.45 8.05 4.94 South 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 20.10 20.10 na na CONSOLIDATED 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 9.51 16.43 6.03 4.94 * Rate of occupational diseases: number of WACs registered with the type of accident “2Sickness” / total hours worked* 1,000,000. Considers the most significant groups of third parties in each modal: conservation activities in the highways; patrimonial security in CCR Barcas; and civil maintenance, conservation and cleaning in ViaQuatro, ViaMobilidade, CCR Metro Bahia and BH Airport. Two third party companies were considered for each business unit, except CCR Atua and CCR ViaLagos, where only one company was considered. Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 • 403-3 • AO9 Workers with high incidence or high risk of Total annual number of wildlife strikes per All collisions are recorded in accordance with diseases related to their occupation 10,000 aircraft movements the requirements of the Aeronautical Accident CCR Group employees perform their activities BH Airport continuously promotes actions to Research and Prevention Center (Cenipa), in controlled and safe environments where all avoid collisions of fauna, especially birds, with with an assessment of the occurrence and its health and safety risks have been identified, aircraft and vehicles. These efforts include associated risk. Of the 43 collisions recorded in classified and mitigated by safety procedures and environmental education activities, internal the year, 38 occurred at the airport site and 5 the supervised use of individual and collective meetings and with the airport community in the surrounding area. Of this total, 17 were protection equipment. All these processes are and seminars. As a result of this awareness recorded after runway revision, 10 reported at governed by a standardization committee, work, the unit has identified in recent years an take-off moments, 9 on landing, 6 on approach according to internal normative instruction for the increase in the number of collisions reported and 1 on descent. An increase in the attractive 91 subject, following the legal requirements and the by mechanics and pilots. In addition, BH Airport focus of vultures in external areas was observed, bases of the integrated corporate health concept. continuously conducts fauna monitoring and which is already being treated with the In this way, there is no high incidence or risk of scaring activities. municipalities responsible for the respective diseases associated with the activities. regions of the occurrences. Accidents involving 2019 2018 2017 Messages local fauna at BH Airport A. Number of accidents with fauna 43 40 35 About our Report B. Total landings and take-offs 102,265 101,225 99,658 Highlights Movement At BH Airport, Number of wildlife damage every 4.2048 3.9516 3.5120 10,000 landings/take-offs (A/B * 10,000) Direction monitoring of Impulse impacts on local fauna is also relevant to ensure Strategy the operational safety of GRI Annex aircraft on landings and take-offs Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Operational eco-efficiency LINKS TO THIS TOPIC GLOBAL COMPACT INTEGRATED REPORT Addressing Natural Capital environmental challenges The rational and efficient use of natural resources is continuously 92 Environmental improved in modals, minimizing negative environmental impacts and responsibility promoting the preservation and availability of natural inputs. This management is coordinated corporately by CCR Actua, ensuring the Dissemination of alignment of efforts and the parameterized management of performance. environmentally friendly technologies SDG Messages RESPONSIBLE The incessant search for the reduction In activities in coastal LIFE About our Report CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION of environmental impacts and the BELOW WATER regions, we seek to optimization of the consumption of prevent maritime Highlights natural resources are premises of the pollution and conserve Movement sustainable management of the business. local ecosystems. Direction Impulse CLIMATE Our operations contribute LIFE In our business, we promote Strategy ACTION to the resilience and ON LAND habitat restoration and adaptability of cities to environmental preservation, GRI Annex climate change. minimizing risks to biodiversity. GRI 103-1 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 • 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Energy generated from CCR Group fuel consumption (GJ)* 2019 2018 2017 Acetylene 72.28 62.87 68.77 Diesel 574,256.09 525,971.53 552,174.89 Gasoline 30,714.01 30,049.58 45,021.92 GLP 1,907.71 1,966.99 2,418.38 Kerosene 8.80 7.57 10.54 Propane 14.97 31.76 13.61 GMP Oil 8.94 0.00 0.00 93 Greases 0.00 2.41 43.63 NGV 1,684.85 964.48 491.26 Ethanol 34,202.95 33,427.06 34,555.75 TOTAL 642,870.60 592,484.25 634,798.75 *Only ethanol comes from renewable sources. The fuel consumption of the units is recorded in the Cerensa management system for monitoring and conversion to GJ. Messages Energy generated from About our Report roads fuel consumption (GJ)* 2019 2018 2017 Highlights Acetylene 0.54 0.05 1.47 Movement Diesel 222,482.28 220,132.14 230,867.85 Direction Gasoline 25,342.64 24,574.55 38,388.44 GLP 694.33 872.40 931.51 Impulse Kerosene 1.82 3.59 6.44 Strategy GMP Oil 8.94 0.00 0.00 GRI Annex Greases 0.00 2.41 0.70 NGV 1,684.85 964.48 491.26 Ethanol 32,440.30 32,139.35 33,094.52 TOTAL 282,655.70 278,688.97 303,782.19 *Only ethanol comes from renewable sources. The fuel consumption of the units is recorded in the Cerensa management system for monitoring and conversion into GJ. Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 • 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Energy generated from urban mobility fuel consumption (GJ)* 2019 2018 2017 Acetylene 71.74 62.82 67.30 Acquired Diesel 346,795.99 302,814.12 317,816.64 electric power Gasoline 2,972.13 3,874.54 4,190.49 consumption (GJ)* 2019 2018 2017 GLP 829.41 542.12 874.12 Roads 133,738.65 160,268.44 134,859.46 94 Kerosene 6.98 3.98 4.10 Urban mobility 1,012,407.88 659,714.35 381,554.18 Propane 14.97 31.76 13.61 Airports 85,615.16 78,768.77 77,743.63 Greases 0.00 0.00 42.65 GRUPO CCR 1,235,979.81 901,399.08 597,606.20 Ethanol 1,356.34 916.39 566.64 *The CCR Group only acquires electrical energy and does not sell energy to third parties. TOTAL 352,047.56 308,245.73 323,575.55 *Only ethanol comes from renewable sources. The fuel consumption of the units is recorded in the Cerensa Messages management system for monitoring and conversion into GJ. About our Report Highlights Energy generated Movement from BH Airport fuel In mobility assets, the full Direction consumption (GJ)* 2019 2018 2017 operation of ViaMobilidade and Impulse Diesel 4,745.44 3,016.55 3,189.45 ViaQuatro led to an increase Gasoline 915.67 883.81 1,059.52 Strategy in fuel and electric power GLP 382.99 448.56 511.95 GRI Annex Greases 0.00 0.00 0.28 consumption Ethanol 86.60 25.44 0.00 TOTAL 6,130.70 4,374.36 4,761.20 *Only ethanol comes from renewable sources. The fuel consumption of the units is recorded in the Cerensa management system for monitoring and conversion into GJ. Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 • 302-4 and 305-5 Reduction of energy consumption and Reduction of GHG emissions 2018 Projects to reduce Savings Savings Payback of investment energy consumption in Description achieved in the equivalent in Estimated project in deployment 2019 per unit of the action year (MWh) emissions (tCO2e) lifetime (in years) CCR AutoBAn In August, the lighting in the six 32.3 2.39 10 4.4 tollbooths was replaced by LED sodium vapor system CCR RodoAnel In August, the lighting in the 13 tollbooths 144.7 10.70 10 6.0 95 was replaced by LED sodium vapor system ViaRio In August, a dimerization system was 210.7 15.59 30 2.1 implemented in the highway lighting, allowing the hourly control of the intensity of lights ViaRio In October, two photovoltaic plants 60.0 4.44 25 5.8 Messages (one 300 kWp and one 900 kWp) were installed in a tollgate About our Report Highlights Movement Direction Impulse Energy efficiency projects Strategy include exchanging lighting GRI Annex systems and installing photovoltaic panels for solar energy generation on roads Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 • 303-1 Water withdrawal by source The increased demand on roads and at BH Airport was only partially offset by an 8% reduction in Roads water consumption by urban mobility operations. CCR Metro Bahia was source (m3)* 2019 2018 2017 responsible for the main factor of this decrease: Groundwater 116,167.91 95,305.66 96,100.08 after the implementation of a telemetry system for monitoring and control, in September 2018, Rainwater 320.34 773.74 643.34 the unit operated throughout the year with more Public or private supply 34,853.56 32,373.30 39,981.30 efficiency and agility to correct leaks and waste, in TOTAL 151,341.81 128,452.70 136,724.72 addition to which cleaning routines were optimized and containment was implemented in all taps of *Consolidated data from the Cerensa environmental the unit. At BH Airport, the 10.3% increase was management system. The CCR Group does not collect water from surface sources nor does it acquire this input from effluents from another organization. caused by extraordinary events, including internal 96 works and tank tests. In the highways, consumption was 17.8% higher, due to the accounting of CCR ViaSul and occasional situations in each of the Urban mobility water concessionaires. consumption by source (m3)* 2019 2018 2017 The performance of the CCR Group, roads and urban Groundwater 54,118.00 22,651.00 0.00 mobility assets are presented in the tables. At BH Rainwater 317.00 458.00 277.00 Airport, the collection occurs only via local supply Public or private supply 239,306.34 294,584.00 260,711.90 Messages network and totaled 165,674 cubic meters in 2019, compared to 150,199 cubic meters in 2018 (data TOTAL 293,741.34 317,693.00 260,988.90 About our Report restated) and 244,277 cubic meters in 2017. *Consolidated data from the Cerensa environmental management system. The CCR Group does not collect water from surface sources nor does it acquire this input from effluents from Highlights another organization. Movement Direction CCR Group water Impulse consumption by source (m3)* 2019 2018 2017 Strategy Groundwater 170,285.91 117,956.66 96,100.08 GRI Annex Rainwater 637.34 1,231.74 920.34 Public or private supply 442,797.90 479,966.30 547,804.20 TOTAL 613,721.15 599,154.70 644,824.62 *Consolidated data from the Cerensa environmental management system. The CCR Group does not collect water from surface sources nor does it acquire this input from effluents from another organization. Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 • 304-2 during the transport of dangerous products Significant impacts of activities, near a river that guarantees the water supply KEY FOREST products, and services on biodiversity of a region. It is worth mentioning that the COMPENSATION PROJECTS The CCR Group’s impacts on biodiversity are different responsibility for mitigating these accidents lies IN 2019: in intensity and type for each modal. When it comes to with the transporter, with the concessionaire works, especially for road extensions and improvements being responsible for logistical support. In in the road network, the main impact is related to the context of PERMF, the CCR Group has CCR RodoNorte the need for vegetal suppression, compensated by mechanisms for the rescue and care of wild and 15,000 seedlings reforestation plantations periodically monitored by domestic animals run over, constant training (13,550 seedlings in regulatory agencies and provided for in the respective of its employees and awareness of customers Parque da Raposa and 1,450 environmental licenses. In particular, these impacts and residents of municipalities in the areas of are significant for the highway modal, since in urban operation of the highways. Partnerships are in Parque das Araucárias) mobility and airports the assets are in urban areas. All also signed with NGOs and wild animal 97 plantations are made in areas of ecological interest, rehabilitation centers, for which the species in contributing to the recovery of permanent preservation need of care are destined. CCR RodoAnel areas, ecological corridors and degraded areas. In 2019, the CCR Group had 34 reforestation projects in progress in At airports, among the priority operational 2,567 seedlings from the the states of São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Paraná and Mato safety risks are aircraft collisions with local fauna, landscaping project of Grosso do Sul, totaling about 430,000 seedlings planted especially birds, mainly during landing and Parque Jequitibá concerning in previous periods. take-off. In this context, BH Airport has the authorization no. 26,670/18, Fauna Risk Management Program (FRMP), In relation to the operation of the roads, the main risk which is focused on preventing aircraft and 2018 Messages is linked to the running over of animals and accidents vehicle collisions with animals and, in addition About our Report with dangerous loads. These conditions are mitigated to mitigating this impact on biodiversity, has by specific programs and control measures, such as the contributed to air traffic safety. Highlights Risk Management Program and the Emergency Response Movement Plan (PGR/ PAE) and the Program for the Escape, Rescue In urban mobility assets, the impacts on and Management of Fauna (PERMF). The PGR/PAE aims biodiversity are virtually zero during operation. Direction to reduce the frequency of accident occurrences, as It is worth mentioning that the CCR Group Impulse well as to minimize the consequences of such events. acts within the legal compliance, that is, it The identification of vulnerable environmental elements obtains from the environmental agencies Strategy (water resources, vegetation, flooded areas, protected all the environmental licenses and other areas, etc.) is carried out as a basis for necessary control authorizations necessary for the execution GRI Annex actions in case of emergency. For example, an accident and operation of its activities. Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 CCR Group GHG emissions inventory (tCO2e)* 2019 2018 2017 Scope 1 55,562.24 61,711.00 64,434.54 • 305-1, 305-2 and 305-3 Scope 2 25,777.05 18,074.18 15,398.71 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions, Energy indirect Scope 3 690,139.22 707,407.01 794,925.51 (Scope 2) GHG emissions and Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions *Includes CO2, CH4, N2O, HFC, PFC, SF6 and NF3 Publicly available since 2012 and audited since 2013, gases, reported in CO2 equivalent according to the Brazilian GHG Protocol Program guidelines. This information is preliminary. The final and audited version of the GHG emissions inventory of the CCR Group will be available at www.registropublicodeemissoes.com.br/participantes/1956. the greenhouse gas (GHG) inventory of the CCR Group is prepared in accordance with the methodology of the Brazilian GHG Protocol Program. In this document, Roads GHG emissions preliminary data are presented, which contribute to inventory (tCO2e)* 2019 2018 2017 the timeliness of the company’s emissions disclosure. This information is subject to change until the inventory Scope 1 22,749.05 32,243.28 28,626.73 is closed. To consult the final version, access the GHG Scope 2 2,770.90 3,027.57 3,393.47 Protocol Public Emissions Register. 98 Scope 3 58,347.81 48,455.04 66,511.80 Overall, direct emissions from CCR (scope 1) were lower *Includes CO2, CH4, N2O, HFC, PFC, SF6 and NF3 in the annual comparison. This result is a reflection of gases, reported in CO2 equivalent according to the Brazilian GHG Protocol Program guidelines. This information is preliminary. The final and audited version of the GHG emissions inventory of the CCR Group will be available at www.registropublicodeemissoes.com.br/participantes/1956. the decrease in the volume of road works from 2018 to 2019, which reduced the need for vegetal suppression and, therefore, the emissions related to land use change, Urban mobility GHG a category that covers this type of impact. Scope 2 emissions inventory 2019 2018 2017 increased in relation to 2018 due to the expansion of (tCO2e)* Messages operations in São Paulo’s subways. ViaMobilidade, which Scope 1 31,627.23 28,239.49 33,319.94 joined the CCR Group in August 2018, operated for the Scope 2 21,166.31 13,398.72 9,930.77 About our Report first full year. ViaQuatro, in turn, expanded the extension covered throughout the period with the inauguration, in Scope 3 9,310.54 7,286.95 8,712.90 Highlights 2018, of the São Paulo Morumbi station. These changes *Includes CO2, CH4, N2O, HFC, PFC, SF6 and NF3 Movement increased the consumption of electricity (learn more gases, reported in CO2 equivalent according to the Brazilian GHG Protocol Program guidelines. This information is preliminary. The final and audited in the disclosure item 302-1, on page 56) and also the version of the GHG emissions inventory of the CCR Group will be available at www.registropublicodeemissoes.com.br/participantes/1956. Direction emissions resulting from this consumption. In scope Impulse 3, which shows the carbon footprint in activities in BH Airport GHG emissions the CCR value chain, 90% of the emissions occur at BH inventory (tCO2e)* 2019 2018 2017 Strategy Airport, mainly due to fuel consumption in the aircraft that take off and land at the airport. The result obtained Scope 1 1,086.09 1,150.19 1,181.11 GRI Annex in 2019 was slightly lower than the previous year in the Scope 2 1,752.30 1,580.36 1,988.15 consolidated view. Scope 3 622,068.45 650,729.30 719,172.33 *Includes CO2, CH4, N2O, HFC, PFC, SF6 and NF3 gases, reported in CO2 equivalent according to the Brazilian GHG Protocol Program guidelines. This information is preliminary. The final and audited version of the GHG emissions inventory of the CCR Group will be available at www.registropublicodeemissoes.com.br/participantes/1956. Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 • 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination CCR Group effluent discharge (m3)* 2019 2018 2017 Urban sewage network 276,833.09 302,390.85 285,296.95 Septic tanks/filter 70,046.20 74,743.20 68,500.95 Lagoon 158,596.00 166,425.87 160,159.13 Anaerobic reactor 21,502.29 0.00 0.00 Drains 504.10 434.70 1,117.20 Aerobic treatment 0.00 45.00 162.00 TOTAL 527,481.68 544,039.62 515,236.23 99 *The generation of effluents from the units is registered in the Cerensa management system for monitoring. The effluents are not reused by another organization. In Airports, the destination is entirely for optional lagoon and the respective volumes are those presented above, since only BH Airport adopts this treatment method in the CCR Group. Roads effluent discharge (m3)* 2019 2018 2017 Urban sewage network 14,127.22 11,030.85 19,853.70 Septic tanks/filter 70,046.20 74,535.30 68,500.95 Messages Drains 158.10 434.70 1,117.20 About our Report TOTAL 84,331.52 86,000.85 89,471.85 Highlights *The generation of effluents from the units is registered in the Cerensa management system for monitoring. The effluents are not reused by another organization. Movement Direction Urban mobility effluent discharge (m3)* 2019 2018 2017 Impulse Urban sewage network 259,155.87 287,061.10 260,711.90 Strategy Septic tanks/filter 0.00 208.00 0.00 GRI Annex Anaerobic reactor 21,502.29 0.00 0.00 Drains 346.00 0.00 0.00 Aerobic treatment 0.00 45.00 162.00 TOTAL 281,004.16 287,314.00 260,873.90 *The generation of effluents from the units is registered in the Cerensa management system for monitoring. The effluents are not reused by another organization. Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Road waste disposal (t) 2019 2018 2017 Non-hazardous • 306-2 Composting 55.04 76.54 300.12 Waste by type and disposal method Reuse 0.00 0.00 0.27 Recycling 2,982.58 98,906.48 436,328.37 Landfill 15,909.99 15,421.99 16,285.53 CCR Group waste Other 129.26 77.83 26.67 disposal (t) 2019 2018 2017 Non-hazardous TOTAL 19,080.37 114,482.84 452,940.96 Composting 55.04 77.34 300.52 Hazardous Reuse 0.00 0.00 0.27 Recycling 396.12 359.82 233.86 Recycling 3,512.73 99,415.81 436,982.31 Recovery (including energy) 0.00 2.83 0.00 Recovery (including energy) 3.50 0.00 21.78 Incineration (mass burning) 2.55 3.21 2.43 Landfill 5.16 0.85 4.62 100 Incineration (mass burning) 48.12 39.02 27.76 Landfill 86,851.55 22,775.06 22,675.77 Other 87.37 105.38 153.33 Other 522.24 208.47 90.66 TOTAL 491.20 472.09 394.24 TOTAL 90,993.18 122,515.70 460,099.07 Hazardous Recycling 411.22 390.10 259.16 Urban mobility waste Recovery (including energy) 0.00 2.83 23.91 Messages disposal (t) 2019 2018 2017 Incineration (mass burning) 4.80 6.43 4.37 Non-hazardous About our Report Landfill 5.54 2.02 172.37 Recycling 170.43 180.47 341.76 Highlights Other 461.45 522.49 321.42 Incineration (mass burning) 48.12 39.02 27.76 Movement TOTAL 883.01 923.87 781.22 Landfill 69,306.57 5,594.05 4,592.10 Direction Outros 361.42 109.43 63.99 Impulse TOTAL 69,886.54 5,922.97 5,025.61 Hazardous Strategy Recycling 13.58 23.54 22.81 GRI Annex Incineration (mass burning) 0.00 0.00 0.05 Landfill 0.38 1.09 0.16 Other 296.67 266.93 168.09 TOTAL 310.63 291.56 191.11 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 • 306-2 • AO4 Waste by type and disposal method Quality of storm water by applicable regulatory standards In 2019, BH Airport began carrying out monthly analysis of the quality of rainwater, which is BH Airport waste disposal (t) 2019 2018 2017 collected by drainage systems on the runway Non-hazardous and take-offs, composed of 15 waterfalls. In Recycling 354.97 323.15 310.87 the previous year, these measurements were started on a quarterly basis. The analysis Recovery (including energy) 0.00 0.00 21.78 considers the following parameters: Anionic Landfill 1,627.34 1,753.84 1,796.13 surfactants, COD, sedimentable solids, mineral Other 31.56 21.21 0.00 oils and greases, total suspended solids, TOTAL 2,013.87 2,098.20 2,128.78 benzene, ethylbenzene, total oils and greases, 101 pH, sulfate, sulfide, toluene and xylene. The Hazardous procedures follow the regulatory norms of the Recycling 1.52 6.74 2.29 Brazilian Association of Technical Standards Recovery (including energy) 0.00 0.00 23.91 (ABNT) No. 9898 and No. 9897, both from Incineration (mass burning) 2.25 3.22 1.89 1987. The compliance parameters consider the Minas Gerais State Council Resolution Landfill 0.00 0.00 167.59 and Environmental Policy No. 01, of 2008. Of Other 77.41 150.18 0.00 the two oil and water separator boxes that Messages TOTAL 81.18 160.14 195.67 receive runway drainage, only one recorded non-compliance of parameters in the months About our Report of June and July. The other analyses had results that complied with the applicable legal Highlights • 306-3 standards. Movement Significant spills In 2019, a leak in the company’s operations was In the highways administered, there Direction registered at CCR Barcas. About 20 liters of oily water were 69 spillage accidents involving third Impulse were spilled in Guanabara Bay after an accident in the parties, being: six at CCR ViaSul, four at • AO6 hoisting of one of the vessels at the Niterói shipyard. CCR AutoBAn, four at CCR MSVia, two at Aircraft and pavement de-icing/anti-icing Strategy A containment barrier had been previously launched, CCR ViaOeste, one at CCR RodoAnel, four at fluid used and treated by m3 and/or according to safety procedures, and the specialized CCR RodoNorte, 34 at CCR NovaDutra and metric tonnes GRI Annex emergency response company was promptly activated, 14 at CCR SPVias. All the occurrences on the BH Airport does not use coolant in its adopting the necessary additional measures to avoid highways are registered in a computerized operations. The airlines are responsible for contamination. The environmental agency followed system, called KCOR. In the other units, no the use, treatment and disposal of this type of the closure of the fight against the stain, and the leaks were registered in the period. substance in the aircraft. company’s performance was satisfactory. Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 GRI content index GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omissions Global Compact GRI 101 | Foundation 2016 General disclosures Organizational profile 102-1 | Name of the organization 69 102 102-2 | Activities, brands, products, and services 33 and 45 102-3 | Location of headquarters 69 102-4 | Location of operations 45 102-5 | Ownership and legal form 69 102-6 | Markets served 33 and 45 102-7 | Scale of the organization 69 GRI 102 | 102-8 | Information on employees and other workers 50 and 81 6 Messages General 102-9 | Supply chain 39 About our Report disclosures 2016 102-10 | Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 69 Highlights 102-11 | Precautionary Principle or approach 55 Movement 102-12 | External initiatives 41 Direction 102-13 | Membership of associations 70 Strategy Impulse 102-14 | Statement from senior decision-maker 5 and 6 Strategy 102-15 | Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 34 and 35 GRI Annex Ethics and integrity 102-16 | Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 36 10 102-17 | Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 37 10 For the Materiality Disclosures Service, GRI Services reviewed that the GRI content summary is presented clearly and that references to disclosure items 102-40 to 102-49 are in accordance with the respective sections throughout the report. GRI 102-55 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omissions Global Compact Governance 102-18 | Governance structure 30 102-28 | Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance 32 102-35 | Remuneration policies 29 and 32 102-38 | Annual total compensation ratio 75 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 | List of stakeholder groups 66 102-41 | Collective bargaining agreements 82 3 102-42 | Identifying and selecting stakeholders 66 103 102-43 | Approach to stakeholder engagement 67 102-44 | Key topics and concerns raised 67 GRI 102 | Reporting practice General 102-45 | Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 68 disclosures 2016 102-46 | Defining report content and topic Boundaries 68 102-47 | List of material topics 9 102-48 | Restatements of information 68 Messages 102-49 | Changes in reporting 68 About our Report 102-50 | Reporting period 68 102-51 | Date of most recent report 68 Highlights 102-52 | Reporting cycle 68 Movement 102-53 | Contact point for questions regarding the report 68 Direction 102-54 | Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 68 Impulse 102-55 | GRI content index 102, 103, 104, 105, 106 and 107 102-56 | External assurance 68, 108 and 109 Strategy GRI Airport AO G4-4 | Operational limits of services offered, controlled or influenced by the 71 GRI Annex Operators Sector organization Supplement 2013 AO G4-7 | Ownership and legal form 71 AO G4-8 | Catchment area for passengers and cargo 71 AO G4-9 | Size and scope of airport operations 71 GRI 102-55 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omissions Global Compact Material topic | Business strategy and economic performance GRI 103 | Management 103-1 | Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 9, 33, 34, 35, 62, 63, 64 and 72 approach 2016 103-2 | The management approach and its components 33, 34, 35, 62, 63 and 64 103-3 | Evaluation of the management approach 33, 34, 35, 62, 63 and 64 GRI 201 | Economic 201-1 | Direct economic value generated and distributed 73 performance 2016 Material topic | Governance and ethical conduct 104 GRI 103 | Management 103-1 | Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 9, 25, 26, 27, 28, 31 and 74 approach 20161 1 103-2 | The management approach and its components 25, 26, 27, 28 and 31 103-3 | Evaluation of the management approach 25, 26, 27, 28 and 31 GRI 205 | Anti-corruption 205-1 | Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 75 10 2016 205-2 | Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 76 10 205-3 | Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 38 10 GRI 307 | Environmental 307-1 | Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 77 8 Messages compliance 2016 About our Report GRI 406 | Non406-1 | Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 77 6 discrimination 2016 Highlights GRI 412 | Human rights 412-3 | Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights 77 Movement assessment 2016 clauses or that underwent human rights screening Direction GRI 415 | Public policy 415-1 | Political contributions 77 10 Impulse 2016 Strategy GRI 419 | Socioeconomic 419-1 | Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area 77 compliance 2016 GRI Annex 1 The form of management refers to all GRI topics listed under the material theme “Governance and ethical conduct”. GRI 102-55 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omissions Global Compact Material topic | Relationship with stakeholders and development of the regions in which it operates GRI 103 | Management 103-1 | Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 9, 15, 16, 60, 61 and 78 approach 2016 2 103-2 | The management approach and its components 15, 16, 60 and 61 103-3 | Evaluation of the management approach 15, 16, 60 and 61 GRI 203 | Indirect 203-1 | Infrastructure investments and services supported 44 economic impacts 2016 105 GRI 413 | Local 413-1 | Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and 61 and 79 1 communities 2016 development programs GRI Airport Operators AO8 | Number of persons physically or economically displaced, either voluntarily or 79 Sector Supplement 2013 involuntarily, by the airport operator or on its behalf by a governmental or other entity, and compensation provided Material topic | Qualification of human capital GRI 103 | Management 103-1 | Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 9, 29, 49, 50 and 80 Messages approach 2016 3 103-2 | The management approach and its components 29, 49 and 50 About our Report 103-3 | Evaluation of the management approach 29, 49 and 50 Highlights GRI 404 | Training and 404-1 | Average hours of training per year per employee 51 and 81 6 education 2016 404-2 | Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 51 Movement 404-3 | Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development Direction reviews 52 6 Impulse GRI 405 | Diversity and 405-1 | Diversity of governance bodies and employees Strategy equal opportunity 2016 405-2 | Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 50, 83 and 84 6 84 6 GRI Annex 2 The form of management refers to all GRI topics and sector indicators listed in the material theme “Relationship with stakeholders and development of the regions in which it operates”. 3 The form of management refers to all GRI topics listed under the material theme “Qualification of human capital”. GRI 102-55 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omissions Global Compact Material topic | Quality of service GRI 103 | Management 103-1 | Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 9, 17, 18, 19 and 85 approach 2016 103-2 | The management approach and its components 17, 18 and 19 103-3 | Evaluation of the management approach 17, 18 and 19 Material topic | Safe operations GRI 103 | Management 103-1 | Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 9, 46, 47, 48 and 86 approach 20164 103-2 | The management approach and its components 46, 47 and 48 106 103-3 | Evaluation of the management approach 46, 47 and 48 GRI 403 | Occupational 403-2 | Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and 47, 87, 88, 89 and 90 health and safety 2016 absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 403-3 | Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 91 GRI Airport Operators AO9 | Total annual number of wildlife strikes per 10,000 aircraft movements 91 Sector Supplement 2013 CCR Group Road safety 48 Messages management About our Report indicators Highlights Movement Direction 4 The form of management refers to all the GRI topics and sector and corporate management indicators of the CCR Group listed under the material theme “Safe Operation”. Impulse Strategy GRI Annex GRI 102-55 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Standard Disclosure Page Omissions Global Compact Material topic | Operational eco-efficiency GRI 103 | Management 103-1 | Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 9, 54, 55 and 92 approach 2016 5 103-2 | The management approach and its components 54 and 55 103-3 | Evaluation of the management approach 54 and 55 GRI 302 | Energy 2016 302-1 | Energy consumption within the organization 56, 93 and 94 7 and 8 302-4 | Reduction of energy consumption 56 and 95 8 and 9 107 GRI 303 | Water 2016 303-1 | Water withdrawal by source 58 and 96 7 and 8 303-2 | Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 58 8 303-3 | Water recycled and reused 58 8 GRI 304 | Biodiversity 304-2 | Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity 97 8 2016 GRI 305 | Emissions 2016 305-1 | Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 57 and 98 7 and 8 305-2 | Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 57 and 98 7 and 8 Messages 305-3 | Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 57 and 98 7 and 8 About our Report 305-5 | Reduction of GHG emissions 56 and 95 8 and 9 Highlights GRI 306 | Effluents and 306-1 | Water discharge by quality and destination 58 and 99 8 waste 2016 306-2 | Waste by type and disposal method 59, 100 and 101 8 Movement 306-3 | Significant spills 101 8 Direction GRI Airport Operators AO4 | Quality of storm water by applicable regulatory standards 101 Impulse Sector Supplement 2013 AO6 | Aircraft and pavement de-icing/anti-icing fluid used and treated by m3 and/or 101 Strategy metric tonnes GRI Annex 5 The form of management refers to all GRI topics and sector indicators of the CCR Group listed under the material theme “Operational eco-efficiency”. GRI 102-55 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 108 Messages About our Report Highlights Movement Direction Impulse Strategy GRI Annex GRI 102-56 Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 109 Messages About our Report Highlights Movement Direction Impulse Strategy GRI Annex GRI 102-56 CREDITS General Coordination CCR Group Sustainability and Communication Team Content, GRI consulting, design, and infography usina82 Photos CCR collection and Shutterstock
