Our Responsibility 2019 Non-financial annual reporting 2019 for Toms Gruppen A/S 2019 Toms Group A/S Page 2 Our Responsibility 2019 About this report In this report, we outline our approach to corporate social responsibility and report on our performance in 2019. Contents Corporate social responsibility statement Material issues This report covers the financial year 1 January 2019 – In order to give a balanced report on corporate responsibility issues related to our business, we assess and report A welcome from our CEO, describing 31 December 2019 and represents the corporate social on material issues. what drives our work for sustainability responsibility statement of Toms Group A/S as required 05 Letter from our CEO Guided by the UN Global Compact principles, we focus at the Toms Group. by Sections 99a and 99b of the Danish Financial Statements Act. on the issues representing a significant risk or opportuniIt forms part of Toms Group’s annual reporting, along ty for us, our business partners or society. This report is with the 2019 annual reports of Gerda & Victor B. structured according to the material issues identified in Strands Fond, Gerda & Victor B. Strand Holding A/S and our continuing materiality assessments. Toms Group A/S, respectively, which present detailed Our approach to corporate responsibility information about our operating and financial results. Terms used and the process leading to Toms Group 06 Responsible Business Conduct The financial annual report can be downloaded at In this report, “Toms Group A/S”, “Toms Group”, “Toms Responsibility Strategy. tomsgroup.com. Confectionery Group”, “Toms Gruppen”, “Toms” and “the Company” are used interchangeably in referring to Toms Gruppen A/S and its subsidiaries. With this report we reaffirm our support of the 10 principles We welcome and value your feedback of UN Global Compact by Our efforts to protect and ensure sustainable If you have any feedback and suggestions on how we describing our actions to conuse of the earth’s resources and act with can improve our reporting, please contact Lea Holm, 12 Our Sourcing tinually improve the integration respect for human rights along our supply of the principles of the United Toms Group CSR and Communications Manager, chain. Nations Global Compact into at lsh@tomsgroup.com. COMMUNICATION our business, culture and daily This report was published by Toms Group A/S digitally in English on 24 March ON PROGRESS operations. 2019 and can be downloaded at tomsgroup.com. Our integration of well-being, high ethical standards and safety-, climateand environ18 Our Operations mental awareness in our corporate culture Toms Group A/S Ownership and processes. Toms Allé 1 Toms Group A/S is a fully owned subsidiary of DK-2750 Ballerup, Denmark Gerda & Victor B. Strand Holding A/S, Ballerup, Denmark. Tel. (+45) 4489 1000 Our initiatives to be a proactive and responsible Fax: (+45) 4489 1099 Design and layout partner in our domestic market communities Web: www.tomsgroup.com Meyer-Bukdahl and Tappert Reklame supporting consumers with the information 24 Our Consumers E-mail: info@toms.dk and knowledge needed to make conscious and responsible choices. Company reg. (CVR) no.: 56759328 Established: 30 January 1924 Registered office: Ballerup Toms Group A/S Page 4 Our Responsibility 2019 Letter from our CEO Our long term success depends on creating value for both the Toms Group and for the society. As we look back at 2019 and forward to 2020, we are • Our successful engagement in Ghana continued in keenly aware of our responsibility to act. The planet is 2019 with our Toms Sustainable Cocoa Sourcing getting warmer and resources are becoming scarcer. Program. Through education, training and support, we Tackling climate change and developing responsible supempower current cocoa farmers, their children and the ply chains are therefore critical for achieving a sustainyoung men and women in the smallholder societies to able future. continue to improve their livelihood and end deforestation. The strong achievements in this program motiWe believe that the Toms Group will be successful in the vate us to keep fighting to achieve even more results. long term by creating value for both the company and See more from page 12. for society. Our activities must make a positive difference to humans along our value chain and for the climate we • In 2019, we continued our investments in energy all depend on, while contributing to the ongoing success optimization at our Danish production sites and of the Toms Group. we reached our goal of having 100% of our power consumption covered by energy from off-shore wind While 2019 highlighted the problems and the need for farms. See more from page 32. action it also showed paths towards solutions. It showed for us a still increasing interest from consumers and • Finally, at page 40 we describe our initiatives for customers in sustainable business conduct. And it showed supporting our consumers to minimize their environwillingness from industry partners, organizations and the mental food print. As a key part of this, we in 2019 set political sphere to promote and partner up in initiatives the ambitious target, that our packaging materials by for sustainable development. 2025 will be 100% recyclable. At the Toms Group we support this positive development Developments and results like these make us proud and we are dedicated to be part of the solutions. That is to share this report with you. And when meeting our why we are integrating sustainability in our business concustomers and observing trends of still more consumers duct with UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) demanding sustainable sourcing and responsible proas our guiding framework. We strive to directly affect the duction, we believe that we are on the right track, and we SDGs where we have the greatest possibilities to make a look forward to continuing the development of the Toms positive difference along our supply chain. Group in 2020. In this report we describe this approach and report on We hope you will enjoy reading this report. the initiatives and results we have focused on in 2019. We would like to highlight a few initiatives and achieveCarsten Lyngsø Thomsen ments. These examples, among others, make us conChief Executive Officer, Toms Group A/S fident that we will succeed in this important task and manage to further develop our business sustainably: Toms Group A/S Page 6 Our Responsibility 2019 What should we focus on to constantly improve social, environmental and financial sustainability along our value chain? How do we contribute to the fulfillment of the Sustainable Development Goals? In this chapter, you can read about our approach to choosing and managing the primary focus areas of our corporate social responsibility. RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CONDUCT Toms Group A/S Page 8 Our Responsibility 2019 Responsible business conduct at the Toms Group Businesses have an increasingly important role to play in securing a sustainable future. We are all part of the challenges highlighted by the UN Sustainable Development Goals. And we all have the possibility to be part of the needed solutions. At the Toms Group, we strive to realize the opportunities Inherent to the risk and materiality assessment were the The Sustainable Development Goals form a framework implement our business-driven Corporate Responsibility we along our value chain have to be part of the solutions. areas, where the Toms Group has the largest impact on and a compass for the sustainable development of the Strategy, continuously adapting it to the ever-changing Our approach span from the origin of our raw materials, society, as well as the areas imposing the greatest risks to Toms Group. Together with the three pillars of our susneeds of our stakeholders and our business. via our own operations to the final consumer product and the Toms Group. tainability strategy they guide us in the choices, prioritizahow we directly or indirectly affect our consumers’ knowltion of initiatives and development of partnerships that edge and possibilities to consume and act sustainably. Going forward, we will continually revisit the materiality are key towards a sustainable future for both the compaOur Responsibility Policy and risk assessment to ensure that our priorities and apny and our surroundings. Our Responsibility Policy sets the overall framework Where we have the greatest impact proach to our corporate responsibility constantly address for our work with responsibility throughout our To prioritize the most important focus areas, we investithe right issues for our business, our stakeholders and At the next page we have illustrated the risks identified value chain. Read the full policy here. gate where we along our supply chain have the greatest society in a local and a global perspective. along our value chain and how we actively strive to mitimpact possibilities. igate these and make a positive difference contributing We are met with very different aspects of responsibility: United Nations’ Sustainable Developto the fulfillment of the SDGs which are most relevant for ment Goals Toms. • We must deal with the broad responsibilities following The UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) is a unifrom our supply chains starting for instance in Ghaversal call for action. They are the blueprint to achieve a Governance na’s smallholder cocoa farms or in Malaysian palm oil better and more sustainable future for all. They address We aspire to good corporate governance, ensuring impleplantations the global challenges all societies face, including those mentation and continued development of our Corporate related to poverty, inequality, climate change, environResponsibility Strategy. • We need to be aware of the climate and environmenmental degradation, peace and justice. tal responsibilities which follow from our ownership of To accomplish this goal, we redefined our governance factories in Denmark and Poland The 17 goals recognize that development must balance structure in 2017. Local ownership of the strategy’s focus social, economic and environmental sustainability and areas have been enhanced with the development of a • We are humble towards the social responsibilities that everyone must contribute to the fulfillment of the “CSR Team” working across the organization to ensure following from our role as employer of 1,200 people goals if they are to be met. that the development of each strategy track is aligned. • We must deal with the multifaceted expectations of That is why we at Toms Group are integrating the SDGs Also, our top management’s role as our “CSR Steering customers and consumers all over the world. in our business conduct. We strive to directly affect the Committee” has been specified. Together with a clear SDGs where we have the greatest opportunities to make annual cycle for discussions, decisions and internal KPI To define the focus areas of our sustainability strategy, a positive difference along our supply chain. development and reporting, this structure will help us we conducted an extensive stakeholder, risk and materiality assessment, including comprehensive research, interviews and workshops involving both internal and external stakeholders. Toms Group A/S Page 10 Our Responsibility 2019 Our Corporate Responsibility Strategy Our Sourcing Our Operation Our Consumers UP DOWN STREAM STREAM Value creation Value creation Value creation We integrate respect for the environment and for We develop, produce and market a consistently high product quality and mitigate food safety We support our consumers to make conscious and responsible choices human rights along our supply chain by: risks in our value chain by: by: • Carefully selecting suppliers • Carefully selecting all raw materials • Educating school children and adults on production chain, sustain• Demanding responsible supplier behavior aligned with Toms Group • Following rigorous procurement and auditing processes ability and balanced lifestyle herby contributing to a more nuanced Supplier Code of Conduct • Mitigating risks connected to sabotage dialogue and base for consumer choices • Collaborating with suppliers for continuous, responsible • Supporting students with insight into sustainable confectionary development We take care of our employees by: production for their assignments and theses • Increasing employee skills • Supporting our employees to live healthy, balanced lifes We support consumers in responsible consumption by: We persistently fight for sustainable raw materials by: • Constantly developing a safer workplace with a strong safety culture • Setting ambitious target for 100% recyclable packaging by 2025 • Continuous and impactful development of a sustainable cocoa • Tracking and maintaining high work motivation • Inform about correct sorting at all packaging by 2025 supply chain • Joining partnerships fighting food waste • Supporting leading international partnerships driving sustainable We minimize our use of resources by: development across the cocoa industry • Implementing comprehensive energy saving projects We support our consumers to integrate active and fun joint-activities • Sourcing responsible palm oil (RSPO) and supporting the global • Maximizing utilization of raw materials, minimizing energy and water consumption in their daily lives by: development towards making sustainable palm oil the norm • Optimizing reuse and recycling through entire production chain • Sponsoring professional sports as OL partner • Supporting family sports in partnership with DIF We base our business conduct on fairness, honesty and high ethical standards by: • Demanding all suppliers to live up to our ethical standards • Training all employees in our Employee Code of Conduct • Providing externally hosted, anonymous Whistleblower scheme Challenges & risks Challenges & risks Challenges & risks • Sourcing from >1,000 suppliers around the world constantly poses • Large number of suppliers and complex supply chains generate potential risk of food fraud • A clear and professional distance between education and marketpotential sustainability issues and contamination ing for school children is important to maintain • Responsible sourcing must take into consideration all – sometimes • Honest and engaging dialogue with consumers poses potential risk contradictory – aspects of sustainability • High demands for efficiency present a potential risk for employee safety and well-being of negative awareness too • Sustainability issues in supply chain must be resolved in responsible • Hiring employees with sufficient competencies can be challenging due to low unemploymanner focusing holistically and on the long run ment in Denmark and great competition for employees in Poland • Current tax setup challenges initiatives to fight food waste • Free access to chocolate and sweets during working hours increases importance of access • Transition to responsible packaging requires structural changes and • Full control of suppliers more that one link away can be challenging to alternative snacks, healthy food and sports at workplace alignment in waste management across Denmark and EU • Developing sustainable, lasting production practices in less devel• Demand in retail for products with a very long shelf life left risks oped, rural communities is highly complex • Food production requires high amounts of energy and resources generating food waste before products reach the stores • Structural, political and cultural conditions and norms in rural com• Energy reducing projects often require big investments and might affect the efficiency of munities can challenge sustainability initiatives production while being implemented • If not consumed as part of a balanced lifestyle our products have • Demand for non-palm oil products challenges the responsible, glob• Demand for fast changes in product design and complexity can challenge the optimal use potential to be unhealthy al transition to making sustainable palm oil the norm of resources at production plants • Supporting balanced life styles must be done respectfully balancing the individual consumers’ wish to choose for themselves • Sourcing and engaging in business partnerships all around the world poses risks of meeting corruption and other unethical behavior • Keeping an inclusive and respectful work environment across cultural, national and professional differences can be challenging Toms Group A/S Page 12 Our Responsibility 2019 OUR We persistently fight for sustainable production of our most critical raw materials and for the integration of respect for the environment and for human rights along our supply chain. SOURCING Read in this chapter about our 2019 initiatives and achievements with the cocoa farmers in Ghana and the international partnerships we are active in. Toms Group A/S Page 14 Our Responsibility 2019 OUR SOURCING Central aspects of our corporate responsibility are located at the beginning of our value chain. We must protect and ensure sustainable use of the earth’s resources and act with respect for human rights along our supply chain, ensuring responsible procurement practices. Our responsibility Many of our goods contain critical raw materials, which Toms Sustainable Cocoa Sourcing Program production poses a potential risk to humans or the enviTo further the positive development achieved during the ronment along their often complex supply chains. last decade, we continued our Toms Sustainable Cocoa Sourcing Program with Ecom Sustainable Management Being a manufacturer, this leaves us with great responsiService as a partner in 2019. bility to stay on top of developments in the supply chains of our critical raw materials and to ensure responsible, The program is being implemented in two cocoa growing risk-based procurement practices for all of our approxiregions of Ghana, Western and Brong Ahafo, in close mately 1,300 suppliers. cooperation with the 5,000 farmers who live in the 112 communities located in these districts. Our fight for sustainable cocoa For more than a decade, the primary focus of our sustainIn continuation of the former projects’ scope and results, able sourcing efforts have been our most important raw our Toms Sustainable Cocoa Sourcing Program in 2019 material, cocoa beans. reached minimum 4,800 farmers through three program components including: Our long-standing engagement and commitment in Ghana build on cooperation with the approximately 1. Improving farmers’ efficiency and resilience 5,000 farmers who grow all of our West African cocoa. to changes in climate, cocoa crop or structural Over the last decade, we have worked closely with comconditions: petent partners such as Danida, Oxfam IBIS, Ecom and We provided free education, training and coaching in local NGOs. The public-private cooperation has shown good agricultural practices, climate smart agriculture strong results, proving that it is indeed possible to create and business management and initiate farm developOur approach changes if you are humble, patient and persistent. ment plans to ensure lasting results. Furthermore we Our Policy for Human Rights and our Supplier Code of Conduct provide the framework provided guidance and support to start up additional for our initiatives on responsible sourcing. Effort is required to ensure respectful and impactful livelihoods, incl. micro loan opportunities, which reduce cooperation with the farmers. We want to empower the farmers’ overdependence on cocoa income. Policy for Human Rights Supplier Code of Conduct farmers by assisting them today and supporting them Our main responsibilities towards human rights conOur pledge to respect human rights, labor standards, with the knowledge they need to take the lead in the 2. Enabling the farmers to improve their livelihoods cern non-discrimination, employee rights, occupational the environment and anti-corruption is reflected at continued sustainable development of their own farms and develop their cocoa production social and health and safety and risks of human rights violations an operational level too, as it forms a significant part and their communities. environmental sustainably: within our supply chain. of our Supplier Code of Conduct. Read the Code of We developed nursery sites where we educate farmers This is described in our Policy for Human Rights, which Conduct here. By taking this approach, our projects have wider scope to produce high-quality cocoa seedlings and shade was prepared in consultation with our law firm valiand are able to support a larger segment of the Ghanatrees with lower mortality rates to be distributed to dating that it complies with the UN Guiding Principles. ian farming communities – reaching our shared goal of the cocoa farmers. This supports the farmers to end The policy can be downloaded here. sustainable, efficient production. deforestation and reinforce reforestation. Toms Group A/S Page 16 Our Responsibility 2019 Inherent in our farmer education is knowledge and No sourcing from protected areas cultural discussions about workers’ rights, children’s Another important milestone reached in 2019 as a result Fighting deforestation rights, equality and environmental sustainability. of CFI (see info next page) was the long waited publicaToms Group is signatory to the cross-industry Cocoa Finally we support rehabilitation of the farms in special tion of forest maps from the Government of Ghana. The Forest Initiative, CFI. CFI gathers the world’s leading need for extra support and build up simple communimaps enabled our sourcing partners to analyze to what cocoa and chocolate companies and the governments ty-based banks groups providing access to responsible extend farms in our program overlap with forest reserves. of Côte d’Ivoire and Ghana in the important fight savings and loans locally. to end deforestation and restore forest areas in the The assessment concluded that none of the farms under cocoa sector. 3. Fighting child labor and support the youths in our program overlap with national parks. A total of 112 cocoa communities: farms equivalent to 4.18 % of the hectares overlap with In March 2019, we reached an important milestone We continued the important fight against child labor forest reserves though. These 112 farmers are therefore with CFI, when all signatories in CFI released action also by developing still more community-based comno longer allowed to produce cocoa at these hectares, plans that spell out concrete steps to end cocoa-relatThese combined actions will play a crucial role in mittees for child labor monitoring and remediation. In which naturally raises huge challenges for them. As part ed deforestation. The action plans focus on: sequestering carbon stocks in West African forests and addition we supported primary schools with teaching of our 2020 program we will therefore help these farmaddressing global and local climate change, in line and school materials. ers with knowledge and support to start up alternative 1. Forest protection and restoration with the Paris Climate Agreement. Finally our 2019 program included youth-focused livelihoods. initiative supporting the youth to stay in the local com2. Sustainable cocoa production and farmers’ Our Sustainable Cocoa Sourcing Program is aligned munities as change ambassadors. livelihoods with our obligations as CFI signatory. In line with our CFI Action Plan, we in 2019 succeeded with a wide 3. Community engagement and social inclusion. range of strong initiatives. Please see the table below for info on each target. CFI Pillar Target Status Accomplishment Rate Forest Protection Map 100% farms and ensure & Restoration that no farms in our program 83% 83% contribute to deforestation Establish 24 nursery sites 23 96% Distribute 20,000 shade trees for farm restoration 19,400 N/A Distribute shade trees to 2,508 farmers 2,860 114% Sustainable Production Produce 250,000 cocoa and Livelihoods seedlings 222,734 89% Distribute cocoa trees to 1,250 farmers 1,286 103% Establish 24 communitybased nurseries 23 96% Training on Good Agricultural Practices for 3,616 farmers 3,607 99% Train 450 farmers in additional livelihood 709 158% Formation of 8 local saving and loan entities 12 150% Social and Community Train 3,616 farmers in Engagement children’s rights and 3,739 103% child labor Toms Group A/S Page 18 Our Responsibility 2019 Together we are stronger Ghana and Nigeria. For more information on the proAs part of our general work for responsible sourcing, we In order to ensure that our efforts result in continued Ghana produces approximately 20 per cent of the gram and its impressive results, click here. also use supplier questionnaires to assess all our supplisustainable development, we always follow closely the world’s cocoa – and Toms buys less than 0.5 per cent of ers. progress and lasting value of our initiatives through the cocoa produced in Ghana. Changes that reach the • German Initiative on Sustainable Cocoa third party evaluations. By end 2020 / start 2021, we will whole cocoa production industry therefore require action Our group company Hanseatische Chocolade is We have not in these mechanisms registered cases from conduct a thorough third party evaluation of the results, by the leading cocoa and chocolate manufacturing commember of The German Initiative on Sustainable our suppliers or other business partners related to corrupeffects and key learnings from our own program from panies and call for broad cooperation across the industry Cocoa (GISCO), which is a joint initiative of the Federal tion, violation of human rights or environmental issues. 2017 to 2020. in different associations. Government, the German sweets and confectionary In the event of any such cases, they will be taken very seTo fulfill our responsibility in making this happen, we industry, the German retail grocery trade, and civil riously and we will act according to our Code of Conduct. Meeting customer demands for certified, sustainable actively take part in a range of national and international society. Jointly, the multi-stakeholder initiative aims to cocoa, we will in 2020 conduct UTZ certifications of our cooperation initiatives: improve the livelihood of cocoa farmers and their famiOur 2020 initiatives two chocolate manufacturing sites. lies as well as to increase the proportion of sustainably In 2020, we continue our fight for a sustainable cocoa • International Cocoa Initiative (ICI) produced cocoa. For more information, click here. supply chain through Toms Sustainable Cocoa Sourcing Since 2009, we have been a partner in the initiative Program and through our engagement in the leading ICI. ICI drives important efforts to improve the lives • CEN/ISO standard international organizations and initiatives WCF, ICI and of children and contribute to the elimination of child The European Committee for Standardization (CEN) CFI. labor in cocoa-growing communities and in the cocoa and the International Organization for Standardizasupply chain. Read about the impressive results here. tion (ISO) have for the last five years been driving the development of a joint standard for traceable and susPalm oil • World Cocoa Foundation (WCF) tainable cocoa. This with the intend to align industry Even though cocoa will always be the most important Since 2011, we have been supporting the WCF to help efforts and bring sustainably improved cocoa producraw material for the Toms Group, we have specific achieve our shared goal of cocoa sustainability. WCF tion into the mainstream. Toms has been an active focus on other raw materials too, for example palm oil. supports cocoa communities, education, field proparticipant in the development of this standard from With a highly complex supply chain, the transition to grams and scientific research. For more information, the beginning. The standard was finalized in 2019. sustainable production and use of palm oil requires visit the WCF website. Read about the standard here. dedicated efforts from a huge number of players in the industry. • Cocoa Livelihoods Program Responsible procurement The Toms Foundation supports WCF’s Cocoa LiveliWe require all our suppliers to follow our Supplier Code Therefore, Toms Group is using 100% RSPO-certified* hoods Program Part 2 running from 2014 to 2019. The of Conduct. This has been the case since 2009. In 2018, palm oil and works through a membership of RSPO to program has worked to increase farm-level productivwe strengthened the commitment by adding a signature make sustainable palm oil the norm. ity of cocoa and food crops of 200,000 smallholder form to the Code of Conduct for each supplier to sign *RSPO: Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil. For more information, click here. cocoa-growing households in Cameroon, Côte d’Ivoire, when initiating or renewing its contract with Toms Group. Toms Group A/S Page 20 Our Responsibility 2019 OUR Naturally, the part of our value chain that offers the greatest possibilities for affecting the social and environmental impact of our business is our own operations. Therefore, we are focusing on the areas Product Quality, OPERATIONS Our Employees, Environment and Climate and Business Ethics. In this chapter, you can read about how these focus areas help us ensure that the right processes, framework conditions and initiatives are in place in order to continue the responsible production of high-quality products. Toms Group A/S Page 22 Our Responsibility 2019 Food safety and product quality The safety and quality of our products are our top priority. We aim to develop, produce and market a consistently high product quality that meets the expectations of the consumers, customers and comply with regulatory requirements. Integrated in supply chain Education and training Risk assessment Certified production plants We have an important responsibility to ensure high prodThrough training and education, we ensure that all emWe have stringent procedures in place to ensure proper All of our production plants have been certified to meet uct quality and to mitigate food safety risks in our value ployees in the Toms Group are aware and take responsirisk mitigation. We do this within the lines of the internationally recognized standards of food safety such chain. bility for our product quality and food safety. HACCP and GMP principles. In case risks are identified, a as FSSC22000 and IFS. These certifications help us to multi-disciplinary team evaluates any potential hazards. secure an adequate level of food safety and good manuAs a consequence, food safety (HACCP) and quality Particularly in relation to personal behavior and hygiene, This evaluation leads to a risk assessment and to the facturing practice (GMP). assurance cover our entire supply chain. It is integrated maintenance, cleaning, sanitation and food safety pracsubsequent implementation of mitigating actions and into the design of new products, new machinery, into our tices and awareness, where we follow certified procedures controls. How we monitor our progress processes and insurance of competent staff. in every step of the production. We have identified two key performance indicators to Mitigation of intentional risks help monitor the results of our work on product quality We carefully select our raw materials and follow rigorous Unfortunately, the food industry also faces intentional and food safety: procurement and auditing processes to ensure safe, food safety risks such as sabotage and food fraud. To high-quality raw materials. All our suppliers are required mitigate any risks connected to sabotage, we are contin1. Number of major non-conformities from authorities, to demonstrate food safety (HACCP) performance equivuously improving our Food Defense Program. The goal customers or certifying body. In 2019 this target was: alent to ours preferably certified according to food safety is to prevent intentional contamination of our products. No major non-conformities from certifying bodies, management or food safety product standards. We have The program includes security and access control to our authorities or customers. Result: The target was met. special focus on suppliers outside EU to ensure complifacilities. The control covers all ingoing and outgoing ance to EU-regulations. And we have processes in place personnel, guests, goods transports, etc. 2. Number of consumer and customer complaints per to identify and act upon negative food safety or quality 100 MT of sold product. In 2019, the target at group impact in our supply chains. Our comprehensive program for approval of suppliers level was max. 6.0 consumer and customer complaints plays a significant role in mitigating risk of food fraud. excluding heat damages and max, 8.0 including heat All our suppliers are approved through questionnaires, damages. Each factory had individual goals for this risk assessments and audits. During this risk assessment, KPI, and they are subject to monthly follow-up. Our approach suppliers are screened on the aspect of food fraud and Our policy for food safety and quality describes our It is an objective that Toms’ employees take ownerthe authenticity of the supplied products. Result: The target was not entirely met. Group level approach to ensure product food safety and quality. ship of the food safety and quality management syscomplaints excluding heat damages was 7.9 per 100 It describes the goals and principles, which guide our tem that is integrated in our manufacturing processes. Furthermore, Toms Group performs risk assessment of MT of sold product and group level complaints inongoing work to ensure high food safety and quality Training of staff and focus on supplier management all raw materials. In this risk assessment, food fraud and cluding heat damages was 10.4 per 100 MT of sold along our entire supply chain. We have established are amongst the highest prioritized focus areas in our food authenticity are important aspects evaluated per product. measurable Key Performance Indicators that we are aim to be our customers preferred choice. group of raw materials. If risks are identified, control profollowing up on continuously, which help us to ensure cedures, such as specific analyses or supplier documentacontinuous improvement. tion, are initiated to ensure authenticity. Toms Group A/S Page 24 Our Responsibility 2019 Toms has processes in place to safeguard against • A part of the reconstruction of the supply chain has non-compliant products. Further, we use the complaints also impacted the chocolate production factory in to actively address the root causes and to conduct correcBallerup, Denmark. Here, we have had strong focus on tive actions. Despite these initiatives, the targets set for reducing the supply chain complexity and on consoli2019 were not met for the total number of complaints. dating production lines which also decreases the food safety risks. However, it is very positive that complaints connected to food safety, are significantly reduced. We have managed • We have established additional preventive measures to reduce such complaints by more than 35 % from such as sieves and filters on the two Danish sites to 2018 to 2019. minimize the risk of contamination of products with foreign bodies. This decrease is the result of especially these initiatives: • Cross organizational GMP-training has been conduct• Introduction of Sortex equipment on the production ed to improve understanding of food safety measures lines and hygiene behavior. • Manual sorting where required • E-learning for all employees at the Toms Group has in 2019 included three e-learning modules in GMP, • Improvements of the quality and food safety of our IT-safety and Code of Conduct. raw materials by executing supplier management according to Toms’ sourcing principles. Our 2020 initiatives In 2020, we are going to continue the food safety and Initiatives and results 2019 food defense initiatives in line with Toms’ values. In 2019, we have worked on several other food safety and quality improving initiatives. There will be a large focus on alignment and mutual learning across production sites within the Toms Group. The most important ones are: We will continue reducing complexity and food safety • The production landscape of Toms is under reconstrucrisks in the supply chain by strategic sourcing initiatives. tion. Our chocolate factory in Bremen Germany has been closed at the end of 2019. The newly established production site in Nowa Sol, Poland has facilities and production lines of high food safety and quality standards. • At our candy confectionary factory in Hvidovre, Denmark there has been several improvements of production lines that have improved food Safety and quality of production. These changes have also improved the working environment. Toms Group A/S Page 26 Our Responsibility 2019 Employee Employee engagement survey Loyalty is generally at a high level across the Group, parEvery year we conduct an employee engagement survey. ticularly in Denmark and Sweden. The differences across We do this to highlight any challenges and potential countries can partly be explained by general variation in for improving our employees’ engagement and work satisfaction levels related to different national cultures “We strive to be an inclusive workplace where each employee thrives environment. Through the employees’ anonymous – it is e.g. typical that Satisfaction & Motivation is lower responses, the survey measures how employees evaluate in the Polish (benchmark 66), German (67) and Swedish and has the opportunity to develop. We believe in the importance their work at Toms on a range of parameters covering (68) labor market than in the Danish (74). We continof our employees having a good work-life balance, and we want to job satisfaction, motivation and dedication as well as a uously work on improving the follow-up process, both number of “drivers” for these: reputation, management, at country level and at team level, to ensure identified support employees having a healthy and active life.” cooperation, job content, wages, working conditions and challenges are handled properly. opportunities for learning and development. This is from our Corporate Responsibility Policy, where The 2019 survey was launched across the Group, i.e. we describe how we aim to make a positive contribution administrative colleagues in Germany were included for along our value chain. This applies in particular to our the first time. 707 employees gave feedback through the 1,200 employees who, as the key to our long history and survey, equal to 92% of those invited. success, have developed Toms into the company it is today. Employee engagement in numbers Results for the two measures of engagement, SatisfacBelow, we describe how we have continued our efforts tion & Motivation and Loyalty are displayed below. On in 2019 to ensure our employees’ engagement, health, a Group level, we see a small decrease in Satisfaction & safety and opportunities to develop at Toms. Motivation from 2018 to 2019, driven by a significant drop in Poland and lower scores in Germany. For Germany, the results reflect well the situation of significant changes made in the organization. Our approach Our diversity policy also describes our approach and Besides our described Corporate Responsibility Policy, initiatives for gender equality in our management and our approach to ensure that Toms is a good and safe among employees in general. In 2019 we established workplace is supported by a number of more specific a new anti-mobbing, anti-harassment policy that deSatisfaction & Motivation 2019 Loyalty 2019 2018 2018 policies that focus on different areas, communicating termines what behavior is unacceptable, and accordhow we define the conditions and expectations. ingly a grievance procedure. 80 80 These include primarily elements of: The aim is to capture as many aspects of the mutual 70 70 • the well-being, safety and development obligations and responsibilities incorporated in the of our employees collaboration between managers and employees. With 60 60 • the terms and conditions of employment these initiatives we will ensure common understanding 50 50 for different employee categories of how we both develop and protect the employees 40 40 and create the best working conditions possible. To mention a few examples of relevant policies, we 30 30 have defined policies for: Personal relations in the All policies that regulate our approach to our employ20 20 workplace; recruitment processes; how we create more ees’ health and well-being are approved by our works 10 10 equality and diversity; health/nutrition/substance council. Our externally available policies are available for download here. 0 0 abuse; and how to handle sickness absence. Group Denmark Germany Poland Sweden Group Denmark Germany Poland Sweden Toms Group A/S Page 28 Our Responsibility 2019 Diversity • Language teaching: In addition to the training and edOccupational health and safety In 2016, all safety groups made a complete workplace We strongly believe that a diverse workforce improves our ucational opportunities we offer our employees within We acknowledge the fact that ongoing adjustment and assessment of their work area and on this basis defined performance potential, strengthens our competitiveness their own specific job area, we offer classes in Danish adaption to market and high demands for efficient and an action plan. and makes Toms a better place to work. and English to employees who, for various reasons, fast production present potential risks for employee safeneed to improve their language skills. ty and well-being. In 2018, we have implemented yearly workplace assessIn all recruitment processes for both employee and ments. In order to ensure that we have reviewed all the management positions, we always strive to have at least • Systematic engagement survey: Annual employee As a consequence, we have a general duty to ensure the topics relevant for our industry over a 3-year period, we one male and one female candidate in the final candiengagement survey. (See details and results of recent safety and health of our employees in every aspect of each year go into depth with one third of the relevant date pool. Likewise, we generally also strive to maintain a survey in the previous section “Employee engagement their daily work. Below, we describe the efforts impletopics. The topics for 2019 were Health & Safety Walks diverse workforce in terms of other diversity parameters. survey”). mented at each of our sites. and solving the Health & Safety challenges at the level in the organization with the power to do so. This is part of Other examples of how we put action behind the words • Flexible working conditions and wage subsidies: As far Denmark our continued focus on accident prevention. of our diversity policy are: as possible, we meet the needs for arrangements with Our health and safety organization at our two factories in flexible jobs and wage subsidies to help employees Denmark is structured in 15 safety groups, each responsiAdditional to our workplace assessments, we continu• People development: In the annual personal developstay connected to the labor market. ble for a workplace area and the people employed in that ously adjust our procedures and training whenever we ment dialogues, we discuss our employees’ needs for area. observe situations in risk of causing any danger to the training and development. The purpose is to ensure These initiatives help us in our efforts to meet our emhealth and safety of our employees. a continued match between employee competences ployees’ diverse and changing needs for training, supand the future requirements of the organization. port and development, and strengthen the benefits of a diverse workforce for Toms. Our approach At our Danish and Polish facilities, our health and safety work is structured systematically and we aim to develop a new Health & Safety Policy in corporation with our working environment groups in 2020. In this policy we will describe our approach for ensuring continuous improvement within health and safety by Gender distribution in management adequate plans and activities, which ensure implementation along our entire supply chain. In addition, the policy The six Board Members on the Board of Toms Group A/S are elected by the general meeting and are up for will describe our aim to continuously develop a proper HSE mindset and responsible behavior through training and election annually. The 100 per cent male gender distribution was maintained in 2019, where no members were up guidelines for employees and contractors. for election. There are, in addition, three staff-elected Board Members, one of whom is female. The Board of Directors aims to have at least one female board member elected by the general meeting by 2021. The executive management group at Toms comprises seven members, two of whom are female. The group of managers below the executive management level* comprises 68 members: 36 per cent women and 64 per cent men. This corresponds to a small increase in the share of women in middle management (28 % in 2018). Executive Management Middle Management 29% 36% 64% 71% Women Women Men Men *Middel managers are defined as employees with personnel responsibility incl. responsibility for budget and for hiring and firing. Toms Group A/S Page 30 Our Responsibility 2019 Poland KPI’s Our health and safety organization at our two Polish In 2019 we have introduced key performance indicators factories in Leszno and Nowa Sól are each responsible for to follow our development in our Health & Safety culture. a workplace area and the people employed in that area. We introduced KPI’s that tell us how many accidents have been extensively studied and on this basis has led In 2019, we continued raising awareness on health to new procedures to prevent the same type of accident and safety among employees. Additional we continhappening again. ued Health & Safety Walks and we focused on accident prevention. We continuously adjust our procedures and Please see the graph below for info on the accident fretraining to optimize the opportunities for achieving the quency for the past years at our sites. In 2019, we have goal of 0 work accidents. had strong focus on prevention of accidents. One way to do this is our efforts for researching the root cause of the Occupational accidents We work systematically to continually improve workplace safety at our factories. Our focus in this work is both on optimization of the physical conditions and on creating a culture where safety is balanced against the company’s other goals. We believe that our total efforts on health and safety at work are most accurate measured by the accident frequency, which is why this is the key indicator we measure our performance against. The graph below shows the accident frequency for the past years at our two factories in Denmark, our German chocolate factory and our Polish packing facility. Occupational accidents per 1 m working hours 60 50 40 30 individual accidents. The majority of all accidents theremodule are planned for 2020 for all levels of managefore have been researched and the plan for prevention ment. The purpose of the program is to build a common 20 has been described in our work place assessment, and understanding of good leadership behavior and create a 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 communicated to the organization. strong leadership culture across functions and countries in the Toms Group. Danish Chocolate Factory Candy Confectionery Factory German Chocolate Factory Polish Packing Facility Polish Chocolate Factory Another KPI is that our Work Environment Groups at our The number of occupational accidents showed a strong decrease in 2019 for our candy confectionery factory. At Danish sites have to perform 6 Health & Safety walks To further enhance our safety culture, we will in 2020 our Danish chocolate factory we also had fewer accidents than in 2018, but due to fewer working hours, the number during 2019. As whole we have planned 81 Health and work targeted on enhancing our accident prevention of accidents per 1 mio. working hours saw a small increase. In 2020, we intensify our efforts for accident prevention Safety walks and 64 % have been conducted. culture. We will do this with a strong focus on transferring with our safety organizations. from a safety culture to a preventive culture. The tools At our Polish packing facility in Leszno the level increased a bit compared to 2018. In 2020 we continue our focus Our 2020 initiatives and procedures enable the identification and prevention on strengthening awareness, as the root cause of many accidents is found to be inattention. All cases are discussed The main focus for 2020 will be to consolidate the broad of accidents. It will guide us on how best to carry out the thoroughly to maximize the prevention of similar accidents. span of people related initiatives established throughwork in our production. Additionally, it will inform us how At our new chocolate factory in Nowa Sól our Health and Safety program is fully implemented with strong processes out the last 3 years to improve the conditions for each to plan and schedule the production in the most safe and focused on building awareness and sharing experiences and information. employee. Our focus will be at implementing these effisecure way possible. Finally, at our German chocolate factory we unfortunately saw an increase due to the process of preparing the producciently in every part of our organization. Hereby, we can tion for closing down. In the light of closing down the production in Germany, we have experienced high level of new improve common ways of working across the countries Finally, at our Polish sites we have planned monthly temporary employees to keep up capacity, covering for a high turnover and a significant higher sickness absence. we are operating in. awareness campaigns on health, safety and environment. This could for instance cover safety, accident An accident is defined as a work-related accident involving lost working time, excluding those accidents in which time lost is Late 2019 we launched a new One Toms Leadership prevention or health-issues as smoking. restricted to the day of occurrence. It is worth mentioning that our statistics cover all accidents, but only count the working Training Program, consisting of 3 modules. The first modhours of the hourly workers. ule was completed in 2019, where the second and third Toms Group A/S Page 32 Our Responsibility 2019 Environment and climate Environment and climate are the cornerstones of our approach to our responsibility. We have an objective to minimize our impact on both global climate and the local environment through targeted efforts within energy savings, support of green transformation and responsible use of resources in our supply chain. Comprehensive energy savings Green power From beginning of 2019, we expanded our support for In 2009, the Toms Group entered a climate partnership Our approach Another key element in our climate partnership is our green energy by covering our entire electricity consumpwith the energy supplier Ørsted (then DONG Energy). Our CSR policy describes our recognition of the procurement of wind power. In 2011, Toms began purtion across the group including Poland, Germany and Since then the partnership has supported us achieving fact that business activities have a crucial impact chasing wind power from Ørsted’s offshore wind farms. Sweden with wind power from Ørsted’s European offenergy savings by reducing energy consumption and on the development of society. This is not least By 2015, all electricity used at our Danish facilities has shore wind farms. Together with our energy optimization reduce our factories’ overall impact on the climate. the case for manufacturing companies like Toms been covered by wind power. projects this resulted in a strong 40 % decrease of our Group. With production and packaging facilities in “Guarantee of Origin” certificates ensure the earmarking CO2 emissions in 2019. As shown in the graph below, In 2018, we initiated a new project with Ørsted with the Denmark and Poland, we have a great responsibilof production of wind power equivalent to the volume of compared to 2015, we have reduced the emission of CO2 ambitious goal of generating comprehensive energy ity to integrate precautionary principles towards our consumption. per MT produced product by 44 %. savings at our Danish factories. With financing and conenvironment and climate and to constantly seek to . sulting services from Ørsted, we are looking forward to minimize our consumption of energy and support reducing our consumption of electricity, gas and district the development of environmental sustainability heating by approx. 20%. along our value chain. The first part of this project involves replacing approxToms Group Energy Consumption (MWh) Toms Group CO2 emissions (MT CO2 per MT produced product) imately 6.000 lighting sources in our production and administration. This will produce annual savings of 1,377 65.000 12000 GWh, which corresponds to more than 300 families’ consumption of power. As an added benefit, the indoor 60.000 10000 climate has been improved, benefitting our employees 8000 55.000 and our production. We have worked on this huge project during 2019 and are looking forward to getting the final 50.000 6000 lighting sources replaced by the beginning of 2020. 45.000 4000 In 2019, we initiated another key sub-project on insula40.000 2000 tion of 1.3km of piping in our Danish chocolate production facility. This technical insulation will save more than 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 1.3 GWh annually and will improve the indoor climate as well. In 2020, we are looking forward to continuing Our total energy consumption across the Toms Group Compared to 2015, by the end of 2019 we have rethis work, where additionally 700 meters of pipes will be increased minimally from 2018 to 2019. The blue line duced the emission of CO2 per MT produced product by insulated, saving additionally 0.8 Gwh. indicates the total energy consumption without the 44.0 %. energy used in connection with our construction of the new factory in Nowa Sól, Poland. Toms Group A/S Page 34 Our Responsibility 2019 Reduction in CO2 emissions Mapping of chemicals Our total energy consumption at the Toms Group We have mapped all chemicals at our Danish and Polish increased minimally in 2019, with a 0.1 % higher factories, and implemented this in a chemical manageconsumption in 2019 than in 2018. From 2015 to 2019 ment system called iChemistry. The system enables us to Most Prevention the total energy consumption of the Toms Group has minimize the number of different chemicals in our profavoured increased by 4.6 %. duction; plan the most efficient training according to the option correct handling of used chemicals and prioritize, which By the end of 2019, Toms Group had succeeded decreaschemicals we plan to substitute with less dangerous ones. Minimisation ing the emissions of CO2 per MT product produced by 44 % compared to 2015. This is mainly a result of purchasOur 2020 initiatives ing green power for our facilities and our energy saving We are in a process of finding the best possible use of the projects mentioned above. chemical management system mentioned above. When fully implemented, the management system will benefit Reuse Waste management purchase, development, production and management of We consider it highly important to minimize the environwaste water. mental impacts of our waste, which is why we prevent or recycle as much of our waste as possible. We focus on In our new production factory in Nowa Sól, Poland we Recycling handling waste at the highest possible level of the waste have included an energy saving system in the construchierarchy. tion of the modern facility. A heat pump is installed to convert excess heat from the cooling system into heating This means that we first attempt to prevent waste and of the building. The heat pump is calculated to save apEnergy recovery limit the loss of raw materials. However, as this is not proximately 25% of our consumption of gas for heating. always feasible, we seek to recycle as much of our waste as possible. Waste that cannot be recycled is utilised for production of district heating or discarded in an enviLeast Disposal ronmentally sustainable manner in line with the most favoured stringent waste disposal standards. option Valuable waste An example of our waste management is our use of cocoa shells. As part of our partnership with Ørsted, we use our cocoa shells, a biodegradable waste product in chocolate production, to produce district heating. The heating is then used in Danish households, thus contributing both to the environment and to savings for Toms. In 2019, we supplied 239 MT of cocoa shells to Avedøre Power Station. At the power station, the cocoa shells are used as biofuel to produce district heating. The 239 MT of cocoa shells produced district heating equivalent to the annual heat consumption of approx. 62 Danish households. Toms Group A/S Page 36 Our Responsibility 2019 Business ethics Sourcing and engaging in business partnerships all around the world pose risks of encounter corruption and other unethical behavior. It is our responsibility to mitigate these risks. Additionally, we have a responsibility to ensure a respectful work environment internally across cultural-, nationaland professional differences in the Toms Group. Our job is simply put; to ensure that our relationship with our supply chain. We also chose to add a signature form Our 2020 initiatives our approximately 1,300 suppliers and partners, 1,200 Our approach to the Code of Conduct, which all suppliers must sign A part of our employee code of conduct training proemployees and customers in 100 countries is based on Our Supplier Code of Conduct and our Employee when a new or renewed contract is signed with the Toms vides guidance on how to avoid conflicts of interest fairness, honesty and high ethical standards. Code of Conduct describes our corporate approach Group. and distortion of competition in the market. Our sales to business ethics. teams are particularly in need of knowledge and tools to Supplier Code of Conduct Employee Code of Conduct ensure ethically correct collaboration with customers and As part of a long value chain, our continued responsiThese documents describe our demands and exTo ensure high business ethics standards, we in 2017 other business partners. Therefore, we ensure that these ble business conduct depends to a great extent on our pectations of all employees as well as all suppliers introduced an internal Code of Conduct. In 2018, we employees receive extra guidance and training in these success in ensuring the same ethical standards with our on ethical, moral, social and environmental responrenewed this code with inclusion of topics related to areas. suppliers as we have internally at Toms Group. That is sibility. our environmental responsibility and responsibilities to why the expectation to respect human rights, labor stanensure correct data protection. Primo 2020, we gather all our sales teams across Dendards, the environment and anti-corruption are reflected We describe below our 2019 initiatives to ensure mark for an in depth training in this conducted by exteron an operational level as significant parts of our Supplier that these documents cover all relevant areas of In 2019, our renewed Employee Code of Conduct formed nal experts in the field from our law firm. Code of Conduct. our corporate responsibility and that they serve as the basis for a new learning module in our corporate effective tools for ensuring high ethical standards e-learning platform. The module is part of our mandatory All employees across the Toms Group will again in 2021 The document was renewed in 2018 with the inclusion of along our value chain. onboarding training and education for all new employcomplete our e-learning including the Code of Conduct more topics to reflect the whole spectrum of the environOur Supplier Code of Conduct ees. Furtheremore, it is part of the mandatory training module. mental and social responsibilities facing all partners in can be downloaded here. package, which each employee must revisit every year to stay aware of the security-, safetyand ethical standards and norms at the Toms Group. Whistle blower scheme Safeguarding high ethical standards requires accessibility, credibility and trust. In 2018, we therefore established a whistleblower system run by an impartial external party, which guarantees security and anonymity. The scheme allows reporting of serious offences that violate the law, regulations or the Toms Group’s policies and Code of Conduct. All reports are confidential and – if requested – fully anonymized. We did not receive any reports through this new scheme in 2019. Toms Group A/S Page 38 Our Responsibility 2019 OUR We see it as part of our corporate responsibility to be a proactive and responsible partner in our domestic market communities. CONSUMERS In this chapter, you can read about our approach to and initiatives in supporting a balanced and active lifestyle. Furthermore, you can read about how we support especially the future consumers with the information and knowledge needed to make conscious and responsible choices. Toms Group A/S Page 40 Our Responsibility 2019 Our consumers We see it as part of our responsibility to support our consumers with knowledge and better possibilities to a more sustainable consumption – for the environment as well as and for themselves. Our efforts cover recyclable packaging, food waste, consumer education sponsorships and partnerships supporting balanced lifestyles. To enable our consumers to recycle more packaging maprimary focus, as we assess it as a valuable contribution Consumer education terial and minimize their food waste we have set ambito the development towards a more circular, sustainable It is a special responsibility for Toms to provide our conFighting food waste tious targets on recyclable packaging and have engaged economy. sumers with the information and knowledge needed to Too much food ends up in the trash today. To in cross-industrial partnerships fighting food waste. make conscious and responsible choices. contribute to a significant change of this waste, the Even though we must acknowledge that it will require deToms Group in 2019 joint a cross-industrial initia100% recyclable packaging velopment and constant adaptation in the coming years, The long and proud tradition of welcoming school classes tive called “Bedst før – ofte god efter” (“Best Before There are many and often contradictory requirements to we have chosen to set the ambitious target of reaching to our chocolate production facilities has also in 2019 – Often Good After”). our packaging materials, which must protect the prod100% recyclable packaging materials by 2025. To optibeen accompanied by strong educational materials. In ucts for months. We need to balance these requirements mize the positive effect of our effort we will additionally 2019, we have further developed some of these maThe initiative, developed in collaboration with Too while at the same time developing the most responsible ensure that all products inform the consumer about terials when we renewed and updated the interactive Good To Go and industry players including the and sustainable setup. correct waste sorting. portfolios, which the school classes use in the classroom Toms Group, aims to reduce food waste at the conbefore visiting Toms. sumer level. This by helping the consumers to deIn 2019, we have put a lot of efforts into assessing Today approximately 80 % of all our packaging matericode, which products are safe to eat even though opportunities and challenges for our current packaging to als are recyclable. During the visit, exercises support the learning about prothey might have past their “Best Before” date. be recycled by the consumer. Recyclable packaging is our duction chain, sustainability and balanced lifestyle. The various learning forms ensure a high learning outcome The extra label will first of all guide the consumers and support the formation of more conscious consumers. to differentiate the “Best Before” label from the “Use By” label, where the expiry date means that A nuanced dialogue with our consumers the consumer risks being ill by eating the product if is welcomed the date is exceeded. The “Best before” label is only A still growing number of our consumers of all ages ask an indicative date marking. for information on confectionary production, thereby generating a substantial basis for having a nuanced None of our products have the label “Use by”, as dialogue on more complex issues. all our products are safe to eat even long after this date. At Toms Group we will continuously add the We aim to strengthen our information and feedback “Often Good After” to all the products where the support to all consumers, and invite on a regular basis consumer doesn’t risk a bad taste experience by adult groups to ‘Chocolate Nights’ for experiencing our eating it after the “Best before” date, but only risk chocolate production. These events are a valuable platthat the color and/or taste have faded. form for discussing sustainability issues along the production chain, and we are pleased hereby to receive valuable inputs from our consumers. Toms Group A/S Page 42 Our Responsibility 2019 Sponsorships supporting a balanced lifestyle Olympic partner We seek to support balanced and active lifestyles In 2016, Toms made a comeback to the world of sports through sponsorships and partnerships. This is in line with with a five-year partnership with DIF and Team Danmark the long history of the Toms Group as an active commeras sponsor of the Danish Olympic athletes. During 2019, cial partner to a broad variety of sports. we have used this sponsorship to help strengthen the FROM BEAN TO BAR awareness of different sports in cooperation with a numIn 1955, Toms signed the first commercial sponsorship ber of Olympic athletes. Cultivation in agreement becoming an active partner within football. country of origin 3 This was the beginning of a vast array of partnerships beGoing forward tween Toms and a long line of Danish athletes. For many Our Olympic sponsorship is a five-year deal, and we are years, we have sponsored sports through Toms Ligaen, looking forward to supporting the Danish Olympians at 2 Fermentation women’s handball, The Gold Bar race, speedway, as well Tokyo 2020. Harvest 4 as sailing, equestrian sports, football and golf. Drying In 2020, Toms Guldpulje will continue the partnership 1 Support for family sports with DIF. The pool will yet again distribute a total of DKK Cultivation Toms started in 2019 a new initiative in partnership with 2 million among a broad range of sports associations DIF (Danish Sports Confederation) called Toms Guldacross Denmark that support family sports activities. Production of puljen (Toms Gold Pool). The purpose of this pool is to From April to September 2020, all sports associations cocoa materials support and reward initiatives that enable families to do with DIF membership can apply for funds to enable fami5 more sports activities together. ly activities in their association. Transportation 6 Roasting All sports associations in Denmark could in the spring 2019 apply for funding and in August, a total of 166 associations received grants from the pool, which distribChocolate uted a total of DKK 2 million. The funds in the pool are production sponsored by Toms Group and Toms Foundation. 7 8 Milk Pressing C S Coc ocoa b powdeugar Grinding oa L u iquo tter r r 9 Mixing In 2019, we have developed a new out-going education concept “Toms Experience Boxes”, with the potential of educating more than 10.000 Danish school 10 children per year. Dark chocolate Milk chocolate 11 These new Experience Boxes educate our future conConching Refining sumers within chocolate production, sustainability and balanced life-style. The boxes include cocoa and chocolate materials as integrated parts of the exercises, 12 which are guided by an interactive education portfolio. Molding/ Storage Our goal is to optimize the learning by activating varenrobing ious learning forms including hand-on investigations, recipes for baking, videos, innovation exercises and in13 Tempering 14 New experience boxes teractive graphics as the bean to bar illustration below. Also, it is our high priority to provide outward-oriented Central sustainability issues from Toms’ engagement education concepts reaching schools and students in cocoa production, energy saving and renewable throughout Denmark. packaging are included too. Toms Group A/S Page 44 Our Responsibility 2019 Toms Gruppen A/S Toms Allé 1 2750 Ballerup, Denmark Telephone: +45 44 89 10 00 Fax: +45 44 89 10 99 Registered office: Ballerup E-mail: info@toms.dk Registration no.: 56 75 93 28 Website: www.tomsgroup.com Established: 30 January 1924 Financial year: 1 January 31 December
