S ustainability R eport 26 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 S ustainability R eport Sustainability agenda Anti-corruption Conduct responsible business based on trust, transparency, integrity and zero tolerance of corruption. Target for 2019 Maintain implementation of Corporate Code of Conduct. Human Rights Manage social, ethical, environmental and human rights impacts throughout supply chain. Target for 2019 Supplier evaluation in s­ ustainability aspects. Environment Operate eco-efficiently and manage environmental impact across all activities. Target for 2019 Adopt a risk-based approach and operate eco-efficiently. Labor Offer a great and safe workplace where everyone feels valued and respected. STATEMENT BY THE CEO Target for 2019 Orexo’s Sustainability Report is prepared Create a diverse and equal workin accordance with the Swedish Annual place free from injuries or accidents. Accounts Act and it also act as our Communication on Progress according to the reporting guidelines of the UN Global Compact. I am pleased to reaffirm Orexo’s support of the Ten Principles in the areas of Anti-Corruption, Human Rights, Environment and Labor. Yours sincerely Nikolaj Sorensen President and CEO OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 27 S ustainability R eport Sustainability at Orexo Orexo’s vision is to bring value to patients and societies with its pharmaceutical innovations, but in order to create long-term value business approach must also be sustainable. Sustainability is about creating the right conditions to sustain business success – for today and for the generations to come. BUSINESS COMPLIANCE AND ETHICS CODE US Comprehensive Safety, Health Human Supplier Code Compliance and Environment Resources of Conduct Policies Policies Policies Any given organization should take into consideraBusiness Compliance and Ethics Code tion how their direct and indirect operations Orexo’s Business Compliance and Ethics Code acts impact the environmental, economic and social as an umbrella policy for all other policies and is environment. At Orexo, sustainability is a business based on legislation, corporate values and recogapproach where everyone is committed to connized international standards, such as the Internaduct responsible business and with the ambition to tional Bill of Human Rights, the Declaration of integrate sustainability in all business processes. ­Helsinki1 and the UN Global Compact. Working in an ethical manner is an important part of the GOVERNANCE AND POLICIES business and the policy therefore applies to all Orexo demonstrates and implements the commitdirectors, officers, employees, consultants and ment to sustainable development through estabtemporary staff at Orexo AB and its subsidiaries. lishment of a Sustainability Group. Relevant corpoThe code has a zero tolerance for bribery and rate functions are included to influence corporate ­corrupt practices and urges individuals to raise policies and strategies and to approve future questions and report suspected violation of actions in the sustainability agenda. Throughout ethical business conduct, without retaliation or the year, performance is reviewed quarterly against any threat of retaliation. the agenda and progress of work is reported to senior management. Supplier Code of Conduct In order to achieve sustainability vision and As a company with most of its activities outgoals, Orexo integrates and implements company sourced, Orexo’s main sustainability impacts and values among employees and business partners risks are within the supply of goods and services. with help of the company’s policies. The policies Orexo’s supplier management is based on the set the company’s minimum expectations and company’s Supplier Code of Conduct, which contain directions that help managers and employdescribes Orexo’s expectations for suppliers in a ees in their daily work. The policies are aligned with variety of sustainability aspects. international norms and well-recognized initiatives, In order to enforce the Supplier Code of Consuch as the ILO Conventions and the UN Guiding duct, Orexo utilizes processes and procedures to Principles on Business and Human Rights. The ensure that patient safety, occupational safety and Swedish organization, comprising Research and health, product quality and other applicable busiDevelopment and Corporate Headquarters, is ness compliance and ethics aspects of suppliers responsible for maintaining policies on a corporate are acceptable. The processes and the procedures level and enforcing global and local policies mainly also ensure that applicable commercial aspects like in Sweden. The majority of Orexo’s commercial supplier reliability, financial stability and future activities are managed by Orexo US Inc., which uticommercial implications for the supply chain are lizes and enforces a Comprehensive Compliance adequately considered. Policy Program adapted for federal and state-level law and expectations. 28 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 S ustainability R eport US Comprehensive Compliance Policies to cause the most harm, accounting for 70 percent Orexo US Inc. adheres to rules and regulations set of the deaths. 2 The availability of and access to out on a federal and state level by enforcing a treatment services remains limited as only 1 in 7 comprehensive policy program that addresses the people suffering from drug use disorders receives approach to marketing and promotion of pharmatreatment each year.3 With the opioid crisis becomceutical products, including, but not limited to, ing the worst drug epidemic in US history and an aspects such as expense and aggregate spend increase of people worldwide suffering from drug reporting and interaction with governments and use disorders along with fewer people getting healthcare professionals. access to treatment, Orexo is determined to push harder for action and progress on this issue. The Safety, Health and Environment Polices key to addressing this is innovation. By broadening The Safety, Health and Environment policies and the development pipeline Orexo aims to make guidelines support managers and employees in treatment available for more people and provide their pursuit of a workplace free of injuries and prescribers with more options within drug substituillnesses and support the company’s precautionary tion therapy. approach to environmental challenges. Creating shared values Human Resources Policies Innovation and partnership are two key factors The policies describe the relationship between the when addressing the sustainability challenges the SDG3 Healthy lives and employer and the employees and their respective pharmaceutical industry is ­facing. Orexo’s partnerwell-being for all at obligations and rights. They cover matters such as ship with GAIA AG, a global leader in digital theraall ages recruitment, equal opportunities, discrimination, peutics, is an example of the company’s ambition conflict of interest and health insurance and other to add value to both patient and society. With the employment benefits. partnership, therapies will be commercialized and bring benefits to the entire health system such as SUSTAINABLE CHANGE WITH therapy precision and patient personalization. INNOVATION Given the cost for the society associated with drug An important part of the ambition to build a more abuse, digital therapies will also expand the access sustainable business is Orexo’s contribution to the to healthcare and bring economic sustainability. United Nations Sustainable Development Goals In November 2019, Orexo further strengthened (SDGs). At Orexo, sustainability work contributes to the partnership with GAIA and acquired exclusive several of the SDGs with a primary focus on SDG3 US rights to vorvida®, a fully automated digital ther“Good health and well-being”. This target is of apy scientifically proven to reduce troublesome especial importance as it is closely aligned with drinking patterns in adults with Alcohol Use DisorOrexo’s ambition to strengthen the prevention and der (AUD). AUD is a disorder affecting approxitreatment of substance abuse. mately 14.5 million people4 and causing more than Substance use and substance-use disorders is a 88,000 people dying each year.5 With a cost of global public health burden and is recognized by about USD 249 billion per year,6 AUD has not only the UN as one of the targets that must be met to become the third leading preventable cause of achieve the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Developdeath but also a major health c ­ risis. With digital ment. Every day approximately 184 people die in therapies as vorvida, Orexo will be able to continue the US as a result of drug use and opioids continue to create shared values and have a positive impact on both the individual and the society. 1 A recognized statement of ethical principles for medical research involving human subjects developed by the World Medical Association (WMA). 2 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 3 World Drug Report 2019 4 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 5 Sacks, J.J.; Gonzales, K.R.; Bouchery, E.E.; Tomedi, L.E.; and Brewer, R.D. 2010 National and state costs of excessive ­alcohol consumption. American Journal of Preventive ­Medicine49(5):e73–e79, 2015. 6 Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA). Results from the 2017 National Survey on Drug Use and Health: Detailed Tables. Table 5.5A—Alcohol Use ­Disorder in Past Year Among Persons Aged 12 or Older, by Age Group and Demographic Characteristics: Numbers in Thousands, 2016 and 2017. https://www.samhsa.gov/data/sites/ default/files/cbhsq­reports/NSDUHDetailedTabs2017/NSDUHDetailedTabs2017.htm. OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 29 S ustainability R eport Aiming for a sustainable future As a participant of the UN Global Compact, Orexo’s sustainability agenda is built around the ten principles on anti-corruption, human rights, environment and labor. These principles give the company the long-term focus and direction needed to drive positive change through the operation. Orexo is commited to contribute to a sustainable and communicate internally and externally what future by taking ownership and integrating the susvalues should permeate business conduct, Orexo tainability agenda across the business. The agenda enforces the Code of Conduct through onboardwill give the focus to achieve sustainability goals ing and training. The Code has a zero tolerance for while managing emerging risks and embracing bribery and corruptive practices and urges individopportunities by setting activities with both shortuals to raise questions and report suspected violaterm and long-term goals in areas representing the tion of ethical business conduct, without retaliation most significant sustainability challenges facing the or any threat of retaliation. Through the revision in company as well as opportunities. 2017, the ten principles of the UN Global Compact were also further integrated with company core ANTI-CORRUPTION values. In 2019, Orexo continued with the effort to Working in an ethical manner is an important part implement the Code through onboarding and trainof Orexo’s business. The company operates in ing in order to further ensure all employees know locations that offer good business opportunities, and practice company’s core values. The implebut operations can also be in high-risk markets mentation of the Code is to also ensure responsible with exposure to serious risks. For business within business is conducted based on trust, transparency, the healthcare sector, one recognized risk is ethics integrity and zero tolerance of corruption in order and compliance violations in interactions with to create a foundation for strong relationships with Healthcare Professionals, Healthcare Organizations customers, colleagues and stakeholders. and Government Officials. Orexo’s policies are there­ fore important in order to set minimum expectations HUMAN RIGHTS and to help employees in their daily work. In a global economy human rights should be basic While compliance with laws and regulations is the rights, regardless of where everyone comes from highest priority, adopting a wider ethical approach or lives. For the most part, this globalization creates is crucially important. To complement legislation jobs and opportunities to help the economy grow as a whole, but in some parts human rights can also be violated. To achieve long-lasting and sustainable changes where human rights are inteImplementation of Code of Conduct (of employees) grated in all relevant processes, everyone needs to take ownership of their sustainability performance and contri­bute toward fair and equal societies. Orexo’s ambition is to drive these values into the 91% supply chain and to ensure that the company’s 92% high expectations are lived up to, no matter where 80% 81% in the world. This is especially important as most of Parent Group Orexo’s activities are outsourced. Company With a supplier evaluation fully integrated with the company’s supplier manage­ment process, Orexo continued to evaluate strategically important tier A and B suppliers in sustainability aspects in 2019. The ambition is to raise awareness and impose sustainability requirements on direct 2018 2019 ­suppliers by preventing, mitigating and remediating sustainable impacts throughout the supply chain and beyond. 30 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 S ustainability R eport Performance of Orexo’s Supplier Management Process with regards to Sustainability Sustainability EvaluaNumber of approved ­Suppliers tions performed with open ­Sustainability issues New Result Target 2019 Major Moderate Minor supplier categorized into Tier A–D Tier A 100% 100% 0 0 3 (A highest, Tier B 18% 20% 0 0 0 D lowest) Tier C 0% 0% Tier D 0% 0% Approved Initial supplier evaluation ENVIRONMENT Orexo has a responsibility to embrace environmentally responsible business practices because the Earth is what human being is dependent on for her OREXO’S SUPPLIER well-being and survival. Ecosystems and their serEVALUATION IN vices, such as access to clean air, clean water and SUSTAINABILITY shelter, are what societies rely on as well as ASPECTS resources that are the backbone of every economy. By acknowledging that the environment is a ImproveSecond evaluation natural part of every business process, the operaments tion needs to become eco-efficient across all activities. Environmental footprint must be reduced and the use of resources needs to be more thoughtful because being eco-efficient is not just about reducing environmental impact but it also reduces Due diligence costs and allows for business long-term success. In 2019, Orexo adopted a risk-based approach in order to identify and evaluate the greatest environmental risks. The approach will focus efforts within environmental management to where the greatest risks of adverse environmental impact are found and proactively manage those. Key areas where Waste sources greatest return on invested efforts can be realized were identified as: Kg • waste management for a sustainable use 15,000 of resource 12,000 • managing carbon impact (continuing work in 2020) 9,000 Action plans for the identified environmental risks 6,000 were also developed during 2019 in order to advance greater environmental responsibility. 3,000 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019* Combustible Hazardous waste Other sorted Paper *Intensification of activities at the company’s Swedish research facility during 2019 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 31 S ustainability R eport LABOR At Orexo, sustainability starts with the people As a result, Orexo’s action plan to create a behind the scenes because employees are the sustainable workforce extended to include activiones who bring business to life and the base of the ties around inclusiveness as well. The work and organization. As an employer, it is also an opportucommitment to creating a better work culture and nity for Orexo to foster a more sustainable workwork-life balance will continue in year 2020 in force to strengthen the competitiveness and to order to contribute to more sustainable societies. adapt to a fast changing environment. In order to build a sustainable workforce, Orexo’s priority is the commitment of attracting and retaining the best individuals by investing in employees and offering a Reported incidents and accidents great and safe workplace where everyone feels valued and respected. The key to this mindset is a 12 diverse, inclusive and equal environment. Social sustainability is about identifying and man10 aging the impacts, both positive and negative, busi8 ness has on people. This is achieved by a proactive and systematic approach where progress is moni6 tored on a regular basis to spot improvement areas 4 for organizational growth. As a successful outcome of Orexo’s constant work with the Equal Opportu2 nities Plan, pay equity analysis in 2019 showed no 0 gender gaps. In 2019, in depth-interviews were also 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 conducted to gain further insight into the result of Incidents Accidents the employee survey. Performance indicators 2019 2018 Parent Group Parent Group Types of employment1 Number of employees 54 127 55 129 employees with a permanent contract 100% 100% 98% 99% employees with a temporary c ­ ontract 0% 0% 2% 1% Temporary workers 15% 11% 13% 8% Gender equality Female employees 54% 50% 55% 60% women in management positions 38% 44% 33% 42% women in executive management team – 13% – 0% Women in board of directors – 38% – 29% Other data Employee satisfaction index2 81 82 78 81 Employee absence due to illness 2% 1% 4% 2% 1 Employees = Orexo’s payroll 2 Springlife – A score of 70 and above is classified as a high score and indicates that the conditions for employees carrying out their work are very good 32 OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 S ustainability R eport AUDITOR’S OPINION substantially less in scope than an audit conducted To the general meeting of the shareholders of in accordance with International Standards on Orexo AB, corporate identity number 556500Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards 0600. in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. Engagement and responsibility It is the Board of Directors who is responsible for Opinions the statutory sustainability statement for the year A statutory sustainability statement has been pre2019 on pages 26-32 and that it has been prepared pared. in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The scope of the audit Uppsala 24 March 2020 Our examination has been conducted in accordErnst & Young AB ance with FAR’s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability Björn Ohlsson statement. This means that our examination of the Authorized Public Accountant corporate governance statement is different and From the left, Camilla Nordlund, Project Manager. Mikael Persson, Quality & Compliance Manager Facility & Engineer Zillur Rahman, Executive Assistant to the CEO & Office Manager. Håkan Thorén, Analytical Chemist. Annika Fröling, Analytical Chemist. Photo: Jenny Lagerqvist. OREXO ANNUAL REPORT 2019 33
