Integrated Annual Report 2019 Excluding the notes and the declaration of corporate management e v e n t s + + + h t o f r e c e n t +++ I n l i g Dear Reader, We are currently facing unprecedented challenges due to the corona pandemic. Overcoming this crisis will require solidarity, understanding and a collective effort from all of us. Just like all energy companies, we have a special responsibility during this time and it is something we are all too willing to take on. As an operator of critical infrastructure, we know how to handle these types of challenges and already began to prepare ourselves at an early stage for the possibility that this outbreak would become a serious pandemic: We have phased contingency plans in place that are practised on a regular basis. An expert task force is working closely together with all specialist departments at our company and with external bodies. While many employees are keeping our day-to-day business running by working from home, the operational teams responsible for our power plants, grid control centres, the supply of water and the disposal of waste are ensuring that our energy supply system is also working safely and reliably during this difficult time. Furthermore, we are endeavouring within the scope of our capabilities to provide support to our partners using the expertise we have in the technical management of crisis situations. We want to remove any additional burden on our customers by restoring the connections to any cut-off electricity or gas supplies and we are also available to help our customers in any other way we can to the very best of our abilities. I can assure you that EnBW remains stable and secure. Best regards, Frank Mastiaux Chairman of the Board of Management a t a g l a n c e E nBW Generation mix Shaping the Energiewende Installed output in MW 2019 OF F 32% renewable energies Switched off: Philippsburg nuclear power plant Block 2 Thermal power plants Renewable energies Brown and hard coal 4,461 Wind 1,660 Nuclear power 2,933 Pumped storage 1,507 (with natural flow of water) Gas 1,165 ON Run-of-river 1,006 Pumped storage 545 Other 225 Other 347 5.5 million B2C and B2B customers 2019 Switched on: 23,293 EnBW Hohe See and EnBW employees 2019 Albatros offshore wind farms as well as onshore wind farms and photovoltaic parks from Valeco €2.4 billion Expansion of the telecommunications Infrastructure partner adjusted EBITDA in 2019 business We have strengthened our What sets us apart business in the nationwide telecommunications market with the › E  nBW 2020 strategy largely implemented: acquisition of the broadband and realignment and repositioning of the business fibre optic company Plusnet. portfolio has been achieved ›  EnBW 2025 strategy: The path to becoming a sustainable and innovative infrastructure partner › Stable shareholder structure ›  Leading position in important sustainability Expansion of ratings in the energy sector electro­mobility EnBW at a glance › First German company to issue a green hybrid bond At the end of 2019, we were the largest operator of quick-charging infrastructure in Germany. Realignment and growth Adjusted EBITDA in € billion > 30% Up to 0.6 Sales Grids 1,000 quick-charging 0.2 0.3 0.4 1.3 Renewable Energies stations are planned 0.8 Generation and Trading across the country by 1.3 1.0 the end of 2020. 0.2 Smart infrastructure for customers 0.7 1.3 System-critical 1.2 0.5 infrastructure 0.4 Sustainable generation 0.3 infrastructure Actual Actual Target Target value value for 2020 for 2025 2012 2019 62.4 billion kWh of electricity was transmitted via the grids operated by our subsidiaries in 2019. Performance indicators of the EnBW Group Financial and strategic performance indicators in € million 2019 2018 Change in % External revenue 1 18,765.0 20,815.4 -9.9 #TOP Adjusted EBITDA 2,432.5 2,157.5 12.7 #TOP Share of adjusted EBITDA accounted for by Sales in € million / in % 1 294.3 / 12.1 268.4 / 12.4 9.6 / – #TOP Share of adjusted EBITDA accounted for by Grids in € million / in % 1,311.2 / 5 3.9 1,176.9 / 5 4.5 11.4 / – #TOP Share of adjusted EBITDA accounted for by Renewable Energies in € million / in % 482.8 / 19.8 297.7 / 13.8 62.2 / – #TOP Share of adjusted EBITDA accounted for by Generation and Trading in € million / in % 1 383.8 / 15.8 430.8 / 2 0.0 -10.9 / – Share of adjusted EBITDA accounted for by Other / Consolidation in € million / in % -39.6 / -1.6 -16.3 / 0.7 -142.9 / – EBITDA 2,245.2 2,089.6 7.4 Adjusted EBIT 944.7 957.5 -1.3 EBIT 596.7 875.8 -31.9 Adjusted Group net profit 2 786.8 438.3 79.5 Group net profit 2 734.2 334.2 119.7 Earnings per share from Group net profit in € 2 2.71 1.23 119.7 Retained cash flow 1,240.7 999.1 24.2 #TOP Internal financing capability in % 1 82.6 92.2 – Total investment 1 3,315.2 1,786.4 85.6 Net financial debt 6,021.6 3,738.4 61.1 Coverage ratio ALM in % 48.1 51.8 – #TOP Return on capital employed (ROCE) in % 5.2 6.5 – Weighted average cost of capital before tax in % 5.2 6.3 – Average capital employed 19,315.1 16,053.3 20.3 Value added 0.0 32.1 -100.0 Non-financial performance indicators 2019 2018 Change in % Customers and society goal dimension #TOP Reputation Index 52.8 51.3 2.9 #TOP EnBW / Yello Customer Satisfaction Index 116 / 157 120 / 152 -3.3 / 3.3 #TOP SAIDI (electricity) in min. / year 15 17 -11.8 Employees goal dimension #TOP Employee Commitment Index 3 66 62 6.5 #TOP LTIF for companies controlled by the Group / LTIF overall 4 5 2.1 / 3.8 2.3 / 3.6 -8.7 / 5.6 Environment goal dimension #TOP Installed output of renewable energies (RE) in GW and the share of the generation capacity ­accounted for by RE in % 4.4 / 31.8 3.7 / 27.9 18.9 / – #TOP CO 2 intensity in g / kWh 419 553 -24.2 Employees6 31 / 12 / 2019 31 / 12 / 2018 Change in % Employees 23,293 21,775 7.0 Full-time equivalents 7 21,843 20,379 7.2 1 The figures for the previous year have been restated. 2 In relation to the profit / loss attributable to the shareholders of EnBW AG. 3 Variations in the group of consolidated companies (all companies with more than 100 employees are generally considered [except ITOs]). 4 Variations in the group of consolidated companies (all companies with more than 100 employees are generally considered except for companies in the area of waste management as well as external agency workers and contractors). 5 Variations in the group of consolidated companies (all companies with more than 100 employees are generally considered except external agency workers and contractors). 6 Number of employees excluding apprentices / trainees and inactive employees. 7 Converted into full-time equivalents. Dea r R e a d e r , We have embarked on the path to transform ourselves from a conventional energy company into a strong partner for energy and infrastructure. To be a partner for energy and infrastructure, we believe that we must focus on people’s living environments and adopt an integrated approach to sectors such as energy, transport, telecommunications and the development of cities and districts. This includes, amongst other things, themes like the supply of energy and the expansion of broadband and electromobility. Besides significantly strengthening the grid and sales businesses, our EnBW 2020 strategy primarily focussed on making renewable energies one of the main pillars of the company. We now have a broad portfolio of wind farms, hydropower plants and solar parks. We were able to successfully conclude some major projects in the past year, especially in the offshore wind sector, and also start new ones in the area of photovoltaics. A lot has changed in the process: the way we work, the requirements of our customers and the conditions on the market. This is why the title of this year’s Integrated Annual Report of EnBW is dedicated to the transformation in the area of renewable energies. In our updated EnBW 2025 strategy, we will now concentrate on switching over to growth. The first steps in this direction have already been taken. We are significantly expanding the installed output from our renewable generation, driving forward electromobility and will be building liveable residential districts. We will realise these plans with a strong team behind us – while keeping our main focus on people. This is why we not only want to push forward EnBW as an organisation but also support every single employee in their own personal development. This will help us create the right conditions to promote future growth. This Integrated Report will take you on a journey through our transformation in the area of renewable energies. Best regards, Your EnBW 2 Playing an active role in shaping the Energiewende Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW a n a c t i v e P l a y i n g h a p i n g t h e ro l e i n s rg iew e n d e En e Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Playing an active role in shaping the Energiewende 3 EnBW is transforming itself from a conventional energy company into a sustainable and innovative partner for energy and infrastructure. In the process, we are linking the transport sector with the energy world, for example, as part of the forward-looking and citizen-centred development of cities and districts. We accept our responsibility for the climate as we do this and are playing an active role in shaping the future of energy. While we continue to push forward the expansion of renew­­­ a­ble energies, our grid subsidiaries ensure they can be suc­ cess­­fully integrated into the electricity grid. This is promoting the development of so-called smart grids at the same time, which will guarantee that even more renewable energy power plants can be connected to the grid in the future. 4 Playing an active role in shaping the Energiewende Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW The transformation in the renewable energy sector is in full progress. EnBW was the first major energy company to announce the gradual phasing out of its coal-fired generation back in 2013. Through the EnBW 2020 strategy, we have developed renewable energies into one of the main pillars of the company and simultaneously reduced For us, climate protection is conventional generation by more than 40%. Furthermore, we have simplified structures and processes, transformed our corporate culture and incresed our not just a trend, but has been innovative strength. We are now well equipped for the challenges of the future as a result. EnBW can grow in new markets, deliver competitive services and an established part of our respond proactively and flexibly in a rapidly changing business environment. activities for many years. Transformation of the EnBW generation portfolio 50 % Installed output in MW 19 % 32 % Thermal Renewable power plants energies 2012 2019 2025 Thermal power plants 2012 2019 Renewable energies 2012 2019 Brown and hard coal 5,021 4,461 Wind 218 1,660 Nuclear power 3,333 2,933 Pumped storage 1,311 1,507 (with natural flow of water) Gas 1,154 1,165 Run-of-river 882 1,006 Pumped storage 545 545 Other 116 225 Other 820 347 Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Playing an active role in shaping the Energiewende 5 Wind power is now the most important renewable energy source in Germany. Some 118 gigawatts (GW) of output from renewable energies were installed in Germany in 2018, which covered almost 38% of the gross electricity consumption. 59 GW of this installed output was accounted for by wind energy, 45 GW by solar energy, 5.6 GW by hydropower and 8.4 GW by biomass. Since 2000, the fixed remuneration offered by the German Renewable Energies Act (EEG) has enabled strong growth in wind power plants in Germany. However, the reform to the EEG in 2017 has put the brakes on this upward trend: The act introduced upper limits to the expansion of renewable energies, the bureaucratic burden and costs for the development of wind farms has increased and the approval times for new power plants have since lengthened dramatically – due to, amongst other things, an increase in the cases of legal action taken against already issued approvals across Germany. The expansion of wind power has collapsed as a result. We are ardent supporters of the Energiewende and want to continue to use our expertise as an investor, developer and operator of wind and photovoltaic power plants even under these difficult conditions. Today, we are already the third-largest project developer for onshore wind power in Germany and we want to further expand this area and also our engagement in offshore wind power. This is why we are working together with selected international partners to target new growth opportunities abroad. This strategy of selective internationalisation has already shown initial success in France and Sweden. Photovoltaic power plants will play an increasingly important role in EnBW’s future portfolio. Technical improvements and a significant reduction in prices for solar modules are opening up interesting perspectives. Under certain conditions, photovoltaic power plants can already be operated today without EEG funding. This is why we have decided to make photovoltaics another pillar of our renewable energies alongside onshore and offshore wind power. In the future, the market, customers and technology development will dictate the direction of the Energiewende to a much greater extent. The energy world is becoming decentralised and digital, urban and oriented towards citizens. New and agile competitors are now already entering all of the business fields covered by EnBW. The growing dynamism and increasing competition on the energy markets clearly illustrate the importance of being willing to change, having innovative strength and achieving a high pace of change. To this end, we have introduced the “Next Level EnBW” initiative to not only take our Group as an organisation but also personally every single employee at EnBW to a whole new level. The initiative aims, amongst other things, to accelerate the pace of change, promote innovative strength and increase quality with a clear focus on customer centricity, internationalisation, new business and internal cooperation. 6 The power behind the transformation: water, wind and sun Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW o w e r b e h i n d The p f o r m a t i o n : th e t r a n s n d a n d s u n wa t e r , wi In our EnBW 2020 strategy, we set ourselves the target of increasing the proportion of our generation accounted for by renewable energies to over 40% by the end of this year. Today, the Renewable Energies and Grids segments already account for a combined share of over 70% of the operating result. In contrast, earnings from conventional generation have fallen by 80% between 2012 and 2020. We have thus successfully completed the desired transformation of our portfolio in the last few years. We will also continue to focus on the expansion of renewable energies and will invest more than 5 billion euros in corresponding activities in Germany and selected foreign markets up to 2025. We have long been committed to the use of hydropower. With around 1,000 MW of installed output from run-of-river power plants and around 2,000 MW from pumped storage and storage power plants, more than 10% of our electricity is generated using the power of water. There are hardly any suitable sites left for new, large hydroelectric and pumped storage power plants in Germany today. Against this background, we are expanding and modernising existing power plants, such as the Forbach power plant in the Black Forest. A concept to turn the existing plant into a modern and highly efficient pumped storage power plant has been developed for the Rudolf-Fettweis Plant. We are also represented on international markets in the area of hydropower. In Switzerland, for example, our Group is one of the leading operators of hydropower plants via participation models. Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW The power behind the transformation: water, wind and sun 7 Wind energy will also continue to play a decisive role in the future. EnBW has more than tripled its onshore wind power capacities since 2012. We were able to increase capacities by a total of 204 MW in 2017. In 2019, we could achieve little expansion in Germany. In France, we were able to expand our onshore portfolio with the acquisition of Valeco. In the area of offshore wind power, we have constructed the two wind farms EnBW Baltic 1 and EnBW Baltic 2 in the Baltic Sea over the last few years. We completed our third offshore project in 2019: The neighbouring wind farms EnBW Hohe See and EnBW Albatros have a total capacity of 609 MW and are thus the largest offshore project to be built in Germany to date. The 87 wind turbines can supply on aggregate around 710,000 households with electricity and thus save around 1.9 million tonnes CO₂ per year. The project represented the largest investment in the history of EnBW with construction costs of around 2.3 billion euros. Despite the challenging conditions, we will continue to push forward the expansion of wind power with other planned onshore and offshore projects. Between 2020 and 2025, we want to increase our wind power capacities to 4,500 MW. We are planning, for example, to construct the EnBW He Dreiht wind farm in the North Sea with an output of 900 MW – for the first time without state subsidies. Selective internationalisation EnBW has gathered valuable expertise in the planning, construction, operation, maintenance, servicing and direct distribution of wind turbines over the last few years. We aim to use these skills to open up new markets and exploit opportunities for growth internationally. Turkey Sweden We entered into cooperation with our Turkish partner Borusan Sweden is one of the key European markets for the expansion back in 2009 and have since developed around 500 MW of of onshore wind energy. We have already been represented in gen­eration capacity in the area of onshore wind power. Scandinavia via our subsidiary Connected Wind Services (CWS) since 2016. And we have been active in Sweden via EnBW Sverige and its subsidiaries since 2018 and currently operate seven wind farms with a total output of 105 MW, while a further 11 MW is currently under construction. France In 2019, we acquired the French developer and operator of wind and solar projects Valeco. It has installed output of 276 MW of onshore wind power and 56 MW of solar power, as well as a project pipeline of 1,700 MW. USA Taiwan We believe that the North American market offers great opportunities for the expansion of offshore wind energy. Our own In cooperation with the Australian investor Macquarie Capital representative offices in Jersey City and Boston will ensure and the Taiwanese industrial company Swancor, we have been close contact with local cooperation partners. In Morro Bay developing three offshore wind farm projects since the beginning (California), on the West Coast of the USA, the team is developing of 2018. The projects involve the construction of wind turbines the world’s first floating offshore wind farm in a joint venture. with a potential total output of up to 2,000 MW. 8 The power behind the transformation: water, wind and sun Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Germany’s largest solar park Weesow-Willmersdorf A solar park with an output of 180 MW is currently being constructed in Werneuchen (Brandenburg). We will produce 180 million kWh of This corresponds to the annual electricity per year on an area equivaconsumption of 50,000 households. lent to around 225 football pitches. On Easter Monday 2019, more than half of the electri‑ city demand across Germany of 61 GW was already covered by solar energy. This demonstrates that the solar market is an attractive proposition. The latest generation of photovoltaic modules work more efficiently than previous technologies. In addition, the price of modules has fallen significantly in recent months. Furthermore, we are We are demonstrating at the solar able to realise long-term and major projects in Germany and other European markets economically due to our trading and marketing expertise. park in Brandenburg that it is This vindicates our decision to make photovoltaics the third pillar of our strategy for renewable energies. possible to construct solar projects For example, we are one of the first companies to construct a solar park even without state funding. whose electricity production costs are lower than those of a new conven­ tional power plant. Therefore, we are financing our latest solar park – Weesow-Willmersdorf in Brandenburg – for the first time without EEG funding. We are thus reinforcing our role as a pioneer in the development, construction, operation and marketing of major solar parks. As part of our solar strategy, however, we will still continue to rely on solar parks with EEG fund­ing. Companies who claim the lowest level of state funding for the production of solar electricity will have the best chance of having their bid for EEG funding accepted. Our precise planning is paying dividends: In Germany-wide auctions, EnBW has been the fourth most successful company since 2015 – behind three companies that specialise solely in solar power. The company plans to develop a solar energy portfolio of 600 MW across Germany by 2025. In addition, we are also looking at sites abroad. Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW The power behind the transformation: water, wind and sun 9 k i n g a t t h e ta r t e d l oo “We s u r e a t a n bigger pict tage. ear ly s Interview with Dirk Güsewell, Head of Portfolio Development Generation, EnBW. How long has EnBW been actively involved with renewable energies? Dirk Güsewell: The foundations for our growth in the area of renewable energies certainly lie in the significant upgrading of this business field as part of our EnBW 2020 strategy. As part of this strategy, we were the first major energy company to start resolutely aligning ourselves to the opportunities offered by Dirk Güsewell the Energiewende back in 2013. Following initial success in Germany, the decision to extend our business activities and teams geographically is the logical continu­ ation of our aspiration to achieve further growth through the expansion of renewable energies using the expertise we have gained. What has happened since then? Dirk Güsewell: Our strategy has developed further since then but still remains basically unchanged. Today, we are one of the market leaders in Germany with our offshore and onshore wind farms and open-field photovoltaic power plants, while we are excellently positioned for growth in France with Valeco and are also represented by teams in Sweden, North America and Taiwan. Our aim is to increase the earnings contribution from this business field by 500 million euros by 2020, compared to 2012, and thus more than double it. Although the market conditions have become more challenging, we are also working to achieve further growth in later years. How is EnBW able to build both the first solar park and first wind farm without state funding? Dirk Güsewell: This is possible due to really impressive advances in the electricity production costs for these technologies across all value-added stages. Our contribution is that we possess the required long-standing experience in planning, construction and operation and have a good overview of the market at all value-added stages. And we perhaps also started looking at the bigger picture earlier than other competitors. Incidentally, we believe that this is a fantastic development that will give the Energiewende new impetus and momentum in the future. What does selective internationalisation mean? Dirk Güsewell: We can generate value through growth abroad – above and beyond the potential offered by our home market of Germany. In addition, internationalisation represents an opportunity for us – both for cultural development and for the acquisition of new talent. This internationalisation is “selective” in the sense that we choose our target markets very deliberately so that we will be able to take up a prominent position on these markets. 10 Cultural change for new energy Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW a l c h a n g e f o r Cultur ergy new en Using the “ONE EnBW” programme, we were able to simplify our structures and processes, implement efficiency measures that saved 1.4 billion euros up to 2019 and open up new business fields. The EnBW 2020 strategy also had an impact internally: The Group is now an organisation that has quick decision-making paths and is oriented to the market and customers. The flexibility and innovative strength of the new EnBW are reflected in the design of its working worlds: spacious areas enable agile forms of independent working and promote a culture of open discussion and network-based learning. Events such as the interactive management forum – a biannual event for the top three management levels – are a symbol of this new team culture. At the Group-wide Innovation Campus, every employee at EnBW is given the opportunity to become an intrapreneur, contribute their own ideas and develop them further within the Group. The market, customers and technology are already dictating the rapid pace of the Energiewende today: other young and agile competitors are entering the market and customers are demanding individual and digitally networked solutions. New technologies demand that all project developers constantly examine the market for any new opportunities. We are preparing ourselves for this “sprint logic” with the EnBW 2025 strategy: Targeted coaching of employees and selective external recruiting will allow the company to anticipate market developments. New, agile management models and forms of cooperation will increase the pace at which we work in the Group. This will enable us to keep on shaping a faster and more complex energy world together with our employees. Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Cultural change for new energy 11 p p l e m e n t i n g “W e a r e s u n d i n g c o r e our l o n g s ta l s .” t h n e w s k i l exper t is e wi Interview with Volker Reinhard, Head of HR, Generation Sector, EnBW. What changes have taken place in the area of generation at EnBW? Volker Reinhard: EnBW was characterised by the operation of large, labourintensive coal, nuclear and hydropower power plants. Our activities were mainly focused in Baden-Württemberg. Today, our wind and solar power plants are distributed across Germany, which is why we have established branches in Trier, Erfurt, Hamburg and Berlin. A lot has also changed from a structural perspect­ ive. Generation used to be organised as its own company but today the project planning, construction and operation of power plants is combined in business Volker Reinhard units. Agile working methods support the project work and are set up in parallel to the line organisation. What new skills does EnBW require in the area of renewable energies? Volker Reinhard: In the case of specialist tradesmen, the basic training re­quirements for employees have remained almost the same. In contrast, our project work has changed fundamentally. We have to adapt much more quickly today to numerous modern technologies and further training has now become much more significant than in the past. Specialist skills are required, in particular, for the realisation of large wind, solar or hydropower projects. This ranges from the logistical organisation of these major projects through to special geological expertise for the deep foundations required by wind turbines. This is why we are always pleased to find employees who already have experience in these areas. As we have already gained a very good level of knowledge at our site in Hamburg over the last few years, we are also able to use this very high level of expertise to provide relevant training ourselves. In addition, EnBW remains in contact with colleges and universities to assess what qualifications we will need in the future. An important factor is the geographical mobility of our employees, not only within Germany but also increasingly internationally. What does the “Next Level EnBW” initiative mean for the area of generation and especially for renewable energies? Volker Reinhard: We have set ourselves the following goal as part of “Next Level EnBW”: We want to be proactive and flexible from both a strategic and organisational perspective to ensure that we have a presence on all relevant markets. This includes selective internationalisation. We will also organise our portfolio so that it is stable and sustainable. As larger power plants will play a more important role in the future, we will keep a close eye on current and future generation technologies – such as floating wind turbines. This will enable us to continue to operate profitably and add our own value to Group earnings. Why should people apply to work at EnBW? Volker Reinhard: A job at EnBW offers many exciting challenges and will leave you wanting even more. I believe that there has never been such a good opportunity to help fight climate change than to find a meaningful vocation in the generation of renewable energies. And EnBW is amongst the frontrunners in this field. In this way, we can try to make the world that little bit better. 12 Cultural change for new energy Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW h e E x p e r t s : Asking t b c h a n g e d ? ” y o u r j o “How has We built EnBW Baltic 1 back in 2011, while EnBW Hohe See and EnBW Albatros were c­ omplet­­ed in 2019. What has changed during this time? Stefan Kansy (Head of New Construction Projects at EnBW): EnBW Baltic 1 was the first commercial offshore wind farm in Germany to be placed into operation. The offshore wind farm EnBW Baltic 2 – which was completed in 2015 – surpassed EnBW Baltic 1 in all dimensions. The planning and logistical challenges faced in the construction of our third offshore wind farm project EnBW Hohe See/Albatros were even higher: Each of the 87 wind turbines is three times larger than the ones at Baltic 1, the turbines are located 100 km from the coast in the North Sea instead of 16 km out in the Baltic Sea and the total capacity of Hohe See/Albatros is twelve times that of Baltic 1. This clearly illustrates how dynamically the skills at EnBW have developed in the project planning for large offshore wind farms. There are now an increasing number of interdisciplinary projects. What does “working beyond departmental boundaries” mean to you? Thorsten Jörß (Head of Project Development for Photovoltaics): A large EnBW team ranging from technicians and purchasers through to lawyers participates in the development and implementation of a solar park project. That makes agile working models essential. We are constantly searching for new PV sites across Germany throughout the year. If the regional conditions are favourable, we begin the detailed planning work. However, we can only implement our plans if we are successful in the corresponding EEG auction. And we all work together to achieve this goal. How has your job working with local authorities in Baden-Württemberg changed in the last few years? Rico Goede (EnBW Local Authority Consultant): Citizens today want to be a part of the Energie­ wende. At the same time, our customers and the local authorities are still concerned about their own autarchy. Involving mayors and town councils in the planning process at an early stage helps to gain acceptance for the project amongst citizens and thus secure the long-term success of the project. This is why our relationship management department accompanies the process of political decision-making at the local level from the very beginning. At the same time, we also examine the local PV market at an early stage of the planning. The Energiewende is also changing the role played by our customers. Mr Reitze, why are local authorities becoming electricity producers? Armin Reitze (Mayor of Leibertingen): The municipality of Leibertingen wanted to make its contribution to pushing forward the Energiewende. EnBW discussed our proposals with us and implemented them to our satisfaction. The new solar power plants barely disturb anybody here. Photovoltaic plants are only permitted on certain sites such as on land with a low agricultural yield. There are many sites of this type in the Swabian Alb region. And the impact on nature due to soil sealing is limited. Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Cultural change for new energy 13 e b o n d s t h a t a j o r i t y o f t h “T h e m i n f u t u r e t h e m a r k e t w e is s u e o n . ” n b o n d s will be gree Interview with Ingo Peter Voigt, Head of Finance, M&A and Investor Relations, and Peter Berlin, Director for Capital Markets, both at EnBW. How has the financing strategy at EnBW changed over the last few years? Ingo Peter Voigt: As part of our strategic repositioning through EnBW 2020, we did not just significantly intensify the expansion of renewable energies but also focussed on other aspects of sustainable supply and sustainable business, such as restructuring and expanding the grids and investing in e-mobility. Accodingly, we also rigorously updated our financing strategy and made it more sustainable. EnBW has raised 1.5 billion euros solely through the issuing of green bonds in the last two years. Our message is clear: The majority of the bonds that we issue on the market in future will be green bonds. What are green bonds? Peter Berlin: Bonds are “green” when they finance investment in sustainability goals. There has been strong demand on the markets for this type of bond. Our green bonds especially address a wider group of investors who invest in sustainable Ingo Peter Voigt products out of conviction. How does EnBW use the proceeds from green bonds? Ingo Peter Voigt: We have used the proceeds from the green bonds in the area of offshore wind power, primarily for the wind farms EnBW Hohe See and EnBW Albatros which were completed at the turn of the year. In addition, we are invest­ing in onshore wind, e-mobility and photovoltaic projects. How does EnBW ensure transparency with respect to the use of the funds? Ingo Peter Voigt: Issuers of green bonds have to guarantee in advance that the funds raised will be invested in green projects and subsequently provide their investors with annual verification of the sustainable use of the funds and a report on the impact on the environment. Peter Berlin: Which standards apply to green bonds and what the word “sustainable” actually means must, therefore, be defined clearly and understand­ably for all market participants. The first standards were set by the European Commission with their guidelines on climate-related reporting for companies. Other guidelines are based on the proposals by the Technical Expert Group on Sustainable Finance and the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-­related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) appointed by the Financial Stability Board of the G20. Ingo Peter Voigt: EnBW participated in and actively contributed to the relevant working groups at a very early stage. At the same time, we also integrated the results into our own form of reporting. It is for this reason that it was relatively easy for us to establish the institutional framework for the issuing of green bonds and to have it certified by renowned sustainability rating agencies. This Peter Berlin guarantees to all investors that the green bonds issued by EnBW are sustainable. 14 Our future has already begun Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Our f u t u r e a l r e a d y b e g u n has The Energiewende has long since arrived in urban areas. This has given a whole new dynamic to the transformation of supply systems, in which renew­ able energies are also playing an important role. Efficient and effective infrastructure will be an important theme for all stakeholders, whether private consumers, industrial customers or local authorities. EnBW is making this kind of intelligently networked infrastructure available to its customers. The focus in future will be on We are a strong partner for the careful planning, reliable operation and sustain­ how to network previously able development of complex infrastructure. Through the smart networking of our products and services, we ensure, for example, a high level of energy separate infrastructures such as self-sufficiency and mobility within new districts. Carefully planned infrastructure guarantees sustainability and efficiency in the provision of electricity, energy, transport, ​telecommuniheating and cooling. cations and urban development. Renewable energies will be integrated into district development locally, regionally and supraregionally to enable a sustainable supply of green energy: The local generation of electricity using combined heat and power plants, solar power plants and biogas plants makes environmental sense. Virtual power plants will handle the marketing of the energy produced. Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Our future has already begun 15 Ideas for the future We already embarked on the path to the future long ago with our new products and business models. The following selection of EnBW innovations from the area of renew­able energies shows the direction in which we are headed. EnBW Asset RADAR EnBW Asset RADAR (Reporting and Data Analytics for Renewables) uses artificial intelligence to identify technical faults on wind power plants at an early stage and helps avoid any subsequent damage. Savings of several millions of euros were achieved using EnBW Asset RADAR in 2018. Sun and wind forecasts Energy supply companies are increasingly dependent on wind and sunshine forecasts due to the expansion of renewable energies. EnBW is participating in an EU project that aims to improve the quality of weather forecasts. Offshore kites Flying systems could enable the harnessing of upper atmospheric layers with their energy-rich and stable wind speeds for electricity generation. EnBW is partici­pating in a project to develop a fully automated high-altitude wind power plant. Green gases Since the beginning of 2019, the EnBW subsidiary ZEAG has been generating green hydrogen at the “Harthäuser Wald” wind farm. Energiedienst already opened a hydrogen electrolysis plant in Wyhlen that is operated using hydropower in 2018. Floating solar power plants The EnBW subsidiary Erdgas Südwest is realising the largest floating photovoltaic power plant in Germany on the Maiwald quarry lake in Renchen. If the green electricity is not consumed on-site at the gravel plant, it flows into the public grid. The operator is thus able to save around 560,000 kg of CO2 per year. Floating wind power plants Floating platforms could be used to exploit the wind power potential in deeper waters. In cooperation with partners, EnBW is developing various different concepts that would be suitable for opening up new international offshore wind energy regions. 16 Table of contents Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Cont e n t s Combined management report of the EnBW Group and EnBW AG Fundamentals of the Group Front cover pages: Business model ................................................................ 32 Performance indicators of the EnBW Group Strategy, goals and performance EnBW at a glance management system ........................................................ 41 Editorial Corporate governance ...................................................... 48 In dialogue with our stakeholders .................................... 51 Research, development and innovation ........................... 56 Playing an active Procurement .................................................................... 59 Business report role in shaping the General conditions ........................................................... 62 Energiewende The EnBW Group ............................................................... 68 EnBW AG ........................................................................... 91 Overall assessment of the economic situation of the Group ...................................................... 95 Playing an active role in shaping the Energiewende ........ 2 Forecast ............................................................................ 96 The power behind the transformation: Report on opportunities and risks .................................... 100 water, wind and sun .......................................................... 6 Remuneration report ........................................................ 110 Cultural change for new energy ....................................... 10 Disclosures pursuant to sections 289 a (1) and 315 a (1) Our future has already begun ........................................... 14 German Commercial Code (HGB) and explanatory report of the Board of Management ................................. 119 The Board of Management ............................................... 18 Index for the non-financial declaration of the Letter to shareholders ...................................................... 22 EnBW Group and EnBW AG .............................................. 121 Report of the Supervisory Board (condensed) ................. 24 Index for the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) ........................................... 122 About this report .............................................................. 27 Declaration of the legal representatives .......................... 123 Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Table of contents 17 Condensed financial statements of the EnBW Group Service Income statement ............................................................. 125 Financial terms ................................................................. 138 Statement of comprehensive income ............................... 126 Glossary ............................................................................ 139 Balance sheet ................................................................... 127 Multi-year overview .......................................................... 142 Cash flow statement ......................................................... 128 Important notes ............................................................... 144 Statement of changes in equity ........................................ 129 Information on the result of the audit of the Rear cover pages: consolidated financial statements and the Financial calendar 2020 combined management report of the company and the Group for the 2019 financial year......................... 130 On track for growth with new wind farms in the North Sea Corporate bodies The Supervisory Board ..................................................... 132 Offices held by members of the Board of Management ............................................ 134 Other offices held by members of the Supervisory Board .................................................. 135 Navigation Note The integrated management of EnBW comprises financial and non-financial We have also published an online version of the Integrated Annual Report goals in the dimensions: 2019 at www.enbw.com/report2019. The full set of financial statements of the EnBW Group 2019 including the notes to the consolidated financial statements and the declaration of corporate management 2019 of the EnBW Group and EnBW AG, as well as the corporate Customers governance report 2019 are not included in this Integrated Annual Report 2019. Finance Strategy and society Employees Environment Together with the unqualified auditor’s report, they form part of the Integrated Annual Report 2019 – Extended Version, which is available exclusively in PDF format on our website at www.enbw.com/report2019-downloads. All financial Our key performance indicators are labelled with this symbol. publications for the 2019 financial year can be found there. The cross-references take you to further information within this report or to The cross-references and Internet links do not form part of the audited the definition of terms in the glossary in the service section at the end of the management report. report. You will also find the financial terms here. 18 The Board of Management Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW a n a g e m e n t Bo a r d of M The Dr. Frank Mastiaux “ The infrastructure and energy world of the future born 1964 in Essen » Chairman of the Board of Management will be sustainable and green, decentralised and » Chief Executive Officer since 1 October 2012 » appointed until 30 September 2022 digital, urban and cooperative. We are already well » lives in Stuttgart on the way towards getting there.” Frank Mastiaux Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW The Board of Management 19 9 1 “ We want to grow sustainably in the next phase of our strategy. Our financing activities will consistently adhere to our corporate strategy, which is why the majority of our bonds will be green bonds in future.” Thomas Kusterer Thomas Kusterer born 1968 in Pforzheim » Member of the Board of Management » Chief Financial Officer since 1 April 2011 » appointed until 31 March 2024 » lives in Ettlingen 20 The Board of Management Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Dr. Hans-Josef Zimmer born 1958 in Merzig » Member of the Board of Management » Chief Technical Officer since 1 January 2012 » appointed until 31 May 2021 » lives in Steinfeld (Pfalz) “ EnBW plans to invest more than five billion euros by 2025 in the further expansion of renewable energies.” Hans-Josef Zimmer Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW The Board of Management 21 “ The ideas, motivation and drive of our employees will help us to switch over to growth. As we do this, we will be breaking new ground – and the focus will be on people.” Colette Rückert-Hennen Colette Rückert-Hennen born 1961 in Leverkusen-Opladen » Member of the Board of Management and Director of Personnel » Chief Human Resources Officer since 1 March 2019 » appointed until 28 February 2022 » lives in Karlsruhe 22 Letter to shareholders Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW s h a r e h o l d e r s L e t t e r to Frank Mastiaux Chairman of the Board of Management We have been transforming ourselves from a conventional energy company into a strong and innovative partner for energy and infrastructure for the last eight years. We have learned to consider the central themes and trends of our time, such as climate protection, the mobility transition, digitalisation and urbanisation, as opportunities to secure the future viability of our company. We have made the ability to change into one of our key skills. A successful and eventful 2019 financial year We developed the EnBW 2020 strategy in 2013 with the target of reaching the same level of earnings in 2020 as in 2012: an adjusted EBITDA of €2.4 billion. The strategy has been rigorously implemented since then and we have already achieved our earnings target for 2020 one year early. In 2020, we will conclude the fundamental transformation of the business portfolio to meet the requirements of a new energy world. The fact that the earnings contributions made by the individual segments have been completely transformed in comparison to 2012 demonstrates how profoundly we have changed over the last few years. We have also been able to improve in the non-financial goal dimensions: The good reputation of EnBW amongst important stakeholders has once again improved, while customer satisfaction and supply reliability are at a high level. The trust placed in the competi­ tiveness and future viability of the company by our employees has increased and occupational safety has also improved further. The expansion of renewable energies is continuing according to plan, while the CO2 intensity of our own generation of electricity has fallen. Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Letter to shareholders 23 We initiated many new things and continued with others – across all segments – in 2019. Here are some examples: In the Sales segment, we have now achieved growth two years in a row after considerable repositioning efforts. Our subsidiary Senec is one of the top 3 suppliers on the German market for home storage systems for solar power plants. By expanding our public charging network for electromobility and through collaborations with renowned partners, we currently have the most comprehensive charging infrastructure for e-cars in Germany. In Baden-Württemberg, municipal utilities, suppliers and local authorities worked together under our leadership to establish a core charging network for electric vehicles. The acquisition of the broadband provider Plusnet in 2019 was a major step in building a strong position for ourselves on the nationwide telecommunications market in Germany. The Grids segment is continuing to expand the transmission grids, converting them into smart grids and integrating various measures for electromobility in the process. A new participation model for the transmission grids that enables local authorities to acquire shares in Netze BW and thus play a part in the economic success of our electricity and gas grids has lifted the quality of our partnerships with local authorities to a whole new level. In the Renewable Energies segment, the acquisition of the French developer of wind and solar projects Valeco is moving us forward and opens up potential for international growth. We have also completed the largest offshore wind project to be built in Germany to date – EnBW Hohe See and EnBW Albatros with a total output of 609 MW. In addition, we made the decision in 2019 to take on the construction of the largest solar park in Germany with an output of 180 MW without state funding. To finance this and other investments, we issued green hybrid bonds with a total volume of €1 billion in 2019 – the first German company to do so. In the Generation and Trading segment, we continued to push forward the transformation of our portfolio. The proportion of CO2-intensive power plants has fallen by around 40% since 2012. In 2019, we had our bid accepted for the construction of a new gas turbine power plant as special technical equipment for grids and the Philippsburg 2 nuclear power plant was shut down for good on New Year’s Eve. Please allow me at this point to comment on energy policy: We are following the deviations of the Coal Phase-out Act from the recommendations made by the Coal Commission with some concern. The law is now detrimental to climate protection and detrimental to a sustainable Energiewende, especially in southern Germany. Therefore, we are calling on the German government to return to the recommendations made by the Coal Commission and also to improve the planning of the expansion of renewable energies. Switching over to growth Following our realignment and repositioning phase, we have now switched our priority and are on track for growth. We have set ourselves the target of an operating result of €3.2 billion in 2025. The acquisitions of Valeco and Plusnet in 2019 were already the first steps in this direction. As part of our EnBW 2025 strategy, we are transforming ourselves into a sustainable and innovative infrastructure partner for our customers and other stakeholders. In the process, we are also branching out beyond the traditional boundaries of the energy sector to open up new growth areas for our core expertise – the safe and reliable construction and operation of critical infrastructure. Urban infrastructure is a good example of one of these growth fields. We understand this to be the smart networking of energy, transport, telecommunications, security and more in the public sphere. However, we aren’t going to just approach this from a technical perspective – we want to create liveable districts for people. We are striving to make the business activities at EnBW even more sustainable in future – an ambitious goal for which the security of supply must be addressed during its realisation. As in the previous strategy period, the achievement of these targets will require the outstanding performance of the whole team at EnBW and plenty of creativity, while always placing the focus on the customer. We have already achieved this once. Yours sincerely, Dr. Frank Mastiaux Chairman of the Board of Management 24 Report of the Supervisory Board (condensed) Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW e p o r t o f t h e R r y B o a r d Supe r vi s o Lutz Feldmann Chairman of the Supervisory Board The Supervisory Board dutifully and comprehensively perand the plans and targets reported at an earlier date. In addition, formed all of the tasks incumbent on it in the 2019 financial the Board of Management informed the Supervisory Board year as required by law and the Articles of Association. It reguabout the economic position of the company and the Group larly advised the Board of Management on its management of including, amongst other things, the profitability of the the company and continuously accompanied and monitored all ­company (especially the equity), the development of business important management measures for the Group. In the process, (especially the revenue and earnings, the net assets, financial the Supervisory Board was involved in all decisions of fundaposition and results of operations, as well as HR development mental importance to the company and the Group. at the company) and those business transactions that could be of significant importance for the profitability or liquidity of The Board of Management regularly, comprehensively and the company. In addition, the Board of Management informed promptly informed the Supervisory Board about all relevant the Supervisory Board about the risk situation of the Group aspects of intended business policies and other fundamental and of individual areas of the Group, corporate strategy and issues relating to business planning and also provided reasons planning, risk management, the internal control system and for any discrepancies between the actual development of business compliance. Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Report of the Supervisory Board (condensed) 25 Key topics of the discussions at the › Approval for the amendment to the plan for the allocation of plenary meetings of the Supervisory responsibilities proposed by the Board of Management due to Dr. Bernhard Beck stepping down from the Board of ManBoard agement and Colette Rückert-Hennen being appointed to the Board of Management In the 2019 financial year, the Supervisory Board dealt extensively › Appointment of Colette Rückert-Hennen as the Director of with verbal and written reports and proposals for resolutions Personnel of EnBW AG issued by the Board of Management at its seven ordinary meet› Consultation on the reform of the German Corporate Gov­ ings on 15 February 2019, 27 March 2019, 7 May 2019, 11 July 2019, ernance Code and the impact of the law for the implementa27 September 2019, 7 November 2019 and 4 December 2019, an tion of the second shareholder rights directive (“ARUG II”) extraordinary meeting on 7 March 2019 and through two written › Amendment to the rules of procedure for the Supervisory resolution procedures. Furthermore, it requested reports and Board information from the Board of Management on individual topics, › Consultation on corporate governance and the issuing of the which were comprehensively provided in a timely manner in annual declaration of compliance each case. The discussions and resolutions at the plenary meetings › Regular reporting on the operation, safety and, where releof the Supervisory Board focused on the following key issues: vant, dismantling of the nuclear power plants › Consultation on the status of the projects to construct the › In-depth consultations and discussions with the Board of waste material processing centres and waste storage facilities Management about long-term strategic planning (with a in Philippsburg and Neckarwestheim, as well as approval for focus on offshore and onshore wind power and critical infrathe amendment of the budget for the projects structure) › Approval of the measures for the corporate financing of › Consultation on the personnel strategy TransnetBW GmbH by EnBW AG in connection with the new › Consultation on the implementation status of the sales grid construction projects SuedLink and ULTRANET strategy › Regular reporting on major investment projects, including › Consultation on the results of the negotiations with the EnBW Hohe See and EnBW Albatros, as well as other projects commission on “Growth, Structural Change and Employthat form part of the generation strategy (renewable and ment” of the German Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs conventional generation) and Energy (so-called “Coal Commission”) › Consultation on the current status and strategic issues › Consultation on issues relating to the sustainable procurerelated to the engagement of EnBW in Turkey as part of the ment of hard coal from Colombia and Russia joint venture Borusan EnBW Enerji yatirimlari ve Üretim A.S., › Consultation on climate protection activities by the company with a focus on, amongst other things, the impacts of the › Approval for the acquisition of all shares in the Valeco Group political events and developments in Turkey (development, construction and operation of wind and solar › Approval to finance the Saros wind project of Borusan energy), France, by EnBW France GmbH EnBW Enerji yatirimlari ve Üretim A.S. (JV) › Approval for the acquisition of all shares in Plusnet GmbH › Approval of the budget for the 2020 financial year and and indirectly in its subsidiaries by EnBW Telekommunikaacknowledgement of the medium-term planning for the tion GmbH period 2021 to 2022 consisting of the Group earnings, finance, › Consultation on the expansion of the quick-charging infrainvestment and personnel plans, as well as the result (HGB) structure for electromobility and liquidity planning of EnBW AG › Approval for the submission of bids as part of the EU tender › Defining the level of the short-term variable remuneration process “Special technical equipment for grids” for the site in for the Board of Management for 2018 and the long-term Marbach and for a project budget in the event that the bid variable remuneration for the Board of Management for 2016 was accepted (as it has been in the meantime) (performance period 2016 to 2018) › Approval of the scheduled sale of the remaining 6% share› Defining the targets for the short and long-term variable holding in EWE Aktiengesellschaft remuneration for the Board of Management for 2020 › Approval for the conclusion of an LNG procurement contract › Consultation on the annual compliance and data protection with Novatek Gas & Power Asia Pte. Ltd. report and the agenda for the following period › Approval for the realisation of the Weesow-Willmersdorf › Regular reporting on the development of market prices for solar park electricity, fuels and CO2 › Consultation on opening up Netze BW GmbH for indirect › Regular reporting on the key indicators for occupational investment by local authorities of up to 24.9% and approval safety and health protection and exceptional events in the for the measures under corporate law required for this EnBW Group ­purpose › Approval of the proposals made at the Annual General Meet› Consultation on the financing strategy, including in particuing, including the election of the auditor for the 2019 finanlar the approval for the issuing of two green hybrid bonds cial year and for the (by-)election of members of the Superwith a total volume of €1 billion in 2019 visory Board › Approval of financing measures for Pražská energetika a.s. (PRE) › Regular consultation on the development of the financial ratings of EnBW AG 26 Report of the Supervisory Board (condensed) Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Aside from the meetings, the Board of Management informed Audit of the annual and consolidated the Supervisory Board in writing about all business transactions of particular importance for the company or the Group. In add­ financial statements ition, there was ongoing communication between the Chairman of the Supervisory Board and the Board of Management, Following a thorough examination by the audit committee, the particularly with the Chairman of the Board of Management, in Supervisory Board undertook a detailed review of the annual order to discuss issues relating to the strategic positioning, financial statements and consolidated financial statements as of planning, business development, risk situation, risk manage31 December 2019 that were audited and issued with an unqualiment, compliance, important individual transactions and curfied audit opinion by Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsrently pending decisions. gesellschaft, and of the combined management report including the non-financial declaration for the 2019 financial year. There was a consistently very high attendance rate at the individual meetings of the Supervisory Board. The majority of the The final results of its own reviews did not lead to any reservamembers of the Supervisory Board attended all meetings of the tions on behalf of the Supervisory Board. It approved the audit Supervisory Board. No member of the Supervisory Board par­ results of the independent auditor and endorsed the annual ticipated in less than half of the meetings. financial statements prepared by the Board of Management as of 31 December 2019 – which have thus been ratified – and the consolidated financial statements as of 31 December 2019, as Work of the committees well as the combined management report including the non-­ financial declaration for the 2019 financial year. In order for the Supervisory Board to perform its functions efficiently, the committees it set up once again met regularly in the past financial year. The respective members of the committees Reference to the complete version of are listed on p. 133 of the Integrated Annual Report 2019. The Chairpersons of the committees regularly reported comprehenthe report of the Supervisory Board sively on the work of the committees at each subsequent ­plenary meeting of the Supervisory Board. Further details on the topics “Work of the committees”, “Corporate governance”, “Audit of the annual and consolidated financial statements” and “Personnel changes at the level of Corporate governance the Board of Management and Supervisory Board” can be found in the full version of the Report of the Supervisory The Supervisory Board also paid close attention to the various Board made available to the public on the company’s website issues relating to corporate governance in the 2019 financial year. at www.enbw.com/corporate-governance. These issues are described in detail in the corporate governance report. The corporate governance report is part of the (Group) Karlsruhe, 20 March 2020 declaration on corporate management, which the company has published on its website (www.enbw.com/corporate-governance) The Supervisory Board in accordance with section 289 f (1) sentence 2 and section 315 d sentence 2 of the German Commercial Code (HGB). Lutz Feldmann Chairman Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW About this report 27 About this report Integrated reporting and society, employees and environment, we are seeking to promote ­integrated thinking within the company and emphaIn this Integrated Annual Report – as in previous years – we also sise the importance of being comprehensively oriented take ecological and social aspects of the company’s activities towards performance and our stakeholders. We measure the into account as well as economic aspects. We have published an achievement of our goals using key performance indicators. Integrated Annual Report based on the recommendations of Our ambitions are underlined by the work and membership of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) since the Thomas Kusterer, member of the Board of Management of 2014 financial year, with the aim of achieving a holistic repreEnBW, in the IIRC as well as in the EU Technical Expert Group sentation of the performance of the company. Based on the on Sustainable Finance (TEG) (Glossary, from p. 139). The concepts behind integrated reporting, we strive for the compre“Building Public Trust Award 2019”, which we received from hensive integrated management of the company through the PricewaterhouseCoopers GmbH Wirt­schafts­prü­fungs­gesell­ implementation of the EnBW 2020 strategy and the subsequent schaft for the Integrated Annual Report in 2018, confirms our EnBW 2025 strategy. By presenting financial and non-financial commitment in this area. More about integrated reporting at corporate goals in the dimensions of finance, strategy, customers EnBW can be found at www.enbw.com/integrated-reporting. The Integrated Annual Report 2019 Integrated Annual Report 2019 The Integrated Annual Report 2019 presents financial and non-financial corporate goals in the following dimensions: Excluding the notes and the declaration of corporate management TRANSFORMATION Customers Finance Strategy and society Employees Environment This promotes integrated thinking within the company and emphasises the importance of being comprehensively oriented towards performance and our stakeholders. We measure the achievement of our goals using key performance indicators. www.enbw.com/report2019 Overview of financial publications 2019 Integrated Annual Report 2019 Integrated Annual Report 2019 – Declaration of Corporate Financial statements of The report contains the combined manExtended Version Management 2019 EnBW AG 2019 agement report of the EnBW Group and The extended version of the Inteof the EnBW Group and EnBW This report is published in PDF EnBW AG, as well as the condensed vergrated Annual Report 2019 comprisAG including the Corporate format and contains the annual sion of the consolidated financial statees the full set of financial stateGovernance Report 2019. This financial statements of EnBW AG. ments without the notes to the financial ments of the EnBW Group including document is contained in the statements. It is available in print and in the notes to the consolidated finanIntegrated Annual Report 2019 PDF format. Selected content from this cial statements and the Declaration – Extended Version but is also report and additional information on of Corporate Management. This available separately in PDF aspects of sustainability can be found in document is exclusively available in format. the online report at www.enbw.com/ PDF format. report2019. All documents relating to the financial statements for the 2019 financial year can be found at www.enbw.com/report2019-downloads. We publish the quarterly statements and the six-monthly financial report at www.enbw.com/financial-publications. 28 About this report Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Together with existing legal requirements for strengthening consolidated financial statements and the (Group) declaration non-financial reporting by companies in their management of corporate management including the corporate governance reports and Group management reports (CSR Directive Implereport are not included in this report and they are available to mentation Act), the reporting principles and elements of the download at www.enbw.com/report2019-downloads. IIRC create the foundations for integrated reporting. The Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW contains the combined The contents of this Integrated Annual Report exclusively serve management report of the EnBW Group and EnBW AG in ac­­ to provide information and do not constitute an offer or an cordance with the regulations found in commercial law. The full investment recommendation. Please take this into considerconsolidated financial statements including the notes to the ation and also refer to the other important notes on p. 144. Important aspects of reporting Main elements of reporting in 2019 Topic Further development Page reference Business model » Adapting the business model according to the ongoing strategic development page 32 ff. Strategy » Ongoing strategic development: continuing the EnBW 2020 strategy and the achievement of its page 41 ff. goals, introduction of the EnBW 2025 strategy Materiality analysis » Stabilising the materiality analysis process page 51 f. » Closely linked to the process for developing the company’s strategy Interdependencies » Presenting the interrelationships between key performance indicators page 46 f. In our concise and transparent reporting, we aim to meet the the information presented in this report. Furthermore, this Inteincreased needs of stakeholders for more information. We use grated Annual Report is based on the recommendations for our regular materiality analysis process to ensure that all of the reporting principles and reporting elements contained within key issues from the past financial year are included in the Intethe IIRC framework. grated Annual Report. We are introducing the new EnBW 2025 strategy in parallel to the existing EnBW 2020 strategy. In this The selection of topics and the level of detail given to them in context, we will continue to report transparently on the achieve­ this Integrated Annual Report is based, as in previous years, on ment of the goals for the EnBW 2020 strategy. their materiality. The materiality analysis process pays par­ ticular attention to the key themes discussed internally in the Through the participation of the EnBW Chief Financial Officer management bodies and addressed in the external communion the international Task Force on Climate-related Financial Discation (p. 51 f.) and is anchored within the strategy process. closures (TCFD) (Glossary, from p. 139), EnBW actively supports the strengthening of climate-related risk reporting by com­ This report was created in accordance with the GRI standards: panies (www.enbw.com/responsibility). An overview of the con“Core” option. The reporting of sustainability issues has been tents for this complex range of topics can be found in the index based since the 2017 financial year on the GRI standards, on TCFD recommendations on p. 122. including the Electric Utilities Sector Supplement. Further information on the GRI Content Index can be found at­­ We will also strive in future years to continuously improve our www.enbw.com/gri-index. Further information on the fulfilintegrated reporting. Our plans for 2020 thus include the conment of other sustainability standards is available on our webtinuous further development of the content of this report in site at www.enbw.com/performance-indicators. Our sustainaccordance with the requirements for a non-financial declaraability reporting also complies with the Communication on tion and the disclosures recommended by the TCFD . Progress requirements for the UN Global Compact and is based to an increasing extent on the UN Sustainable Development Goals (www.enbw.com/green-bond). These two frameBasis for the presentation of the report work standards, as well as the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, have been used as the basis for the non-finanThe information about the net assets, financial position and cial declaration. results of operations of the EnBW Group is based on the requirements of the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), All data and calculation methods used for this Integrated and, where applicable, German commercial law and German Annual Report are based on German and international stand­ accounting standards (GAS). We have fully integrated the non-fiards for financial and sustainability reporting. The responsible nancial declaration pursuant to sections 298 b and 315 b HGB specialist units applied representative methods in each case for into the combined management report based on our integrated the collection of all data and information for the reporting reporting. Internal control mechanisms ensure the reliability of period. The reporting period comprises the 2019 financial year. Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW About this report 29 We took into account all relevant information up to 4 March Independent auditing and evaluation 2020. Along with EnBW AG, with its headquarters in Karlsruhe, Germany, the group of consolidated companies of EnBW for At the Annual General Meeting of EnBW Energie Baden-Würtfinancial reporting also includes all of its key subsidiaries. The temberg AG on 8 May 2019, Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsreporting limits for the non-financial performance indicators prüfungsgesellschaft was elected as the new auditor and Group correspond to the scope of consolidation for financial reporting, auditor. The condensed financial statements for the 2019 finanunless otherwise stated. In addition, we have also taken other cial year that form part of the Integrated Annual Report do not issues into account in various chapters of this Integrated include the notes to the consolidated financial statements or Annual Report, especially against the background of the legal the (Group) declaration of corporate management 2019 which requirement for a non-financial declaration, in order to provide includes the corporate governance report 2019. The full set of a holistic representation of the performance of the company. consolidated financial statements – including the notes to the The index for the non-financial declaration of the EnBW Group consolidated financial statements – and the management and EnBW AG is presented on p. 121. report for the company and the Group are included in the extended version of the Integrated Annual Report 2019 and As we were preparing the Integrated Annual Report 2019, our were all audited by Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsaim was to write the text in a concise and understandable way gesellschaft for the 2019 financial year. As in the previous year, and thus to make it easy to read and more personal. It is for this a complete audit of the non-financial declaration was carried reason that we have generally used the term “we” and only spor­ out in accordance with an extension of the auditing mandate adically the name “EnBW” when we are reporting on our commade by the Supervisory Board. Ernst & Young GmbH Wirt­ pany. The EnBW Group is meant in both cases. For statements schaftsprüfungsgesellschaft arrived at the overall conclusion about EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG, we have explicitly that the entire audit did not lead to any reservations and used either the full name or the short form EnBW AG. issued an unqualified audit opinion. The high level of integration in the whole reporting process is underlined by this audit of the complete Integrated Annual Report with reasonable assurance. The full set of consolidated financial statements and the combined management report for the company and the Group for the 2019 financial year, as well as the unqualified audit opinion issued by the auditor, are accessible to the public on the website of EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG at www.enbw.com/report2019-downloads. 30 Management report › Table of contents Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Combined management report of the EnBW Group and EnBW AG Fundamentals of the Group Business model Research, development and innovation Business principles .......................................................... 32 Research and development: Goals, guidelines and processes ...................................... 56 Assessment of the robustness of our business model in terms of climate protection ............... 33 Research and development: Selected activities ............................................................. 56 Value added ....................................................................... 34 Innovation management: Our operating segments ................................................... 36 Goals, guidelines and processes ...................................... 57 Group structure and business radius ............................... 38 Innovation: Selected activities .......................................... 58 Expenditure and personnel .............................................. 58 Strategy, goals and performance management system Procurement Strategy ............................................................................. 41 Efficient and sustainable procurement processes ........... 59 Goals and performance management system ................. 43 Responsible raw materials procurement in the coal sector............................................................... 60 Corporate governance Corporate management ................................................... 48 Management and supervision .......................................... 48 Compliance ....................................................................... 49 In dialogue with our stakeholders Our stakeholders .............................................................. 51 Materiality analysis ........................................................... 51 Sustainability ratings ........................................................ 53 Social engagement .......................................................... 53 Dialogue with citizens ...................................................... 54 In dialogue with our stakeholders .................................... 55 Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Management report › Table of contents 31 Business report General conditions Forecast Macroeconomic trends .................................................... 62 Expected trends in the finance and strategy goal dimensions .......................................... 96 Development of the sector and competitive situation ...... 62 Expected trends in the customers Cross-segment framework conditions ............................ 63 and society goal dimension .............................................. 98 Sales segment .................................................................. 64 Expected trends in the employees goal dimension .......... 99 Grids segment .................................................................. 65 Expected trends in the environment goal dimension ...... 99 Renewable Energies segment .......................................... 65 Overall assessment of anticipated developments Generation and Trading segment ..................................... 66 by the management .......................................................... 99 The EnBW Group Report on opportunities and risks Finance and strategy goal dimensions ............................. 68 Principles of the integrated opportunity and risk management system ......................................... 100 Customers and society goal dimension ........................... 81 Structure and processes of the integrated Employees goal dimension ............................................... 83 opportunity and risk management system ...................... 101 Environment goal dimension ........................................... 87 Structure and processes of the accounting-related internal control system .................................................... 102 EnBW AG Non-financial declaration ................................................ 103 Results of operations of EnBW AG ................................... 91 Opportunity and risk position ........................................... 104 Net assets of EnBW AG ..................................................... 92 Overall assessment by the management ......................... 109 Financial position of EnBW AG ......................................... 93 Overall assessment of the economic situation Remuneration report of EnBW AG and the development of EnBW AG ................ 94 Board of Management remuneration ............................... 110 Opportunities and risks .................................................... 94 Supervisory Board remuneration ..................................... 117 Comments on reporting ................................................... 94 EnBW share and dividend policy ...................................... 94 Disclosures pursuant to sections 289 a (1) and 315 a (1) German Commercial Code (HGB) and explanatory report of the Board Overall assessment of the of Management ................................................................. 119 economic situation of the Group ............................. 95 Index for the non-financial declaration of the EnBW Group and EnBW AG ............................ 121 Index for the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) ................................... 122 Declaration of the legal representatives ............... 123 32 Management report › Business model Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Fundamentals of the Group Business model Business principles Graphic Business model 02 V03 Our driving incentive EnBW 2020 strategy: Energiewende. Safe. Hands on. Our vision EnBW 2025 strategy: Sustainable and innovative infrastructure partner Our activities Our present Energy industry value chain with four segments Sales Grids Renewable Generation Energies and Trading Our future Three strategic business fields with a focus on infrastructure Our Our value resources added » Finance Smart infrastructure for System critical Sustainable generation » Finance » Relationships customers infrastructure infrastructure » Relationships » Employees » Employees » Environment » Environment » Infrastructure Sales of electricity and Transmission and Generation of electricity » Infrastructure » Expertise gas, billing services distribution of electricity, from renewable energies » Expertise gas and water and the (water, wind and sun) provision of grid-related services Installation and operation Generation of electricity of critical infrastructure from conventional power such as broadband, plants, generation of charging and urban heating, storage of gas, infrastructure electricity and gas trading and system services As an integrated energy company, EnBW is active in the four segin 2013 with the guiding principle “Energiewende. Save. Hands ments Sales, Grids, Renewable Energies and Generation and on.” The main focus of this strategy was the transformation of Trading and is transforming into a sustainable and innovative the business portfolio. The aim was to compensate for the fall in infrastructure partner. We draw on a variety of resources – from earnings in the Generation and Trading segment with growth finance through to expertise – for our corporate activities. As a in the three other segments: Sales, Grids and Renewable Enerresult of the efficient application of these resources, we create gies. The resolute implementation of the EnBW 2020 strategy is value for ourselves and our stakeholders. In response to the now on the home straight and has significantly strengthened Energiewende in Germany, we developed our EnBW 2020 strategy the future viability of the company. Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Management report › Business model 33 In view of the permanent change to the framework conditions Assessment of the robustness of our in the energy industry, we will continue to push forward the strategic development of EnBW and its business portfolio. The business model in terms of climate new planning horizon is 2025 and our vision is to become a susprotection tainable and innovative infrastructure partner for our customers and other stakeholders. In the EnBW 2025 strategy, the We have been analysing the robustness of our business model focus will be increasingly placed on the aspect of infrastructure for many years – with an increasing focus on the recommendawithin our existing business fields. In addition, we want to tions issued by the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disexploit new opportunities for growth outside of the energy secclosures (TCFD) (Glossary, from p. 139) in the last few years. We tor. Our transformed business portfolio will be combined take account of the special requirements of the Energiewende within three strategic business fields from 2021: The Sales segand its effect on the expansion of renewable energies, supply ment and the new infrastructure businesses – also outside of reliability, electricity consumption, grid stability and the supply the energy sector – will become the new strategic business field of heating in our strategic considerations. In particular, we “Smart infrastructure for customers”, while the Grids segment examine the climate protection requirements and their will become the business field “System critical infrastructure”. impact on the business model. Accordingly, evaluating the difFinally, the strategic business field “Sustainable generation ferent ways the Energiewende could possibly develop, including infrastructure” will be formed from the existing “Renewable the opportunities and risks for our business over the coming Energies” and “Generation and Trading” segments. The aim is to years, will be a main focus of our market analyses (p. 104). develop a balanced business portfolio that has diverse potential for growth, a high proportion of stable, regulated business and The future development of the European electricity and gas an attractive risk-return profile. You can find more about the markets plays a major role here. We draw up consistent future further development of the EnBW strategy in the chapter “Stratscenarios based on all of the different aspects of the Eneregy, goals and performance management system” from p. 41 ff. giewende mentioned above. Major drivers of these scenarios are how much economic growth there will be in the long term and An important component of the further development of our the political and corporate ambitions for protecting the climate business portfolio is digitalisation, which is having a greater in the energy markets. The various risks associated with the and greater influence on the way we think and act in our comtransition to a low-carbon economy are reflected within the scepany. We are pushing forward numerous digitalisation initianarios. Relevant parameters include estimates on the developtives and are focussing here on three main areas: products and ment of demand, changes to the power plant portfolio, the processes, technologies, and people and organisation. In 2019, development of the transmission grids, and prices and price we focussed mainly on products and processes and, in particustructures for fuel – as well as other relevant market trends such lar, on the development of new, digital approaches for the existas in the areas of renewable energies and electromobility. On ing business and new, digital business models. this basis, possible future paths for the long-term development of, amongst other things, the wholesale market prices for elecThe year 2019 was characterised by political and social debate tricity and gas as well as CO2 prices are derived for the scenarios on climate change. In the Green Deal, the EU wants to introwith simulated calculations using computer models. The simuduce comprehensive measures and legal obligations for achievlations also take into account physical risks such as uncertaining climate neutrality by 2050. The German federal government ties about meteorological influences on the electricity market also announced in 2019 its aim to become climate neutral by in the future due to the availability of wind and sunlight. the middle of the century. The Climate Action Plan 2050 that was passed by the German government in October 2019 repreVarious parameters and assumptions are used to assess the sented a step in this direction with corresponding intermediate robustness of the business model with respect to climate protecand sector targets. In this context, we have closely examined the tion. These include international climate protection targets, espesignificance of sustainability and climate protection themes for cially limiting the rise in temperature to a level acceptable for the our business model and want to support international and global ecosystem, as well as targets for complying with max­ national targets for a climate neutral economy in the developimum greenhouse gas concentrations (Glossary, from p. 139), ment of our future measures and goals. such as the IEA 450 ppm (parts per million) scenario. The targets have been defined based on science but can be translated into global carbon budgets for acceptable levels of CO2 emissions and can thus be used to define a framework for the future size of the markets for fossil fuels. These scenarios not only provide information on the market prices for electricity and gas but also enable us to assess the robustness of our strategic planning, for example, with respect to the size of relevant markets for renewable energies or the infrastructures for electromobility. The scenarios and the assumptions on which they are based are updated at regular intervals, whereby the debate about ambitious climate protection targets plays a decisive role. 34 Management report › Business model Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Value added Value added statement The value added statement indicates the degree to which we Value added for EnBW and its stakeholders contribute to the continuing economic development of the company and our stakeholders using our financial resources. The aim of our corporate activities is to add value in the short, Further information on the dialogue with our stakeholders is medium and long term. Value added reflects corporate success, summarised in the chapter “In dialogue with our stakeholders” as well as competitiveness and future viability, and does not (p. 51 ff.). only depend on the company itself but also on the business environment, relationships with stakeholders (p. 51 ff.) and the We define value added as our cash-relevant business perform­ application of a variety of different resources. As a result of the ance in the past financial year minus cash-relevant expenses. efficient use of these resources within the scope of our activities, The value added is derived from the cash flow statement and we create value for ourselves and our stakeholders. We associate corrected based on the use of funds. In the reporting year, we the concept of sustainable economic development with our generated value added of 22.7% (previous year restated: 19.2%). aspiration to conduct all of our business activities in a responAs well as being used in the form of wages, salaries and pension sible way. This is closely associated with our reputation, that is, payments for active and former employees, a further share is the public opinion our stakeholder groups hold about EnBW dedicated to payments to the state in the form of income taxes (p. 81). Information on the interdependencies between the key and electricity and energy taxes. After consideration of all performance indicators can be found on p. 46 f. ­stake­holder groups, the retained cash flow is available to the company for future investments without the need to raise ­additional debt (p. 77). Value added of the EnBW Group in € million Creation of value Cash-relevant business performance 16,133 4,728 20,861 Suppliers and service providers: Value added material and other operational (2018: 4,320) expenditure¹ (2018: 18,141 2) Use of value 43% 26% 19% 7% 5% 4,728 Active and former EnBW Group: State: taxes Shareholders: Outside investors: employees: primarily retained cash flow (2018: 20%) dividends interest wages and salaries (2018: 23%) (2018: 7%) (2018: 6%) (2018: 44%) 1 Includes interest and dividends received, as well as the dedicated financial assets contribution. 2 The figure for the previous year has been restated. Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Management report › Business model 35 Value added for EnBW and its stakeholders Resources Value added For EnBW For our stakeholders Finance » Securing profitability » Appropriate dividends for our shareholders A constantly solid financial » High level of financial discipline » Paying interest punctually to our third-party structure (equity, debt, » Increasing Group value lenders positive cash flow levels) » Wages, salaries and pensions for active and for financing our business former employees activities » Tax payments to the state Relationships » Increasing share of result from » Increasing customer satisfaction: “Customer proximity” / Sales “Customer proximity” Our customers are the central focus of our philosophy » Increasing customer satisfaction: » Maintaining supply reliability (SAIDI) “Customer proximity” As a result of the efficient use of our resources within the scope of our activities and actions. We actively » Engaging in social issues through activities promote dialogue with our » Improving reputation for our end customers, business partners, stakeholders and thus build local authorities and their citizens » Customer loyalty: strengthen trust in trust and social acceptance. EnBW as a partner and supplier Employees » Increasing employee commitment (ECI) » Measuring employee identification with » Improving occupational safety (LTIF) the company based on the Employee ComThe expertise, experience and mitment Index (ECI) diversity of our employees » Always having the right employees with the contribute to the success of » Engagement in the area of diversity right skills in the right place the company, supported by » Offering trainee and degree places an effective and efficient HR » Multi-stage career integration programme policy. for refugees and migrants in the 2019 financial year, we create value for ourselves and our stakeholders. Environment » Expanding renewable energies (RE) » Expanding and integrating RE for » Increasing Group value customers and society Using the natural resources wind, water, sun, biomass » Reducing CO2 intensity » Reducing CO2 intensity and geothermal energy to » Energy-efficient products for our customers » Improving the carbon footprint generate energy » Safe dismantling of nuclear power plants » Responsible handling of resources » Sustainable and responsible procurement Infrastructure » Expanding renewable energies (RE) » SAIDI: Supply reliability for our custom» Increasing Group value ers (maintained by investments in upgrading We are one of the most imgrids and expanding transmission grids portant energy companies in » Reducing CO2 intensity through our grid subsidiaries) Germany and Europe thanks » Driving the Energiewende to our power plants, electri» Reducing CO2 intensity city and gas grids and gas » Opening up new business fields » Investing in the expansion of RE for storage systems. customers and society » Contracting third-party companies and suppliers Expertise » Securing profitability and increasing » New smart products for the benefit of our share of result from “Customer proximity” / customers We develop models for new Sales by identifying new sources of revenue » EnBW as a provider of venture capital for the future business fields through our research and innovation » Early identification of medium to long-term development of the portfolio activities. market opportunities and trends Overview of the segments, page 36 f. | In dialogue with our stakeholders, page 51 ff. | Research, development and innovation, page 56 ff. | The EnBW Group, page 68 ff. 36 Management report › Business model Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Our operating segments Overview of the segments Sales Grids Tasks Tasks Sale of electricity, gas, energy industry services and energy solutions; Transmission and distribution of electricity and gas as well as energy supply and energy-saving contracting; cooperations with expansion of HVDC connections; provision of grid-related services; local authorities; collaboration with municipal utilities; telecommuniwater supply; guaranteeing the security of supply and system stability cations Significant events in 2019 Significant events in 2019 » Strengthening of the telecommunications business with the » Start of the preliminary work for the ULTRANET converter station acquisition of the broadband company Plusnet in Philippsburg » EnBW customers switch over to the new sales and billing system » Further preparations for SuedLink as part of the approval process EnPower » “EnBW connects” participation model offers local authorities in » Further partnerships with trading partners and filling station Baden-Württemberg the opportunity to acquire a share of Netze BW operators for the expansion of the charging infrastructure for for the first time electromobility » Invitation to tender for special technical equipment for grids by » Conclusion of the funded project SAFE to establish a core charging TransnetBW and quick-charging network in Baden-Württemberg with EnBW as » Completion of the first section of the European gas pipeline EUGAL the head of the consortium » End of the “E-Mobility Avenue” project from Netze BW to examine » As the largest operator of quick-charging stations in Germany, charging behaviour and the effects on the electricity grid; start of EnBW places its first quick-charging park into operation at the two follow-up projects “E-Mobility-Carré” and “E-Mobility-Chaussee” junction of the A7 and A8 motorways » Introduction of a transparent and uniform kWh charging tariff at more than 30,000 charging points in Germany, Austria and Switzerland Sales in 2019 Grid lengths in 2019 144,000 km 73.6 billion kWh 35.3 billion kWh Electricity transmission and distribution grid gas (B2C / B2B) electricity (B2C / B2B) 25,000 km Gas transmission and distribution grid Number of B2C and B2B customers 2019 Transmission volumes in 2019 Around 5.5 million 62.4 billion kWh 34.2 billion kWh electricity gas Key figures in 2019 Key figures in 2019 4,394 employees €294.3 million 9,254 employees €1,311.2 million (as of 31 / 12 / 2019) adjusted EBITDA in 2019 (as of 31 / 12 / 2019) adjusted EBITDA in 2019 €389.4 million 12.1% €1,230.9 million 53.9% investment in 2019 share of adjusted EBITDA in 2019 investment in 2019 share of adjusted EBITDA in 2019 Development of adjusted EBITDA (in € billion) Development of adjusted EBITDA (in € billion) +100% +25% 0.2 0.4 0.8 1.0 2012 2020 2012 2020 Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Management report › Business model 37 Renewable Energies Generation and Trading Tasks Tasks Project development and management, construction and operation of Advisory services, construction, operation and dismantling of thermal renewable energy power plants power plants; storage of gas; trading of electricity and gas, provision of system services; operation of reserve power plants; gas midstream business, district heating; waste management / environmental services; direct distribution of renewable energy power plants Significant events in 2019 Significant events in 2019 » Completion and commissioning of the offshore wind farm EnBW » Final decommissioning of Block 2 of the Philippsburg nuclear Hohe See with an output of 497 MW power plant on 31 December 2019 » Completion of the offshore wind farm EnBW Albatros with an output » Approval for the dismantling of Block 2 of the Philippsburg nuclear of 112 MW; commissioning in January 2020 power plant » Acquisition of the French project developer and operator of wind » Extension of the inspection of Block II of the Neckarwestheim farms and solar parks Valeco nuclear power plant for maintenance work » Investment decision for the Weesow-Willmersdorf solar park with » Inauguration of the dismantling infrastructure at the site in an output of more than 180 MW and without EEG funding Philippsburg » Opening of a representative office in Taiwan for developing offshore » EnBW has its bid for the construction of a gas turbine power plant wind farm projects as part of selective internationalisation in Marbach am Neckar as special technical equipment for grids » Opening of two offices in Jersey City and Boston in the USA to paraccepted ticipate in the expansion of offshore wind power on the East Coast » Official inauguration of the combined gas heat and power plant in of the USA Stuttgart-Gaisburg » Conclusion of a gas procurement contract with Gazprom » Conclusion of an LNG procurement contract with Novatek Generation portfolio in 2019 ¹ Generation portfolio in 2019 ¹ 8,858 GWh 2,615 MW 38,788 GWh 11,172 MW generation installed output generation installed output Key figures in 2019 Key figures in 2019 1,384 employees €482.8 million 5,499 employees €383.8 million (as of 31 / 12 / 2019) adjusted EBITDA in 2019 (as of 31 / 12 / 2019) adjusted EBITDA in 2019 €1,552.6 million 19.8% €98.3 million 15.8% investment in 2019 share of adjusted EBITDA in 2019 investment in 2019 share of adjusted EBITDA in 2019 Development of adjusted EBITDA (in € billion) Development of adjusted EBITDA (in € billion) +250% −80% 0.2 0.7 1.2 0.3 2012 2020 2012 2020 1 The sums stated for the generation and installed output in the Renewable Energies and Generation and Trading segments are not identical to the totals for the EnBW Group. Several power plants are allocated to the Sales segment. The total generation of the EnBW Group is 47,807 GWh, of which 9,988 GWh or 20.9% is generated from renewable energy sources. The total installed output of the EnBW Group is 13,849 MW, of which 4,398 MW or 31.8% is from renewable energy power plants. The totals for generation and installed output for the Group are illustrated in detail on p. 88. 38 Management report › Business model Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Sales segment power plants transferred to the grid reserve, make a significant contribution here to the security of supply in Germany. We supThe Sales segment encompasses sales of electricity and gas, as port our customers in the integration of their power plants into well as the provision of energy industry services such as billing the market using our services and expertise, such as in the area services, energy supply, energy saving contracting (Glossary, of direct distribution. from p. 139) and new energy solutions. In this area, we exploit our broad energy industry and process-based expertise, as well as our existing relationships with our customers. Against the Group structure and business radius background of advancing digitalisation, we are optimising, amongst other things, our customer processes and expanding EnBW is organised according to the model of an integrated comour digital range of products (p. 81 f.). The expansion of the pany. EnBW AG is managed through business units and funcquick-charging infrastructure for electromobility (Glossary, tional units: Core operating activities along the entire energy from p. 139) and our activities in the telecommunications busiindustry value chain are concentrated in the business units. The ness are part of our strategy to develop our company into a profunctional units carry out Group-wide support and governance vider of smart and sustainable infrastructure. tasks. The EnBW Group consists of EnBW AG as the parent company and 192 fully consolidated companies, 22 companies accounted for using the equity method and 3 joint operations. Grids segment Further information on the organisational structure can be The Grids segment encompasses the transmission and distribufound in the chapter “Corporate governance” under “Managetion of electricity and gas, the provision of grid-related services ment and supervision” on p. 48 f. and the supply of water by our grid subsidiaries. Value added in the Grids segment is based on the existing infrastructure and Baden-Württemberg process know-how. Furthermore, value added is anchored in the numerous close relationships with local authorities and citizens. Our roots lie in Baden-Württemberg, where we are positioned The grid business will be expanded further in the course of the as a market leader. We rely here on EnBW AG, Netze BW and a Energiewende and will thus contribute to supply reliability. At series of other important subsidiaries. the level of the transmission grids, this includes the construction of the two north-south connections SuedLink and Germany, Europe and developing markets ULTRANET by our subsidiary TransnetBW and its partners. Partnerships will also play a more important role in the distribution We also operate throughout the rest of Germany and abroad. grid in future as our grid companies efficiently manage our cusThe acquisition of the French project developer and operator of tomers’ grid installations and facilities and prepare them to wind farms and solar parks Valeco in June 2019 was another step meet the new requirements. in continuing our strategy of selective internationalisation in the area of renewable energies. We are also represented by our subsidiaries Connected Wind Services in Denmark and EnBW Renewable Energies segment Sverige in Sweden. In Turkey, we are active in the renewable Activities in the area of power generation from renewable enerenergies sector with our Turkish partner Borusan. Our first gies are combined under the Renewable Energies segment. We activities in Taiwan and the USA round off our strategy for are expanding renewable energies significantly, above all in the ­se­­lective internationalisation. areas of onshore and offshore wind energy as well as photovoltaics and biogas. The principle of partnership plays a central role The acquisition of the telecommunications company Plusnet in this context and we offer potential investors such as local based in Cologne in June 2019 enabled us to further expand our authorities and private citizens, whom we attract with the aid of portfolio in the broadband business across Germany (Glossary, targeted models, the chance to participate in renewable energy from p. 139). Our subsidiary NetCom BW will continue to have projects. The value we add in this segment encompasses project its main focus in this business in Baden-Württemberg. development, construction and efficient operation, as well as the repowering (Glossary, from p. 139) of the plants in the future. Our most important participating interests in relation to the value added chain and their contribution to the result of the EnBW Group include the following groups of companies: Generation and Trading segment The Generation and Trading segment encompasses electricity Energiedienst (ED), based in Laufenberg, Switzerland, has generation, the storage of gas, the trading of gas and electricity, around 900 employees and is an ecologically oriented Gerthe gas midstream business, the provision of system services man-Swiss listed company with various subsidiaries that is (Glossary, from p. 139) for the operators of transmission grids, active in South Baden and Switzerland. ED exclusively generates the operation of reserve power plants, district heating, environgreen electricity primarily using hydropower. Alongside the mental services and the dismantling of power plants. This busisupply of electricity, this group of companies offers its customness is primarily based on the generation of electricity and heat ers smart, networked products and services, including photo­ from our coal, gas, pumped storage and nuclear power plants voltaic plants, heat pumps, electricity storage systems, electroand our operational and optimisation expertise. Electricity genmobility and e-car sharing. eration from fossil fuel power plants remains under pressure. The power plants operating on the market, as well as those Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Management report › Business model 39 Pražská energetika (PRE), based in Prague, Czech Republic, has EnBW and its subsidiaries differentiate between two customer almost 1,600 employees and its core business activities include groups: The B2C customer group includes retail customers, the sale of electricity and gas, the distribution of electricity in small commercial enterprises, the housing industry and agriculPrague, the generation of electricity from renewable energies ture. The B2B customer group encompasses major commercial and the provision of energy services. PRE is the third largest enterprises and industrial customers, as well as redistributors, electricity supplier in the Czech Republic and the operator of a municipal utilities, local authorities and public entities. reliable distribution grid. As part of its activities, PRE promotes the use of modern technological solutions and advises on the With our sales brands, we are close to our customers and con­ implementation of innovative technologies and achieving sistently oriented to their needs. As an active partner for the energy savings. energy system of the future, we sell electricity, gas, district heating, energy industry services, energy solutions and drinking Stadtwerke Düsseldorf (SWD) is one of the largest municipal water in the B2C sector under the EnBW brand (www.enbw.com). energy supply companies in Germany. With around 3,200 These products and services focus on Baden-Württemberg. We employees, SWD and the companies in which it holds a majority primarily sell electricity and gas, as well as solutions and digital shareholding supply customers in Düsseldorf and the surservices related to energy, to retail and commercial customers rounding region with electricity, natural gas, district heating throughout Germany through the Yello brand (www.yello.de). and drinking water, as well as providing waste disposal and street cleaning services in the metropolitan area of Düsseldorf. In addition, some of our subsidiaries are active in the B2B sector In addition, the company’s focus is placed on the needs-based under the GVS brand and in the B2C and B2B sectors under the development of networked urban infrastructures in the areas of Erdgas Südwest, ODR and ZEAG brands. energy, mobility and property. Under the NaturEnergie brand (www.naturenergie.de), ED sells VNG is based in Leipzig and has around 1,200 employees. It is a green electricity across Germany and gas to retail customers in horizontally and vertically integrated corporate group with South Baden. In Switzerland, the ED Group provides electricity more than 20 companies in six countries and a broad portfolio to business customers. PRE sells electricity, gas, energy services of services in the gas and infrastructure sectors. Along the gas and mobile communication services to retail and commercial value added chain, VNG concentrates on its business areas of customers in Prague and the surrounding region under the PRE Gas Trading & Sales, Gas Transport and Gas Storage. Using this brand (www.pre.cz). PRE also supplies electricity, gas and energy core expertise as a basis, VNG is increasingly placing its focus on services to industrial customers across the Czech Republic new business fields. These include, amongst others, biogas, digi­ under the PRE brand. Electricity and gas are sold in the Czech tal infrastructure and district solutions (Glossary, from p. 139). Republic under the Yello brand (www.yello.cz), primarily via ONTRAS Gastransport operates and markets the second largest online channels to households and commercial customers. German gas transmission grid as an independent transmission SWD supplies retail and commercial customers in the B2C secsystem operator. tor, as well as customers in the agricultural sector, with electri­ city, gas, heating and drinking water under the Stadtwerke ­Düsseldorf brand (www.swd-ag.de). In the B2B sector, the range Customers and sales brands of services is directed at business and industrial customers and We supply around 5.5 million customers with energy and promarketed across Germany, with a focus on North Rhine-Westvide them with energy solutions and energy industry services. phalia. The company goldgas, a subsidiary of VNG, sells gas and We are one of the leading providers of energy and environmenelectricity – especially to private households, commercial custal services in Germany. Another focus is the development of tomers and property management companies in Germany – our cooperation with municipal utilities and local authorities. under the goldgas brand (www.goldgas.de). The supply of district heating and drinking water is also part of the range of services we offer. 40 Management report › Business model Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Selected companies Selected EnBW companies in Baden-Württemberg, Germany, Europe and developing markets Baden-Württemberg Germany Developing market: USA EnBW Energie Baden-WürttemONTRAS Gastransport GmbH, Leipzig berg AG, Karlsruhe EnBW Ostwürttemberg DonauRies AG, Plusnet GmbH, Cologne Ellwangen Stadtwerke Düsseldorf AG, Düsseldorf Erdgas Südwest GmbH, Karlsruhe Developing market: Taiwan VNG AG, Leipzig GasVersorgung Süddeutschland GmbH, Stuttgart Yello Strom GmbH, Cologne NetCom BW GmbH, Ellwangen Netze BW GmbH, Stuttgart terranets bw GmbH, Stuttgart TransnetBW GmbH, Stuttgart Sweden EnBW Sverige AB, Falkenberg ZEAG Energie AG, Heilbronn Denmark Connected Wind Services A / S, Balle Czech Republic Pražská energetika a.s., Prague France Switzerland Turkey Energiedienst Holding AG, Laufenburg Borusan EnBW Enerji yatırımları Valeco SAS., Montpellier ve Üretim A.S., Istanbul 1 1 Not fully consolidated, accounted for using The full list of shareholdings can be found in the notes to the consolidated financial statements under (37) the equity method. “Additional disclosures”. The full set of consolidated financial statements is published at www.enbw.com/ report2019-downloads. Further information: www.enbw.com/shareholdings. Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Management report › Strategy, goals and performance management system 41 Strategy, goals and performance management system Strategy become another important pillar of the company’s business. By generating an adjusted EBITDA of €2.4 billion in 2019, we were Business environment already able to achieve our earnings target for 2020 early. The energy sector is undergoing a period of profound change. To implement our strategy, we planned total investment of €14.1 This process of change is dependent on numerous factors and billion (reference year of 2012) by 2020. In order to obtain the often does not progress linearly, thus making it difficult to prefinancial headroom required for such extensive investments, we dict. An important element of the Energiewende in Germany is have significantly extended our divestiture programme – the phasing out of nuclear electricity generation by 2022. The involving divestitures, cash inflow from participation models, goal of decarbonising the economy is setting the political and the disposal of assets and subsidies – through our EnBW 2020 regulatory agenda. The German government wants to end coalstrategy to around €5.1 billion (based on the reference year of fired power generation in Germany by 2038 at the latest. Renew2012). We realised investments of €14.8 billion and divestitures able energies and smart grids will be the focus of future de­cenof €5.1 billion in the period up to and including 2019. The overtralised energy systems. Beyond the energy industry, the fulfilment of our investment target was primarily due to the willingness in society to try and prevent the emission of greenaccelerated growth investment used for the acquisitions of house gases (Glossary, from p. 139) is growing in all aspects of Valeco and Plusnet. life. To achieve this, cross-sector concepts (Glossary, from p. 139) are needed, such as the linking of energy and infrastructure Transformation of the portfolio and development of adjusted themes, which are accelerated by digitalisation and new techEBITDA up to 2020 nologies. New value added chains and modified customer in € billion behaviour are creating room for innovative business models 2.4 2.4 2.4 and new players on the market. The onus is thus on energy sup0.2 2.2 0.4 ply companies to quickly and flexibly develop a future-oriented 2.1 0.8 business portfolio for their companies. 1.9 1.0 EnBW 2020 strategy largely implemented 0.2 The EnBW 2020 strategy is guided by the principle “Energie­ 1.2 wende. Safe. Hands on.” It describes our positioning and how we 0.7 differentiate ourselves from our competitors. Sustainability is an integral component of our Group strategy so that we can guarantee the creation of economic, ecological and social value 0.3 added for our stakeholders. We associate the concept of sustainable economic development with our aspiration to conduct our 2012 2016 2017 2018 2019 Target business activities in a responsible way (p. 52). for 2020 Sales Grids Renewable Generation We aim to more than double the share of our generation Energies and Trading ­cap­­­a­city accounted for by renewable energies from 19% (based on the reference year of 2012) to over 40% in 2020. We have increased the capacities of our onshore wind farms significantly We developed our EnBW 2020 strategy back in 2013 in the wake in Germany and selected foreign markets, while the same is true of the profound changes impacting the energy industry as part for the growth field of offshore wind energy. By investing extenof the Energiewende. We have rigorously and sustainably implesively in grid expansion, we are making a substantial contribumented this strategy since then. In view of the upcoming plantion to the infrastructure required by the energy system and ning horizon, the following is now clear: The improvements in thus to the security of supply. The overall share of adjusted efficiency, the transformation of the business portfolio and the EBITDA accounted for by the regulated grid business and renewgrowth initiatives designed to place the company on new founable energies has increased from around 40% (reference year of dations ready for the future have largely been implemented or 2012) to more than 70% in 2019 and has thus already reached are on the home straight. We will now make the switch from the target value for 2020. This will improve the risk-return “realignment and repositioning” to “growth” in the EnBW 2025 ­profile of our company. Innovative products and services will strategy. 42 Management report › Strategy, goals and performance management system Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW The EnBW 2025 strategy: The path to becoming a sustainable and innovative infrastructure partner Ongoing strategic development Holistic focus on stakeholders Multi-dimensional goal system Finance Strategy Customers Employees Environment and society Integrated corporate strategy EnBW 2020 strategy EnBW 2025 strategy “Energiewende. Safe. Hands on.” “Making and shaping the infrastructure world of tomorrow.” Realignment and repositioning Growth Energy supply company Infrastructure provider Four segments Three strategic business fields » Sales » Smart infrastructure for customers » Grids » System critical infrastructure » Renewable Energies » Sustainable generation infrastructure » Generation and Trading After the first phase of the Energiewende was characterised Urban infrastructure, as we understand it, involves the smart above all by political and regulatory measures, the changes in networking of energy supply, heating, telecommunications, the energy sector will now be increasingly driven by market mobility, traffic management and parking space management, developments and shaped by cost reductions and technical as well as security in the public sphere. We are developing our advances. Under the motto “Making and shaping the infrastruccompany into a modern and flexible organisation. Performance, ture world of tomorrow”, the EnBW 2025 strategy will increascreativity, freedom for independent action, quick decisions ingly place the company’s focus onto the infrastructure aspects made as closely oriented to the business as possible and a conof existing business fields – for example, networking small sistent focus on the customer and their needs will define the decentralised power plants to form virtual power plants (Glosrequirements for independent action in the future. sary, from p. 139) or the networking of the energy sector (Glossary, from p. 139) with neighbouring sectors such as transport or We are transforming ourselves into a sustainable and innovative communications infrastructure. Furthermore, we will use our infrastructure partner for our customers and other stakeholders. core expertise to exploit new growth opportunities above and Following the successful implementation of the EnBW 2020 beyond the energy sector. Our core expertise – what we do well strategy, we will combine our business portfolio from 2021 – in and do better than many others – lies in the safe and reliable accordance with the rationale behind the EnBW 2025 strategy – construction, operation and management of critical infrastrucwithin three strategic business fields: ture in the energy sector, such as efficient, low-carbon power plants or transmission and distribution grids that meet the › In the strategic business field Smart infrastructure for cusrequirements of an energy industry based on renewable enertomers, we will develop new and digital business models, gies. This distinctive expertise can be transferred to other infralaunch them onto the market and scale them up – even structure sectors. Our dedication and commitment have already beyond the traditional energy industry value chain. The enabled us to make significant progress in, for example, the main focus will be placed here on the expansion of the quickbroadband business (Glossary, from p. 139), the expansion of charging infrastructure, activities in the areas of telecommuquick-charging infrastructure (Glossary, from p. 139) as the basis nications and broadband and other fields such as urban for electromobility and in the area of urban infrastructure. infrastructure. Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Management report › Strategy, goals and performance management system 43 › In the strategic business field System critical infrastructure, market in Germany in 2019 with the acquisition of Plusnet. our grid subsidiaries for electricity and gas will further expand Both transactions will contribute to the EnBW 2025 growth the transmission grids into an important cornerstone of our strategy. earnings alongside the distribution grids. In addition, we will upgrade the electricity distribution grids so that they are The central goal of the EnBW 2025 strategy is to increase ready to meet the requirements of the future and ensure they adjusted EBITDA to €3.2 billion, whereby all three strategic busiare optimally prepared for the demands that will be placed on ness fields should make a significant contribution to this them by electromobility. We want to significantly develop and increase in earnings. expand the business involving grid-related services – the operation of grids for third parties, payment and billing serEnBW is planning to invest around €12 billion in total between vices and charging networks for electromobility – especially in 2021 and 2025. The main focus of the investment will be on the partnership with local authorities and public utilities. expansion of the grids, especially the central SuedLink and › In the strategic business field Sustainable generation infraULTRANET projects of our grid subsidiary TransnetBW for the structure, we will be dominant in renewable energies – with future energy supply in Germany, the expansion of renewable offshore and onshore wind power as our spearhead. We will energies, such as the realisation of the EnBW He Dreiht offshore also continue with our strategy of selective internationalisawind farm, and the further development of smart infrastructure tion and the expansion of the portfolio of major photovolfor customers, for example, in the areas of broadband, telecomtaic projects, enabling us to specifically target the expansion munications and electromobility. In accordance with the EnBW of low-carbon generation. In addition, we will build on our 2025 growth strategy, 80% of our overall investment will be strong position in the gas business, especially in the area of accounted for by growth projects. green and synthetic gases. In contrast, we will gradually withdraw from coal-based conventional generation while preThis growth strategy will be financed by the retained cash flow serving value at the same time. The last nuclear power plants and, where necessary, through the use of external funds. By operated by EnBW will be decommissioned in 2022. using sustainable financing instruments, we are taking account of our transformed business portfolio and have gained access to . Realignment and growth new groups of investors who place importance on the sustainAdjusted EBITDA in € billion able use of their investments. We will continue to strive to maintain a balanced financing structure, solid financial profile EnBW 2025 strategy: three strategic and thus solid investment-grade ratings (Glossary, from p. 139). EnBW 2020 strategy: four segments business fields + ≥ 30% Goals and performance management 3.2 0.6 Smart infrasystem structure for customers Performance management system 2.4 1.3 System critical Sales 0.4 infrastructure The management of the company comprises financial, strategic Grids 1.0 and non-financial goals and, as well as the finance and strategy goal dimensions, includes the dimensions customers and society, employees and the environment. The centrepiece of this integrated corporate management is the performance manage1.3 Sustainable generation ment system (PMS). The most important financial and non-­ Renewable 0.7 infrastructure financial Group goals have been broken down into target Energies agreements, insofar as they are considered a sensible performance indicator for the respective area. In the quarterly per­ Generation 0.3 formance reviews conducted at a Board of Management level, and Trading the value drivers for the most important operating perforTarget Target mance indicators that contribute to the achievement of targets for 2020 for 2025 for the key performance indicators (finance, strategy and environment goal dimensions) are reported. In terms of external communication, the PMS feeds into the integrated reporting of Following the successful implementation of the EnBW 2020 the financial and non-financial performance of the company strategy, there will be a smooth transition between the strategy based on the reporting framework of the International Inteperiods: We already strengthened our business activities in the grated Reporting Council (IIRC). This Integrated Annual Report area of renewable energies in 2019 with the acquisition of the 2019 incorporates the financial and non-financial aspects of our French project developer and operator of wind farms and solar business activities. The key performance indicators enable us to parks Valeco. We also took a significant step in building a strong measure the degree to which goals are achieved and to manage position for ourselves on the nationwide telecommunications our company. 44 Management report › Strategy, goals and performance management system Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Financial and non-financial key performance indicators and targets Goal dimension Goal Key performance indicator 2019 Target for 2020 Target for 2025 Secure profitability Adjusted EBITDA in € billion 2.4 2.3–2.5 3.2 High level of financial Internal financing capability in % 82.6 ≥ 100 –1 discipline Debt repayment potential in % – – > 14 1 Finance Increasing Group value ROCE in % 5.2 8.5–11 6.5–8 The EnBW Group, page 68 ff. | Forecast, page 96 ff. | Report on opportunities and risks, page 100 ff. Share of result accounted for Share of overall adjusted 0.3 / 12.1 0.4 / 15.0 0.6 / 20.0 by “Customer proximity” / EBITDA in € billion / in % (Smart infraSales structure for customers 2) Share of result accounted for Share of overall adjusted 1.3 / 53.9 1.0 / 40.0 1.3 / 40.0 by Grids EBITDA in € billion / in % (System critical infrastructure 2) Strategy Share of result accounted for Share of overall adjusted 0.5 / 19.8 0.7 / 30.0 1.3 / 40.0 by Renewable Energies EBITDA in € billion / in % (Sustainable generation infraShare of result accounted for Share of overall adjusted 0.4 / 15.8 0.3 / 15.0 structure 2) by Generation and Trading EBITDA in € billion / in % The EnBW Group, page 70 f. | Forecast, page 97 | Report on opportunities and risks, page 100 ff. Reputation Reputation Index 53 55 58 to 62 Customer proximity EnBW / Yello Customer 116 / 157 > 136 / > 159 125 to 136 / Satisfaction Index 148 to 159 Customers Supply reliability SAIDI (electricity) 15 < 25 < 20 and society in min. / year The EnBW Group, page 81 ff. | Forecast, page 98 f. | Report on opportunities and risks, page 103 Employee commitment Employee Commitment Index 66 65 > 66 (ECI) 3 Occupational safety LTIF for companies controlled by 2.1 ≤ previous year 2.1 Employees the Group 4 LTIF overall 5 3.8 – 3.5 The EnBW Group, page 83 ff. | Forecast, page 99 | Report on opportunities and risks, page 103 f. Expand renewable energies Installed output of RE in GW and 4.4 / 31.8 5.0 / > 40 7.5 to 8.0 / > 50 (RE) the share of the generation capacity accounted for by RE in % Climate protection CO₂ intensity in g / kWh 419 -15% to -20% -10% to -20% Environment (reference year 2015: (reference year 2020) 609 g / kWh) The EnBW Group, page 87 ff. | Forecast, page 99 | Report on opportunities and risks, page 104 1 Following the transition to the growth strategy, the key performance indicator internal financing capability will be replaced by the new key performance indicator debt repayment potential from 2021. Therefore, no target value has been defined for the internal financing capability for 2025. To ensure EnBW achieves its ratings target, the target value will be examined annually based on the requirements of the rating agencies. 2 The four segments of Sales, Grids, Renewable Energies and Generation and Trading will become the three strategic business fields of Smart infrastructure for customers, System critical infrastructure and Sustainable generation infrastructure from 2021. 3 Variations in the group of consolidated companies (all companies with more than 100 employees are generally considered [except ITOs]). 4 Variations in the group of consolidated companies (all companies with more than 100 employees are generally considered except for companies in the area of waste management as well as external agency workers and contractors). 5 Variations in the group of consolidated companies (all companies with more than 100 employees are generally considered except for external agency workers and contractors). Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Management report › Strategy, goals and performance management system 45 #TOP Definition and target values for the key › ROCE (return on capital employed) is the ratio of adjusted ­performance indicators EBIT including the adjusted investment result to the average capital employed. It should exceed the capital costs and is We safeguard the implementation of our strategy by means of a used for determining the value added, reflecting the developholistic goal and performance management system. This sysment of the company’s value from a financial point of view tem reflects the overall performance of the company and (p. 79 f. and 98). Due to the sharp fall in interest rates, the strengthens integrated thinking within it. At the same time, it cost of capital (WACC) has reduced from 8.7% in 2012 to 5.2% underpins our comprehensive and transparent focus on per­ in 2019. We do not expect any changes to the interest rate formance and stakeholders. Our goal system comprises the five environment up to 2025. dimensions of finance, strategy, customers and society, employees and environment. A number of specific targets have been In addition to the financial key performance indicators, the PMS defined in each goal dimension, whose achievement is continu­ also includes non-financial key performance indicators: ously measured using key performance indicators. Linked with this goal system and the centrepiece of our corporate manageThe customers and society goal dimension comprises the Repu­ ment is the performance management system (PMS). Quantitatation Index, the Customer Satisfaction Index and the SAIDI tive target values are currently set for the key performance indi(System Average Interruption Duration Index). cators for the 2020 strategy horizon and have now also been set for the first time for 2025. The key performance indicators are › In order to calculate the Reputation Index, a total of around the same as those used in the previous year, although two key 5,000 people – from the stakeholder groups relevant for the indicators will be reported for LTIF from 2019. EnBW brand of customers, the wider public, industrial companies, opinion leaders and investors – are asked about their The financial and strategic key performance indicators within impressions of the EnBW brand by an external market the PMS are the adjusted EBITDA, the shares of the adjusted research institute. Results are collected for each stakeholder EBITDA accounted for by the segments, the internal financing group about the distinctiveness of the brand and the assesscapability and ROCE. ment of the competence of and emotional attitude towards the EnBW brand. These are merged together to form a Repu› The adjusted EBITDA is the earnings before the investment tation Index. The individual reputation indices for each and financial results, income taxes and amortisation and stakeholder group are weighted equally to form a consoliadjusted for non-operating effects. Adjusted EBITDA is a key dated and reported Reputation Index (p. 81 and 98). We aim performance indicator for the finance goal dimension, while to continuously improve our reputation. the key performance indicators for the strategy goal dimen› The key performance indicator Customer Satisfaction Index sion, which describe the shares of adjusted EBITDA assesses the average satisfaction of private end consumers of accounted for by the segments, are derived directly from it electricity over the year, which is directly linked to customer (p. 70 and 97). The operating result in 2020 will return to the loyalty. The information is compiled using customer surveys average level achieved before the Energiewende. The overall about the two brands EnBW and Yello conducted by an extershare of earnings accounted for by the regulated grid businal service provider. The Customer Satisfaction Index allows ness and renewable energies is around 70%. In 2025, we aim us to draw conclusions about how well we are meeting the to achieve an operating result of €3.2 billion. needs and wishes of the surveyed customers with custom› The internal financing capability is the key performance ised solutions and products (p. 81 f. and 98). Climate protecindicator for the Group’s ability to finance its activities intern­ tion measures will make energy more expensive for customally: It describes the adjusted retained cash flow in relation ers in the next few years. Despite the new skills, offers and to the adjusted net (cash) investment (p. 78 and 97 f.). After services that EnBW has developed, this will in all likelihood covering ongoing costs and dividend payments, the adjusted negatively impact the perception of the energy sector. The retained cash flow is available to the company for net investtarget value for the Customer Satisfaction Index in 2025 is ment without the need to raise additional debt. Since the thus below the level in 2020. 2017 financial year, we have adjusted the retained cash flow › SAIDI serves as the key performance indicator of supply to take account of the extraordinary effect of the reimburserelia­bility. It expresses the average length of supply interrupment of the nuclear fuel rod tax (Glossary, from p. 139) tion in the electricity distribution grid experienced annually (ad­jus­ted retained cash flow) and since 2019 we have also by each connected customer. SAIDI includes all unscheduled adjusted the net (cash) investment to take into account the interruptions to supply that last more than three minutes for accelerated growth investment used for the acquisitions of the end consumer. The definition and calculation of this perValeco and Plusnet that already contribute to the EnBW 2025 formance indicator is based on the guidelines issued by the growth strategy. As it will not be pos­sible to exclusively Network Technology / Network Operation Forum (FNN) of the finance this growth phase using funds from our internal VDE (German Association for Electrical, Electronic & Inforfinancing capability, we will manage our creditworthiness mation Technologies) (p. 83 and 98). Maintaining the quality from 2021 using the debt repayment potential (retained of supply to our customers is of central importance to us in cash flow in relation to the net debt). The key performance the further development of the grids of our grid subsidiaries. indicator internal financing capability will be retained until The reliability of the supply in the grid areas operated by our 2020. grid subsidiaries builds on our comprehensive investment in grids and facilities as well as our system expertise. 46 Management report › Strategy, goals and performance management system Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW The Employee Commitment Index (ECI) and LTIF (Lost Time kilowatt hour. By discounting the electricity generated by Injury Frequency) are utilised as performance indicators in the nuclear power plants, the performance indicator will not be employees goal dimension. influenced by the phasing out of nuclear energy in the coming years (p. 88 and 99). We are actively contributing to cli› The ECI expresses the degree to which employees identify mate protection by reducing the CO2 intensity of our own with EnBW. It is compiled using employee surveys and is generation of electricity (excluding nuclear power) by 15% to based on standardised questions that address the degree to 20% by 2020 compared to the reference year 2015. which employees identify with the company, including satisfaction with their employer-employee relationship, attract­ #TOP Interdependencies between the goal dimensions, iveness of the employer, identification with the company, targets and key performance indicators motivational climate, competitiveness and future viability. The ECI is generally compiled every two to three years for all We are convinced that in order to give a comprehensive porcompanies with more than 100 employees (excluding the trayal of the company, it is not only necessary to describe the ITOs) (Glossary, from p. 139) as part of a full survey carried economic, ecological and social context but also to illustrate out by an external, independent service provider. Represenand provide an analysis of interdependencies in this report. tative random sample surveys are completed in the periods Linking together the various goal dimensions is an important between the full surveys – as was also the case in 2019 (p. 83 f. element of integrated reporting. At the same time, this type and 99). We want to further strengthen the commitment of of reporting encourages a holistic corporate management our employees to EnBW and their trust in the future viability approach within EnBW. In order to illustrate these interdepend­ of the company. encies, the key performance indicators for the goal and › LTIF is calculated on the basis of LTI (Lost Time Injuries) performance management system are used. The basic assumpwhich denotes the number of accidents during working tion for illustrating interdependencies is that a change in one hours which have occurred exclusively because of a work key performance indicator can also lead, in many cases, to assignment from the company and result in at least one day changes in one or more other key performance indicators. of absence. LTIF indicates how many LTI occurred per one Reciprocal relationships thus exist between the key perform­ million working hours performed. The calculation of the LTIF ance indicators – in the most extreme case, all of the key overall generally includes all companies with more than 100 performance indicators can even influence each other. employees. For the calculation of the LTIF for companies controlled by the Group, those companies engaged in the area of In order to illustrate the interdependencies in 2019, we have waste management are excluded because the number of acciselected two themes: the expansion of offshore wind energy dents deviates significantly from that in the core business in using the EnBW Hohe See and EnBW Albatros wind farms as an the energy industry. External agency workers and contractors example, and the expansion of the telecommunications busiare not taken into account in either performance indicator ness using the acquisition of Plusnet as an example. The com(p. 86 f. and 99). The number of accidents at work and the missioning of the offshore wind farms EnBW Hohe See in 2019 resulting days of absence should remain consistently stable and EnBW Albatros in January 2020 have a direct positive effect or fall. on the key performance indicators in the environment goal dimension. The acquisition of Plusnet has a direct effect on the The key performance indicators in the environment goal key performance indicator “share of adjusted EBITDA accounted dimension are the installed output of renewable energies (RE) for by Sales” in the strategy goal dimension. In addition, we and the share of the generation capacity accounted for by RE anticipate that there will be a direct or potential influence on and CO2 intensity. other key performance indicators for both examples. › The installed output of renewable energies (RE) and the The key performance indicators that are directly influenced are share of the generation capacity accounted for by RE are positioned in the centre of the diagram and should essentially measures of the expansion of renewable energies and refer be directly measurable. The interdependencies between the to the installed output of the power plants and not to their financial and strategy key performance indicators are also weather-dependent contribution to electricity generation essentially directly measurable and are represented in the (p. 87 and 99). We aim to double the share of the generation example diagrams by orange arrows. The interdependencies capacity accounted for by renewable energies by 2020 comwith the other non-financial key performance indicators are difpared to 2012 (19%) and increase this figure further by 2025. ficult to measure and generally tend to be potential or long › The emissions of CO2 from own generation of electricity for term in nature. They are represented by grey arrows. In the 2019 the Group, as well as the volume of electricity generated by financial year, these interdependencies were not measured indithe Group without the contribution made by the nuclear vidually. They are presented based on internal discussions with power plants, form the basis for the calculation of the key the relevant specialist areas and those responsible for the perperformance indicator CO2 intensity (Glossary, from p. 139). formance indicators. The upward pointing arrows show a posiThis performance indicator is calculated as the ratio between tive influence on the key performance indicator, while the the emissions and the generated volume of electricity and downward pointing arrows show a negative influence. thus specifically describes the amount of CO2 released per Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Management report › Strategy, goals and performance management system 47 Interdependencies between key performance indicators using the expansion of offshore wind energy as an example Employees Finance through securing comonce commissioned ECI petitiveness and future Expansion of offshore Adjusted viability wind energy EBITDA EnBW Hohe See and EnBW Albatros with 609 MW once commissioned in investment phases ROCE Customers and society once commissioned Internal financin investment phases due to the expansion Environment ing capability Reputation in generation capacity Index1 from RE due to the expansion in generation capacity from RE Installed output of RE and share of generation capacity accounted for by RE Strategy due to increased once commissioned generation from RE Share of adjusted EBITDA accounted for by RE CO2 intensity Direct influence Positive influence on key performance indicator Potential / long-term influence Negative influence on key performance indicator 1 We also anticipate a potential negative influence on the Reputation Index due to the risk of social opposition with respect to environmental aspects. However, this type of risk is more than compensated for by the overall potential positive influence of the expansion of renewable energies on the Reputation Index. Interdependencies between key performance indicators using the expansion of the telecommunications business as an example Employees Finance through securing comfrom time of acquisition ECI petitiveness and future Expansion of the Adjusted viability telecommunications EBITDA business Acquisition of Plusnet from time of acquisition ROCE in future years through contribution to retained Internal Strategy cash flow financing in year of acquisition capability from time of acquisition through payment of Customers and society purchase price through expansion of Share of adjusted EBITDA Reputation the telecommunications accounted for by “CusIndex infrastructure tomer proximity” / Sales Direct influence Positive influence on key performance indicator Potential / long-term influence Negative influence on key performance indicator 48 Management report › Corporate Governance Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Corporate governance Corporate management declaration-of-compliance. The declaration of compliance is based on the German Corporate Governance Code in the verGood corporate governance is an essential part of the corporate sion from 7 February 2017 and not the current version submitculture at EnBW. We are convinced that responsible and transted for review and publicaton by the DCGK Commission of the parent corporate governance strengthens the trust and confiFederal Ministry of Justice and Consumer Protection from dence that customers, capital providers, employees and the 23 January 2020, because this will only come into force after the general public place in the company, thereby contributing to its annual declaration was made. The remuneration report is long-term success. The Board of Management and Supervisory ­contained in the management report on p. 110 ff. of this report. Board are comitted to managing and supervising the company above and beyond merely fulfilling statutory requirements, but to do it in accordance with recognised benchmarks for good Management and supervision corporate governance and in harmony with the principles of a social market economy, guaranteeing the continued existence Board of Management of the company and ensuring a sustainable increase in its added value. Therefore, we also meet all the recommendations The Board of Management is jointly responsible for managing of the German Corporate Governance Code (DCGK) in the version Group business. In addition to the role of CEO, the tasks perfrom 7 February 2017 (www.enbw.com/corporate-governance). formed by the Board of Management are split into the remits of “finance”, “HR, law and compliance, auditing” and “technology”. Conformity with the German Corporate Governance Code at As of 31 December 2019, the Board of Management of EnBW AG EnBW was monitored by Dr. Bernhard Beck up to 30 June 2019 consisted of four members. Colette Rückert-Hennen joined the and by Colette Rückert-Hennen from 1 July 2019 as the memBoard of Management as the replacement for Dr. Bernhard Beck bers of the Board of Management responsible for corporate on 1 March 2019 and took over responsibility from this point governance. Colette Rückert-Hennen reported extensively to onwards for the areas of personnel, executive management and the Board of Management and Supervisory Board on all current health management. Since the end of Dr. Bernhard Beck’s themes pertaining to corporate governance. Both boards period in office on 30 June 2019, Colette Rückert-Hennen has acknowledged her report and addressed the recommendations also been responsible for the areas of law, auditing, compliance and suggestions in the Code. They subsequently approved the management / data protection, regulatory management and company’s annual declaration of compliance pursuant to secboards / shareholder relations. Thomas Kusterer has been tion 161 German Stock Corporations Act (AktG) on 4 December responsible for the area of equity investment management 2019. The current declaration of compliance and the declar­ since this point in time. ations from previous years are published at www.enbw.com/ Allocation of responsibilities at Board of Management level (as of 31 / 12 / 2019) Dr. Frank Mastiaux Thomas Kusterer Colette Rückert-Hennen Dr. Hans-Josef Zimmer CEO Finance HR, law and compliance, Technology auditing » Corporate development / » Accounting » HR and executive » Generation (renewable, sustainability » Tax management conventional, nuclear) » Strategy / energy industry » Controlling » Law » Waste management / » Communication / policy » Auditing environmental services » Finance » Transformation / IT / » Compliance management / » Electricity and gas » Investor Relations procurement / infrastructure data protection transmission grids » Mergers and acquisitions » Distribution grids » Innovation management » Regulatory management » Risk management / ICS (electricity and gas) » Sales, marketing and » Boards / shareholder » Trade » Grid technology operations relationships » Gas value chain » Equity investment » Health management » Research and development management » Occupational safety / » Escalation: risk management for trading environmental protection / crisis management www.enbw.com/board-of-management Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Management report › Corporate Governance 49 Supervisory Board Shareholders of EnBW The Supervisory Board of EnBW AG consists of 20 members in Shares in %1 accordance with article 8 (1) of the Articles of Association. In OEW Energie-Beteiligungs GmbH 46.75 accordance with the German Co-determination Act (MitbestG), NECKARPRI-Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH 46.75 an equal number of members represent shareholders and Badische Energieaktionärs-Vereinigung 2.45 employees. Three employee representatives are nominated by the ver.di trade union. The Supervisory Board appoints the Gemeindeelektrizitätsverband Schwarzwald-Donau 0.97 members of the Board of Management and advises them on Neckar-Elektrizitätsverband 0.63 their management of the company. It discusses business per­ EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG 2.08 formance, planning and strategy of the company together with Other shareholders 0.39 the Board of Management at regular intervals and ratifies the annual financial statements. The Supervisory Board is always 1 The figures do not add up to 100% due to rounding differences. involved in decisions of fundamental importance to the company. Legal transactions and measures subject to the approval of the Supervisory Board are defined in its rules of procedure. In Compliance order for the Supervisory Board to optimally perform its functions, it has formed the following standing committees: a perCompliance management systems sonnel committee, a finance and investment committee, an audit committee, a nomination committee and a mediation Natural compliance with the relevant legal regulations and committee in accordance with section 27 (3) MitbestG, a digitalinternal company rules forms the basis for our business activ­ isation committee and an ad-hoc committee. ities, is part of our corporate culture and is laid out in the code of conduct. The compliance management systems (CMS) and Further information on the Board of Management and Super­ functions of EnBW are individually designed: They are based on visory Board can be found in this report under the section on company and sector-specific priorities and risks, the size of the “Corporate bodies” (p. 131 ff.) as well as in the Declaration of Corcom­pany and other factors. They are designed to support each porate Management 2019 of the EnBW Group and EnBW AG company – and thus the whole Group – in avoiding risks, liabilincluding the Corporate Governance Report 2019 and in the ity claims and damage to reputation. Report of the Supervisory Board (www.enbw.com/corporategovernance). Depending on the type of corporate control over a company, the compliance-relevant companies with employees are either Annual General Meeting directly or indirectly integrated into the compliance management system of EnBW. Shareholders exercise their rights with regard to company matters at the Annual General Meeting. The Annual General Meeting The CMS is continuously examined and updated internally as passes resolutions on the discharge of Board of Management and part of the audit or by the compliance organisation itself. It Supervisory Board members, the appropriation of earnings and covers the directly controlled companies. The department’s selection of the auditor. Resolutions of the Annual General Meetactivities focus on the prevention, detection and sanctioning of ing only require a simple majority of votes in most cases. Each corruption, the prevention of violations against competition bearer share is equivalent to one vote. Further information on and antitrust laws, the prevention of money laundering and the Annual General Meeting is available at http://hv.enbw.com. data protection – which falls under the area of compliance and data protection at EnBW. In the reporting year, there were 29 Shares of EnBW AG are listed on the General Standard segment companies directly integrated into the CMS from a compliance of the Frankfurt Stock Exchange. A stake of 46.75% of the share perspective. New companies are integrated into the CMS using capital in EnBW AG is owned by each of both the Federal State a risk-based approach. of Baden-Württemberg – via its wholly owned subsidiary NECKARPRI GmbH and, in turn, via its wholly owned subsidiary Companies indirectly integrated into the CMS of EnBW have NECKARPRI-Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH – and by Zweck­ their own CMS. Relevant participating interests held by these verband Oberschwäbische Elektrizitätswerke (Zweckverband companies are also integrated into their CMS. Two companies OEW) via its wholly owned subsidiary OEW Energie-Beteili­ in the ED Group were integrated into the CMS for Energiedienst gungs GmbH. (ED), while four subsidiaries have independent control over compliance. Seven companies with employees were integrated Overall, the shareholder structure is unchanged as of 31 Deceminto the CMS at Pražská energetika (PRE), three at Stadtwerke ber 2019 when compared to the previous year. Düsseldorf (SWD), two at ZEAG and 19 at the VNG Group. 50 Management report › Corporate Governance Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW We want to safeguard our commercial success by combating The annual compliance risk assessments at EnBW investigate compliance risks – especially corruption and bribery. Preventathe corruption, antitrust, fraud and data protection risks and tive risk assessment methods, advisory services and training form the basis for the work relating to compliance and data proconcepts have been set up at EnBW, the compliance-relevant tection. In 2019, they were carried out at those companies directly companies and the ITOs (Independent Transmission Operator) and closely integrated into the CMS. The summary of the mater­ (Glossary, from p. 139). ial compliance risks is contained in the “Report on opportunities and risks” (p. 103 and 106). Such risks are also systematically identified in the indirectly integrated companies and the ITOs. Activities this year Face-to-face training courses were held in relevant areas in 2019. The advisory services offered by the EnBW compliance departThe focus across the Group was placed on training the large ment are available to companies directly integrated into the CMS group of employees with assistant or secretarial functions, as and represent another key element of prevention. They were also well as EnKK. In addition, face-to-face training courses on antihighly utilised in 2019. These services include a compliance trust law were held in other sensitive areas of the company. The hotline, which can be contacted in person, by e-mail or telephone. completion of an e-learning course or participation in face-toIn 2019, the compliance hotline received around 1,250 enquiries face introductory training courses is obligatory for new EnBW relating to the key issues of gifts, donations and sponsoring, as employees. All of the indirectly integrated companies held well as to further topics such as conflicts of interest and the audittraining courses to increase awareness amongst employees. The ing of business partners. The advisory services dealing with comcompanies were able to choose whether to use either face-topliance themes at the indirectly integrated companies have also face or online training courses. been used to good effect. Number of participants in face-to-face compliance Compliance breaches training events ¹ 46 EnBW and the directly integrated companies have established 546 186 reporting channels via which internal, and also external, 2015 778 whistle­-blowers can report suspected cases while remaining 47 anonymous. Alongside EnBW, the companies ED, PRE, SWD and 523 184 TransnetBW have also established a whistle-blower system. 2016 754 In the reporting year, there were nine breaches at directly inte363 158 441 2017 962 grated companies although none of them were material breaches. There was one compliance breach each at terranets bw and Trans13 netBW in the reporting year, while one suspected case at VNG 746 182 2018 941 proved to be well-founded. There were two compliance breaches 52 at PRE. There was no evidence of any cases of corruption. 25.9% 904 229 2019 1,185 The EnBW Group faced neither antitrust law penalty procedures nor third-party antitrust lawsuits in the 2019 financial year. Law Sensitive areas New management personnel / employees enforcement agency investigations of individual employees and Management personnel former members of corporate bodies relating to the so-called Russian deals and sales tax carousel in CO2 allowance trading (Glossary, from p. 139) were continued in 2019. It is not possible 1 At EnBW AG and directly integrated companies. to say at the present time when these proceedings will end. EnBW holds a compliance day every year. The event was held on Data Protection 27 November 2019 in Karlsruhe and provided the around 110 participants with a varied programme including motivational The EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) has resulted talks and workshops. In line with the motto of “responsibility”, in greater awareness of data protection issues. The resulting the importance of taking independent action with respect to demand for advice was covered by the compliance department. compliance at a company was emphasised. The new e-training course developed in 2018 was made obligatory also in 2019 for all employees with access to the e-training course. The integration of the companies that were newly acquired in Employees in sensitive areas were trained accordingly in face-tothe reporting period is currently in progress. face training courses. In addition, the range of information made available online is being improved continuously. As the data subjects have now been afforded more rights by the GDPR, a large number of requests for information were received in 2019. Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Management report › In dialogue with our stakeholders 51 In dialogue with our stakeholders Our stakeholders tions to the strategic orientation as a sustainable and innovative infrastructure partner are of particular importance in this conContinuous and systematic dialogue with our internal and text. On the other hand, aspects reflecting any important ecoexternal stakeholders is an important element for determining nomic, environmental and social impacts the organisation may key issues as part of our business activities. The most important have and that significantly influence the perception of stakestakeholder groups include shareholders and the capital market, holders are also taken into account. employees, customers, local authorities and municipal utilities, society and environment, suppliers, business partners, the Material themes are continuously implemented in the funcpolitical community and the media. A fundamental aspect of tional and business units, as well as in the individual companies our dialogue with stakeholders is the identification and prioriof EnBW. In addition, the findings from the materiality analysis tisation of stakeholder groups relevant to strategically signififlow into, for example, the strategy process and stakeholder cant and current issues, particularly with regards to the Enermanagement. giewende and mobility transition. The materiality analysis process comprises three steps: the creThis dialogue is conducted using a variety of communication ation of an overview of the themes relevant to strategy and channels ranging from conferences to social media platforms. communication, the development of a list of themes relevant In direct dialogue with our stakeholders, we listen to their interfrom the perspective of sustainability and the derivation of ests and their expectations of EnBW. This information is taken material themes from the reputation analysis. During each step into account in the decision-making process for the strategic of the process, the themes identified were continuously compositioning of the company and when making business decipared to the key themes that were dealt with by the Supervisory sions. At the same time, we inform important stakeholders Board in the reporting year. Every step leads to a distinct priori­ about the company’s needs and the prerequisites for providing tisation of themes and ultimately to a final list of the top an efficient, reliable and sustainable supply of energy. As part of themes that can be allocated to the categories of transformation this dialogue, it is also important for us to listen to critical opinof the portfolio, growth and sustainability. ions such as those expressed at events held by our Energy & Climate Protection Foundation. It is our belief that mutual The transformation of the portfolio is shaped by the following understanding, social acceptance and trust are increased further themes: through this purposeful exchange of insights and perspectives. In addition, it can also help us to identify central developments › Expansion of renewable energies: Completion and commisand key topics at an early stage. sioning of the offshore wind farms EnBW Hohe See in 2019 and EnBW Albatros in January 2020 with a total capacity of 609 MW (p. 70 and 76). In addition, the final investment deciMateriality analysis sion for construction of the Weesow-Willmersdorf solar park in Brandenburg was taken – we will thus realise the first We have continuously expanded our processes over the last few major solar project with an installed capacity of more than years for identifying material topics and linking them simul­ 180 MW without EEG funding (p. 99). taneously with the development of the company’s strategy. › Supply reliability: The subsidiaries of EnBW will continue to Material aspects are determined via the framework provided by guarantee a high level of supply reliability in their grid areas the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC), as well as and for their customers through the gradual modernisation in accordance with the GRI standards for sustainability reportof the distribution grids for electricity (p. 83). ing issued by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Other current › Infrastructure provider: We are continuously expanding developments flow into the determination of future key issues, electromobility through the further development of the such as the work of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial charging infrastructure (Glossary, from p. 139), also together Disclosures (TCFD) (Glossary, from p. 139) on climate-related risk with national and international cooperation partners (p. 82). reporting. › Dismantling of nuclear power plants: The environmentally friendly dismantling of the nuclear power plants is gradually On the one hand, topics are considered material if they have a being implemented. The Philippsburg nuclear power plant significant influence on long-term value added and thus the was shut down for good on 31 December 2019. Our stakeholdperformance and future viability of our company. Contribuers are regularly informed about the progress (p. 54 and 67). 52 Management report › In dialogue with our stakeholders Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW The following themes are material in the three strategic busi› Sustainable economic development: We endeavour to conness fields in the growth category: duct all of our activities in a sustainable way, from the responsible procurement of raw materials (p. 60 f.) through › Smart infrastructure for customers: to the provision of smart energy solutions for our customers › We achieved a significant step in the expansion of our (p. 81 f.). In addition, we are actively involved in the area of telecommunications business with the acquisition of sustainable finance, which is exemplified by, amongst other Plusnet (p. 82). things, the membership of our Chief Financial Officer, › We reorganised our IT and process landscape for sales and Thomas Kusterer, in the Technical Expert Group on Sustainaligned it to meet the individual requirements of customable Finance (TEG) (Glossary, from p. 139) and his position on ers in the EnPower digitalisation project (p. 81). the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures ›  System critical infrastructure: (TCFD) (Glossary, from p. 139) (p. 63). As part of the cooper­ › The expansion of the distribution grid for the integration ation in these climate protection initiatives, he regularly of renewable energies is a key aspect for the success of the reports to internal bodies on climate-related opportunities Energiewende for us and our grid subsidiaries (p. 43). and risks. › The transmission system operator TransnetBW is devel› Climate and environmental protection: We continue to oping the transmission grids to bring wind energy from advocate the setting of a national minimum price for CO2 the north to the south in the SuedLink and ULTRANET emissions in the European Emissions Trading System with grid expansion projects (p. 43). moderate increases in price over time. This would provide all › Sustainable generation infrastructure: those involved with planning security, especially for the › We are pursuing the goal of expanding renewable enerexpansion of renewable energies. We make an important gies in France and exploiting opportunities for growth contribution to climate protection through our significant with the acquisition of the French project developer and investment in climate-friendly projects and business models operator of wind farms and solar parks Valeco (p. 43). (p. 63 and 74). › As part of our selective internationalisation strategy, we ›  Commitment to our stakeholders and willingness to opened a representative office in Taiwan and two offices engage in dialogue: We are actively integrating our stakein the USA in 2019. The main focus in both countries is holders into the energy world of the future – by providing the expansion of offshore wind power (p. 38). comprehensive information and opportunities for dialogue, such as the Energy & Climate Protection Foundation (p. 51). Sustainability is an integral component of our Group strategy › Customer proximity: In order to fulfil the needs of our cus(p. 41 ff.). The sustainability concept is aligned with the strategic tomers to an even better extent, we develop innovative prodguiding principles of the company and defines areas of action, ucts such as in the area of telecommunications (p. 82) or the targets and measures. Areas of action include, amongst others, supply of climate-friendly gas (p. 56). the expansion of renewable energies, guaranteeing a reliable › Commitment to our employees: We want to ensure that the supply and increasing employee commitment. The concept people at EnBW as well as our company have the opportunity takes into account external demands for sustainable corporate for growth, development and a future (p. 85). We provide our activities, derived from leading sustainability standards and employees with attractive offers, for example, in the areas of ratings, as well as the integration of ecological and social aspects healthcare, pension provision and climate-friendly mobility into the operating business. This process is oriented towards the (p. 83 ff.). strategic principles with respect to sustainability: › Regional roots: Our roots lie in Baden-Württemberg and we recognise our special responsibility to this region – by investing in existing infrastructure (p. 76) and also through our voluntary and charitable work (p. 53 f.). Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Management report › In dialogue with our stakeholders 53 Sustainability ratings We maintain close contacts with leading sustainability rating its ratings from recognised agencies in the area of sustainability. agencies and take their analyses and evaluations of the corpor­ We thus aim to strengthen our position as a responsible and ate strategy, the company situation and its business prospects sustainable company and also want to address those financial into account in our decision-making process. In the selection of investors whose investment decisions are based wholly or paragencies, the main focus is placed on, amongst other things, tially on sustainability criteria. We were able to maintain our transparent and plausible evaluations and efficient working proabove-average results within the energy sector for important cesses between the rating agencies, companies, investors and sustainability ratings in 2019. sustainability analysts. EnBW strives to continuously improve Current sustainability ratings CDP ISS ESG MSCI Sustainalytics Earnings B / Management (2019) B(2019) / Prime1 AA (2019) 77 (2019) / Outperformer Scale A to DA+ to DAAA to CCC 0 to 100 Relative position “Electric Utilities” sector “Utilities / Multi Utilities” “Utilities” sector globally: “Utilities” sector globally: globally: EnBW achieved a sector globally: EnBW EnBW achieved a place in the EnBW achieved a place in place in the top 25%. achieved a place in the top 24%. the top 14%. top 10%. Evaluation focus Climate aspects Social, governance and Social, governance and Social, governance and environmental aspects environmental aspects environmental aspects 1 The ratings were last updated on 21 / 12 / 2018. As of 31 / 12 / 2019, EnBW still held Grade Band Prime status. Further information on the sustainability ratings is available at In 2019, Pražská energetika (PRE) supported the Charta 77 www.enbw.com/sustainability. Further details on non-financial Foundation – Barriers Account – and the Jedlička Institute, performance indicators are presented on p. 81 ff., while informawhich provides apprenticeships and social services for phys­ tion on the financial ratings from the rating agencies Moody’s, ically handicapped young people. Stadtwerke Düsseldorf (SWD) Standard & Poor’s and Fitch can be found on p. 72 f. has helped schools with the task of guiding young people towards a career for many years. In addition, it participates in interschool competitions such as the “Düsseldorf School Prize” Social engagement for outstanding school projects focussing on social, health or cultural topics. SWD makes a Christmas donation to four char­ We are acutely aware of our responsibility towards society. Our itable associations in Düsseldorf that are selected each year. commitment to addressing the concerns and interests of sociThrough the VNG Foundation, VNG supports the “Network of ety focuses on the target groups of end customers, business Warmth” that promotes charitable work in Germany and the partners and local authorities within our primary business internationally renowned children’s music project “OPEN sphere of influence in Baden-Württemberg. Support for superWORLD” in Leipzig for German-Russian cultural exchange. The ordinate social issues is concentrated on the core areas of popu­ VNG subsidiary ONTRAS Gastransport supports charitable pro­ lar sport, education, social issues, the environment and art and jects from associations and initiatives via its “ONTRAS.Stadtculture. bekannt” programme and has participated in the “Foundation for volunteering and civic involvement in Mecklenburg-West The Group guidelines on corporate sponsoring, memberships, Pomerania” since 2018. donations and involvement with universities govern the goals, responsibilities, standards, principles and processes for all comThe EnBW Board of Management decided a number of years ago panies in which EnBW AG holds a majority of either the shares not to send Christmas gifts to business partners but instead to or voting rights. Donations are documented on a yearly basis in make donations to social projects in Baden-Württemberg. As the donation report that is presented to the Board of Managepart of the Christmas donations in 2019, a total of €32,000 was ment. In 2019, donations made by the EnBW Group came to given to eight charitable campaigns or campaigns initiated by €3.6 million, following €2.2 million in the previous year. Donareaders of regional newspapers in Baden-Württemberg. tions worth €1.8 million (2018: €604,000) were attributable to EnBW AG. The increase at both an EnBW AG and Group level was As part of the EnBW project “We’re making it happen” mainly attributable to donations made to foundations that are (www.enbw.com/wir-machen-das-schon), EnBW AG also supactively involved in our current and also future business fields. ported social or charitable projects with the Making it happen In addition, Netzte BW has been requesting that customers subbus in 2019. Further information on this subject can be found mit their electricity meter readings electronically rather than by at www.enbw.com/macherbus. post since 2018. The postage saved was donated to numerous charitable organisations in the respective communities in 2019. 54 Management report › In dialogue with our stakeholders Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW EnBW AG regularly offers young artists space in its buildings for projects SuedLink and ULTRANET of our subsidiary TransnetBW their exhibitions. The “Jahresgaben” (Annual Gifts) exhibition are at the focus of public attention. There is a comprehensive from release Stuttgart e. V. has been a guest of ours for 20 years. range of opportunities for citizens to participate in both pro­ The concept behind this sales exhibition is to give young and jects, e.g. in the form of public events held in the federal states well-known artists the opportunity to present their works of art. and districts affected by the plans. The artists receive 50% of the sales proceeds for their work, while the other 50% goes to fund the work carried out by release In October 2019, we also informed citizens about the expansion Stuttgart e. V. This association based in Stuttgart is a reputable plans for the pump storage power plant in Forbach as part of a institution that provides help and advice to people with drug-­ public consultation for citizens. Netze BW held a public informarelated problems. tion event in April about the planned construction of a new 110 kV transformer station in Tiefenbronn and also participated The immigration of refugees into Germany remains a major in the public consultations organised by the regional council for social, political and economic challenge. We already developed the 110 kV grid expansion projects in Ellwangen and Rot am See. a training concept for refugees in 2015, with the goal of providing sustainable support with an eye to the future for the people In 2020, we have ceased our operations at the Stöckach site in affected. We have been running a multi-stage career integration the east of Stuttgart and have thus created space for urban programme since 2016. Since the beginning of 2019, 74 particidevelopment. As a company with majority public ownership pants have been introduced to technical careers in introductory and a long history in Stuttgart, EnBW wants to make a contribudays and work placements during the first stage. A total of 41 tion to affordable and innovative living. It wants to develop the participants then took part in the second stage from September new Stöckach site (www.der-neue-stoeckach.de) itself. The site 2019 to obtain an introductory qualification. In the third stage, will be used to construct up to 800 apartments with a total of at 17 participants from last year’s programme have been training least 60,000 m² of living space, of which up to 40% will be subfor an IHK-certified technical profession in dual vocational sidised housing. We plan to create opportunities for social intertraining since September 2019. action, leisure, local supply structures, health, energy supplies and mobility – supported by technological solutions. The parThe “Let’s Volunteer” initiative was launched in 2019. This initicipation of citizens will continue to play a central role in the tiative supports employees who volunteer in their local commuproject: Ideas from a series of workshops for citizens flowed nities by giving two employees €1,000 to donate to a charitable into the urban planning competition that was concluded at the association each month. end of 2019. We also refer you to the details provided in the “Report on Alongside economic and technical aspects, the Energiewende opportunities and risks” (p. 103). and the associated phasing out of nuclear energy also encompass elements of social responsibility. We unequivocally assume responsibility for the safe dismantling of the nuclear Dialogue with citizens power plants we operate. Dialogue with the local population includes, for example, the annual information days on the disThe expansion of renewable energies is an important goal that mantling work – an established platform that we used for the we are pursuing with great commitment. We plan, construct seventh time in 2019. Any interested citizens were invited to and operate wind farms and photovoltaic power plants in direct attend the events held at the sites in Philippsburg, Neckarpartnership with or with the participation of local authorities westheim and Obrigheim. In addition, those responsible for and citizens. At various sites, we offer free tours for visitors and the dismantling work were available to answer questions at visitor groups throughout the year. public meetings of the municipal councils, public hearings and information events. There was also dialogue with many In the expansion of the transmission grids for the purpose of citizens and functionaries who took part in the visitor tours at connecting up renewable energies, the central infrastructure the nuclear power plants in 2019. Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Management report › In dialogue with our stakeholders 55 In dialogue with our stakeholders Selected activities in dialogue with our stakeholders Stakeholder Opportunity for dialogue Main themes Further information Financial reports Financial and non-financial performance of the www.enbw.com/financial-publications company Annual General Meeting Dialogue with shareholders http://hv.enbw.com Telephone conferences / Corporate economic development, positioning www.enbw.com/conferencecall Shareholders / discussions with analysts and on capital market www.enbw.com/investor-update capital market investors Bankers’ Day and Capital Latest developments at EnBW and in the energy www.enbw.com/bankersday Market Day sector www.enbw.com/capital-markets-day Employee communication New social Intranet, Yammer, four events by “EnBW aktuell”, “Team” employee magazine Compliance Day Varied programme on the theme of “Responsibility” page 50 with around 100 participants Employees Diversity campaigns Diversity Week, Diversity Days, women's network page 84 meeting, participation in Christopher Street Day www.csd-stuttgart.de “Let’s Volunteer” initiative Supporting the social engagement of employees page 54 “Making it happen” Employees of EnBW support social and charitable page 53 bus campaign projects www.enbw.com/macherbus Participation in trade fairs and “Aktionstag Elektromobilität”, Hannover Messe, congresses Flotte! The sector meeting place, Intercharge Network Conference, KEA Contracting Congress, EXPO REAL, etc. Platforms for dialogue and E.g. customer interviews and energy efficiency discussion with customers networks with seven meetings with various themes Customers Customer magazine, customer Information on latest news, products, services and www.twitter.com/enbw blog, social media channels, events from EnBW www.facebook.com/enbw newsletter and local presence www.enbw.com/blog Customer blog, social media Information on latest news, offers and services www.facebook.com/yello.de channels, newsletter, Yello from Yello instagram.com/yello_de campaign “Expect more” https://youtube.com/yellostrom Meeting of the regional Invitation of a total of around 600 local authorities to advisory council eleven meetings of the regional advisory council Local authorities / Meeting of the heads of public Specialist talks on current themes in the energy public utilities utilities industry, e.g. e-mobility, district development Climate protection campaigns Discussion with the “Fridays for Future” movement, www.energie-klimaschutz.de 1st Alumni Day for Junge Stiftung, employee campaign “EnBW’ers for climate protection” Energy on Tour Educational project on the energy supply of the www.enbw.com/energie-auf-tour future for high schools Tours, information and More than 30,000 visitors to EnBW info centres and www.enbw.com/besichtigungen Society / open days events at power plants environment Biodiversity: funding proRealisation of further nine funding projects in the page 90 gramme “Stimuli for Diversity” reporting year www.enbw.com/biodiversitaet Stöckach Ideas Room Information office and campaigns for the future use www.der-neue-stoeckach.de of the Stöckach site for interested citizens Dialogue on handling coal Study on the working and living conditions in page 60 f. procurement responsibly the Cesar coal mining region in Colombia, EnBW www.enbw.com/responsible-coaldelegation visits Russia procurement Suppliers / AUGENHÖHEcamp The Innovation Campus is the host for the unconferwww.augenhoehe-ka.de business partners #Companies in Karlsruhe ence for organisations undergoing change Discussion events on energy Urban Mobility Talks 2019, five debate evenings, www.energie-klimaschutz.de industry and climate protection cooperation events: “The future of mobility”, topics presentation of the “Berghülen Solar Park” project EnBW Energy and Business Events on the themes: results from the structural Club (EWC) change commission and the effects on the sector, expansion of renewable energies Politics / media Active and transparent comMajor articles in daily newspapers and magazines www.enbw.com munication via the media such as “Spiegel”, “Süddeutsche Zeitung”, “taz” or www.twitter.com/enbw “ZEIT” and via social media channels; presentations www.facebook.com/enbw at the Handelsblatt Conference and the BDEW Congress 56 Management report › Research, development and innovation Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Research, development and innovation Research and development: Photovoltaics: The University of Stuttgart has developed a laser Goals, guidelines and processes process that enables the inexpensive production of non-toxic silicon solar cells with a high level of efficiency. We have been participating in this research project funded by the federal govThe goal of our research and development is to identify technoernment since August 2017 and founded our subsidiary EnPV in logical trends at an early stage, assess their economic potential December 2017 to prepare for the commercialisation of the and build up expertise in the business units. For this purpose, results. EnPV investigated the industrial feasibility of the process we carry out pilot and demonstration projects together with in cooperation with factory outfitters in 2019. It is expected that partners or customers directly at the site of their subsequent it will then be possible to produce non-toxic PV modules at a application. This ensures that successful research projects cost that is commercially viable in comparison to current mardeliver innovations for our company. ket prices. Some outstanding issues relating to individual steps of the patented process will be evaluated in 2020 so that it can Research, development and innovation also lead in many cases be demonstrated in a pilot factory on industrial machines. to inventions and patents. The portfolio of patents grew by 36 patents (previous year: 25) in 2019; the EnBW Group held 244 Geothermal energy: In addition to the production of electricity, patents (previous year: 208) at the end of the year. The patents geothermal energy has the potential to reduce the use of fossil held by EnBW focus mainly on the areas of smart solutions and fuels in heating networks. We support our partners, such as electromobility. local authorities, in decarbonising their heating networks using geothermal energy. A project in Bruchsal has now come to fru­ ition: The heating supply for a police station from the nearby Research and development: geothermal power plant was inaugurated on 4 December 2019. Selected activities We gained our experience in the provision of heating from geothermal energy through partnerships, in which we and our partners planned and constructed the geothermal power plants in Wind energy: Offshore wind power plants with fixed foundaBruchsal (since 2012) and Soultz, France, (since 2016) and still tions are limited to shallow waters with water depths of up to operate them today. around 50 m. Floating platforms could be used to exploit the wind power potential in deeper waters. In cooperation with Green gases and hydrogen: We also want to provide our cuspartners, we are investigating several different concepts for tomers with carbon-neutral gaseous energy sources in the long floating offshore wind farm projects that would be suitable for term. The experience gained from various pilot and demonstraopening up new international offshore wind energy regions. We tion projects will help us achieve this. Since the beginning of signed a technology partnership agreement with the engineer2020, our subsidiary ZEAG has been generating green hydrogen ing company aerodyn based in northern Germany at the end of with the aid of state funding. It is using a 1 MW PEM electrolyser 2019. Together, the partners will realise a novel design for float(PEM = proton exchange membrane) that directly converts elecing wind turbines that offers the potential for cost savings tricity from the “Harthäuser Wald” wind farm into green hydrobecause of the way it is constructed. The small-scale test that gen. Our subsidiary Energiedienst Holding (ED) already opened began in 2020 in Germany has immediately led to a test under an alkaline hydrogen electrolysis plant with an electrical output real conditions, which will be carried out by the Chinese renewof 1 MW in Wyhlen in November 2018 – operated with green able technologies company Ming Yang from Shanghai. We want hydropower. In 2019, ED had its bid to expand the plant to up to to develop another floating platform concept in cooperation 5 MW accepted as part of the “Reallabore” tender process of the with European partners and construct a pilot plant in Europe. German Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs and Energy The two demonstration projects will help us to identify which (BMWi), with the aim of supplying districts, industrial premises type of floating platform is especially suited for future projects. and customers with hydrogen produced from electricity for their mobility needs. The project is due to start in 2020. In addition, we are a member of a consortium that is designing a prototype for an offshore power plant with an output of more New technologies for the charging infrastructure (Glossary, than 10 MW and aims to construct it as a pilot plant with funding from p. 139): Following preliminary studies, we will demonstrate from the EU. Following the insolvency of Senvion, General Eleca new method for contactless charging during journeys and test tric has joined the consortium and the project is being continued. its suitability for everyday use in 2020. To this end, we entered into partnership in December 2019 with the young company ElectReon from Israel, which has developed an induction system for roads. It will be used for the first time on a test track in Baden-Württemberg. We are investigating how to speed up conventional charging without damaging the batteries using a special vehicle and a charging station with a capacity of up to 320 kW. Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Management report › Research, development and innovation 57 Load management for electromobility: The “E-Mobility the ramping up of electromobility can be overcome. In particular, Av­enue” project carried out by Netze BW in Ostfildern near the project showed that there is great potential for both smart Stuttgart ended in October 2019. The aim was to test the impact load management to avoid bottlenecks and the temporary use of the broad use of electromobility on the electricity grid. For of different types of battery storage systems to reduce the load this purpose, ten households on one street were provided with on the grid. In addition, it was possible to gain valuable insights e-cars and the required charging infrastructure (Glossary, from into the charging and user behaviour of drivers of electric cars. p. 139). Netze BW believes that the results demonstrate that the Follow-up projects in Tamm (“E-Mobility-Carré”, p. 58) and a test challenges faced by the distribution grid operators as a result of field in a rural setting (“E-Mobility-Chaussee”) have been launched. Innovation management: Goals, guidelines and processes The innovation process at EnBW Internal projects Innovation External start-ups » Innovation Campus » EnBW as a provider of venture » Innovation box capital » Impulses for innovation Innovation portfolio » Connected home » Networked mobility » Virtual power plant Incubation » Urban infrastructure Minority shareholdings » Business model development » Professional investor » Methods » Venture capital method Company Builder Majority shareholdings » Growth » Strategic investor » Scaling We develop new business models outside of our core business EnBW New Ventures invests in start-ups that develop digital using the central innovation management department in order solutions for infrastructures. It focuses on companies who realto quickly identify new sources of revenue and bring them to ise value added through scalable business models and new techthe market. The innovation strategy focuses on two main nologies. The aim is to use the total available investment volapproaches: the generation and scaling up of new business ume of €100 million to secure minority shareholdings of models within the company in internal and external projects between 10% and 30% in up to 20 start-ups, with an investment and investments in external start-ups by EnBW New Ventures. period of four to eight years in each case. EnBW New Ventures plays the role of an active investor, supports the start-ups as a Alongside the development of new business models and supbusiness coach or kind of “sparring partner” and is represented porting start-up projects during the incubation phase, innov­ on their boards. The start-ups receive access to professional ation management also accompanies mature projects during investor expertise via EnBW New Ventures. In addition, comtheir growth phase with the Company Builder. In the reporting mercial cooperation with the operating units at EnBW is also year, the focus was primarily placed on professionalising propossible. cesses and scaling up existing projects. Following the successful development of new business models, the start-up teams then In future, EnBW will also secure majority shareholdings in face further challenges in the growth and scaling-up phase. In quickly growing mature companies with the aim of achieving order to efficiently support the teams and their growth, the substantial growth. Company Builder provides start-ups with additional skills in the form of controlling, sales and marketing experts. 58 Management report › Research, development and innovation Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Innovation: Selected activities which has equipped 550 local transformer stations with the SMIGHT Grid electricity sensor. This has created 18,000 meas­ A successful early start-up from our idea factory is ChargeHere, urement points. Alongside traffic solutions, the grid sensor which offers inexpensive charging infrastructure solutions for business remains a lucrative second pillar for SMIGHT. car parks and large parking facilities to promote the further expansion of electromobility. Instead of equipping every parkThe Virtual Power Plant (Glossary, from p. 139) is another ing space with its own wallbox, the solution from ChargeHere mature start-up from the Company Builder. It collects and bunonly requires a central switching cabinet from which the dles together the renewable energy from smaller decentralised charging cables are laid to the individual parking spaces. The power plants such as wind turbines, photovoltaic plants or bioconcept also enables optimised, dynamic load management mass power plants via its digital platform. The volumes of elecand controlled charging of the vehicles. ChargeHere is now in tricity that are collected are then sold on the electricity market. the growth phase and has twelve employees. We are also using At the same time, the Virtual Power Plant also supplies consumChargeHere to expand the charging infrastructure (Glossary, ers such as commercial customers or our quick-charging stafrom p. 139) at our own sites; a total of 264 charging points were tions. It is growing constantly with the addition of new plant installed at six large sites in 2019. ChargeHere is also participatoperators and cooperation partners. Electricity producers bene­ ing in the iLIME project (smart charging infrastructure managefit from the fact that they have a competent partner to handle ment for e-mobility), which is being supported by the Ministry the sale and remuneration of the green energy. The Virtual for the Environment, Climate Protection and the Energy IndusPower Plant was founded in 2016 and has since developed into try, Baden-Württemberg. In cooperation with its partners, an established supplier on the market with around 30 employChargeHere is developing a concept in the project for a multiees and more than 1,000 customers. In 2019, we upgraded the level smart load management system for e-mobility. The Virtual Power Plant from an innovation project to a Micro BusiChargeHere charging solution with dynamic load management ness Unit – a company within the company. Micro Business has also been used since autumn 2019 at a housing estate with Units are mature projects that have already generated their first apartment buildings and shared underground parking facilities sales with a marketable business model. in Tamm. Around two thirds of the parking spaces in this “­NETZ­labor E-Mobility-Carré” were equipped with ChargeHere charging points for a practical test to examine the best way to Expenditure and personnel integrate electromobility into an existing grid infrastructure. We spent €54.4 million (previous year: €40.6 million) on SMIGHT was one of our first start-ups and was able to continue research, development and innovation in the 2019 financial year. its positive growth in 2019. Originally founded as a supplier of The increase was primarily due to the growth in innovation smart, multifunctional street lights, SMIGHT has since changed management; the corresponding sales increased to €11.1 million its business model significantly. As well as recording traffic flows (previous year: €6.4 million). We received government research in medium-sized German cities using sensors installed on existgrants of €0.9 million (previous year: €2.3 million). There were ing street lights, it is increasingly focusing on the target group 81 employees (previous year: 63) in the areas of research, develof distribution grid operators. A smart electricity sensor has opment and innovation in 2019. 236 employees (previous year: been developed for these customers that supplies real time data 169 employees) were involved in research and development pro­ about the actual grid load and thus supports the needs-based jects as part of their operational work. A further 130 employees expansion of the grid. The first major customer was Netze BW, (previous year: 110) were involved in innovation projects. Expenditure on research, development and innovation in € million 0.4 0.9 23.0 4.3 ¹ 5.8 4.0 2 2.2 2018 40.6 0.8 0.8 +34.0% 30.7 7.4 ¹ 7.2 4.0 3 2.1 1.5 2019 54.4 Innovation management Generation from renewables Grids Smart energy world, storage and electromobility Hydrogen mobility Customer-related research projects Dismantling Other 1 Also includes green gases. 2 Includes hydrogen mobility. 3 Excluding hydrogen mobility. Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Management report › Procurement 59 Procurement Efficient and sustainable Sustainable procurement begins with the careful selection of procurement processes business partners. Central purchasing at EnBW AG uses a stand­ ardised pre-qualification process for this purpose. Suppliers are required to provide a self-assessment via our supplier portal Our purchasing department views itself as a partner for on whether they practise sustainable measures in the areas of generat­ing added value within the Group. Its goal is to ensure data protection, quality management, environmental managethe supply of materials and services at the best possible qualment, the respect for human rights, the fight against corruption ity / cost ratio and thus strengthen the competitiveness of the and occupational health and safety. This self-assessment was company. We place great emphasis on the efficient design of our completed by almost 90% of our suppliers by the end of 2019 procurement processes for achieving cost-effective purchasing (measured by procurement volume). The General Terms of results, as well as on sustainable procurement taking into ­Purchase of the EnBW Group and the additional purchasing regaccount the requirements of national laws, EU law and the ulations regarding occupational safety define other detailed Group’s internal guidelines. In order to manage the procurerequirements for our suppliers. ment processes, a system using various different performance indicators is used. It continually delivers a realistic picture of the Supplier management process current situation in purchasing and enables a comparison of the target and actual situation, as well as the prompt implemen4. Supplier development 1. Supplier identification tation of control measures. Deriving development Identification and documenmeasures according to the tation of potential suppliers The procurement volume of the EnBW Group in 2019 (without classification of all suppliers ITOs) (Glossary, from p. 139) amounted to around €2.8 billion (previous year: around €2.5 billion). Procurement volumes of the EnBW Group by segment in % 14.4 Other (2018: 26.3) 38.5 Grids 3. Supplier evaluation / 2. Supplier selection / 11.8 classification pre-qualification Sales (2018: 46.1) Assessing suppliers based on Registration / onboarding, (2018: 6.1) defined evaluation criteria, completion of the EnBW classification of the suppliers qualification stages 17.2 Renewable Energies (2018: 7.8) 18.1 Generation and Trading Our subsidiaries that are not overseen by central purchasing (2018: 13.7) address non-financial aspects in purchasing using their own mechanisms. A large number of suppliers and service providers contribute to Energiedienst Holding (ED) works together closely with central the services we render. They play an important role in our purchasing at EnBW AG to procure important product groups efforts to achieve a leading position on the energy market. Supusing joint invitations to tender and framework contracts, as plier management promotes successful cooperation with our well as in the associated pre-qualification processes. In addition, suppliers because it makes the performance of the suppliers orders are placed largely with regional suppliers from Germany, transparent and also makes continuous optimisation in partSwitzerland or neighbouring EU countries. nership possible. The careful selection of our business partners is a part of our risk management system and supports the Purchasing at the companies of Pražská energetika (PRE) observance of legal regulations and internally defined quality ensures that suppliers pay social security contributions, settle standards. Especially with regard to the selective internationaltheir tax liabilities and do not engage in money laundering, isation of the business, central purchasing is also developing an amongst other things. Potential suppliers must verify their integrated supply chain management system in close coopercompliance with these aspects by either submitting a sworn ation with the business and functional units. declaration or by presenting corresponding certificates when bidding for invitations to tender. The fulfilment of these obligations is also stipulated in supplier contracts. 60 Management report › Procurement Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW At Stadtwerke Düsseldorf (SWD), sustainability aspects are graphical proximity of the shipping ports. In contrast, Colombian anchored in the compliance guidelines, environmental managecoal has generally become less significant in Western Europe, in ment system manuals and process descriptions. In the area of particular, because Colombian mining companies have been able procurement, SWD pays particular attention to the use of envir­ to secure higher prices for their coal in America, Asia and the onmentally friendly and sustainable products. It also uses Medi­terranean region. Due to these general market developments, clauses in its supplier contracts as a way to reinforce the fight we sourced the majority of our coal from Russia and the USA. against corruption and bribery and to ensure observance of labour and social laws. We place importance on maintaining a balanced procurement portfolio to avoid becoming dependent on individual producThe fundamental principles for procurement at VNG are reguing countries, producers or traders, and the associated price and lated by a code of conduct, the management handbook and supply risks. 82% of our coal requirements are covered by conGroup guidelines. Aspects such as the prevention of corruption – tracts held directly with selected producers. The remainder is which is embedded in the compliance management system and sourced from contracts concluded with trade intermediaries environmental protection are – a fixed component of procurewhich generally define a quality standard but not the source of ment processes. the coal. In addition, we maintain close contacts with other potential producers and traders to avoid any dependency on one single producer. Responsible raw materials ­procurement in the coal sector The Russian coal was sourced from the mining region of the Kuznetsk Basin (Kusbass) and was primarily mined by the producers SUEK and Kuzbassrazrezugol (KRU). The American coal Origin of coal supplies was sourced from underground mines in the Illinois Basin and the northern Appalachians. The main producers were Murray Hard coal will continue to play an important role for EnBW as a Energy and Consol Energy. The Colombian coal was supplied by source of energy to ensure a reliable and economic supply of the company Drummond. The South African coal was supplied electricity. A total of 3.16 million t of coal was delivered to our to us as part of a trading contract and was sourced from the power plants in 2019 (previous year restated: 3.81 million t of Mpumalanga Province. coal). This corresponds to a procurement volume of €170 million (previous year: almost €300 million). Further information on our coal procurement is available at www.enbw.com/coal-procurement. The opportunities and risks Russia was able to further strengthen its leading position on the in relation to procurement and raw materials procurement can generally declining market in Western Europe due to its geobe found in the “Report on opportunities and risks” (p. 103). Origin of coal supplies to EnBW power plants 1 in million t 0.10 0.11 0.10 2.72 0.78 2018 3.81 0.04 -17.3% 2.39 0.46 0.26 2019 3.15 Russia USA Colombia South Africa Germany 1 The figure for the previous year has been restated. Positioning, overarching concepts and due diligence ­suppliers. The coal suppliers are evaluated on the basis of relefor the protection of human rights vant international standards, such as the UN Global Compact. The latest studies by competitors and international initiatives In accordance with the Guiding Principles on Business and flow into the evaluation of producers, as do specific information Human Rights of the United Nations, we strive to procure coal and contributions from civil society organisations. responsibly and thus to fulfil our human rights responsibilities. Due to the special challenges faced in the area of coal procureOur rules of conduct in combination with internal guidelines ment, the ongoing CSR performance (Glossary, from p. 139) of act as the foundation for our business activities. The annual current and potential coal suppliers is regularly discussed on the assessment of coal producers is carried out using the EnBW basis of the EnBW rules of conduct governing the responsible sustainability index, which covers all areas of the rules of conprocurement of hard coal and other raw materials (www.enbw.com/ duct. In addition to regular auditing of the sustainability per­ verhaltenskodex) and used to determine any future action, espeform­­ance of coal suppliers, a multi-stage auditing process will cially requesting further specific information from selected come into force in the event of suspected breaches of the rules, Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Management report › Procurement 61 which can lead to the termination of the business relation-­ sation issues with both governmental and non-governmental ship or exclusion from our procurement process. When new players. The itinerary also included a tour of the mines from contracts are due to be concluded, the results of the analyses in which we receive our main supplies. This allowed us to gain our the sustainability index are discussed with participation from own impression of additional measures being taken for water all relevant specialist areas including representatives from the purification and the rules for maintaining an appropriate distrading, compliance and sustainability departments. Findings tance between residential areas and the mines. We were also from discussions with external stakeholder groups, such as able to address different solutions for environmental protection repre­sentatives from civil society, legal experts for the individand for handling the concerns of residents. There are plans to ual countries and human rights experts, also flow into these examine the implementation of further measures in future analyses. If any deviations from the minimum standards are trips to Russia in 2020 and to revisit the coal suppliers from the identified, corrective measures are implemented in cooperation Kusbass region from whom we source our coal, so that we can with the producers for existing supply contracts. In 2019, there examine the progress being made in respecting human rights were several meetings of these representatives to discuss, in paralong the value added chain. ticular, the sustainability performance (Glossary, from p. 139) of the Russian coal producers on the basis of existing findings Colombia from the sustainability index, as well as current issues related to Although imports from Colombia have generally fallen sharply the import of raw materials. since 2018, we have continued the dialogue with Colombian producers in order to achieve ongoing and long-term improvement in their CSR performance (Glossary, from p. 139). The Current developments main focus of the engagement in Colombia was the completion We have used extended measures to focus particularly on the of our previously announced progress and development report. coal producers from Russia and Colombia in the reporting year. The results presented in this report demonstrate how the Colombian mining companies in the Cesar region have set up Russia and expanded the internal structures for complying with interDue to the continuous increase in coal imports from Russia, we national human rights standards over the last five years. This have also continuously intensified our efforts to fulfil our includes a clear commitment to respecting human rights and human rights responsibilities with respect to the Russian coal internal management systems. The report analyses the most suppliers over the past three years. In the process, we are able to important effects with respect to sustainability along the coal call on our experience from and the approaches we took in our supply chain. The main focus is placed on the areas of occupaengagement in Colombia. tional safety and health, relationships with unions, resettlement of communities, environmental and health protection and We want to obtain better information on the working and living security and combating violence. Overall, the progress and conditions in the mining regions in Russia, continue to development report shows that the mining companies that strengthen our relationships with stakeholders and clearly comwere investigated had made progress over the last few years municate our minimum requirements for responsible coal prowithin their sphere of influence, even though there is still a curement to our coal suppliers. We have thus carried out more need for these issues to be continuously addressed, also in in-depth research into the most important coal producers for cooperation with other producers, the government and above our Russian coal supplies, sought direct contact with companies all local residents. On the basis of the results of the report, we with requests for information about selected sustainability are working with producers on further plans for action to issues such as environmental protection and work standards improve the situation in these mining areas. Some representaand also carried out a business partner audit of the coal suppliers tives from civil society have criticised the results of the report again in 2019 in cooperation with the compliance department and terminated their previously constructive dialogue with due to enhanced public reporting requirements. In individual EnBW about coal procurement. We do not agree with the sweepcases, we needed to verify the ownership structure and obtain ing accusations that we have played down the severity of the further information about public controversies. For this purpose, issues and have handled the situation in Colombia uncritically we consulted with our competitors in order to increase the level and point instead to the extensive data and facts presented in of information on Russian coal producers in the Kusbass region the report. We are also available for objective dialogue with the and clarify how we can continue to positively influence the susNGOs in the future. tainability performance of the producers through dialogue and on-site inspections. Moreover, we are including CSR clauses in all Other issues direct business contracts concluded with Russian companies. In addition, we carried out (preliminary) investigations into the sustainability and compliance of producers from various counIn November 2019, EnBW representatives travelled to Moscow tries with whom we may conclude (liquid) gas contracts in the and the Kusbass region to discuss sustainability issues with the future. From a sustainability perspective, we have not yet idenproducers relevant to us, namely SUEK and KRU. We discussed tified any anomalies with those companies with which we curour requirements for occupational safety and compliance and, in rently have an existing contractual relationship that would particular, environmental protection, resettlement and compennecessitate a more in-depth investigation into the companies. 62 Management report › General conditions Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Business report General conditions Macroeconomic trends Development of gross domestic product (GDP) in % 2020 2019 20181 Economies World 3.4 3.0 3.6 The global economy slowed down in 2019. The decline in ecoEurozone 1.4 1.2 1.9 nomic growth had an impact on all of the economies relevant Germany 1.2 0.5 1.5 to us. The reasons for this slowdown in growth were primarily of a political nature: the trade disputes between the USA and France 1.3 1.2 1.7 China as well as the EU, uncertainties with respect to the United Sweden 1.5 0.9 2.3 Kingdom exiting the EU and the threat of military conflict in Switzerland 1.3 0.8 2.8 the Near and Middle East. Structural problems in the auto­ Czech Republic 2.6 2.5 3.0 motive industry, which is highly important for the whole economy, also had a negative impact in Germany. In Turkey, the Turkey 3.0 0.2 2.8 inflow of foreign investment has decreased and the tourism 1 The figures for the previous year have been restated. industry has declined due to the increasing political uncertainty. The economic situation in Europe and Germany is expected to Development of interest rates improve slightly in 2020 compared to 2019. This expectation is based on a recovery in foreign demand, primarily from highAlthough it appeared for a long time that the US Federal Reserve growth emerging economies, and easing of the political risks, would increase the base interest rate again, there was a reversal for example with respect to the trade disputes. The macro­ in policy in the summer in the USA. The European Central Bank economic trends are not expected to have a either a particularly (ECB) continued its expansive monetary policy against the backpositive or negative influence on the business performance of ground of an economic slowdown. EnBW in 2020. The discount rates applied to company pension provisions and nuclear provisions fell further in 2019 so that the present value of the pension obligations of EnBW, in particular, rose due to interest rate-driven reasons. The consensus forecast for the ECB interest rate on the main refinancing operations remained unchanged at 0.00%. Development of the sector and competitive situation Selection of international, national, regional and new competitors Established competitors New competitors National and Regional Commodity supRenewable Other Financial international Badenova, Entega, pliers / solution Energies industries investors ALPIQ, EDF, EDPR, EWE, Mainova, suppliers / BayWa r.e., Encavis, Daimler, Google, Capital Stage, KGAL, Enel, Engie, E.ON, MVV, N-Ergie, start-ups ENERTRAG, PNE Shell, Tesla, VW / Elli Talanx Equinor, EVN, SWM, Thüga Wind, theolia, wpd 1&1, bliss.energy, Fortum, Iberdrola, Deutsche Telekom, Ørsted, RWE, Fastned, Kesselheld, Vattenfall, Verbund Lichtblick, NEXT Kraftwerke, Sonnen, stromio » Main focus on the areas of renewable » Entry of new market participants increases competition and leads to a deconstruction of energies, grids, sales / solutions the value chain » Some specialisation amongst international » New competitors with strong focus / specialisation on one business field competitors Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Management report › General conditions 63 The energy sector is currently experiencing a period of great The EnBW Chief Financial Officer, Thomas Kusterer, is a member upheaval. There is particular pressure for change due to the of the EU Technical Expert Group on Sustainable Finance (TEG) Energiewende. However, digitalisation, sector coupling (Glos(Glossary, from p. 139) which is developing a legal framework for sary, from p. 139) and the desire of local authorities to become sustainable financing opportunities. He is also engaged as a self-sufficient, for example, are also putting the sector under member of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclos­ great pressure. ures (TCFD) (Glossary, from p. 139) in the development of ­climate-related risk reporting by companies. A significant factor is that the energy sector is highly regulated, which means that political policies strongly influence developOur strategy of concentrating investment on renewable energies, ments in the sector. In particular, this is currently affecting the expanding the grids and developing new and increasingly digirestructuring of the generation landscape. Most importantly, talised business models supports the national climate protecrenewable energies will increase their share of the transport and tion targets and the international efforts for climate protection. heating sectors in the long term. The business models of energy supply companies are changing at the same time, while new EU Green Deal players from outside the sector are also entering the energy market. This is especially true for the commodity and solutions The framework conditions for achieving climate neutrality by business. In addition, companies are repositioning themselves 2050 are currently being defined at an EU level. At the end of along the sector’s traditional value chain and specialising in 2018, the European Commission had already presented a revised individual business fields. analysis of possible climate pathways up to 2050. The EU now aims to enshrine the 2050 climate neutrality target, which was The RWE subsidiary innogy has been split between E.ON and announced in its comprehensive Green Deal, into law. In add­ RWE in a deal that includes asset swaps between the two comition, it will continue investigations into the effects of increaspanies. This is having a major influence on the German and also ing the 2030 climate targets to at least 50% or 55% until autumn the European energy market. 2020 and make corresponding proposals for legislation in 2021. While the climate neutrality target is supported by the EuroTraditional energy supply companies need to re-examine their pean Parliament and all member states except for Poland, and competitiveness in individual business areas, exploit the potenit is, therefore, probable that the legislation will pass quickly, tial offered by a changed market environment and align their further negotiations on the precise increase to the target for strategies for the future. 2030 are expected. In terms of the framework conditions facing EnBW and other Cross-segment players in the energy industry, further measures are expected as framework conditions part of the Green Deal in future, such as a revision of the financial instruments and capital market guidelines as well as regulations and measures to decarbonise the gas and transport sectors. Climate protection Coal Commission The issue of climate protection is receiving a greater and greater amount of public attention. Clear examples of this can be found On 26 January 2019, the Coal Commission presented its final in the “Fridays for Future” movement and the results of the report, on the basis of which the Federal Government prepared European elections. a draft law and adopted it in the Federal Cabinet at the end of January 2020. This Act recommends the end of coal-fired power In Germany, it is anticipated that the national climate targets for generation in Germany by 2038. German brown and hard coal 2020 will be missed by a large margin. The climate action packcapacities in the energy industry should be reduced to 15 GW age introduced by the German government includes the phaseeach by 2022 (currently around 42 GW in total) and then to 17 out of coal power, the introduction of charges for CO2 emissions GW in total by 2030. Incentives for the decommissioning of coal in the transport and heating sectors and numerous other meas­ power plants should also be created by funding a fuel switch ures, such as subsidies to promote electromobility. The aim is to from coal to more climate-friendly energy sources. increase the share of gross energy consumption accounted for by renewable energies to 65% by 2030. Despite the new climate The Cabinet decision of the Act deviates from the recommendaprotection measures it is, however, still not expected that the tions of the Coal Commission in some critical points. Due to the 65% target will be achieved – especially in view of the slow “late” decommissioning of brown coal power plants proposed by expansion of onshore wind energy. the law, it is expected that modern hard coal power plants will be removed from the grid relatively early. Nega­tive implications We will continue to advocate the introduction of a minimum for the operators of hard coal power plants are expected as a CO2 price in the electricity sector and climate-based reform of result of the intended “early” decommissioning of hard coal the tax, duty and levy systems in order to help steer investment capacities without any compensation even for modern power towards climate-friendly technologies. plants. 64 Management report › General conditions Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW It is feared that the proposed reform to the Combined Heat and January 2020, the average monthly electricity bill for a housePower Act (KWKG) that was also announced in the legislative hold with an annual consumption of 3,500 kWh in 2019 came package will not deliver sufficient incentives for promoting to €88.84 compared to €85.94 in the previous year. Taxes and investment in the conversion of the supply of heating from levies account for more than half of this amount. EnBW coal to more climate-friendly fuels. EnBW will advocate that increased the price for the basic supply of electricity by around amendments are made to the draft law during the parliamen€37 per year on 1 January 2019. The reason for this was the tary process. increased costs for the procurement of electricity. For industrial customers receiving a medium-voltage supply, the average electricity price including electricity taxes increased according to Sales segment calculations made by BDEW by 2.6%, from 17.96 ct / kWh in the previous year to 18.43 ct / kWh in 2019. Electricity and gas prices for retail and industrial customers According to calculations by the German Federal Statistical Office, natural gas prices for private households in 2019 rose by According to an analysis of electricity prices by the German 3.9% compared to the previous year; in contrast, the price of gas Association of Energy and Water Industries (BDEW) published in for industrial customers fell by 7.5%. Average electricity price for a 3-person household (annual consumption of 3,500 kWh) in ct / kWh 0.77 7.29 6.79 6.20 4.71 2.05 1.66 2018 29.47 1.00 +3.36% 7.39 6.41 7.09 4.86 2.05 1.66 2019 30.46 Grid fees ¹ EEG cost allocations Procurement, sales VAT Electricity tax Concession fees Other allocations 1 Including metering and metering station operation. Source: BDEW | As of January 2020 Structural changes of 81 partners under our leadership has established a comprehensive charging network for e-cars in Baden-Württemberg The Climate Action Programme that was introduced by the Gerbased on a grid with a mesh size of 10 km by 10 km (p. 82). man government and passed in October 2019 set a target for the provision of one million charging points for electric vehicles by Another goal of the German government is to develop a cli2030. This will be achieved with the “Charging Infrastructure mate-neutral building stock by 2050. Achieving high levels of Master Plan”. It contains measures for quickly establishing a energy efficiency in buildings is a key factor in this area. The comprehensive and user-friendly charging infrastructure (GlosBuilding Energy Act (GEG), which was passed at the end of 2019, sary, from p. 139) for up to ten million e-cars by 2030. Furtherbrings together various legal requirements for the energy-remore, there are plans to simplify the regulations for the installated properties of buildings. As a consequence, there will be lation of charging infrastructure in the Act on the Ownership of stricter standards for the installation of oil heating systems from Apartments and the Permanent Residential Right (WEG) and in 2026 and related to this, a 40% subsidy for exchanging an oil tenancy law. The aim will be to make it obligatory for landlords heating system for a more climate-friendly alternative. In addito tolerate the installation of charging infrastructure. tion, the already existing government subsidies will be increased by 10% and a tax incentive to subsidise energy-related renovaIn addition, the German government has increased the subsid­ tion measures of 20% of the investment costs will be introduced ies for purely electric cars with a list price of below €40,000 in 2020. Many new buildings actually already meet these stricter from €4,000 to €6,000. The subsidy increases to €5,000 for energy-related requirements. Due to the lower heating demands more expensive cars up to a limit of €65,000. Additional govin these buildings, heat pumps can be used as an energy-efficient ernment subsidies, such as the tax exemptions for electric comform of heating and their use in new buildings has been increaspany cars that are valid from January 2019, create further incening for a number of years. It is also possible to improve the tives to purchase these e-cars. energy efficiency of existing buildings by replacing the heating system. Due to the age structure of heating systems, this replaceWe are engaged in the expansion of the charging infrastructure ment rate is set to increase in the coming years. The replacement for household customers and also for commercial and local of a heating system is often also accompanied by a switch in authority partners. As part of a programme in the Federal State energy source to natural gas, district heating or renewable of Baden-Württemberg to establish a core charging network for energy sources. We believe that there are huge opportunities for electric vehicles in Baden-Württemberg (SAFE), a consortium growth as a result of the dynamics in the heating market. Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Management report › General conditions 65 Grids segment equipment for grids. In the tendering process held by TransnetBW for the construction and operation of a 300 MW power On 9 July 2019, the German Federal Court of Justice (BGH) decided plant in south-western Germany, EnBW had its bid accepted in that the rates of return on equity for electricity and gas grid August 2019. The new power plant will be constructed at the operators for the third regulatory period did not need to be corEnBW power plant site in Marbach am Neckar. It will be placed rected upwards. The Higher Regional Court (OLG) in Düsseldorf into operation from 1 October 2022 in special emergency situahad previously annulled the rates of return on equity set by the tions as a “safety buffer” for the supply of electricity and to supFederal Network Agency (BNetzA) because they were set too low. port grid stability. On 10 July 2019, the OLG Düsseldorf annulled the general secOn 5 December 2019, the Federal Network Agency confirmed toral productivity factor (Xgen) (Glossary, from p. 139) for gas the framework scenario for the Network Development Plan grid operators that was defined by the BNetzA on 21 February Gas (NDP Gas) (Glossary, from p. 139) 2020 to 2030. For the first 2018. The BNetzA filed an appeal against the judgement with the time, the framework scenario includes a separate presentation BGH on 10 October 2019. A decision on the Xgen for electricity of the forecast for demand in Baden-Württemberg because the grid providers defined by the BNetzA has not yet been handed need for greater capacity here is growing constantly and the down by the OLG Düsseldorf. grid operated by our subsidiary terranets bw is heavily used. In comparison to the current demand for capacity, it is anticipated The reform of the Grid Expansion Acceleration Act (NABEG 2.0) that over 30% more capacity will be required by 2030. was approved on 4 April 2019. The act aims to simplify and accelerate the approval process for the new construction and reinforceAn increasing level of tension is expected overall in the regument of electricity lines at the high and extra-high voltage level in lated grid business. Investment in the expansion of the grids Germany. EnBW is hoping for improved framework conditions may reduce the earnings pressure on the grid operators but that will allow the transmission system operators (TSO) in parti­ appropriate returns are necessary in order to continue pushing cular to implement the urgently required grid expansion meaforward the expansion of the grids and to guarantee the secur­ sures on time. ity of supply in Germany. Overall, we anticipate that the grid business of the EnBW grid subsidiaries will be faced with more On 20 December 2019, the BNetzA completed its examination economically challenging framework conditions in the future. of the Network Development Plan Electricity (NDP Electricity) (Glossary, from p. 139) 2030 that had been drafted by the TSO. The approved NDP will act as the basis for the legally prescribed Renewable Energies segment amendment to the Federal Requirements Plan. An additional HVDC connection (Glossary, from p. 139) to Baden-WürttemGermany berg that was planned for the grid area covered by our transmission system operator TransnetBW has been rejected by the Electricity generation from renewable energies overall in Gerregu­latory authorities at this point in time as they do not many rose significantly in 2019. According to Fraunhofer ISE believe that its approval is merited. (www.energy-charts.de) the proportion of total German electricity generation accounted for by renewable energies increased to Aside from the expansion of the grids, the German TSOs are almost 46% (2018: around 40%). Although there was a small rise focussing on other measures to ensure security of supply. in the installed output, this increase in comparison to the previThis includes an invitation to tender for the construction of ous year is mainly attributable to better weather conditions. 1,200 MW of new power plant capacity as special technical Installed net output for electricity generation from renewable energies in Germany 1 in GW / year 0.27 30.56 33.03 6.00 5.28 2012 75.14 3.28 41.30 39.22 7.17 5.48 2015 96.45 53.01 45.93 7.73 6.41 5.50 2 2018 118.58 +3.9% 53.17 48.84 8.17 7.48 5.50 2 2019 123.16 Onshore wind Solar Biomass Offshore wind Hydropower 1 The figures for the previous year have been restated. 2 Correction to the value for hydropower from 4.8 GW to 5.50 GW by EnBW. Source: Fraunhofer ISE (www.energy-charts.de) | As of 03 / 01 / 2020 The climate action package introduced by the German governthis as an important contribution towards achieving the climate ment increases the target for the expansion of offshore wind targets and an opportunity for us to expand our offshore wind power plants in Germany from 15 GW to 20 GW by 2030. We view 66 Management report › General conditions Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW portfolio beyond the projects we already have in operation and all other power plants has been switched over to an auction-­ those currently under development. based system. Under this new system, a total of around 1,000 MW of onshore wind capacity will be awarded, for ex­ample, In 2019, the growth in onshore wind power capacity slowed in 2019. We are expanding the wind power portfolio of our joint considerably due to the difficult approval conditions. Only venture with our Turkish partner Borusan with two projects that around 700 MW of new output was placed into operation, which are currently under construction. These wind power plants are is around 75% less than in 2018. In the auctions held in 2019, due to be completed in 2020. We still believe that the Turkish only about half of the output available in the auctions was covmarket is an attractive proposition for the future, although we ered by projects. We were also considerably impacted by this are monitoring the current political and economic developdevelopment. In order to achieve the target of 65% generation ments in Turkey very closely. from renewable energies by 2030, around 4,000 MW of new output will need to be added every year. The climate action package passed by the German government in December 2019 Generation and Trading segment is not expected to accelerate the current slow expansion in onshore wind energy but will instead make this expansion Electricity wholesale market more difficult due to the planned uniform minimum distance regulations. EnBW is campaigning strongly for an improvement Despite the significantly higher prices for CO2 allowances in the approval conditions. (Glossary, from p. 139), the average spot market price (Glossary, from p. 139) in 2019 was around €7 / MWh below the level in Due to the elimination of the 52 GW funding cap and progres2018. It is important to note in this context that the second half sively lower costs for PV modules, we anticipate that the photoof 2018 was characterised by a sharp increase in prices due to voltaic output in Germany will continue to expand at an low water levels and the associated bottlenecks in the supply of increasing rate. The construction of the Weesow-Willmersdorf coal. In contrast, the average price on the forward market (Glossolar park by EnBW – one of the first major projects without sary, from p. 139) in 2019 was around €4 / MWh higher than the funding in Germany – demonstrates that photovoltaics have average price in the previous year due to the increase in CO2 now also become economically viable here. The high appeal and prices. availability of open-field photovoltaic plants in Germany was demonstrated by the fact that the auctions in 2019 were signifiForward market prices (Glossary, from p. 139) reflect the expeccantly oversubscribed. tation that prices will continue to increase. The reasons for this are the phasing out of nuclear power and the expected decommissioning of coal power plants. A decisive factor for the future France development of electricity prices will be the development of fuel We successfully entered the French market for renewable enerand CO2 prices and the trends in the electricity generation mix. gies with the acquisition of Valeco in 2019. We expect dynamic growth in renewable energies in France, both in the wind power Development of prices for electricity (EPEX), and photovoltaic sectors. The framework conditions in France, base load product which are mainly centred around auction-based invitations to in € / MWh Average 2019 Average 2018 tender, guarantee continued and reliable funding for renewable energies. Spot 37.67 44.47 Rolling front year price 47.79 43.84 Sweden Sweden offers very favourable conditions and a competitive Gas market environment for renewable energies. In particular, onshore wind energy will play an increasingly important role on the The spot market price (Glossary, from p. 139) fell considerably in Swedish generation market in the next few years. Since our 2019. On the one hand, the global supply of liquefied natural gas entry onto the market in 2018, we have consistently expanded (LNG) increased due to new production facilities in the USA and our wind power portfolio. The quota-based funding system for Australia, which led to a noticeable increase in LNG deliveries to renewable energies that currently exists in Sweden means that north-west Europe, while on the other hand, above-average tempower plants primarily generate their revenues on the electri­ peratures led to a much lower demand for heating. The fall in city market. The sale of CO2 allowances (Glossary, from p. 139) prices on the spot market also had an impact on annual prices. could be an additional source of revenue. Negotiations on a new gas transit contract between Russia and the Ukraine will be very significant for the further development Turkey of gas prices. In addition, it is possible that the LNG supply to The current funding mechanism in Turkey for the generation of Europe will increase further due to the commissioning of add­ electricity from renewable sources is valid for power plants that itional LNG facilities in the USA. are placed into operation up until the end of 2020. Funding for Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Management report › General conditions 67 Development of prices for natural gas on the TTF Development of prices on the coal markets (Dutch wholesale market) in US$ / t Average 2019 Average 2018 in € / MWh Average 2019 Average 2018 Coal – API #2 rolling front year price 69.54 87.03 Spot 13.51 22.98 Coal – API #2 spot market price 60.75 91.91 Rolling front year price 18.19 20.70 CO2 allowances Oil market Under the European emissions trading system, proof must be Crude oil prices increased from US$55 / bbl to US$75 / bbl during provided of the correct number of CO2 allowances (Glossary, the course of 2019. Production cuts by OPEC and some nonfrom p. 139) for the corresponding CO2 emissions from power OPEC countries such as Russia eliminated the oversupply on the plants. The reduction in supply (so-called market stability global market and supported prices. The conflict between Iran reserve, MSR) for emissions allowances agreed in 2018 resulted and the USA, combined with the threat made by Iran to block in a further increase in the price for EUA certificates (Glossary, the Strait of Hormuz which is important to the oil trade, and the from p. 139) in 2019. The number of certificates available in 2019 drone and rocket attacks on important oil facilities in Saudi Arawas reduced by around 400 million, which was almost 50% less. bia also contributed to the higher prices. In contrast, concerns about the global economy and thus the demand for oil also had Further increases in the prices for EUA certificates are expected an effect on the development of the market in 2019. In this conin the next few years. The largest driver of prices will continue text, oil prices were negatively influenced, in particular, by the to be the reduction in supply via the MSR. ongoing trade dispute between the USA and China. Development of prices for emission allowances / daily quotes Forward market prices are reflecting the expectation that prices will continue to fall. This expectation is due to fears of an excess in € / t CO2 Average 2019 Average 2018 supply on the oil market because of, amongst other things, the EUA – rolling front year price 24.88 15.62 sharp rise in oil production in non-OPEC countries and lingerCER – rolling front year price 0.21 0.24 ing concerns regarding the economy and the associated fall in global demand for oil. However, there is also great potential for prices to spike if the ongoing conflict between Iran and the USA Nuclear power and Saudi Arabia escalates in the future. The coalition agreement of the German government sets out Development of prices on the oil markets the framework for current nuclear power policy. The main targets are the retention of specialist personnel and expertise, in US$ / bbl Average 2019 Average 2018 quick progress in the search for a final storage site for highly Crude oil (Brent) front month radioactive waste (by 2031) and the rapid commissioning of the (daily quotes) 64.16 71.69 final storage site for lowand medium-level radioactive waste Crude oil (Brent), rolling front (2027 according to the current plans). This should prevent the year price (daily quotes) 61.31 68.94 intermediate storage at the power plant sites becoming, to all intents and purposes, the final storage sites. On the basis of a Coal market ruling by the German Federal Constitutional Court from 6 December 2016, operators of nuclear power plants should Both the front year price and the spot market price fell signifireceive compensation payments for investment in the period cantly during the course of 2019. The main reasons for this fall between the decision to extend the lives of the nuclear power in prices were the oversupplied global market and the considerplants (28 October 2010) and the reversal of this decision (from able decrease in demand in Europe. In Europe, coal-fired electri­ 16 March 2011), as well as for residual volumes of electricity city generation is being replaced to a large extent by renewable remaining at power plants that can no longer be distributed. On energies and often by cheaper gas-fired electricity generation the basis of the public law contract according to the Act for the due to the very low gas prices and relatively high emission Reorganisation of Responsibility in Nuclear Waste Management, allowance prices. In addition, China introduced restrictions on EnBW has submitted an application for the approval of the imported coal in the fourth quarter of 2019. return transport of radioactive waste from the reprocessing centre in France to the intermediate storage site at the PhilippsIf the described trends continue, coal prices on both the spot burg nuclear power plant. A precise date for the transport has market and the forward market (Glossary, from p. 139) will still not been agreed. On the basis of the same public law, the remain under pressure. As by far the largest consumer of coal in intermediate storage facility for highly radioactive waste was the world, China has a dominant influence on the international handed over to the German government on 1 January 2019. The coal market. The increasing expansion of domestic coal producwaste storage facilities for lowand medium-level radioactive tion in China will continue to have a significant effect on coal waste will follow on 1 January 2020. The authorisation to operimports into the country and thus on the global market. ate the Philippsburg 2 nuclear power plant for the purpose of generating power expired on 31 December 2019. 68 Management report › The EnBW Group Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW The EnBW Group Finance and strategy goal dimensions Results of operations Electricity sales increase, gas sales fell compared to the previous year Electricity sales (without Grids) in billions of kWh1 Sales Renewable Energies Generation and Trading Total (without Grids) Change in % 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Retail and commercial customers (B2C) 14.8 14.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 14.8 14.9 -0.7 Business and industrial customers (B2B) 20.5 21.9 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 20.5 21.9 -6.4 Trade 2.0 0.9 2.9 2.4 112.4 96.7 117.3 100.0 17.3 Total 37.3 37.7 2.9 2.4 112.4 96.7 152.6 136.8 11.5 1 The figures for the previous year have been restated. In the 2019 financial year, electricity sales were higher than in trial customers (B2B) fell slightly as a result of the withdrawal the previous year. Due to the changed classification of three from the B2B commodity business under the EnBW and Watt companies, there was a slight shift in the figures for the previbrands. Increased trading activities resulted in an increase in ous year for the Sales and Generation and Trading segments. In sales. However, the effect of the trading activities on the earna persistently challenging competitive environment, electricity ings potential of our company is limited. Adjusted for the effects sales to retail and commercial customers (B2C) stood at the of changes in the consolidated companies, the increase in elecsame level as in the previous year. Sales to business and industricity sales was 11.2%. Gas sales (without Grids) in billions of kWh1 Sales Renewable Energies Generation and Trading Total (without Grids) Change in % 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Retail and commercial customers (B2C) 17.4 17.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 17.4 17.1 1.8 Business and industrial customers (B2B) 56.2 50.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 56.2 50.8 10.6 Trade 0.5 0.3 0.1 0.1 222.8 260.4 223.4 260.8 -14.3 Total 74.1 68.2 0.1 0.1 222.8 260.4 297.0 328.7 -9.6 1 The figures for the previous year have been restated. Gas sales decreased in 2019 in comparison to the previous year. year due to higher sales to existing customers and the acquisiDue to the changed classification of three companies, there was tion of new customers by individual brands. This was offset to a shift in the figures for the previous year for the Sales and Gensome extent by the withdrawal from the B2B commodity eration and Trading segments. In addition, there was also a business under the EnBW and Watt brands. Trading activities reclassification within the Generation and Trading segment. fell compared to the previous year. However, the effect of the In a challenging competitive environment, gas sales in the retail trading activities on the earnings potential of our company is customer business (B2C) were slightly above the level in the prelimited. There were no effects due to changes in the consolidated vious year. In the 2019 financial year, sales to business and companies. industrial customers (B2B) exceeded the level in the previous Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Management report › The EnBW Group 69 External revenue lower than previous year especially due to decrease in gas sales External revenue by segment in € million1, 2 2019 2018 Change in % Sales 7,679.0 7,347.7 4.5 Grids 3,459.7 3,215.4 7.6 Renewable Energies 653.1 477.5 36.8 Generation and Trading 6,970.1 9,767.8 -28.6 Other / Consolidation 3.2 7.0 -54.3 Total 18,765.0 20,815.4 -9.9 1 The figures for the previous year have been restated. 2 After deduction of electricity and energy taxes. Adjusted for the effects of the changes in the consolidated comMaterial developments in the income statement panies, external revenue fell by 10.7% or €2.237.4 million in comThe fall in the cost of materials corresponds to the decrease in parison to the previous year. The figures for revenues in the gas revenues. The balance from other operating income and previous year were restated due to the IFRIC agenda decision other operating expenses in the reporting period increased “Physical settlement of contracts to buy or sell a non-financial from €-95.2 million in the previous year to €251.1 million in the item (IFRS 9)”. The application of the agenda decision only reporting year. This increase was mainly attributable to valuation resulted in a reporting change and had no effect on EBITDA. Due effects from derivatives (Glossary, from p. 139). The financial to the changed classification of three companies in the previous result improved in 2019 in comparison to the previous year by year, there was also a slight shift between the segments. €284.6 million to €-95.8 million (previous year: €-380.4 million). Higher expenses caused by the drop in the discount rate for Sales: In the 2019 financial year, external revenue in the Sales nuclear provisions were more than compensated for by the posisegment increased in comparison to the previous year. Adjusted tive effect from the market valuation of securities. The improvefor the effects of the changes in the consolidated companies, ment in the investment result was attributable to the revaluation this would have been an increase of 2.3% or €173.5 million. This of the shares in EnBW Hohe See, which since 1 October 2019 has was primarily due to higher gas sales. no longer been accounted for using the equity method but was instead fully consolidated. Overall, earnings before tax (EBT) Grids: External revenue in the Grids segment in 2019 was higher stood at €902.2 million in the 2019 financial year, after €596.3 than the figure in the previous year, especially due to higher million in the previous year. The complete consolidated financial earnings from the use of the grids. Adjusted for the effects of statements can be found at www.enbw.com/report2019-downloads. the changes in the consolidated companies, this would have been an increase of 8.4% or €266.8 million. Earnings The Group net profit / loss attributable to the shareholders of Renewable Energies: Revenue in the Renewable Energies segEnBW AG increased from €334.2 million in 2018 by €400.0 milment in the 2019 financial year exceeded the level in the pre­ lion to €734.2 million in the reporting period. Earnings per share vious year. This increase was attributable to the commissioning amounted to €2.71 in the 2019 financial year compared to € 1.23 of our EnBW Hohe See offshore wind farm, as well as higher in the previous year. generation volumes from our other offshore and onshore wind farms and our run-of-river power plants due to the weather. Adjusted earnings and non-operating result Adjusted for the effects of the changes in the consolidated comThe sum of the adjusted earnings figures and non-operating figpanies, this would have been an increase of 13.0% or €75.0 million. ures gives the figures on the income statement. The non-operating result includes effects that cannot be predicted or cannot Generation and Trading: Revenue in the Generation and Tradbe directly influenced by us and as such are not relevant to the ing segment decreased significantly in comparison to the pre­ ongoing management of the company. The effects are previous year. Adjusted for the effects of the changes in the consoli­ sented and explained in the section “Non-operating EBITDA”. dated companies, there was a decrease in revenue of 28.3% or The business activities relevant to the ongoing management of €2,746.8 million. This decrease was mainly due to a fall in sales the company are of particular importance for internal manageand lower prices in the area of gas trading. ment and for the external communication of the current and future earnings potential. We use the adjusted EBITDA – earnings before the investment and financial results, income taxes and amortisation, adjusted for non-operating effects – as the key reporting indicator for disclosing this information. 70 Management report › The EnBW Group Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW #TOP Adjusted EBITDA and #TOP the share of the adjusted EBITDA accounted for by the segments Adjusted EBITDA by segment in € million1 2019 2018 Change Forecast 2019 in % Sales 294.3 268.4 9.6 €225 to €300 million Grids 1,311.2 1,176.9 11.4 €1,300 to €1,400 million Renewable Energies 482.8 297.7 62.2 €425 to €500 million Generation and Trading 383.8 430.8 -10.9 €350 to €425 million Other / Consolidation -39.6 -16.3 -142.9 – Total 2,432.5 2,157.5 12.7 €2,350 to €2,500 million 1 The figures for the previous year have been restated. Grids: In the Grids segment, the adjusted EBITDA increased in Share of adjusted EBITDA accounted for by the segments the 2019 financial year in comparison to the previous year. Adjusted for the effects of changes in the consolidated comin %1 2019 2018 Forecast 2019 panies, the increase was 11.3%. The main factor influencing this Sales 12.1 12.4 5% to 15% positive earnings performance was higher revenue from the use Grids 53.9 54.5 50% to 60% of the grids, especially due to the increased investment that is necessary for ensuring the security and reliability of supply of Renewable Energies 19.8 13.8 15% to 25% the grids as well as the first-time application of the new leasing Generation and Trading 15.8 20.0 10% to 20% standards IFRS 16 in the 2019 financial year.. Other / Consolidation -1.6 -0.7 – Total 100.0 100.0 Renewable Energies: The adjusted EBITDA in the Renewable Energies segment for the 2019 financial year exceeded the level 1 The figures for the previous year have been restated. in the previous year. Adjusted for the effects of the changes in the consolidated companies which mainly involved the EnBW The adjusted EBITDA increased in 2019 compared to the previHohe See offshore wind farm and the acquisition of Valeco, the ous year. This positive earnings performance was within the increase was 23.3%. Our EnBW Hohe See offshore wind farm has forecasted range for the 2019 financial year. The first-time applibeen contributing to earnings since it was commissioned at the cation of the leasing standard IFRS 16 led to an increase in beginning of the fourth quarter. The acquisition of Valeco adjusted EBITDA of €114.2 million or 5.3%. Adjusted for the resulted in a contribution to earnings from the beginning of effects of the changes in the consolidated companies, the the third quarter. In addition, better wind conditions at our adjusted EBITDA was 8.1% higher than the level in the previous offshore and onshore wind farms and higher water levels at our year. Due to the changed classification of three companies, run-of-river power plants contributed to the positive earnings there was a slight shift in the figures for the previous year for perform­ance. the Sales and Generation and Trading segments. All segments achieved a result within their forecasted range for 2019. The Generation and Trading segment: In the Generation and Tradshare of the adjusted EBITDA accounted for by each of the seging segment, the adjusted EBITDA fell in the 2019 financial year ments was also within the forecasted range. compared to the previous year. Adjusted for the effects of the changes in the consolidated companies which mainly involved Sales: The adjusted EBITDA in the Sales segment increased in the sale of VNG Norge and its subsidiary VNG Danmark in 2018, the 2019 financial year in comparison to the previous year. Plusthe decrease was 4.4%. As forecast, this development was largely net has been contributing to earnings since the beginning of attributable to lower out-of-period earnings in comparison to the third quarter. Adjusted for the effects of the changes in the the previous year. In contrast, the higher availability of the consolidated companies, earnings stood at almost the same nuclear power plants had a positive effect. In addition, we sold level as in the previous year (-0.5%). Even without these largely our electricity deliveries on the forward market at higher wholeunplanned effects, the result still stood in the middle quantile sale market prices than in the previous year (Glossary, from of the forecasted range. p. 139). Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Management report › The EnBW Group 71 Development of non-operating EBITDA influenced by increased allocations to provisions for onerous contracts for electricity procurement agreements Non-operating EBITDA in € million 2019 2018 Change in % Income / expenses relating to nuclear power -61.9 -132.1 53.1 Income from the reversal of other provisions 48.2 11.8 – Result from disposals 18.4 89.0 -79.3 Reversals of / additions to the provisions for onerous contracts relating to electricity procurement agreements -54.8 39.2 – Income from reversals of impairment losses 4.5 22.1 -79.6 Restructuring -41.0 -49.1 16.5 Other non-operating result -100.7 -48.8 -106.4 Non-operating EBITDA -187.3 -67.9 – The fall in non-operating EBITDA in comparison to the previous VNG Danmark had a positive effect on earnings in the previous year was due to, amongst other things, allocations to provisions year. The reason for the fall in the other non-operating result for onerous contracts for long-term electricity procurement was the allocations to risk provisions for a possible obligation to agreements. In the previous year, there were higher reversals of pay EEG cost allocations (Glossary, from p. 139) for the com­ provisions. In addition, the sale of VNG Norge and its subsidiary pany’s own energy deliveries within the EnBW Group. Significant increase in Group net profit compared to previous year Group net profit in € million 2019 2018 Total Non-operating Adjusted Total Non-operating Adjusted EBITDA 2,245.2 -187.3 2,432.5 2,089.6 -67.9 2,157.5 Amortisation and depreciation -1,648.5 -160.7 -1,487.8 -1,213.8 -13.8 -1,200.0 EBIT 596.7 -348.0 944.7 875.8 -81.7 957.5 Investment result 401.3 270.9 130.4 100.9 -50.6 151.5 Financial result -95.8 -176.0 80.2 -380.4 -18.6 -361.8 EBT 902.2 -253.1 1,155.3 596.3 -150.9 747.2 Income tax 2.1 191.0 -188.9 -128.7 51.9 -180.6 Group net profit / loss 904.3 -62.1 966.4 467.6 -99.0 566.6 of which profit / loss shares attributable to non-controlling interests (170.1) (-9.5) (179.6) (133.4) (5.1) (128.3) of which profit / loss shares attributable to the shareholders of EnBW AG (734.2) (-52.6) (786.8) (334.2) (-104.1) (438.3) The increase in impairment losses was primarily attributable to 2019. The company was accounted for using the equity method impairment losses on power plants – due to the quicker phaseuntil this point in time. The increase in the financial result in out pathway for hard coal. The improvement in the non-operatcomparison to the previous year was the result of, amongst ing investment result was mainly due to the revaluation of the other things, the market valuation of securities. In contrast, the shares in EnBW Hohe See, which has been fully consolidated in development of the discount rate for nuclear provisions had a the EnBW consolidated financial statements since 1 October negative effect. 72 Management report › The EnBW Group Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Financial position monitored on a case-by-case basis within the framework of the currency management system. Details on the risk management Financial management system are presented in note 25 of the notes to the consolidated Basis and objectives financial statements at www.enbw.com/report2019-downloads. The purpose of our financial management system is to ensure that EnBW is able to meet its payment obligations at all times We continue to strive to maintain a balanced financing strucwithout restriction. In order to minimise risk, optimise costs ture, solid balance sheet ratios and solid investment-grade ratand increase transparency, financial transactions are managed ings (Glossary, from p. 139). within the Group finance department as far as possible. The ongoing strategic development of our company is designed In the operating business, derivatives (Glossary, from p. 139) are to continuously increase the operating result (adjusted EBITDA). generally deployed for hedging purposes only: for example, for Our target value for adjusted EBITDA of €2.4 billion in 2020 has forward contracts for electricity and primary energy source been raised to €3.2 billion in 2025. To maintain a good credittrading. This also applies for foreign exchange and interest rate worthiness at the same time, we stick to a high level of financial derivatives. Proprietary trading is only permitted within narrow, discipline. clearly defined limits. Until the transformation of our portfolio has been completed Interest rate risk management involves the management and by the end of 2020, the internal financing capability serves as an monitoring of interest-sensitive assets and liabilities. The important performance indicator for the Group. It describes the included companies regularly report on the existing risk pos­ adjusted retained cash flow in relation to the adjusted net (cash) ition via the rolling liquidity planning. An interest rate risk investment and measures our company’s ability to finance its strategy is developed in an analysis conducted every quarter on activities internally. In the growth phase post 2020, internal an aggregated basis. The purpose is to limit the impact of fluctu­ financing capability will be replaced by the debt repayment ations in interest rates and interest rate risks on the results of potential – the ratio of the retained cash flow to net debt. This operations and net assets. performance indicator is oriented to the relevant key ratios used by the rating agencies and should allow controlled growth. The interest rates on financial liabilities are predominantly fixed. We use interest rate derivatives to keep the relationship Rating and rating trends between fixed and variable interest rates within predefined limWe aim to hold solid investment-grade ratings in order to: its in order to optimise interest income. The potential risk is determined on the basis of current interest rates and possible › ensure unrestricted access to capital markets changes in these interest rates. › offer reliable opportunities for financing partners › be regarded as a dependable business partner in our trading Generally, currency positions resulting from operations are activities closed by appropriate forward exchange contracts. Overall, cur› achieve the lowest possible capital costs rency fluctuations from operating activities do not have any › implement an appropriate number of investment projects major effect on our operating result. Foreign exchange risks are and thereby maintain the future viability of the company Development of credit ratings – rating / outlook 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Moody’s A3 / negative A3 / stable Baa1 / stable A3 / negative A3 / negative Standard & Poor’s A/ stable A/ stable A/ stable A/ negative A/ stable Fitch A/ stable A/ stable A/ stable A/ stable A/ stable In the middle of June 2019, Moody’s confirmed its A3 rating for rate environment is having a negative effect on the present EnBW but lowered the outlook to negative. In its rationale for value of the pension and nuclear provisions. In its regular the negative outlook, the rating agency pointed to the acquisiupdate, Standard & Poor’s (S&P) confirmed its EnBW rating of tions of Valeco and Plusnet. Moody’s believes that the two Awith a stable outlook at the end of July 2019. The EnBW rating acquisitions support the strategic development of our company, from Fitch remains unchanged at A/ stable. however they have come too early. In addition, the low interest Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Management report › The EnBW Group 73 Assessment by the rating agencies Moody’s (14 / 06 / 2019) Standard & Poor’s (26 / 07 / 2019) Fitch (28 / 09 / 2018) Leadership position as vertically integrated Increasing share of operating income from lowContinued evolution towards a more regulated and utility within Baden-Württemberg risk regulated activities and long-term contracted contracted business profile renewables Around 50% of EBITDA from low-risk regulated Well-diversified sources of cash flow High earnings visibility in grids and renewables distribution and transmission activities and partly offset by residual nuclear decommissioning growing share of renewables under contracts, as risk; payment of €4.8 bn for transferring EnBW continues to invest in line with its strategy responsibility for nuclear waste storage has substantially reduced these risk Historically balanced financial policy and Geographical diversification in the renewables Average forecast credit metrics are generally demonstrated commitment to maintaining a segment in Taiwan, the U.S. and France stronger than peers, with some exceptions with robust credit quality respect to funds from operations (FFO) fixed charge cover Evolving operating environment in Germany Difficult operating environment in Germany for If the share of regulated EBITDA exceeds 50% on a for conventional generation and challenging conventional power generation sustained basis, Fitch may apply a one-notch uplift environment in retail markets to the senior unsecured rating Certain execution risks relating to large investment Still significant exposure to volatile and programme commodity-driven wholesale power prices Anticipated erosion of financial flexibility following Debt increase following the integration of new acquisitions of VALECO and Plusnet in 2019 acquisitions, in line with the company's strategy Strong shareholder support Prudent financial policy Moderate likelihood of government support Financing strategy Documentation of short-term and long-term borrowings on the We manage the financing needs of our operating activities sepcapital markets under the established DIP and CP programme, arately from the Group’s pension and nuclear obligations. As as well as all other credit documentation with banks (e.g. syndipart of the financing strategy, we constantly assess capital marcated lines of credit) include internationally standardised ket trends with regard to the current interest rate environment clauses. The issuing of a negative pledge, as well as a pari passu and to any potentially favourable refinancing costs. On this clause (Glossary, from p. 139), to all creditors form essential key basis, we decide on further financing steps. elements of our financing policy. The use of undrawn credit lines is not subject to restrictions. Details on financial liabilities Alongside the internal financing capability and our own funds, are presented in note 22 and explanations on other financial we have the following financing instruments at our disposal to commitments are presented in note 26 of the notes to the concover the financing needs for the strategic development of the solidated financial statements at www.enbw.com/report2019-­ operating business: downloads. › Debt Issuance Programme (DIP) (Glossary, from p. 139), via The maturities of the EnBW bonds have been further diversified. which bonds are issued: €2.7 billion of €7.0 billion has been drawn › Hybrid bonds: €3.0 billion. In July, EnBW issued two green hybrid bonds with a volume of €500 million each. › Commercial paper (CP) programme (Glossary, from p. 139): €2.0 billion undrawn › Syndicated credit line: €1.5 billion undrawn with a term until 2021 › Bilateral free credit lines: €0.7 billion of €1.4 billion drawn › Project financing and low-interest loans from the European Investment Bank (EIB) 74 Management report › The EnBW Group Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW a starting coupon of 1.125% for the first time in a three month Maturity profile of EnBW bonds period before 5 November 2024 and it can then be redeemed in € million early at every coupon date. The bond with a starting coupon of 1.625% can be redeemed for the first time in a three month 2021 1,000 ¹ period before 5 August 2027. It can then be redeemed early at 2022 993 ² every coupon date. The bonds are junior to all other financial 2023 92 3 liabilities but have an equal ranking to our existing hybrid 2024 500 4 bonds. 2025 500 The green bonds contribute to selected sustainability goals of 2026 500 the United Nations (United Nations Sustainable Development 2027 500 4 Goals (SDGs)). The business activities and projects of EnBW 2033 500 focus, in particular, on the following four SDGs: SDG 7 (afford2034 100 able and clean energy), SDG 9 (industry, innovation and infra2038 170 ⁵ structure), SDG 11 (sustainable cities and communities) and SDG 13 (climate action). The green bonds also support our 2039 700 non-financial key performance indicators. Further information 2041 75 on our green bonds and the Impact Report can be found at 2044 50 www.enbw.com/green-bond. 2076 1,000 Asset liability management model 2077 993 ⁶ We ensure the timely coverage of the pension and nuclear obli2079 1,000 gations using our asset liability management model (Glossary, First call dates for hybrid bonds Senior bonds from p. 139). First call dates for green hybrid bonds Green bond Hybrid bonds Green hybrid bonds The aim is to cover the Group’s pension and nuclear provisions within an economically feasible period of time by means of 1 First call date: hybrid maturing in 2076. appropriate financial assets. We ensure this using our cash flow2 First call date: hybrid maturing in 2077; includes US$300 million (swap in €), based asset liability management model. For this purpose, we coupon before swap 5.125%. determine the effects on the cash flow statement, income state3 CHF 100 million, converted in € as of 31 / 12 / 2019. 4 First call date: hybrid maturing in 2079. ment and balance sheet over the next 30 years. Alongside the 5 JPY 20 billion (swap in €), coupon before swap 5.460%. anticipated return on financial assets, the actuarial reports on 6 Includes US$300 million, converted in € at rate on 05 / 10 / 2016. pension provisions and sector-specific appraisals by external experts on costs for nuclear decommissioning and disposal are Green bonds taken into account. The aim of this model is to limit the impact We issued our first two green hybrid bonds with a total volume of payments for the pension and nuclear obligations on the of €1 billion on 29 July 2019. EnBW was thus the first German operating business to €300 million a year (plus an inflation supissuer to launch a green hybrid bond. The rating agencies clasplement) by taking funds from the financial assets. sify half of the hybrid bonds as equity, which has a positive effect on the credit profile. If the provisions are fully covered by the financial assets, no further funds will be taken from the cash flow from operating In line with our strategy, we are increasingly investing in cliactivities as part of the model. mate-friendly growth projects. This was the reason why we executed a second green transaction after we had already issued This model also allows simulations of various alternative scen­ the first green bond (Glossary, from p. 139) with a volume of arios. As of 31 December 2019, the dedicated financial assets €500 million in October 2018. The proceeds from the green (Glossary, from p. 139) for pension and nuclear provisions hybrid bonds will be used for the expansion of offshore and totalled €6,328.7 million (previous year: €6,279.8 million). onshore wind power and photovoltaic projects. Alongside the dedicated financial assets, there are plan assets to cover certain pension obligations with a market value of €974.3 We were the first company to issue bonds according to the EU million as of 31 December 2019 (previous year: €987.8 million). Prospectus Regulation from 21 July 2019. The sustainability ­rating agency ISS ESG and the Climate Bonds Initiative (CBI) We strive to reach the defined investment targets with miniexamined and certified the two green hybrid bonds according mum risk. We also further optimised the risk / return profile of to sustainability criteria. the financial assets in 2019. The main part of the dedicated financial assets is distributed as investments across nine asset The two bonds each have a volume of €500 million and a term classes. The financial assets are bundled in two master funds of around 60 years. We have the right to redeem the bond with with the following investment targets: Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Management report › The EnBW Group 75 › Risk-optimised investments, with a performance in line with with a total volume of €1 billion and the first-time application market trends of the leasing standard IFRS 16 in the 2019 financial year. › Consideration of the effects on the balance sheet and income statement The decrease in the interest rate for pension provisions from › Broad diversification of the asset classes 1.8% to 1.1% and the interest rate for nuclear provisions from › Reduction of costs and simplification of administrative pro0.6% to 0.03% also resulted in an increase in net debt. cesses The coverage ratio (Glossary, from p. 139) describes the dedicated Net debt financial assets (Glossary, from p. 139) in relation to the net penAs of 31 December 2019, net debt increased significantly by sion and nuclear obligations. As of 31 December 2019, this ratio €3,265.8 million compared to the figure posted at the end of stood at 48.1%, which was around the same level as in the previ2018. This increase was due to the acquisition of the two com­pan­ ous year (51.8%). Within the scope of the ALM model (Glossary, ies Valeco and Plusnet as well as their subsidiaries. In addition, from p. 139), EnBW is still in a position to cover its future cash net debt increased due to the issuing of two green hybrid bonds outflows for pension and nuclear provisions without excessively burdening the cash flow from operating activities. Net debt in € million 31 / 12 / 2019 31 / 12 / 2018 Change in % Cash and cash equivalents available to the operating business -1,127.7 -1,954.0 -42.3 Current financial assets available to the operating business -139.7 -200.6 -30.4 Bonds 5,702.7 4,869.4 17.1 Liabilities to banks 2,021.7 1,482.8 36.3 Other financial liabilities 466.4 644.0 -27.6 Lease liabilities 699.6 0.0 – Valuation effects from interest-induced hedging transactions -85.4 -88.8 -3.8 Restatement of 50% of the nominal amount of the hybrid bonds 1 -1,496.3 -996.3 50.2 Other -19.7 -18.1 8.8 Net financial debt 6,021.6 3,738.4 61.1 Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 2 7,655.3 6,550.9 16.9 Provisions relating to nuclear power 5,864.6 5,848.2 0.3 Liabilities relating to nuclear power 0.0 63.3 -100.0 Receivables relating to nuclear obligations -360.4 -334.4 7.8 Net pension and nuclear obligations 13,159.5 12,128.0 8.5 Long-term securities and loans to cover the pension and nuclear obligations 3 -5,517.7 -4,864.4 13.4 Cash and cash equivalents to cover the pension and nuclear obligations -236.1 -295.4 -20.1 Current financial assets to cover the pension and nuclear obligations -299.4 -569.1 -47.4 Surplus cover from benefit entitlements -251.5 -208.8 20.5 Long-term securities to cover the pension and nuclear obligations directly associated with assets classified as held for sale 0.0 -298.9 -100.0 Other -24.0 -43.2 -44.4 Dedicated financial assets -6,328.7 -6,279.8 0.8 Net debt relating to pension and nuclear obligations 6,830.8 5,848.2 16.8 Net debt 12,852.4 9,586.6 34.1 1 The structural characteristics of our hybrid bonds meet the criteria for half of the hybrid bonds to be classified as equity, and half as debt, by the rating agencies Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s. 2 Less the market value of the plan assets (excluding the surplus cover from benefit entitlements) of €974.3 million (31 / 12 / 2018: €987.8 million). 3 Includes equity investments held as financial assets. 76 Management report › The EnBW Group Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Investment analysis Net cash investment in € million1, 2 2019 2018 Change in % Investments in growth projects 3 2,807.3 1,340.4 109.4 Investments in existing projects 507.9 446.0 13.9 Total investments 3,315.2 1,786.4 85.6 Divestitures 4 -471.3 -371.3 26.9 Participation models -74.2 51.9 – Disposals of long-term loans -0.7 -3.6 -80.6 Other disposals and subsidies -140.5 -163.4 -14.0 Total divestitures -686.7 -486.4 41.2 Net (cash) investment 2,628.5 1,300.0 102.2 1 The figures for the previous year have been restated. 2 Excluding investments held as financial assets. 3 Does not include cash and cash equivalents acquired with the acquisition of fully consolidated companies. These amounted to €77.8 million in the reporting period (previous year: €0.4 million). 4 Does not include cash and cash equivalents relinquished with the sale of fully consolidated companies. These amounted to €40.2 million in the reporting period (previous year: €61.5 million). Investment in the Renewable Energies segment of €1,552.6 milInvestment by segment 1 lion was considerably higher than the figure in the previous in % year (restated: €478.8 million). The main reasons for this were 3.0 1.4 the acquisition of Valeco and the construction of the EnBW Generation and Trading Other Hohe See and EnBW Albatros offshore wind farms. (2018: 9.4) (2018: 1.5) 11.7 Investment in the Generation and Trading segment fell signifiSales (2018: 8.1) cantly in 2019 in comparison to the previous year to €98.3 mil46.8 lion. In the previous year, investment stood at €168.0 million Renewable Energies (2018: 26.8) (restated) and was mainly attributable to the exploration and 37.1 production business of VNG and the modernisation of the comGrids bined gas heat and power plant in Stuttgart-Gaisburg. (2018: 54.2) Other investments in 2019 of €44.0 million were above the level in the previous year (restated: €27.7 million). 1 The figures for the previous year have been restated. Divestitures increased in comparison to the level in the previInvestment by the EnBW Group in 2019 was significantly higher ous year; this increase was primarily due to the sale of the than in the previous year. This increase is mainly due to the remaining shares in EWE, the sale of the shares in EMB Energie investments in Valeco and Plusnet in the second quarter of 2019. Mark Brandenburg and VNG Slovakia, and divestitures from Around 84.7% of overall gross investment was attributable to participation models. Shares were sold in the Buchholz III and growth projects; the proportion of investment in existing facilAalen-Waldhausen wind farms. ities stood at 15.3%. Investment obligations for the acquisition of intangible assets Investment in the Sales segment of €389.4 million was signifiand property, plant and equipment amounted to €1,213.8 milcantly higher than the level in the previous year (restated: lion as of 31 December 2019 (previous year: €1,142.7 million). €144.2 million) due to the acquisition of Plusnet. Commitments from corporate acquisitions totalled €535.5 million (previous year: €476.1 million). Investment in the Grids segment stood at €1,230.9 million, compared to €967.7 million (restated) in the previous year. It Investment decisions will take climate goals into account to a was primarily used for the expansion of the electricity grids in greater extent in the future. In this context, the investment both years. The increase in 2019 compared to the previous year guidelines were adapted in the 2018 financial year: For signifiis primarily attributable to the expansion of the transmission cant investment projects, their influence on the environmental grid by our Group subsidiaries TransnetBW and ONTRAS Gasand climate protection targets and figures – in the sense of the transport, the expansion and renovation of the distribution grid TCFD recommendations (Glossary, from p. 139) – will be illusand investment in the area of electromobility. trated in the future. This additional information will provide a basis for the approval by the investment committee of the Board of Management. Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Management report › The EnBW Group 77 Liquidity analysis Condensed cash flow statement in € million 2019 2018 Change in % Cash flow from operating activities 707.0 827.6 -14.6 Cash flow from investing activities -2,317.1 -895.8 – Cash flow from financing activities 551.9 -907.3 – Net change in cash and cash equivalents -1,058.2 -975.5 -8.5 Change in cash and cash equivalents due to changes in the consolidated companies 169.3 6.6 – Net foreign exchange difference 3.1 5.5 -43.6 Change in cash and cash equivalents due to risk provisions 0.2 0.2 0.0 Change in cash and cash equivalents -885.6 -963.2 8.1 The reduction in cash flow from operating activities in compari green hybrid bonds, a bond as part of the Debt Issuance Proson to the previous year was mainly caused by the increase in gramme (Glossary, from p. 139) and short-term loans. This was the net balance of assets and liabilities from operating activities offset to some extent by the repayment to the commercial as well as by higher income tax payments in comparison to the paper programme (Glossary, from p. 139) and repayments for previous year. short-term loans from the previous year. The outflow of cash in the previous year was mainly attributable to planned repayCash flow from investing activities returned a significantly ments on two bonds and the simultaneous issuing of the green higher outflow of cash in the reporting period compared to the bond (Glossary, from p. 139) as well as the utilisation of the previous year. This was due, in particular, to the acquisitions of commercial paper programme. Valeco and Plusnet and payments associated with the construction of the EnBW Hohe See offshore wind farm, which has since The solvency of the EnBW Group was ensured at all times been fully consolidated. throughout the 2019 financial year thanks to the company’s available liquidity and its internal financing capability, as well as Cash flow from financing activities returned a cash inflow in the external sources available for financing. The company’s future reporting period, which was mainly due to the issuing of two solvency is secured by its solid financial position (p. 72 ff.). . Retained cash flow in € million 2019 2018 Change in % EBITDA 2,245.2 2,089.6 7.4 Changes in provisions -416.0 -394.6 5.4 Non-cash-relevant expenses / income 46.3 -116.0 – Income tax paid -409.1 -270.7 51.1 Interest and dividends received 286.5 284.6 0.7 Interest paid for financing activities -214.9 -247.0 -13.0 Dedicated financial assets contribution 19.2 -34.0 – Funds from operations (FFO) 1,557.2 1,311.9 18.7 Dividends paid -316.5 -312.8 1.2 Retained cash flow 1,240.7 999.1 24.2 Funds from operations (FFO) increased compared to the previous tax payments in the reporting period. The increased FFO led to an year, which was due primarily to an increase in the cash-relevant increase in the retained cash flow. The retained cash flow reflects EBITDA. A positive dedicated financial assets contribution and our internal financing capability after all stakeholder needs have lower interest payments in the reporting period also contributed been settled. It is available to the company for investment withto the increase. This was offset to some extent by higher income out the need to raise additional debt. 78 Management report › The EnBW Group Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Internal financing capability 1 2019 2018 Change in % Adjusted retained cash flow in € million 2 1,485.7 1,199.1 23.9 Adjusted net (cash) investment in € million 3 1,797.9 1,300.0 38.3 Internal financing capability in % 82.6 92.2 – 1 The figures for the previous year have been restated. 2 Adjusted for the effects from the reimbursement of the nuclear fuel rod tax of €245.0 million (previous year: €200.0 million). 3 Adjusted for accelerated growth investment of €830.6 million (previous year: €0.0 million). We have translated the retained cash flow into the adjusted We have adjusted the net (cash) investment to take account of retained cash flow, in order to take the adjustment due to the the accelerated growth investment in Valeco and Plusnet, which reimbursement of the nuclear fuel rod tax (Glossary, from will contribute to the EnBW 2025 growth strategy. p. 139) into account. This resulted in an increase of €685.0 million in the period from 2018 to 2020 (nuclear fuel rod tax As there was a sharp rise in adjusted net investment compared adjusted for debt repayment). The remaining amount will be to the previous year in combination with a less sharp increase distributed on a straight-line basis in 2019 and 2020. The reimin the adjusted retained cash flow, the internal financing cap­ bursement of the nuclear fuel rod tax of €1,520.8 million in the ability fell. Although the adjusted retained cash flow exceeded 2017 financial year was used by EnBW for the debt repayment in the forecasted range of €1.3 billion to €1.4 billion in the report2018 of €835.8 million and for investments of €200.0 million, as ing period, we just missed the target for internal financing cap­ well as for investments of €245.0 million in 2019. ability of ≥ 85% in 2019. Net assets Condensed balance sheet in € million 31 / 12 / 2019 31 / 12 / 2018 Change in % Non-current assets 31,622.5 26,746.0 18.2 of which intangible assets (3,347.4) (1,748.7) 91.4 of which property, plant and equipment (18,552.7) (15,867.5) 16.9 of which entities accounted for using the equity method (1,064.0) (1,600.2) -33.5 of which other financial assets (6,356.9) (5,426.5) 17.1 of which deferred taxes (1,214.0) (1,059.3) 14.6 Current assets 11,664.7 12,520.7 -6.8 Assets held for sale 0.9 342.3 -99.7 Assets 43,288.1 39,609.0 9.3 Equity 7,445.1 6,273.3 18.7 Non-current liabilities 24,739.7 22,036.9 12.3 of which provisions (14,333.1) (13,246.0) 8.2 of which deferred taxes (890.0) (774.8) 14.9 of which financial liabilities (7,360.7) (6,341.4) 16.1 Current liabilities 11,103.3 11,277.6 -1.5 of which provisions (1,535.9) (1,549.9) -0.9 of which financial liabilities (830.2) (654.8) 26.8 Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale 0.0 21.2 -100.0 Equity and liabilities 43,288.1 39,609.0 9.3 As of 31 December 2019, the total assets were higher than the and equipment increased due to the first-time application of level at the end of the previous year. Non-current assets the leasing standard IFRS 16 in the 2019 financial year. The increased by €4,876.5 million. The main reasons for this were increase in financial assets was due to the securities. The the full consolidation of EnBW Hohe See and the first-time condecrease for entities accounted for using the equity method was solidation of Valeco and Plusnet. In addition, property, plant primarily caused by the full consolidation of EnBW Hohe See Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Management report › The EnBW Group 79 since October 2019. Current assets fell by €856.0 million; this two green hybrid bonds with a total volume of €1 billion, while was mainly attributable to the payment of the purchase prices on the other hand, there was an increase in other liabilities and for Valeco and Plusnet. Lower trade receivables due to volume subsidies because of the first-time application of IFRS 16 in the and price effects and a decrease in the current financial assets 2019 financial year. The decrease in liabilities directly associated in the area of securities were more than compensated for by the with assets held for sale was the result of the sale of shares in change in derivatives (Glossary, from p. 139). The decrease in Stuttgart Netze Betrieb. assets held for sale was primarily the result of EWE-Verband exercising its right to buy the 6% of the shares in EWE that were Other financial indicators previously held by EnBW. The contractually agreed sale of shares in Stuttgart Netze Betrieb, which resulted in a loss of control of #TOP ROCE and value added the company, also had an effect. The cost of capital before tax represents the minimum return on average capital employed (calculated on the basis of the The equity increased by €1,171.8 million as of the reporting date respective quarterly figures for the reporting year and the yearof 31 December 2019. The main reasons for this development end figure for the previous year). Positive value is added when were the increase in non-controlling interests due to the firstthe return on capital employed (ROCE) exceeds the cost of captime full consolidation of EnBW Hohe See and an increase in ital. The cost of capital is determined based on the weighted revenue reserves. This was offset by the increase in losses in average cost of equity and debt together. The value of equity is other comprehensive income, which was mainly caused by the based here on a market valuation and thus deviates from the fall in the discount rate for the pension provisions from 1.8% at value recognised in the balance sheet. The cost of equity is the end of 2018 to 1.1% as of the reporting date. The equity ratio based on the return of a risk-free investment and a com­panyincreased from 15.8% at the end of 2018 to 17.2% on the reportspecific risk premium. The latter is calculated as the difference ing date. Non-current liabilities increased by €2,702.8 million. between a risk-free investment and the return for the overall This was attributable, on the one hand, to the increase in the market, weighted with a company-specific business field risk. pension provisions because of the fall in the discount rate as The terms according to which the EnBW Group can raise longwell as the increase in financial liabilities due to the issuing of term debt are used to determine the cost of debt. Value added for 2019 by segment Sales Grids Renewable Generation and Other / Total Energies Trading Consolidation Adjusted EBIT including the adjusted investment result1 in € million 174.0 839.7 267.1 -178.0 -91.2 1,011.6 Average capital employed in € million 1,308.8 8,033.3 4,840.6 2,044.0 3,088.4 19,315.1 ROCE in % 13.3 10.5 5.5 -8.7 – 5.2 Weighted average cost of capital before tax in % 7.6 4.2 5.3 7.8 – 5.2 Value added in € million 74.6 506.1 9.7 -337.3 – 0.0 1 Investment result of €47.2 million, adjusted for taxes (investment result / 0.706 investment result; with 0.706 = 1 tax rate 29.4%). Does not include impairment losses and reversals to impairment losses on investments, the result from the sale of equity investments, the share of the result from entities accounted for using the equity method not relevant to the ongoing management of the company and the result from equity investments held as financial assets. Value added for 2018 by segment1 Sales Grids Renewable Generation and Other / Total Energies Trading Consolidation Adjusted EBIT including the adjusted investment result 2 in € million 218.0 768.4 123.7 -21.9 -46.6 1,041.6 Average capital employed in € million 1,067.1 7,019.8 3,667.4 2,109.0 2,190.0 16,053.3 ROCE in % 20.4 10.9 3.4 -1.0 – 6.5 Weighted average cost of capital before tax in % 7.7 5.3 6.1 8.0 – 6.3 Value added in € million 135.5 393.1 -99.0 -189.8 – 32.1 1 The figures for the previous year have been restated. 2 Investment result of €59.4 million, adjusted for taxes (investment result / 0.706 investment result; with 0.706 = 1 tax rate 29.4%). Does not include impairment losses and reversals to impairment losses on investments, the result from the sale of equity investments, the share of the result from entities accounted for using the equity method not relevant to the ongoing management of the company and the result from equity investments held as financial assets. 80 Management report › The EnBW Group Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW There are various factors that influence value added. The level of ROCE and value added depend not only on the development of EBT relevant to remuneration the operating result but above all on the capital employed. in € million 2019 2018 Large-scale investments tend to significantly increase the cap­ EBT 902.2 596.3 ital employed in the early years, while the effect on income that boosts value, however, only filters through over a lengthier Less outstanding items for derivatives allocated under trading within EBITDA 2.7 -4.1 period of time, often long after the investments were initially Less the measurement of financial made. This is especially true of capital expenditure on property, assets and outstanding items for plant and equipment relating to the construction of new power derivatives allocated under trading plants, which do not have any positive effect on the operating within the financial result -323.7 38.8 result of the Group until after they are commissioned. Capital Less changes to the inflation rate and expenditure on power plants, on the other hand, is already discount rate for nuclear provisions 475.3 133.3 taken into account in the capital employed during the construcEBT relevant to remuneration tion phase. In a comparison of individual years, the developaccording to the new regulations 1 1,056.5 764.3 ment of ROCE and value added is, to a certain extent, cyclical in 1 The EBT relevant to remuneration was above the forecast of €850 million to nature, depending on the investment volume. This effect is €950 million due primarily to the revaluation of the shares in EnBW Hohe See. therefore inherent in the system and results in lower ROCE in phases of strong growth or phases of investment. Funds from operations (FFO) relevant to remuneration In the 2019 financial year, value added fell in comparison to the in € million 2019 2018 previous year by €32.1 million to €0.0 million. The adjusted EBIT Funds from operations (FFO) 1,557.2 1,311.9 including the adjusted investment result fell, while the average Less income tax paid 409.1 270.7 capital employed rose. The risk-adjusted weighted average cost of capital was below the level in the previous year at 5.2%. The Funds from operations (FFO) relevant to remuneration 1,966.3 1,582.6 ROCE of 5.2% was below our forecasted range for the 2019 financial year (forecast 2019: 6.0% to 7.0%). Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment (net) Sales: Value added in the Sales segment decreased in 2019 by relevant to remuneration €60.9 million. This was attributable to the increase in the average capital employed, which was primarily due to the first-time in € million 2019 2018 consolidation of Plusnet on 30 June 2019. In addition, the lower Intangible assets 3,347.4 1,748.7 adjusted EBIT including the adjusted investment result contribProperty, plant and equipment 18,552.7 15,867.5 uted to the fall in value added. Investment properties 30.3 31.6 Grids: Value added in the Grids segment increased by €113.0 Investment cost subsidies -6.7 -7.7 million in comparison to 2018. Both the adjusted EBIT including Construction cost subsidies -901.6 -876.8 the adjusted investment result and also the capital employed Intangible assets and property, plant were above the figures in the previous year. The increase in capand equipment (net) 21,022.1 16,763.3 ital employed was primarily attributable to the investment in Average intangible assets and property, the transmission and distribution grids and also the first-time plant and equipment (net) 1 18,327.1 16,371.6 application of the leasing standard IFRS 16. 1 Average calculation based on the relevant quarterly values for the reporting year and the year-end value for the previous year. Renewable Energies: Value added in the Renewable Energies segment of €9.7 million was higher than the value in the previous year. The adjusted EBIT including the adjusted investment ROA (return on assets) relevant to remuneration result increased to €267.1 million. The capital base grew due to in € million 2019 2018 the construction of the EnBW Hohe See offshore wind farm and its revaluation as part of its full consolidation, as well as due to EBIT 596.7 875.8 the acquisition of Valeco. Less outstanding items for derivatives allocated under trading within EBITDA 2.7 -4.1 Generation and Trading: Value added in the Generation and EBIT relevant to remuneration 599.4 871.7 Trading segment of €-337.3 million was below the level in 2018. Less changes to the inflation rate and This was caused by the decrease in adjusted EBIT including the discount rate for nuclear provisions 297.8 – adjusted investment result. The average capital employed in the EBIT relevant to remuneration reporting year remained at approximately the same level as in according to the new regulations 897.2 871.7 the previous year. Average intangible assets and property, plant and equipment (net) 18,327.1 16,371.6 Performance indicators relevant to remuneration ROA (return on assets) relevant to The performance indicators relevant to remuneration are derived remuneration in % 4.9 5.3 as follows. The remuneration of the members of the Board of Management is described in full in the remuneration report (p. 110 ff.). Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Management report › The EnBW Group 81 Customers and society goal An important step in this direction was the introduction of the dimension new IT and process landscape for sales called EnPower. After it was introduced at Yello in the previous year, the EnBW brand also switched over to the new system in the middle of July 2019. Reputation On the one hand, EnPower facilitates better interaction between customers and the brands, while on the other hand, it lays the A strong reputation is an important factor for the sustainable foundations for the digitalisation, automation and streamlining success of a company. The good social reputation of a company of settlement processes for the supply of electricity. reflects the trust placed by the general public and relevant stakeholders in the competent and responsible actions of a company. In parallel to the introduction of EnPower, the website www.enbw.com was also updated and given an even more We assume our responsibilities for the economy and society and ­customer-oriented design. The focus was placed on creating a aspire to be a driver of the Energiewende. In the process, we want user-friendly interface, ensuring clear navigation and pro­ to gain social acceptance and improve our reputation. A good viding information that is particularly relevant to customers. reputation signals the willingness of society and its different stakeholder groups to cooperate with and invest in the company. #TOP Customer Satisfaction Index The energy sector is helping to push forward major social We aim to continuously improve our reputation. The focal point changes. The new energy world offers us great opportunities of this concept is the stakeholder team, which was set up on the that we want to exploit and the main point of focus is our cusinitiative of the Board of Management in 2017. It consists of tomers. We strive to maintain long-term customer relation­representatives from all important areas of the company. The ships by offering networked products and new product com­ stakeholder team communicates and maintains dialogue with binations, continuous open communication and the best relevant stakeholder groups both directly and indirectly. possible quality of service. Customer loyalty is based on high customer satisfaction, which is measured in accordance with #TOP Reputation Index the requirements of the EnBW Group standard for market Reputation is measured by means of the key performance indiresearch and surveys. The Customer Satisfaction Indices for cator Reputation Index using a standardised survey that is carEnBW and Yello are compiled from customer surveys carried out ried out by an external market research institute. It is measured by an external provider (p. 45). in accordance with the requirements of the EnBW Group standard for market research and surveys (p. 45). Key performance indicator 2019 2018 Change Forecast Key performance indicator in % 2019 2019 2018 Change Forecast Customer Satisfaction 114–141 / in % 2019 Index for EnBW / Yello 116 / 157 120 / 152 -3.3 / 3.3 148–159 Reputation Index 52.8 51.3 2.9 54.1 The satisfaction of the customers of EnBW fell slightly in 2019 Our Reputation Index increased to 52.8 index points in the but still reached a good level at 116 points – and was thus also reporting year. The most positive changes in comparison to the within our forecasted range for 2019 of 114 to 141 points. A good previous year were in the B2C target group – customers and the level is reached when half of those surveyed indicate that overall wider public. The EnBW image campaign in autumn 2019 was they are particularly satisfied with EnBW. This is the case from another positive development that strengthened above all the 114 points upwards. A very good level of satisfaction is achieved aspect of sympathy. However, we were unable to achieve the tarfrom 136 points upwards. A possible cause for the slight get value for 2019 of 54.1 points. The values for comparable large decrease in the Customer Satisfaction Index for EnBW was, on companies, whose reputation index was below our value, did the one hand, a price adjustment applied at the turn of the year not improve as strongly as our reputation. In other words: We 2018 / 2019 for the majority of those customers surveyed, while were able to improve our relative position with respect to comon the other hand, the switch over to the new EnPower platform parable large companies. The reputation values for municipal had temporary effects on the service process and could also utilities and regional suppliers generally lie significantly higher have had an impact on customer satisfaction. than the values for EnBW and comparable large companies. More details on reputational risks can be found in the “Report The satisfaction of Yello customers remained at a high level (157) on opportunities and risks” on p. 103. in 2019 and was thus at the higher end of our forecast (148–159). In comparison to the previous year, the value increased from 152 to 157. We believe that this high value could, amongst other Customer proximity things, be due to the diverse range of products for the Yello Plus We aim to become a sustainable and innovative provider of infratariff and a larger proportion of kWhapp users. kWhapp is an structure. A sustainable contribution could be made, for example, energy check app that helps users check their consumption in the form of cooperative partnership models with local authorregu­larly and adjust their advance payments at an early stage in ities, municipal utilities and suppliers. Our company also has the event of any changes. great opportunities for generating additional revenue and for acquiring new customers using digital services and solutions. 82 Management report › The EnBW Group Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Selected activities EnBW Telekommunikation GmbH is responsible for the main telecommunications activities of EnBW AG. As of 1 April 2019, it Following the successful switchover of the system and process acquired around 55% of the shares in NetCom BW from Netze BW. landscape in 2018, Yello benefited from new functionalities that NetCom BW has a strong market position with a focus on increased its competitiveness in 2019. For example, products Baden-Württemberg. In order to expand our business in the teleand services can be brought to the market more quickly and communications market across Germany, we acquired the comcustomers can be addressed individually. In October 2019, the pany Plusnet on 30 June 2019. The company is active across the Digital Service Centre also went online. It is a central digital whole of Germany and has around 25,000 business customers. contact point for customers and other interested parties. It combines content, services, contact options and answers to The EnBW subsidiary Senec based in Leipzig is a specialist in ­frequently asked questions. equipping customers so that they are able to meet their own energy needs with solar electricity. According to a survey conWith the continuation of our corporate campaign, we are ducted by the market research company EuPD Research, the demonstrating – under the revised slogan of “We’re making E company was able to increase its market share on the German happen” – that electromobility is not just a future theme for the home electricity storage market from 9% to 14% in the first half company but has already been part of our everyday lives and of 2019. In the reporting year, Senec more than doubled its sales those of our customers for a long time. The campaign illustrates of electricity storage systems from 4,800 to 10,000 systems. this with facts and information on the services provided by EnBW in the area of e-mobility. The aim of the campaign is to Our contracting department offers solutions to customers improve our reputation and prominence as a leading provider from industry, the real estate sector and local authorities for of e-mobility solutions, as well as for being a company that is their on-site energy infrastructure. Depending on the custommaking the Energiewende happen. er’s requirements, it provides, for example, heating, steam, cooling or compressed air as well as electricity from combined heat A main focus of the activities in the goal dimension “Customer and power blocks based on long-term contracting agreements. proximity” in 2019 was electromobility. As a full-service proWe thus support our customers not only with modern energy vider together with our subsidiaries, our company covers the infrastructure but also in the achievement of their targets with complete spectrum of services for the development and expanrespect to supply reliability, energy and cost savings and CO2 sion of electromobility from the supply of electricity and the reductions. We can also help them make use of funding opporoperation of a comprehensive charging infrastructure (Glossary, tunities. These approaches were also used, for example, for from p. 139) through to digital services for the consumer. In parthree contracting projects that were concluded with local ticular, the main focus was placed in 2019 on the comprehenauthorities in 2019. sive expansion of quick-charging stations. We were the largest operator of quick-charging infrastructure in Germany at the Our company views itself as an experienced and powerful partend of 2019 with around 290 quick-charging stations and we ner for local authorities and public utilities. Via our concesplan to operate up to 1,000 quick-charging stations across sions in the electricity and gas sectors and numerous local the country by the end of 2020. In addition, we offer drivers of authority holding companies in which we are active as a shareelectric cars access to more than 35,000 charging points in holder, we have extensive and strong connections throughout Germany, Austria and Switzerland via the EnBW mobility+ app. Baden-Württemberg. Alongside electricity and gas, other areas Following the introduction of the purely kWh-based EnBW of cooperation in 2019 included the water and broadband netmobility+ tariff, customers can use the app to pay for the elecworks (Glossary, from p. 139), the development of district tricity used to charge their e-cars at these charging points very ­projects (Glossary, from p. 139), the integration of charging easily and transparently. Yello also introduced e-mobility serinfrastructure (Glossary, from p. 139) into local authority mobilvices in 2019. Anyone who is interested can, for example, rent a ity concepts and assisting local authorities with their digital selection of vehicle models and test them under everyday conagendas. ditions. In the yubee electromobility app, customers can use a driving simulator to find out whether an e-car would suit them In July 2019, we started a participation model for cities and at all and if so, which one would suit them best. ­communities in Baden-Württemberg called “EnBW connects”. Around 550 local authorities can acquire shares in Netze BW. In the SAFE project (core charging network for e-cars in Baden-­ The prerequisite for taking part is that Netze BW must be the Württemberg), which was funded by the State of Baden-Württemowner and also operator of the local electricity and / or gas disberg, 77 municipal utilities and suppliers as well as three local tribution grid in the local authority as of 1 July 2019. We aim to authorities worked together with us to develop a core charging further expand our role as a partner for cities and communities network (Glossary, from p. 139) in Baden-Württemberg. We coorin Baden-Württemberg using this model. dinated the project as the head of the consortium. Following the conclusion of the funded project at the end of September 2019, Baden-Württemberg now has a comprehensive charging and quick-charging network for electric vehicles. Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Management report › The EnBW Group 83 Supply reliability Employees goal dimension As an energy company and distribution grid operator, we are Employees are responsible for the business development of tasked with guaranteeing a reliable supply of electricity to our EnBW and shape the future of our company. Therefore, the key customers. The fact that the energy is increasingly being genertasks of HR are recruiting employees for the company, including ated decentrally is a real challenge for the supply of electricity. the promotion of young talent, encouraging loyalty to the comThis means that the electricity is being fed into our grid at many pany amongst employees and maintaining and fostering their different points. In addition, the feed-in of energy from renewmotivation, satisfaction and employability. As part of the EnBW able sources fluctuates because it is dependent on the weather 2020 strategy, we believe that the value drivers for our HR policy and other factors that are outside of our sphere of influence. We can be found in the following areas of focus: leadership, safehave set ourselves the goal of preparing our transmission grids guarding and promoting expertise, employment conditions so that they can handle this decentralised energy world. To this and structures, and health management. end, we are adding so-called smart grid technologies (Glossary, from p. 139) to the existing conventional infrastructure. This The further development of our corporate strategy in the period will enable us to better manage the generation, distribution and up to 2025 (p. 42 f.) will place new requirements on our HR polstorage of the energy. icy. In future, the strategic focus will be placed on growth, infrastructure, selective internationalisation and new business also Our grid companies are responsible for the safe and reliable operoutside of the energy sector. Using a revised HR strategy that is ation of the transmission grids. Processes are managed by these valid from 2020, we want to give the people at EnBW – and at companies at their grid control centres. These are also respon­ the same time our company – the opportunity for growth, sible for resolving any unplanned outages in the respective development, a future and thus success. region. As part of the investment and maintenance programmes, we maintain the grids and expand them according to demand. Employee commitment Depending on its volume, the investment must be approved by the Board of Management, along with the overall annual budget #TOP Employee Commitment Index (ECI) for the realisation of all investment and maintenance measures. The key performance indicator ECI is an important indicator for The measures are carried out over one or multiple years and are us as it reflects the degree to which employees identify with the realised independently by our grid companies. Some of the company. The annual measurement of this indicator enables us investment budget is used for the gradual expansion of smart to respond specifically to any negative trends at an early stage. grids. The increasing use of smart grid technology (Glossary, from The key performance indicator ECI is taken into account in the p. 139) enables us to avoid or delay expensive investment in conremuneration and corresponding target agreements for the ventional grids. Besides the reliability and security of supply, the Board of Management (p. 46). efficiency of the measures is also taken into account when making investment decisions. This is because grid investment Key performance indicator also has an influence on the grid charges that make up part of the electricity price paid by customers. 2019 2018 Change Forecast in % 2019 #TOP SAIDI Employee Commitment Index (ECI) 1 66 62 6.5 63 We record all unscheduled interruptions to supply at our distribution grid operators. This data flows into the “System Average 1 Variations in the group of consolidated companies (all companies with more than 100 employees are generally considered [except ITOs]). Interruption Duration Index” (SAIDI) for electricity. It states the average duration of supply interruptions per connected customer in minutes per year (p. 45). The fifth short survey for monitoring the ECI – MAB-Blitzlicht (Employee Flashlight) – was carried out between 16 September Key performance indicator and 4 October 2019. As in the previous year, the MAB-Blitzlicht survey comprised twelve questions and was carried out by tak2019 2018 Change Forecast ing a random representative sample by an external, indepenin % 2019 dent service provider. As in the full surveys, it collected informaSAIDI (electricity) tion on the level of commitment of the employees to the EnBW in min. / year 15 17 -11.8 15–20 Group and to their respective company. The already very high level of participation increased for the third year in a row to 74% A better value for SAIDI was achieved in 2019 in comparison to (2018: 73%). This demonstrates that the employee survey enjoys previous years and it thus stood encouragingly at the lower end a consistently high level of acceptance as a tool for providing of the forecasted range. This was due to the fact that all of our feedback. The ECI from MAB-Blitzlicht 2019 showed a clear grid subsidiaries were able to reduce the average length of the improvement to 66 points. The target set for 2019 was thus far interruptions to supply in 2019. exceeded. In general, commitment improved across all management and employee levels. According to an assessment carried out by our service provider, the ECI level achieved by our company is at a very high level in comparison to other companies in the sector. We believe that this positive development reflects the increasing level of trust in the future viability and competi84 Management report › The EnBW Group Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW tiveness of our company as well as our attractiveness as an tation. For example, language training courses have been employer overall. Both are decisive factors for retaining highoffered to a greater extent to ensure the successful integration performing employees and also for acquiring new talent. of many new employees with an international background. The Diversity Week 2019 was held in June with numerous campaigns and events also focussing on this complex theme. Selected activities in the HR areas of focus Leadership: As part of the “Next Level Leadership” initiative, SWD held a Diversity Day for the second time this year, this we offer employees with leadership roles the chance to take time on the theme of “Experience diversity”. The main focus on advantage of learning and development opportunities and prothis day was placed on the diversity of the workforce. The aim vide space for the concrete practical implementation of modern was to raise awareness for diversity and promote appreciative leadership approaches in an increasingly complex and digital cooperation without any prejudice. environment. In 2019, new teaching content was added into the syllabus for this programme that was launched back in 2018 Proportion of women in management positions at EnBW AG (including delegating responsibility to a team, leading myself, resilience). A total of more than 1,100 employees and managers in % 2019 2018 have used the different learning and development opportuniFirst level below the Board ties since the start of the programme (2019: 829 participants). of Management 0.0 0.0 Second level below the Board The new talent development programme “SP4RK for Pioneers”, of Management 17.2 15.1 which was launched in 2019, combines the development of leadership skills with the development of innovative business models. The Board of Management has set the goal for EnBW AG of furTalent from across the company work for several months in ther increasing the proportion of women at both management cross-functional teams on projects with a start-up character in levels below the Board of Management in the period from order to identify strategically relevant business models. At the 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2020. At both the first level (top same time, they learn methods for developing customer-centric management) and second level (upper management), the probusiness models and have the opportunity to develop importportion of women should increase to at least 20%. Despite a ant skills for the future in the context of modern leadership great deal of effort, these targets were not yet achieved in 2019. expertise. Another part of the HR policy is promoting young talent. Our A comprehensive cultural and transformation project was company employed 1,014 trainees and students from the Co­­ launched at ED at the beginning of 2019 to develop a common operative State University (DH) as of 31 December 2019. This leadership culture and common principles, as well as to represents an increase of 8.1% compared to the previous year. strengthen mutual trust. In numerous cross-hierarchical workThere are plans to take on 409 new trainees and DH students in shops, five leadership principles were developed that will be 2020. Our goal is to employ all of them after they have successimplemented across the whole ED Group and regularly evalufully completed their training. More than 80% of our trainees ated in the individual departments. and DH students receive the guarantee of a job. In addition, we employed 1,333 working students and interns in 2019, which was Safeguarding and promoting expertise: We believe that diver15.5% more than in 2018. sity acts as a lever for successfully implementing our strategy. Under the motto “Diversity generates success”, we rely on a The EnBW employer brand was developed further in 2019 in diverse workforce in terms of numerous different criteria such order to achieve a stronger position on the job market and difas gender, age, interculturality, sexual orientation and people ferentiate the company from the competition. Around 500 with disabilities, as well as sector backgrounds, different workemployees participated in the feedback campaign “Give our ing models and work organisation. Strengthening diversity in employer brand an image” in September 2019. The EnBW the composition of the workforce and the leadership team is an employer brand that was developed received a high level of important factor for success in many areas of the company. It acceptance at almost 90%. promotes innovative strength, internationalisation and customer orientation, and thus also the successful implementation We introduced the new online application management sysof our strategy. In recognition of this diversity, we took part in tem Avature in 2019. It simplifies the process overall for applithe Christopher Street Day in Stuttgart for the second time in cants and offers them various different options when making 2019 with our own float. To promote diversity, we have introan application, such as the automated scanning of a CV or addduced a process in which specific targets for particularly releing links to social networks. In addition, it will provide better vant diversity characteristics in various areas of the company support to our internal processes dealing with the recruitment have been agreed together with measures for their implemenof new employees. Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Management report › The EnBW Group 85 To recruit employees in growth fields, PRE is actively working Outlook for the HR strategy together with specialist schools and carried out a special recruitment campaign for IT specialists and electrical fitters in 2019. The revised HR strategy, which will be valid from 2020, supports Another main focus was placed on the promotion of young talthe company’s EnBW 2025 strategy (p. 42 f.). In defining the ent by offering, for example, internships and work placements future direction of our HR policy, we assume that routine tasks abroad. and standardised processes will gradually become less significant due to digitalisation. Human strengths such as creativity, Employment conditions and structures: The Employers Assoflexibility and curiosity will become more important in the ciation for Electricity Power Plants in Baden-Württemberg and workplace in future and employees will be called upon more the service trade union ver.di reached a collective bargaining strongly as idea generators and progressive thinkers. Our newly agreement with a term of 24 months on 28 February 2019 after designed HR policy will support employees in this process of intensive negotiations. In accordance with the agreement, change, for example by developing new forms and formats for remuneration was increased by 2.5% from 1 March 2019 and by cooperation and opportunities for further training and educaa further 1.9% from 1 November 2019. There will be another tion. In addition, we want to promote innovative thinking and increase of 1.9% from 1 July 2020. Monthly remuneration for action and strengthen networking opportunities. We will place trainees in all year groups increased or will increase on the same a particular emphasis on the potential offered by the internadates by €80.00, €50.00 and €50.00, respectively. At EnBW AG tionality and diversity of our employees. and companies that come under the scope of the FOKUS collective bargaining agreement, the increases for trainees are €77.12, The new HR strategy will focus on six key areas, which will be €48.20 and €48.20, respectively. underpinned by a total of 21 strategic areas: Health management: As part of occupational health and safety › HR processes, services & digitalisation management, we offer a variety of preventative medical services › Employer brand & recruiting for occupational safety and health protection at several sites. In › Leadership and skills 2019, the focus was placed on issues such as intestinal health. › Qualification@EnBW Health campaigns for the early detection of colorectal cancer › Internationalisation were run throughout the year. In the area of mental health, a › Transformation into a modern working world large range of preventative measures were also offered on the themes of stress, conflict situations and psychological disorders. EnBW has set itself the following goal for its HR policy: We want to make every employee at our company an enthusiastic archiAt PRE, the focus of health management is placed on primary tect of their own individual development – and thus pivotal prevention. This includes offering company sporting activities shapers of EnBW 2025. and holding sports events and is supplemented by a broad range of social measures. At VNG, there is a wide range of preOn the basis of this goal, a new future competence model for ventative services as part of occupational healthcare provision the area of leadership has been designed in cooperation with on the themes of heart, circulation, metabolism and musculothe Board of Management at EnBW, which will act as a common skeletal illnesses. Eye and hearing tests, as well as ECG and labostandard for all people in leadership roles at EnBW – irrespective ratory testing, are also available. of their precise role. The central focus will be placed on skills such as customer orientation, entrepreneurship, innovative The sickness ratio of 4.9% was slightly below the figure in the strength and team empowerment. The new future competence previous year of 5.1%. model will be consolidated by our entire leadership team in 2020 and operationalised in all relevant leadership processes. 86 Management report › The EnBW Group Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Other performance indicators Employees1 31 / 12 / 2019 31 / 12 / 2018 Change in % Sales 2 4,394 3.718 18.2 Grids 9,254 8,920 3.7 Renewable Energies 1,384 1,144 21.0 Generation and Trading 2 5,499 5.358 2.6 Other 2,762 2,635 4.8 Total 23,293 21,775 7.0 Number of full-time equivalents 3 21,843 20,379 7.2 1 Number of employees excluding apprentices / trainees and inactive employees. 2 The figures for the previous year have been restated. 3 Converted into full-time equivalents. As of 31 December 2019, our company had 23,293 employees, #TOP LTIF which was 7.0% more than at the end of 2018. This increase was The key performance indicator LTIF is used to measure the primarily due to acquisitions and taking on new employees in number of LTI according to the definition on p. 46. Every Group strategic growth fields. The number of employees in the Sales company included in the consolidated companies for the LTIF segment thus increased due to the first-time consolidation of receives an individual target from the Board of Management on Plusnet and Senec. In the Grids segment, the increase in the an annual basis – the fulfilment of this LTIF target flows into the number of employees was due to the growing importance of monetary assessments for the achievement of targets in each the regulated business. However, this expansion was offset to case. The companies can also set their own individual targets some extent by the sale of shares in Stuttgart Netze Betrieb, that go beyond those set by the Board of Management. which resulted in a loss of control of the company. In the Renewable Energies segment, the increase was mainly attributable to Key performance indicator the acquisition of Valeco. The increase in the number of employees in the Generation and Trading segment was attributable to 2019 2018 Change Forecast in % 2019 restructuring within the Group and an increase in employees in the area of recycling of residual nuclear material. Digitalisation LTIF for companies controlled by the and the transformation of the company led to an increase in the Group 1 2.1 2.3 -8.7 < 3.7 number of employees in the Other segment; this effect was offLTIF overall 2 3.8 3.6 5.6 – set to some extent by restructuring measures. The employee turnover ratio stood at 6.3% in 2019 and was thus 0.2 percentage 1 Variations in the group of consolidated companies (all companies with more than 100 employees are generally considered except for companies in the area points lower than the figure in the previous year. of waste management as well as external agency workers and contractors). 2 Variations in the group of consolidated companies (all companies with more than 100 employees are generally considered except for external agency Further performance indicators for employees, such as the workers and contractors). regional distribution or age structure of our employees, can be found on our website at www.enbw.com/performance-indicators. In 2019, the LTIF for companies controlled by the Group once We also refer you to the details provided in the “Report on again improved in comparison to the previous year. The average opportunities and risks” (p. 103). days of absence per accident at 19.0 fell in comparison to the previous year (22.2). We believe that the significant improvement in occupational safety at EnBW is the result of consistent Occupational safety and effective activities in the area of occupational safety and Our main goals in the area of occupational safety are to avoid health protection. The LTIF overall increased slightly in compari­ accidents and work-related illness and to create a safe working son to the previous year. This performance indicator includes environment. Responsibilities, roles and processes are defined subsidiaries in the area of waste management. However, the in the Group guidelines “Occupational safety and health protecnumber of accidents in this area are at a good level in comparition”, which also documents the EnBW guidelines for occupason to other companies in the sector. tional safety and health protection. The Occupational Safety Working Group (AK KAS) has the task of regulating issues that In the reporting year, there was a fatal accident in relation to affect all companies uniformly within the Group. AK KAS is loading work. headed by the Chief Technical Officer of EnBW and has the power to make binding decisions in accordance with the comThe measures for achieving targets are independently defined pany’s rules of procedure. by the Group companies. Various different activities focussing on occupational safety were carried out in 2019: Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Management report › The EnBW Group 87 We work continuously on minimising danger in the workplace, Environment goal dimension which could result in accidents or work-related illnesses, through training and a programme of measures. In the first half Our Group environmental targets – which are integrated into of 2019, the focus was placed on the successive roll-out of the the EnBW 2020 and EnBW 2025 Group strategies – are related to EHS software Quentic (formerly called EcoWebDesk, EWD) that the expansion of renewable energies and to making our contrihad already begun in 2018. Important elements of Quentic are bution to climate protection. These targets are measured using the documentation of risk assessments and hazardous subthe key performance indicators “installed output of renewable stance management. A uniform hazardous substance register is energies (RE) and the share of the generation capacity being gradually collated from various existing sources which accounted for by RE” and CO2 intensity (Glossary, from p. 139). have existed for years. The internal audit department carried Alongside EnBW AG, the main subsidiaries that have to deal out an audit on the topic of “Risk assessments of work activities with environmental issues include SWD and ED. In particular, (HSSE)” in the first half of 2019. The audit did not result in any both subsidiaries and EnBW AG have an environmental manobjections. In addition, two workshops for all occupational agement system certified according to DIN EN ISO 14001:2015. safety experts on the subject of “Talking about near accidents” This creates the prerequisites for ensuring that environmental were held in the reporting period. At Netze BW, a series of camrequirements are systematically and continuously taken into paigns to further improve the safety culture were carried out in account. It is used to manage the required guidelines and regu2019: lations, define and monitor environmental targets and establish the necessary testing processes. The consistent implementation › The management systems for occupational safety, environand further development of the environmental management mental protection and energy management were integrated system ensures that any material negative impacts on the en­­ further. vironment can be avoided as well as possible. Risks generally › The grid-wide roll-out of the Quentic database is currently exist in the area of environmental protection due to the operabeing realised. tion of power generation plants and transmission facilities and › A meeting of the safety officers to discuss the latest issues the possible consequences for air, water, soil and nature. We was held in December 2019. counter these risks using organisational and procedural › To support the theme of health protection, first aid courses measures to reduce their impact, as well as with emergency were offered to all employees. The target group was those planning and hazard prevention measures. employees who had not yet completed this type of course as part of their work activities. Expansion of Renewable Energies In the area of conventional and renewable generation, numerKey performance indicator ous events were held at the power plant sites in 2019. The 2019 2018 Change Forecast themes covered included simulator and safety training as well in % 2019 as fire-extinguishing exercises. At the nuclear power plants, Installed output of RE in more in-depth information was provided about best practice GW and the share of examples and reporting near accidents, and the exchange about the generation capacity 4.4–4.5 / experiences with partner companies was intensified in 2019. In accounted for by RE in % 4.4 / 31.8 3.7 / 27.9 18.9 / – 31–32 addition, the “100 days without accidents” campaign started in 2015 was continued. This is a good tool for motivating employ#TOP Installed output of renewable energies (RE) and the share ees to act safely. of the generation capacity accounted for by RE In the reporting year, the installed output of renewable energies The main focus at SWD was placed on the following activities: increased to 4.4 GW and was thus within the range of the forecast. This increase was primarily attributable to the commis› Building on the occupational safety and health protection sioning of our EnBW Hohe See offshore wind farm with an outprogramme 2015plus, a concept for the new programme put of 497 MW and the onshore wind farms and solar parks 2020plus was developed further. added through the acquisition of Valeco. We also constructed › A concept for dealing with near accidents was implemented 54 MW of output from photovoltaic power plants. Overall, the in the first pilot areas. share of the generation capacity accounted for by RE increased – › As part of the “RheinSchiene” project, a meeting of safety within the range of our forecast – to 31.8%. officers was held in Düsseldorf in cooperation with the Employer’s Liability Insurance Association for the Energy, Textile and Electronics Sectors (BG ETEM). We also refer you to the details provided in the “Report on opportunities and risks” (p. 104). 88 Management report › The EnBW Group Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Breakdown of the generation portfolio1 (as of 31 / 12) Own generation1 by primary energy source Electrical output2, 3 in MW 2019 2018 in GWh 2019 2018 Renewable Energies 4,398 3,738 Renewable Energies 9,988 8,414 Run-of-river power plants 1,006 1,006 Run-of-river power plants 5,342 4,846 Storage / pumped storage power Storage / pumped storage power plants using the natural flow of plants using the natural flow of water 3 1,507 1,507 water 959 1,030 Onshore wind 826 718 Onshore wind 1,522 996 Offshore wind 834 336 Offshore wind 1,806 1,233 Other renewable energies 225 171 Other renewable energies 359 309 Thermal power plants4 9,451 9,649 Thermal power plants 2 37,819 45,078 Brown coal 875 875 Brown coal 2,598 6,048 Hard coal 3,586 3,491 Hard coal 8,758 12,868 Gas 1,165 1,458 Gas 3,634 3,518 Other thermal power plants 347 347 Other thermal power plants 188 198 Pumped storage power plants that Pumped storage power plants that do not use the natural flow of water3 545 545 do not use the natural flow of water 1,608 1,790 Nuclear power plants 5 2,933 2,933 Nuclear power plants 21,033 20,656 Installed output 6 13,849 13,387 Own generation 47,807 53,492 of which renewable in % 31.8 27.9 of which renewable in % 20.9 15.7 of which low CO2 in % 7 12.3 15.0 of which low CO2 in % 3 11.0 9.9 1 The generation portfolio includes long-term procurement agreements and 1 Own electricity generation includes long-term procurement agreements and generation from partly owned power plants. partly owned power plants. 2 The figures for the previous year have been restated. 2 Including pumped storage power plants that do not use the natural flow of 3 Output values irrespective of marketing channel, for storage: generation water. capacity. 3 Excluding renewable energies; only gas power plants and storage power plants 4 Including pumped storage power plants that do not use the natural flow of that do not use the natural flow of water. water. 5 The output from Block 2 of the Philippsburg nuclear power plant is included in the generation portfolio in 2019 because it was not shut down until the evening of 31 / 12 / 2019. 6 In addition, power plants with an installed output of 1,706 MW were registered for decommissioning. However, they were classified as system-relevant by the Federal Network Agency and TransnetBW and are thus used by TransnetBW as reserve grid capacity. 7 Excluding renewable energies; only gas power plants and storage power plants that do not use the natural flow of water. Own generation fell in 2019 compared to the previous year to Climate protection 47.8 TWh. The main reason for this development was the lower deployment of our thermal power plants because of prices on Key performance indicator the market. In contrast, generation based on renewable energies 2019 2018 Change Forecast increased significantly, mainly due to the commissioning of our in % 2019 EnBW Hohe See offshore wind farm and the acquired wind turCO2 intensity bines in France and Sweden. In addition, the greater volumes of in g / kWh 419 553 -24.2 -10% to 0% electricity generated due to the better wind conditions and also at the run-of-river power plants due to higher water levels had a positive effect on this development. The proportion of own gen#TOP CO2 intensity eration from renewable energy sources thus increased in comThe CO2 intensity (Glossary, from p. 139) of own generation of parison to 2018 to more than 20%. electricity excluding nuclear power fell significantly in compari­ son to the previous year by 24.2% to 419 g / kWh and was thus appreciably below our forecasted range. This decrease was due, on the one hand, to higher generation from renewable sources in comparison to 2018 and, on the other hand, to the fact that our electricity generation from our fossil fuel-fired power plants fell much more sharply than forecast due to market-driven developments. Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Management report › The EnBW Group 89 Climate neutrality: 2019 was characterised by political and Energy consumption: Total final energy consumption includes social debate on climate change. In its Green Deal, the EU wants the consumption of final energy for our business activities. It to introduce comprehensive measures and legal obligations for does not include conversion losses during energy generation or becoming climate neutral by 2050. Therefore, we have closely grid losses. Total final energy consumption is mostly influenced examined the significance of sustainability and climate protecby pump energy as well as the company’s own consumption tion themes for the business model and aim to support the requirements and the operating consumption of the power international and national targets for climate neutral economic plants. Due to the lower level of own generation overall, the activities when developing our future measures and targets. total final energy consumption fell by around 10% in comparison to the previous year from 3,252 GWh to 2,919 GWh. Our subsidiary ED was one of the first integrated energy companies in Germany and Switzerland to become climate neutral The proportion of renewable energies in final energy consumpalready at the beginning of 2020. For this purpose, ED impletion increased from 51% in 2018 to 53% in 2019. This was primarmented a comprehensive range of measures over the last few ily due to an increase in electricity generation from renewable years, such as producing its own green electricity, increasing the energies with a correspondingly higher proportion of renewable energy efficiency of its buildings, reducing the CO2 emissions energies used for the company’s own consumption requirefrom its vehicle fleet and compensating for grid transmission ments and the operating consumption of the power plants. losses using green electricity. The energy consumption of our buildings covers the energy In addition to the key performance indicators in the area of the required for heating rooms, providing hot water and electricity. environment, we utilise a broad range of additional environThe energy consumption of buildings per employee decreased mental indicators for measuring, controlling and presenting the from 10,482 kWh in 2018 to 9,606 kWh in 2019. This decrease other results of our environmentally relevant activities. The was the result of a diverse range of measures for increasing the most important performance indicators are presented in the energy efficiency of our buildings. following table on p. 90. A comprehensive presentation of our environmental performance indicators can be found on the Environmental protection expenditure: We report environInternet at www.enbw.com/umweltschutz. There is also informamental protection expenditure in line with the requirements of tion available here on our wide-ranging measures to improve the statistical offices and using the guidelines published by our energy efficiency, conserve biological diversity and protect sector association, BDEW. According to these reporting requirenature and species, such as our EnBW amphibian protection ments, investments and current expenditure for the use of programme, or on ecological enhancement measures in the renewable energies should be reported in full as expenditure for area of our hydroelectric power plants. In addition, further climate protection. Investment in climate protection increased information in conformity with the Global Reporting Initiative at an above-average rate from €535 million in the previous year (GRI standards) can be found on the Internet. to €1,535 million in 2019. The reasons for this development were the investments associated with the construction of the EnBW Carbon footprint: Direct CO2 emissions are determined mainly Hohe See and EnBW Albatros offshore wind farms and the by the deployment of power plants. In particular, the sharp acquisition of the project developer and operator of wind farms decrease in electricity generation from coal in combination and solar parks Valeco, which are included as expenses for cliwith a significant increase in electricity generation from renewmate protection in accordance with the reporting requirements. able sources led to a corresponding reduction in direct CO2 The increase in current environmental protection expenses to emissions from 16.6 to 10.8 million t CO2eq. Lower indirect CO2 €301 million (previous year: €268 million) was mainly attributemissions from grid losses led to a fall in Scope 2 CO2 emissions able to higher expenditure in the area of renewable energies. from 1.0 to 0.9 million t CO2eq. Scope 3 CO2 emissions are mainly influenced by the gas consumption of our customers. Mobility: Alongside the expansion of the public charging infraThe moderate increase in gas sales led to a corresponding rise in structure (Glossary, from p. 139) (p. 82), we are also continuously Scope 3 emissions from 16.8 to 17.6 million t CO2eq. The figure expanding the charging options for electric cars at our sites for our for the previous year was restated due to a reclassification employees. A total of around 580 charging points were thus within the Generation and Trading segment. Primarily as a installed at 65 sites across Germany in 2019. By expanding the result of the increased generation from renewable energy charging infrastructure at our sites, we want to make it easier for sources, CO2 emissions avoided rose from 6.9 to 8.3 million t our employees to switch over to electromobility and thus also push CO2eq. forward the mobility transition internally within the company. 90 Management report › The EnBW Group Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Environmental performance indicators Unit 2019 2018 Carbon footprint Direct CO2 emissions (Scope 1) 1 millions of t CO2eq 10.8 16.6 Indirect CO2 emissions (Scope 2) 2 millions of t CO2eq 0.9 1.0 Other indirect CO2 emissions (Scope 3) 3, 4 millions of t CO2eq 17.6 16.8 CO2 emissions avoided 5 millions of t CO2eq 8.3 6.9 CO2 intensity of business journeys and travel 6 g CO2 / km 169 181 Energy consumption Total final energy consumption 7 GWh 2,919 3,252 Proportion of renewable energies in final energy consumption 3, 8 % 53 51 Energy consumption of buildings per employee 9 kWh / MA 9,606 10,482 Environmental protection expenditure 10 Investment in environmental protection € million 1,535 535 Current environmental protection expenses € million 301 268 1 Preliminary data. 2 Includes greenhouse gas emissions through electricity grid losses and through electricity consumption of plants in the gas and electricity grid, water supplies and buildings. 3 The figures for the previous year have been restated. 4 Includes greenhouse gas emissions through consumption of purchased electricity volumes by customers, consumption of gas by customers, fuel provision, supply chains for gas sales and business travel. 5 Includes CO2 emissions avoided through the expansion of renewable energies, through energy efficiency projects with customers / partners and through the generation and sale of biogas. 6 Includes all business travel activities (Scope 1 and Scope 3). 7 Includes final energy consumption of production including pump energy, energy consumption of grid facilities (electricity, gas and water) excluding grid losses, energy consumption of buildings and vehicles. 8 For electricity consumption for which the proportion of renewable energies is unknown, a proportion of renewable energies in accordance with the current Bundesmix (federal mix) label for electricity of 35% is assumed. For fuels, a proportion of 5% bioethanol is generally assumed. 9 Calculated partially on the basis of assumptions and estimations. 10 Pursuant to the German Environmental Statistics Act (UStatG) and BDEW guidelines on the recognition of investment and ongoing expenditure relating to environmental protection (April 2007). Selected activities Conservation of biological diversity: We initiated the programme “Stimuli for Diversity” for the protection of amphibian Hydropower: Electricity generated from hydropower protects species together with LUBW (Baden-Württemberg State Instithe climate. At the same time, the use of hydropower also tute for the Environment) in 2011, which has also included fundencroaches on nature. Therefore, we are committed to harmoning for protective measures for reptiles since 2016. The proising hydropower with ecology. If power plants cause changes to gramme is part of the project “The economy and business for the natural landscape, we compensate for these effects through nature”, which is a component of the state initiative “Active for ecological enhancement measures. For example, we ensure or biological diversity”. It still remains the only conservation proimprove the continuity of watercourses by constructing or optigramme from a company nationwide that not only funds the mising fish passes and fish ladders for fish to ascend or descend protection of one single species but two whole groups of species the river. We are constantly working on new, innovative soluacross the state. In the reporting year, nine further projects were tions for ensuring that fish can ascend rivers and for protecting realised. More than 110 measures have been implemented in the fish. This can be seen, for example, in our project to enable total across Baden-Württemberg since the start of the funding fish to migrate along the River Murg at the sites in Kirschbaumprogramme, which have successfully improved the living conwasen and Forbach (low-pressure power plant). As the local conditions for many endangered species in the state. ditions do not allow the use of traditional solutions for fish to ascend or descend the river, a new type of fish lift is being used. EnBW Ostwürttemberg DonauRies has planted a total of 10,600 This makes a valuable contribution to achieving the targets in native deciduous and conifer trees in Ostwürttemberg and the the EU Water Framework Directive for the River Murg, which is DonauRies region in the last three years. It works together with classified as a salmon programme waterway. By constructing eight local authorities and the Association for the Protection of additional weir turbines at the sites of the fish lifts, we ensure a German Forests (SDW) on this initiative, which makes a contricontinuous supply of residual and weir water while generating bution to biodiversity and regional climate protection. climate-friendly energy at the same time. We also refer you to the details provided in the “Report on opportunities and risks” (p. 104). Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Management report › EnBW AG 91 EnBW AG The financial statements of EnBW AG have been prepared in For statements that are necessary to understand the position of accordance with the regulations in the German Commercial EnBW AG and which are not explicitly described in the following Code (HGB), the German Stock Corporation Act (AktG) and the sections, especially those relating to the strategy of the comlaw governing the electricity and gas industries in Germany pany and economic and political conditions, please refer to the (German Energy Industry Act – EnWG). The regulations for large information provided for the EnBW Group (p. 41 ff. and 62 ff.). corporations apply. The full financial statements of EnBW AG are available for download at (www.enbw.com/report2019-downloads). The financial statements as audited by the Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, as well as the management report The annual net profit which indicates the company’s ability to of EnBW AG contained in the Group management report, will be pay a dividend is an important performance indicator for published in the German Federal Gazette (Bundesanzeiger). EnBW AG. Results of operations of EnBW AG Condensed income statement of EnBW AG in € million1 2019 2018 Change in % Revenue 38,220.6 24,883.1 53.6 Cost of materials -37,385.9 -24,364.2 -53.5 Amortisation and depreciation -569.3 -458.1 -24.3 Other operating result -39.6 -502.6 92.1 Earnings before interest and taxes 225.8 -441.8 – Financial result -29.3 -73.0 59.9 Tax 84.1 -285.9 – Annual net profit / loss 280.6 -800.7 – 1 In accordance with German commercial law. EnBW AG reported an annual net profit of €280.6 million. The As a result of the further expansion in trading activities in 2019, substantial increase in comparison to the previous year was the trading business recorded an increase in revenue of mainly influenced by €667.6 million higher earnings before €13,630.5 million to €35,415.2 million. In the gas trading busiinterest and taxes and the increase in the tax result of €370.0 ness, the increase in trading volume more than offset lower million. market prices. In the electricity trading business, the higher trading volume was also positively influenced by increasing The operating result of EnBW AG is primarily determined by the prices on the energy markets. The increase in revenue was also revenues generated from electricity and gas sales, as well as by offset by the increase in the cost of materials of €13,515.3 million the associated cost of materials. to €34,727.2 million. In the earnings before interest and taxes, the increase in rev­ Revenues from sales activities were split into €1,668.6 million enue of €13,337.5 million was offset by an increase in the cost of for electricity and €200.6 million for gas, which represented an materials of €13,021.7 million. overall drop of €35.8 million. The revenue (after the deduction of electricity and energy taxes) In the retail and end customer sector (B2C), electricity sales of €38,220.6 million primarily includes revenue from electricity of 6.9 billion kWh were at the same level as in the previous year. sales of €17,345.5 million and gas sales of €19,592.5 million. Gas sales increased in the same period by 0.2 billion kWh to ­Electricity and gas sales comprise both the trading business, 4.1 billion kWh due to the growing contract portfolio and were involving deliveries to trading partners and stock exchanges, thus higher than the previous year. The increase in energy secand sales activities in the form of the direct delivery of energy tor costs was passed on to customers in both business segments, to end c­ ustomers. which resulted in higher revenues. 92 Management report › EnBW AG Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW The sales to business customers (B2B) includes supplying cusThis was offset primarily by lower income from reversals of tomers within the Group and redistributing and holding reserve impairment losses of €189.7 million and lower income from the supplies for B2B customers. Sales in the B2B electricity business reversals of provisions of €153.9 million in comparison to the fell by 0.3 billion kWh to 0.5 billion kWh due primarily to the previous year. decrease in sales to redistribution customers. Gas sales to business customers fell in the same period by 0.1 billion kWh to 0.2 The positive development of the financial result was mainly billion kWh, which was mainly due to lower demand from cusinfluenced by lower impairment losses on financial assets of tomers within the Group. €13.2 million, the fall in the interest expenses for nuclear provisions of €44.7 million, a fall in the interest expenses for affiliated The cost of materials includes costs for electricity procurement of entities of €60.7 million and the accrual of tax provisions of €15,986.9 million and costs for gas procurement of €19,607.7 million. €24.0 million. This was offset to some extent by the decrease of €109.9 million in investment income. Alongside scheduled amortisation and depreciation, the amort­ isation and depreciation item includes impairment losses of There was a positive tax result in the financial year of €84.1 million. €236.5 million. The taxes mainly comprise the reversal of provisions for tax audit risks of €107.0 million. In the previous year, there was an allocation The significant improvement in the other operating result was to the provisions for tax audit risks of €133.8 million and lower primarily attributable to higher income from the disposal of out-of-period tax expenses of €159.0 million. The option of recassets of €848.2 million in comparison to the previous year. ognising a surplus of deferred tax assets was not exercised. Net assets of EnBW AG Balance sheet of EnBW AG in € million1 31 / 12 / 2019 31 / 12 / 2018 Change in % Assets Non-current assets Intangible assets 519.6 635.4 -18.2 Property, plant and equipment 933.7 1,248.4 -25.2 Financial assets 22,125.6 20,130.5 9.9 23,578.9 22,014.3 7.1 Current assets Inventories 494.5 446.7 10.7 Receivables and other assets 2,530.5 3,336.4 -24.2 Securities 45.8 119.2 -61.6 Cash and cash equivalents 169.5 628.1 -73.0 3,240.3 4,530.4 -28.5 Prepaid expenses 366.5 1,226.3 -70.1 Surplus from offsetting 315.8 268.1 17.8 27,501.5 28,039.1 -1.9 Equity and liabilities Equity Subscribed capital 708.1 708.1 – Treasury shares -14.7 -14.7 – Issued capital (693.4) (693.4) – Capital reserve 776.0 776.0 – Revenue reserves 1,872.5 1,872.5 – Retained earnings 383.6 279.1 37.4 3,725.5 3,621.0 2.9 Extraordinary items for investment cost subsidies and grants 23.4 24.0 -2.5 Provisions 11,204.4 11,032.4 1.6 Liabilities 12,094.2 12,414.7 -2.6 Deferred income 454.0 947.0 -52.1 27,501.5 28,039.1 -1.9 1 In accordance with German commercial law. Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Management report › EnBW AG 93 The net assets of EnBW AG as of 31 December 2019 are signifiNon-current liabilities exist to the amount of €2,700.4 million cantly influenced by the non-current assets (particularly the to EnBW International Finance B.V. as part of the Debt Issuance financial assets), the receivables and other assets, as well as by Programme (DIP) (Glossary, from p. 139), to the amount of cash and cash equivalents. These are primarily offset by €2,992.6 million from the issuing of five hybrid bonds and to non-current liabilities and provisions relating to nuclear power the amount of €597.7 million from loan agreements with credit and for pensions and similar obligations. institutions. The main changes in comparison to the previous year were the issuing of two green hybrid bonds with a total Financial assets primarily consist of shares in affiliated entities volume of €1,000.0 million. to the amount of €15,437.0 million, securities held as non-current assets to the amount of €2,726.6 million and investments The aim is to cover the non-current pension and nuclear provito the amount of €1,607.0 million. The increase in financial sions with appropriate financial assets within an economically assets of €1,995.1 million includes, on the one hand, shares in feasible time period. Overall, financial assets of €22,125.6 million affiliated entities primarily as a result of restructuring within are offset by long-term debt of €15,339.4 million. the Group and payments into the capital reserve of subsidiaries. In addition, loans to affiliated entities increased by €353.5 milThe liquidity of EnBW AG on the reporting date guarantees the lion in comparison to the previous year. solvency of the company for the payment of current liabilities from the operating business. Trade receivables to the amount of €715.6 million mainly comprise receivables from trading activities and consumption accruals for electricity and gas deliveries not yet invoiced and Financial position of EnBW AG were €68.6 million below the figure in the previous year. Receivables from affiliated entities fell by €505.4 million in compariIn comparison to the reporting date in the previous year, the son to the previous year. This was primarily due to the reclassiliquidity of EnBW AG decreased from €628.1 million by €458.6 fication of loans to affiliated entities. million to €169.5 million. The cash and cash equivalents of EnBW AG totalling €169.5 milThe cash flows of EnBW AG fundamentally arise from both its lion mainly consist of bank deposits, which are invested as time own operating business and also the operating business of the deposits to the amount of €50.0 million. More details on the subsidiaries which balance payments received and made via the development of this item can be found in the section “Financial bank accounts of EnBW AG as part of the intercompany cash position of EnBW AG”. pooling system (Glossary, from p. 139) within the framework of the central financing and liquidity management. The provisions for pensions and similar obligations held by EnBW AG to the amount of €5,285.8 million combine obligaImportant business transactions that had an effect on the finantions from the company pension scheme and other company cial position of EnBW AG in the financial year are summarised agreements made by major subsidiaries and EnBW AG. The below: resulting annual expenses for retirement benefits are paid by the subsidiaries concerned in each case. The increase in the proMaterial liquidity-related business transactions in the reporting visions for pensions and similar obligations of €517.3 million year were investments in the area of renewable energies and was mainly due to the effect of the further decrease in the distelecommunications totalling €1,189.9 million. These were offcount rate as in the previous year. In addition, provisions relatset by the sale of an investment resulting in a cash inflow of ing to nuclear power of €3,939.7 million are disclosed, which €342.8 million. arise due to public law obligations and requirements in the operating licences. Other significant events were the issuing of two green hybrid bonds with a total volume of €996.5 million and the issuing of Of the liabilities totalling €12,094.2 million, €6,635.6 million a bond with a volume of €74.8 million via EnBW International have a residual term of more than one year. Overall, there are Finance B.V. This was offset by repayments to bank loans of liabilities of €7,347.5 million to affiliated entities, which primar€70.5 million. ily result from intercompany settlement transactions within the framework of the centralised financial and liquidity manageThere was a cash outflow of €561.5 million in connection with ment, as well as from loan agreements. the utilisation of the nuclear power and pension provisions. The decrease in liabilities by €320.5 million was mainly due to A total of €176.1 million was distributed to the shareholders of the reduction in other liabilities from margin payments of EnBW AG in dividends. €308.9 million and to the decrease of €70.9 million in option premiums received. In addition, there were repayments totalThis was offset by the receipt of dividends with an impact on ling €70.5 million to bank loans. liquidity of €271.6 million. 94 Management report › EnBW AG Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW In the 2019 financial year, EnBW AG paid tax arrears for income is ineligible for distribution as dividends will stand at around tax from previous years (including the associated interest) and €900 million by 31 December 2020. Due to a fall in the average prepayments for the following year totalling €208.0 million. interest rate, we expect a negative impact on earnings of a simi­ lar magnitude in 2021. We anticipate that this negative impact on earnings will decrease in 2022. Overall assessment of the economic situation of EnBW AG and the develop­ Opportunities and risks ment of EnBW AG As the business performance, economic situation and opport­ In our judgement, the development of the results of operations, unities and risks relating to the future development of EnBW AG financial position and net assets of EnBW AG as of 31 December do not deviate from the business performance, economic situ2019 is satisfactory after taking into account the effects ation and opportunities and risks relating to the future developdescribed below that are not relevant to the ongoing management of the EnBW Group, the management report of EnBW AG ment of the company. In the previous year, an annual net profit is combined with that of the EnBW Group (p. 100 ff.). of €200 million was expected in 2019. The annual net profit for 2019 stands at €280.6 million and was significantly influenced by effects not relevant to the ongoing management of the comComments on reporting pany, which arose both at EnBW AG itself and also at its subsidiaries which had an impact on EnBW AG due to profit and loss The consolidated financial statements of EnBW AG are prepared transfer agreements. in accordance with section 315 e (1) HGB using the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) set by the International The main effects not relevant to the ongoing management of Accounting Standards Board (IASB), the adoption of which is the company were higher interest expenses for pension provimandatory in the EU as of the reporting date. As a vertically sions and provisions relating to nuclear power totalling integrated energy company in the sense of EnWG, EnBW AG €611.6 million (€566.3 million of which is reported under interengages in other activities within the electricity sector, other est expense of EnBW AG) resulting from the drop in the disactivities within the gas sector and other activities outside of count rate and were thus €194.6 million higher than expected. the electricity and gas sectors in accordance with section 6 b (3) Furthermore, allocations to the provisions relating to nuclear sentence 3 and sentence 4 EnWG. power, mainly due to adjustments in cost estimates, of €122.1 million (of which €71.2 million was reported under the cost of materials of EnBW AG) had a negative effect. Other negative EnBW share and dividend policy effects arose from impairment losses on intangible assets and property, plant and equipment totalling €236.5 million, impairAs a result of the small proportion of EnBW shares in free float ment losses on financial assets of €91.1 million and allocations (www.enbw.com/shareholder-structure), events on the financial to provisions for onerous contracts of €60.9 million. markets and the development of the DAX generally only have a minor influence on the development of the EnBW share price. The This was primarily offset by income from the disposal of assets price of EnBW shares was €29.20 at the start of 2019 and stood at of €858.9 million, the reversal of other provisions of €182.4 mil€50.50 by the end of the year (www.enbw.com/stock-chart). lion and tax provisions of €129.0 million, as well as adjustments to the provisions for onerous contracts of €81.7 million. The trust placed in EnBW by capital market participants is based on the value generated by the company. Against this backBased on the annual net profit of €280.6 million and taking into ground, EnBW manages the development of value using ROCE account the profit carried forward of €103.0 million, there are and its creditworthiness using the key performance indicators retained earnings of €383.6 million. internal financing capability (up to 2020) and debt repayment potential (from 2021). EnBW strives to generally pay a dividend We anticipate an annual net loss of around €250 million in payout ratio of between 40% and 60% of adjusted Group net 2020. The net result for the year will be negatively influenced profit. Based on the annual net profit of EnBW AG of €280.6 milby high interest expenses for non-current provisions. As a lion and taking into account the profit carried forward of €103.0 result of the low-interest phase, the average interest rate will million, there is retained earnings of €383.6 million for the fall further in the future. We anticipate that this will have a financial year and thus dividends will be paid for the 2019 finannega­tive impact on earnings of €600 million in 2020. After it cial year. If approved by the Annual General Meeting, the divihas been adjusted for this effect, the annual net profit will be dend to be distributed for the 2019 financial year will be €0.70 around €350 million. The amount from the valuation of the per share. Adjusted for IFRS 9 valuation effects, this corresponds provisions for pension obligations and the valuation of the to a payout ratio of 40%. dedicated financial assets (Glossary, from p. 139) in the CTA that Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Management report › Overall assessment of the economic situation of the Group 95 Overall assessment of the economic situation of the Group The energy sector is currently experiencing a period of great The non-operating EBITDA decreased further in 2019 compared upheaval. There is particular pressure for change due to the to the previous year. This decrease is mainly attributable to alloEnergiewende, digitalisation, sector coupling (Glossary, from cations to provisions for onerous contracts for long-term elecp. 139) and the desire of local authorities to become self-suffitricity procurement agreements and risk provisions for a possicient. In addition, the issue of climate protection is receiving ble obligation to pay EEG cost allocations for the company’s greater public attention. The European Commission announced own energy deliveries within the EnBW Group. its target of climate neutrality by 2050 in a comprehensive Green Deal in 2019. In 2020, it will investigate the effects of In total, the Group net profit attributable to the shareholders of increasing the 2030 climate targets to at least 50% or 55%. With EnBW for the 2019 financial year improved by €400.0 million to regards to the framework conditions facing EnBW and other €734.2 million. Earnings per share amounted to €2.71 in the 2019 players in the energy industry, other measures can be expected financial year, compared to €1.23 in the previous year. as part of the Green Deal in future. The financial position of the company remains sound. Solvency Following the successful implementation of the EnBW 2020 was ensured at all times throughout the 2019 financial year strategy, there will be a smooth transition between the strategy thanks to the company’s available liquidity and its internal periods: We already strengthened our business activities in the financing capability, as well as external sources available for area of renewable energies in 2019 with the acquisition of the financing. On 29 July 2019, we issued our first two green hybrid French project developer and operator of wind farms and solar bonds with a total volume of €1 billion. EnBW was thus the first parks Valeco. We also took a significant step in building a strong German company to issue a green hybrid bond. The adjusted position for ourselves on the nationwide telecommunications retained cash flow exceeded the forecasted range of €1.3 billion market in Germany in 2019 with the acquisition of Plusnet. to €1.4 billion in the reporting period, while we just missed the Both transactions will already contribute to the EnBW 2025 target value for internal financing capability of ≥ 85% due to the growth strategy. sharp increase in net investment adjusted for growth investment. The fall in ROCE was mainly due to the increase in the The operating business developed overall in 2019 as expected average capital employed. and forecast at the start of the year: The adjusted EBITDA of the EnBW Group increased by 12.7% in comparison to the previous In the customers and society goal dimension, the Reputation year. Adjusted for the effects of the changes in the consolidated Index of EnBW improved in 2019 compared to the previous companies, the adjusted EBITDA would have increased by 8.1%. year; the most positive changes here were amongst customers The result in the Sales segment developed positively in the and the wider public. The satisfaction of the customers of EnBW reporting year and was at the higher end of our forecast. The fell in 2019 as a result of the general trend in the sector, as well acquisition of Plusnet made a significant contribution in this as individual measures such as a price adjustment and a system area. The result in the Grids segment increased in line with our migration. The satisfaction of Yello customers remained at a forecast. The main factor influencing this positive earnings perhigh level in 2019. Supply reliability improved in 2019. In the formance was the higher revenue from the use of the grids, employees goal dimension, the Employee Commitment Index above all due to the increased investment that was necessary for rose due to the improved perception of the current competitiveensuring the security and reliability of supply of the grids. In ness of our company and employees having greater trust in the the Renewable Energies segment, the result improved signififuture viability of the Group. In the area of occupational safety, cantly and was within the forecasted range. In particular, the the LTIF for companies controlled by the Group fell further. commissioning of our EnBW Hohe See offshore wind farm and However, the LTIF overall increased slightly. In the environment the earnings contributions from the acquired wind farms in goal dimension, the expansion of renewable energies is conFrance had a positive effect. The result in the Generation and tinuing according to plan. The CO2 intensity (Glossary, from Trading segment fell as forecast due to the loss of the earnings p. 139) of our own generation of electricity fell significantly in contribution made by VNG Norge and its subsidiary VNG Dancomparison to the previous year and was thus well below the mark which were sold in 2018 and lower out-of-period earnings. forecasted range. In total, the Grids and Renewable Energies segments contributed around three quarters of the adjusted EBITDA of EnBW. The In the estimation of the Board of Management, the operating adjusted EBITDA for the Group in 2020 will increase further and business of our company developed positively in 2019. Overall, be between €2.75 billion and €2.9 billion. It will lie above the the operating result increased as expected. EnBW is also generstrategic target as a result. ally on course in the non-financial goal dimensions. 96 Management report › Forecast Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Forecast In our forecast we take a look, insofar as is possible, at the Around 27% of the total investment will be attributable to the expected future growth and development of EnBW in the years Renewable Energies segment – of which 26% will be for growth 2020 to 2022. investment. This includes funds for the realisation of further offshore wind farms after 2019. In addition, funds have been The expected economic, political and regulatory conditions are allocated for the construction of onshore wind farms both at presented in the chapter “General conditions” (p. 62 ff.). Potenhome and abroad to achieve the 1,000 MW target by 2020 and tial factors influencing the forecast are described in detail in the for solar parks (including three large photovoltaic parks with a “Report on opportunities and risks” (p. 100 ff.). total output of around 460 MW) from our comprehensive pro­ ject pipeline (p. 42). Expected trends in the finance and Around 11% of the investment will be attributable to the Sales strategy goal dimensions segment, of which approximately 8% will be for growth investment. This growth investment is mainly intended for the expansion of electromobility, as well as for the development of energy Investment over a three-year period solutions. In order to continue to play an active role in shaping the Around 9% of the total investment will be attributable to the Energie­wende, total investment of €7.0 billion is planned for Generation and Trading segment and Other. Growth investthe 2020 to 2022 period. This represents on average €2.3 billion ment will account for a little more than half of this amount. per year. €1.6 billion (23%) of this investment will be on existing This mainly comprises investment relating to the accepted bid projects and €5.4 billion (77%) on growth projects. The majority for the construction of a gas turbine power plant in Marbach am of the total investment will be made in the regulated business Neckar as special technical equipment for grids. (Renewable Energies and Grids). The investment programme of the EnBW Group thus reflects Total investment 2020–2022 our strategy for expanding renewable energies and ensuring in % security of supply in the regulated areas of the transmission and distribution grids. 10.5 8.9 Sales Generation and (of which on growth Trading / Other In order to finance the entire investment volume of around €7.0 projects 7.7) (of which on growth billion, divestitures amounting to almost €0.7 billion are projects 4.9) planned in the years 2020 to 2022. This includes divestitures in the onshore and photovoltaic sectors, which will build on our 26.5 54.1 already realised participation models. The remaining divestiRenewable Energies Grids tures will involve the receipt of construction cost subsidies and (of which on growth (of which on growth the participation model “EnBW connects”. This local authority projects 25.8) projects 38.3) participation model is currently attracting a great deal of interest from local authorities (p. 82). The balance of gross investment and divestitures gives the net Around 54% of the investment will flow into the Grids segment, investment, which is €6.3 billion or €2.1 billion on average per of which around 38% will be for growth projects and 16% for year. existing projects. In order to make the transport of renewable energies from the north to the south of Germany possible, It is expected that the target set in the EnBW 2020 strategy of funds have been allocated to the transmission grid for the realmaking a gross investment of €14.1 billion in the period 2012 to isation of the two HVDC projects (Glossary, from p. 139) 2020 (based on the reference year of 2012) (p. 41) will be exceeded ULTRANET and SuedLink that involve our subsidiary Transby around €3 billion. netBW and are part of the Network Development Plan (Glossary, from p. 139). In addition, extensive investment in the expansion In view of the around €5.1 billion in already realised divestitures and upgrading of the existing grids is planned. by the end of 2019 and the divestitures planned for 2020, we expect that the target set in the EnBW 2020 strategy of €5.1 billion in divestitures (based on the reference year of 2012) (p. 41) will be slightly exceeded. Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Management report › Forecast 97 #TOP Adjusted EBITDA and #TOP the share of the adjusted EBITDA accounted for by the segments Development in 2020 (adjusted EBITDA and the share of adjusted EBITDA accounted for by the segments) compared to the previous year Earnings performance (adjusted EBITDA) Development of the share of adjusted EBITDA for the compared to the previous year EnBW Group accounted for by the segments 2020 2019 2020 2019 Sales €325 to €400 million €294.3 million 10% to 15% 12.1% Grids €1,300 to €1,400 million €1,311.2 million 40% to 55% 53.9% Renewable Energies €825 to €925 million €482.8 million 25% to 35% 19.8% Generation and Trading €425 to €500 million €383.8 million 10% to 20% 15.8% Other / Consolidation €-39.6 million -1.6% Total €2,750 to €2,900 million €2,432.5 million 100.0% In the Sales segment, we expect an adjusted EBITDA in 2020 In Other / Consolidation, an adjustment to the management above the level in the previous year. This development will be concept in connection with the reorganisation of the SAP sysdue to increased earnings from the area of telecommunications tem will have an effect in the 2020 financial year in comparison as a result of the acquisition of Plusnet in the 2019 financial to the previous year. The expenses for the Group functions will year, as well as to efficiencies related to the introduction of a no longer be split between the operating segments. This will new billing system. Therefore, we expect a stable share of the have a positive effect on the adjusted EBITDA in all segments. adjusted EBITDA for the Group accounted for by this segment. The adjusted EBITDA for the EnBW Group in 2020 will increase The adjusted EBITDA for the Grids segment in 2020 is set to further and be between €2.75 billion and €2.9 billion. Earnings reach the same level as the 2019 financial year and it will thus will thus lie between €350 million and €500 million above the continue to be the segment with the highest earnings. Revenue strategic target value. We expect a slight increase in adjusted from the use of the grids which will come from returns on the EBITDA for the Group in 2021 in comparison to 2020. This will increased investment activity in projects that are included in be due to a constant increase in earnings in all segments. the Network Development Plan Electricity and Network Development Plan Gas (Glossary, from p. 139) is expected to remain The EBITDA in 2020 and 2021 will develop in line with the stable in comparison to the previous year. We expect a stable or adjusted EBITDA. We do not make any forecasts relating to decreasing share of the adjusted EBITDA for the Group material non-operating effects. accounted for by this segment. The EBT relevant to remuneration is expected to be between The adjusted EBITDA for the Renewable Energies segment will €1.05 billion and €1.15 billion in 2020 as a result of the rise in increase significantly in 2020. Our offshore wind farms adjusted EBITDA and will thus increase in comparison to the EnBW Hohe See and EnBW Albatros – which were commisprevious year. A further slight increase in EBT is expected in sioned in autumn 2019 and at the beginning of 2020, respect­ 2021. The accuracy of the forecast for EBT is, however, still ively – will make full-year earnings contributions. In addition, dependent on other exogenous factors that cannot be planned the expansion and acquisition of onshore wind farms and for, such as impairment losses, the reversal of impairment photo­voltaic power plants realised during the course of 2019 losses or impending losses for onerous contracts for electricity and planned in 2020 will make a positive contribution to earnprocurement agreements. ings. Our forecasts are generally based on wind yields that correspond to the long-term average. As the wind conditions were Assuming an adjusted EBITDA in the range of €2.75 billion to slightly below the long-term average in 2019, this will result in €2.9 billion, we expect to achieve an adjusted retained cash slightly higher earnings in 2020 in comparison to the previous flow (p. 78) of between €1.9 billion and €2.0 billion. This year. We expect an increase in the share of the adjusted EBITDA includes an increase of €245 million from the reimbursement for the Group accounted for by this segment. of the nuclear fuel rod tax (Glossary, from p. 139). Adjusted for this effect, the anticipated dividend payment of around €340 In the Generation and Trading segment, we expect an adjusted million (including payments from investments to third parties) EBITDA in 2020 above the level in the previous year. We sold our and the income tax payments, we expect an FFO of between electricity deliveries for 2020 on the forward market at higher €2.2 billion and €2.3 billion. The adjusted retained cash flow is wholesale market prices than in the previous year (Glossary, expected to fall in 2021 in comparison to 2020, which will be from p. 139). This will be offset to some extent by the decomprimarily due to the elimination of the adjustment for the missioning of Block 2 of our Philippsburg nuclear power plant. repayment of the nuclear fuel rod tax. The share of the adjusted EBITDA for the Group accounted for by this segment should remain stable. 98 Management report › Forecast Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW #TOP Internal financing capability Expected trends in the customers and society goal dimension Key performance indicator 2020 2019 Key performance indicators Internal financing capability in % around 100 82.6 2020 2019 We expect an internal financing capability in 2020 of around Reputation Index 55.4 52.8 100% because planned net investment and the adjusted Customer Satisfaction Index 114–136 / retained cash flow will be at a comparable level. We continue to for EnBW / Yello 148–159 116 / 157 strive to maintain an internal financing capability of around SAIDI (electricity) in min. / year 15–20 15 100% for the period from 2017 to 2020. However, it is possible that the internal financing capability may fall below 100% in #TOP Reputation Index individual years. Following the transition to the growth strategy, the key performance indicator internal financing capability will EnBW will strive to noticeably improve its reputation continube replaced by the new key performance indicator debt repayously over the next few years. The Reputation Index is an ment potential from 2021 on. important non-financial performance indicator because this index value is influenced by a whole series of factors that are important to the future viability of our company. The existing #TOP ROCE reputation management department and the stakeholder team at EnBW can recommend measures for optimising the reputaKey performance indicator tion of the company. 2020 2019 ROCE in % 5.5–6.0 5.2 #TOP Customer Satisfaction Index We also continue to expect a high level of competitive pressure In the 2020 financial year, ROCE is expected to be above the in 2020 both from direct competitors within the energy induslevel in the previous year and at between 5.5% and 6.0%. In gentry and, to an increasing extent, competitors from other sectors eral, investments tend to lead at first to a fall in ROCE due to a that have already entered the energy market or will do so low initial contribution to earnings. Investment in our offshore shortly. In addition, exogenous factors could negatively impact wind farm EnBW Hohe See and the acquisition of Valeco and customer satisfaction more and more in the future, such as disPlusnet had a strong negative impact on ROCE in 2019. The cussions about the future of coal-fired power generation, the ROCE is expected to recover in 2021. The forecast for the ROCE development of state levies, the proposed gradual increase in in 2020 is below the stated strategic target for 2020 due to CO2 prices up to 2023 included in the German government’s clihigher capital employed – in comparison to the strategy – but mate action package, increasing costs or delays to the expanwithout a corresponding increase in EBIT. The capital employed sion of the grids. To improve the satisfaction of our customers, is significantly higher due to an increase in the cumulative we are also expanding our range of sustainable energy industry investment volume (€3.0 billion) and the revaluation of services and energy solutions and targeting our sales activities EnBW Hohe See. Alongside a lower weighted average cost of capin this direction in 2020. We will combine traditional energy ital (WACC) compared to 2012, increased impairment losses on products (electricity and gas) with household and energy-readditional investments, a significant fall in the discount rate for lated products to offer our customers a range of “ecosystem the nuclear provisions and the revaluation of EnBW Hohe See solutions”. One example is an EnBW mobility+ offer that bunhave a negative impact on EBIT. dles an electric car with a green electricity tariff, a charging box for the home and other e-mobility services. On the basis of the The ROA will develop in line with the ROCE. In 2020, the ROA is goals described above, we are striving to achieve a Customer Satexpected to be between 5.2% and 6.2%, while we anticipate that isfaction Index for EnBW of between 114 and 136 points in the it will increase slightly in 2021 compared to 2020 as things cur2020 financial year. rently stand. The aim is to continue to keep the index value for the satisfaction of Yello customers within our forecast. Therefore, there will be a greater focus on the expansion of personalised customer contact and customised offers in 2020. In addition, new electricity and gas products, more content in the Yello Magazine and the further development of digital services should increase the attractiveness of the Yello portfolio even more. On this basis, we are striving to achieve an index value for Yello of between 148 and 159 points in the 2020 financial year – as in the previous year. Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Management report › Forecast 99 It is anticipated that we will not fully achieve the target values Expected trends in the environment in 2020 that were defined in our EnBW 2020 strategy for a Customer Satisfaction Index of >136 for EnBW and >159 for Yello. We goal dimension believe that the main reason for this is that climate protection measures have made the consumption of energy increasingly Key performance indicators expensive for customers. Despite the fact that we have developed new skills, offers and services in this area, this has nega2020 2019 tively impacted the perception of the energy sector overall. Installed output of RE in GW and the share of the generation capacity accounted for by RE in % 5.0 / > 40 4.4 / 31.8 CO2 intensity in g / kWh 16%–23% 419 #TOP SAIDI The grid subsidiaries of EnBW have always achieved a highly reli#TOP Installed output of renewable energies (RE) and the able supply throughout their grid area and for their customers. share of the generation capacity accounted for by RE The corresponding key performance indicator SAIDI, which states the average duration of supply interruptions per conThe installed output of renewable energies will increase to 5 GW nected customer per year, stood at ​15 minutes in 2019. We are in 2020, which will primarily be due to the EnBW Albatros offstriving to achieve a value of between 15 and 20 minutes in the shore wind farm that was placed into operation at the begin2020 financial year and subsequent years. ning of 2020 and the Weesow-Willmersdorf solar park that is currently being realised. In addition, there are plans to further expand onshore wind and photovoltaic power plants. As a result, Expected trends in the employees and also because of the shutdown of Block 2 of the Philippsburg goal dimension nuclear power plant, the share of the generation capacity of the Group accounted for by renewable energies will increase. In subsequent years, we also expect a continuous increase in the Key performance indicators installed output of renewable energies. This will also increase the share of the generation capacity accounted for by RE further. 2020 2019 Employee Commitment Index (ECI) 1 ≥ 66 66 #TOP CO2 intensity LTIF for companies controlled by the Group 2 ≤ 2.1 2.1 In 2020, we expect an increase in own electricity generation LTIF overall 3 ≤ 3.8 3.8 from renewable energy sources due to the further expansion of renewable energies. At the same time, we expect an increase in 1 Variations in the group of consolidated companies (all companies with more than 100 employees are generally considered [except ITOs]). the use of our thermal power plants in comparison to the pre2 Variations in the group of consolidated companies (all companies with more vious year as they were utilised far less than expected in 2019 than 100 employees are generally considered except for companies in the area of waste management as well as external agency workers and contractors). due to the prevailing market prices. Important factors for uncer3 Variations in the group of consolidated companies (all companies with more tainty in the 2020 forecast include the volatility of the wind and than 100 employees are generally considered except for external agency workers and contractors). water supplies, the further development of the clean dark spread (Glossary, from p. 139) and the utilisation of the power plants for redispatch. As a result of the low CO2 intensity (Glos#TOP Employee Commitment Index sary, from p. 139) in 2019, an increase of between 16% and 23% The Employee Commitment Index (ECI) reached 66 points and in comparison to the previous year is expected in the 2020 thus clearly exceeded the target we set for 2019 of 63 points. In financial year. This forecast nevertheless corresponds to our 2020, we have set ourselves the goal of maintaining this high defined target for 2020 of a reduction in CO2 intensity of level and matching at least the level achieved in 2019. We anticbetween 15% and 20% compared to the reference year 2015. ipate that we will achieve or even exceed the target value defined in the EnBW 2020 strategy for 2020 of 65 points. Overall assessment of anticipated #TOP LTIF developments by the management We are committed to our goal of continuously improving occupational safety within the company for both our own employWe expect an increase in adjusted EBITDA for the Group in 2020 ees and third-party employees who carry out work on behalf of compared to 2019. The shift in earnings between the segments EnBW. Therefore, we have implemented numerous accident laid out in our strategy will continue in 2020. We will exceed our prevention measures. The main focus of our measures will be target values for 2020 at a Group level and at least achieve the placed on the roll-out of the new Quentic software as well as a targets at a segment level. This means that we will be able heightened awareness for unsafe situations and conditions. to continue to make sufficient investment funds available Consistent reporting of these types of occurrences and commuinternally to enable us to play an active role in shaping the nication amongst employees about hazardous situations will Energie­wende. We continue to strive to maintain a balanced help us to increase the awareness of employees. We intend to financing structure, solid financial profile and thus solid investcontinuously reduce the LTIF for companies controlled by the ment-grade ratings (Glossary, from p. 139). With respect to our Group and LTIF overall. non-financial key performance indicators, we expect a stable to positive development in 2020. 100 Management report › Report on opportunities and risks Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Report on opportunities and risks Principles of the integrated opportunity and risk management system Opportunity and risk map Strategic / sustainability Operative Financial Compliance Strategy Sustainability Business Infrastructure ImplementaFinancial Corporate Compliance activity tion of growth management financing fields Sustainable Climate Business Plants / grids / Renewable Market prices Capital market Corruption generation change processes storage / IT Energies structure Market Environmental Operating Information Gas / biogas Liquidity Rating Antitrust law developments / protection activities security / business management social trends confidentiality System critical Weather / Products / Crime / E-mobility / Earnings Data infrastructure natural events contracts sabotage / digitalisation management Protection terrorism Smart infraHR Operational Expansion of Investment Fraud structure for projects the grids management customers Occupational Approvals / Taxes and safety / health licences / levies protection patents Human rights Legislation / regulation / litigation Social issues Reputation Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Corporate social responsibility (CSR) The integrated opportunity and risk management system (iRM) visions, as well as measures for managing risk tolerance. For this of EnBW is based on the internationally established COSO II purpose, we define an opportunity / risk as an event that might framework as a standard for risk management systems that cause a potential over-attainment / non-attainment of strategic / span entire companies. The iRM aims, through a holistic and sustainability, operational, financial and compliance goals in integrated approach, to effectively and efficiently identify, evalu­ the future. The iRM process also takes into account the guideate and manage opportunities and risks (including monitoring) lines for a non-financial declaration. In order to identify and and report on the opportunity / risk position, as well as to categorise opportunities and risks, the opportunity and risk ensure the appropriateness and functionality of related promap that is well-known throughout the Group is utilised. The cesses. Risk management involves measures for avoiding, risk map is used to explicitly consider possible opportunities reducing or transferring risk through adequate accounting proand risks that affect the sustainable orientation of our company. Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Management report › Report on opportunities and risks 101 As well as focusing on the fulfilment of the requirements for a before and after consideration has been taken of both implenon-financial declaration, the recommendations of the Task mented and envisaged management instruments. In the proForce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) (Glossary, cess, they are allocated to one of seven relevance categories on from p. 139) are also taken into account. In addition, the iRM prothe basis of quantitative and qualitative criteria for each of the cess is also subject to ongoing development within the scope of four dimensions: strategic / sustainability, operational, financial digitalisation. and compliance. The opportunities and risks are evaluated within the me­diumStructure and processes of the term planning period. As long as a financial evaluation of the integrated opportunity and risk opportunities and risks is possible, they are allocated to rel­ evance classes 0 to 4 if they have a value in the range from less management system than €0.2 million up to less than €50 million within the medium-term planning period. From relevance class 5 and above and with a probability of occurrence of over 50%, the opportuStructure and process of the iRM system nities and risks are generally included in the Group report on opportunities and risks. This corresponds to €50 million Audit committee (Supervisory Board) within the medium-term planning period. The top risks / opportunities and the long-term opportunities and risks that are of particular importance are then added. The reports are submitted on a quarterly basis in standardised form. In the Full Board of Management of EnBW AG case of any significant changes, a special report is immediately issued. Supervisory body where Risk committee Those opportunities or risks relevant to the Group report on necessary opportunities and risks are generally evaluated in relation to the current planning period using quantitative methods (e.g. Central functional unit of scenario techniques and distribution functions) for the purpose Management of companies / risk management & ICS of stochastic modelling. Any possible effects on the adjusted units EBITDA, the adjusted EBIT and the capital employed (with any associated impact on the ROCE), the retained cash flow or the adjusted retained cash flow, the net investment or the adjusted iRM managers of net investment (with any associated impact on the internal companies / units financing capability) and the net debt are considered. Alongside these financial effects, opportunities and risks can also have impacts on the other key performance indicators (p. 43 ff.), Risk officers which are discussed with those responsible in the specialist areas. Formal reporting Any opportunities and risks with a probability of occurrence of Coordination of Group reporting up to 50% are subject to an individual review to determine whether they should be taken into account in the next planning session. Opportunities and risks with a probability of occurThe structures and processes of the iRM are well-known rence of over 50% are generally taken into account in the planthroughout the Group. The central risk management & ICS ning process and, as far as possible, appropriate accounting functional unit is responsible for specifying methods, processes measures are taken in the consolidated financial statements in and systems for the whole Group, determining the opportunity accordance with IFRS. and risk position of the Group and for reporting. The central steering body is the risk committee, which – with the involveAlongside the top opportunities / risks, there are a wide variety ment of specially selected units / companies – is responsible for of other opportunities and risks facing the Group that are alloclarifying relevant issues from various Group perspectives, as cated to relevant risk categories on the opportunity and risk well as for determining selected top opportunities / risks. map (p. 100) and evaluated with the aid of the iRM relevance filter. Alongside the key performance indicators in the finance The iRM is tested annually by the Group auditing department and strategy goal dimensions, these effects can also have an with a focus on different main themes each year and the results impact on the key performance indicators in the customers and of the test are then presented to the Supervisory Board in the society, employees and environment goal dimensions. Any form of a so-called effectiveness report. All opportunities and impact on the areas of compliance, social engagement and prorisks are firstly assessed with the help of the iRM relevance filter curement is also examined in the process. 102 Management report › Report on opportunities and risks Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Relevance filter for classifying opportunities and risks Strategic / sustainability Operative Financial Compliance Achievement of strategic Achievement of business targets, Achievement of financial tarCompliance with legal / targets, sustainability targets, functional processes, retaining gets, generally in accordance official regulations and e.g. climate protection, environadded value, customer / external with medium-term planning internal regulations mental protection, reputation effects or approved (project) budgets Relevance class 5 One strategic / sustainability » One key operational target for the ≥ €50 million (relevance Breach of legal / official target for the EnBW Group is EnBW Group is not achieved threshold for functional units regulations and / or internal Group reporting level not achieved » The value added is massively and EnBW Group) regulations with negative disrupted across the company / consequences for the business units / functional units EnBW Group Relevance class 6 Several or all strategic / » Several or all operational targets ≥ €250 million Breach of legal / official sustainability targets for the for the EnBW Group are not regulations and / or internal EnBW Group are not achieved achieved regulations with serious » Value added throughout the whole negative consequences for Group is massively disrupted the EnBW Group Structure and processes of Structure the accounting-related internal The accounting-related ICS at EnBW is organised at both a cencontrol system tralised and decentralised level. All key companies, business units and functional units have an ICS officer. These officers Principles monitor the effectiveness of the ICS and evaluate any control weaknesses that may arise. A report on the effectiveness of the An accounting-related internal control system (ICS) has been ICS is prepared on an annual basis. The ICS officer at Group level established at EnBW that is designed to ensure proper and reliassists the companies / units with the implementation of stand­ able financial reporting. In order to guarantee that this ICS is ardised procedures and also consolidates collected data. effective, the appropriateness and functionality of the Groupwide control mechanisms are tested regularly at the level of the Processes individual companies and at a Group level. Standardised procedures ensure completeness and consistency If any existing weaknesses are identified in the control system in the preparation of the financial statements and financial and are considered relevant to the financial statements, they are reporting. The accounting-related ICS defines controls designed promptly remedied. This accounting-related ICS methodology to ensure compliance with the accounting policies used by the is based on the COSO II standard. Group, and with the procedures and deadlines for the individual accounting and consolidation processes. During the Group conOnce the control mechanisms have reached a standardised and solidation process, the rigorous implementation of the four-eye monitored degree of maturity, and no material control weakprinciple is observed, while random samples and deviation ana­ nesses can be identified, the accounting-related ICS is deemed lyses improve quality. An annual control cycle monitors to be effective. The materiality of control weaknesses is meas­ whether the documentation is up to date and also checks the ured as the probability of occurrence and the extent to which appropriateness and functionality of the controls. In addition, it there could be a potential misstatement in connection with identifies and evaluates any control weaknesses that may arise. those financial statement items concerned. The accounting-related risk management system defines measures for identifying A risk-based selection process defines relevant companies / and assessing risks that jeopardise the preparation of compliant units, significant items in the financial statements and profinancial statements as part of the accounting-related ICS. cesses including their associated control measures. Despite having established an ICS, there is no absolute certainty The defined processes and controls are recorded in a central that it will attain its objectives or that it will be complete. In documentation system. The effectiveness of the various control individual cases, the effectiveness of the ICS can be impaired by activities is then assessed. If any control weaknesses are iden­ unforeseeable changes in the control environment, fraud or tified, their effect on the financial statements is evaluated. The human error. results are reported at both company or unit level and at Group level. Furthermore, the Group auditing department performs ICS reviews as part of its risk-oriented audit planning. Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Management report › Report on opportunities and risks 103 Non-financial declaration Other measures that form part of the assessment are carried out in direct cooperation with the compliance department. In coal As part of the non-financial declaration, we closely analyse the mining, there are possible human rights risks related to the related opportunities and risks in the areas of compliance, social working and living conditions of people in the coal mining engagement and procurement, as well as in the customers and regions. An increase in civil society activity in this context can society, employees and environment goal dimensions. In order in turn result in an increase in reputational risks. We are in conto guarantee that the requirements for a non-financial declar­ stant contact with representatives from civil society and keep ation are fulfilled, the established iRM methods and the associthem informed about the advances made and challenges faced ated process are used. In this context, the iRM also identifies in all sustainability topics (p. 60 f.). opportunities and risks relating to climate protection and thus provides important impetus for the implementation of the recIn preparation for future (liquid) gas contracts, we carried out ommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial further (preliminary) assessments of the sustainability and Disclosures (TCFD) (Glossary, from p. 139). You can find further compliance of producers from different countries as part of the information on this subject on p. 122. process for auditing business partners. No material human rights risks were identified in the supply chain for the USA as a potential source of supply. We identified no issues in connecRisks associated with the non-financial declaration tion with other producers either that would necessitate a more The non-financial declaration describes, amongst other things, in-depth analysis. the fundamental opportunities and risks connected with the EnBW business model and the activities based upon it that Customers and society goal dimension could have a possible impact on one of the individual issues. Reputation: All opportunities and risks, as well as non-financial Material individual risks with a very high probability of a ser­ issues, can have a positive or negative impact on reputation and ious negative impact in relation to any of the following issues thus on the key performance indicator, the Reputation Index do not exist at EnBW. (p. 81). The reputation management department thus identifies opportunities and risks related to reputation, develops meaCompliance sures to protect and improve reputation, advises the Board of The observance of relevant legal regulations and internal comManagement and management and provides recommendapany rules forms the basis of our business activities. Managing tions for action. compliance risks at EnBW (with a main focus on corruption, antitrust and data protection risks) is the task of the compliance Customer proximity: Risks exist especially in connection with management system, which comprises regular risk assessments the still high level of competitive pressure both from direct comof this type. Risks related to fighting corruption and bribery are petitors within the energy industry, and to an increasing extent, addressed on p. 49 f. in a cross-segment manner. competitors from other sectors that have already entered the energy market or will do so shortly. This is associated with the Social engagement risk of a negative impact on the customer base and sales volThere are no risks in the area of social engagement. In fact, we umes. Opportunities exist above all through the provision of a take our social responsibility for civic and social engagement broader range of customer-specific products and services such seriously (p. 53 f.). as offering hardware bundles (Glossary, from p. 139) and product options, as well as through processes more oriented to the cusProcurement tomer. EnBW also continued to expand its range of sustainable Sustainable procurement – purchasing: In the area of procureenergy industry services and energy solutions in 2019 and tarment, risks cannot be excluded due to increasing levels of comgeted its sales activities in this direction (p. 81 f). plexity and the large number of suppliers. Purchasing utilises an active risk management system, counters procurement risks Employees goal dimension and implements the necessary measures for safeguarding Employee commitment: Due to competition on the job market, against and avoiding risk. These risks are managed using there is a risk when recruiting employees that the company will defined processes and, in this context, especially through the not be able to secure a sufficient number of employees with the pre-qualification process (p. 59 f.). necessary qualifications and expertise in the relevant target groups. In addition, this risk is exacerbated by demographic Raw materials procurement – coal and gas: In the area of raw trends and the stricter conditions facing the energy industry. materials procurement and thus in the associated supply chain, We believe that regular anonymous employee surveys, from there are, above all, potential human rights risks. Respect for which we derive the Employee Commitment Index (ECI) as a key human rights is ensured using a multi-stage auditing process as performance indicator, are an important tool for seizing opporpart of the procurement process – with all existing and potentunities early in the areas of employee development and tial suppliers being regularly subjected to a screening process. employee loyalty (p. 83 f.). 104 Management report › Report on opportunities and risks Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Occupational safety: Risks generally exist in the areas of occuity of wind, water and sun presents challenges in terms of planpational safety and health protection in our business activities. ning certainty for the operation of power plants and the sale of We counter these risks using comprehensive organisational and volumes of electricity (p. 41 ff.). For this reason, the top opporprocedural measures, such as workplace-specific hazard analytunity / top risk wind fluctuations has been reported since the ses, to protect employees as well as possible against any adverse Integrated Annual Report 2016, although these opportunities / consequences. We also view these measures as an opportunity risks have no material effect on non-financial issues. In addition, to preserve the capacity of our employees to do their work and there is uncertainty due to increasing environmental restricto maintain the position of EnBW as an attractive employer. tions for the realisation of projects for sustainable energy genOccupational safety is measured in the form of the key perform­ eration and for the operation of power plants. These risks are ance indicator LTIF for companies controlled by the Group and managed and mitigated through internal processes using tarLTIF overall (p. 86 f.) in the employees goal dimension. geted control measures. Environment goal dimension Alongside changes in physical climate parameters and other Expansion of renewable energies: Risks generally exist in the developments relating to or governed by environmental factors, approval and auction process. These risks can result in delays to regulatory guidelines and changes in the market also flow into the further expansion of renewable energies. Due to the fact the risk evaluation process. However, there are also opportun­ that the auctions are held on equal terms, we continue to expect ities such as changing customer needs (p. 81 ff.) and an increasa high level of competition. We measure the expansion of ing demand for climate-friendly products such as e-mobility. renewable energies with our key performance indicator These opportunities and risks are regularly and systematically “installed output of renewable energies (RE) and the share of the identified Group-wide. The first recommendations from the generation capacity accounted for by RE” (p. 87 f.). Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) (Glossary, from p. 139) have been implemented and are comClimate protection: Risks generally exist in the area of environmunicated in the report on opportunities and risks. Building on mental protection due to the operation of power generation the revision of the risk map in 2016, special focus is placed on and transmission plants with possible consequences for the air, sustainability aspects – especially climate protection targets – water, soil and nature. The importance of climate protection is and they will be anchored more deeply in the risk evaluation taken into account in, for example, the key performance indicaprocess in future. Therefore, we have closely examined the sigtor CO2 intensity (Glossary, from p. 139) (p. 88 f.). nificance of sustainability and climate protection themes for the business model and aim to implement measures and set We counter these risks using, amongst other things, an environtargets to orientate our risk management system even more mental management system certified according to DIN EN ISO towards climate-related risks (p. 33 and 87). 14001:2015, which has been established at key subsidiaries (p. 87). We take the safety of the population and the protection of the environment very seriously. In this context, risks also Opportunity and risk position exist due to external circumstances, such as extreme weather conditions. We counter these risks using comprehensive organThe diagram on the following page illustrates how the opport­ isational and procedural measures to reduce their impact. We unity and risk position is reported to the Board of Management ensure that the risks posed by crisis and emergency situations and the audit committee of the Supervisory Board. The arrangeare mitigated quickly, effectively and with a coordinated ment of the top opportunities / risks in the quadrants indicates approach through regular crisis management exercises and how EnBW can employ control measures to exploit the opport­ other measures. Through our diverse range of activities in the unities or to counteract the risks. areas of environmental, nature and species protection, we also utilise the opportunity – beyond our core activities – to make a The individual evaluations of the top opportunities / risks tell substantial contribution to improving environmental protecus – based on the relative level of opportunity / risk – what tion. Thanks to the positive public perception of these activities, effects they could have with a high probability of occurrence on they can also have a positive impact on our key performance our key performance indicators in the finance goal dimension: indicator Reputation Index (p. 81). adjusted EBITDA, internal financing capability, ROCE and net debt. The risks are depicted after the implementation of the risk At the same time, EnBW also faces potential risks due to the limitation measures. ongoing process of climate change. For example, more frequent extreme weather conditions leading to highly fluctuating water The following opportunities and risks were new in 2019: levels or limits being placed on emissions locally could have a negative impact especially on the operation of power plants and › Obligation to pay EEG cost allocations (Glossary, from p. 139) thus the security of supply (electricity grids). The operation of for the company’s own and jointly owned power stations hydropower plants can be restricted by both a lack of or also an › Obligation to pay EEG cost allocations for leasing models abundance of water. The output from thermal power plants that › Obligation to pay EEG cost allocations for dismantling must be cooled could possibly be impacted by temperature › Phase-out of coal power: early decommissioning of power li­mits on discharged water. Increasing volatility in the availabilplants Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Management report › Report on opportunities and risks 105 Top opportunities / risks as of 31 / 12 / 2019 Top opportunities / risks Mitigate risks Manage opportunities / risks 1 Market prices of financial investments 2 Discount rate applied to pension provisions 1 3 4 5 6 3 Liquidity 11 12 7 8 9 10 4 Competitive environment 13 14 5 Political and economic environment in Turkey 6 Fluctuations in wind energy yield Risk potential 7 Availability of nuclear power plants 8 Operation and dismantling of nuclear power plants 9 Hedging 10 Power plant optimisation 2 Obligation to pay EEG cost allocations for the company’s 11 own and jointly owned power stations 12 Obligation to pay EEG cost allocations for leasing models Monitor Seize opportunities 13 Obligation to pay EEG cost allocations for dismantling Opportunity potential Phase-out of coal power: early decommissioning of 14 power plants Cross-segment Sales Renewable Energies Generation and Trading New opportunity / New risk Details on the top opportunities / risks, as well as other opportuniFinancial opportunities and risks ties / risks relevant to the report, and their potential effects on the #01 Market prices of financial investments: The financial relevant performance indicators are listed in the following section. investments managed by the asset management system (Glossary, from p. 139) are subject to opportunities and risks due to price changes and other valuation changes as a result of the Cross-segment opportunities and risks volatile financial market environment (p. 72). A significantly Our company faces general risks from legal proceedings due to higher amount of securities allocated to the dedicated financial our contractual relationships with customers, business partners assets must, since 2018, be measured at fair value through profit and employees. To a lesser extent, we are also conducting legal or loss in accordance with IFRS 9. The fluctuation in the value of proceedings relating to topics in the area of corporate law. For these securities is recognised in profit or loss and stood at €335.5 this purpose, adequate accounting provisions are made or, in the million in the reporting year (previous year: €-38.5 million). event of a probability of occurrence of < 50% adequate continThrough corresponding effects, this could have either a positive gent liabilities. As a consequence, there is also an opportunity of and negative impact in 2020 and 2021 on net debt in the low to positive effects on earnings if these provisions can be reversed mid three-digit million euro range. For the market prices for once again. In addition, various court cases, official investigafinancial investments, we currently identify an equal level of tions or proceedings and other claims are pending against EnBW. opportunity and risk due to the increased volatility on the The probability of these actions being successful is, however, financial markets. considered very low and thus they are not reported under contingent liabilities and other financial obligations. #02 Discount rate applied to pension provisions: There is a general opportunity and risk due to any change in the discount rate In connection with these types of legal proceedings, we also recogapplied to the pension provisions because the present value of nise the water concession risk in Stuttgart. In the court proceedthe pension provisions falls when the discount rate increases ings dealing with the takeover of the water grid after the water and increases when the discount rate falls. On the reporting concession in the state capital Stuttgart expires, the state capital date for the annual financial statements of the Group in 2019, and EnBW are still striving to reach an amicable settlement. The the discount rate stood at 1.1% in comparison to the previous court proceedings have been suspended several times, namely year (1.8%). The future development of interest rates could have from January 2015 until the end of 2016 and from April 2018 until a positive impact in the low four-digit million euro range or a the end of January 2019, to give the parties the opportunity to negative impact in the low to mid three-digit million euro range reach an amicable settlement. Unfortunately, it was not possible to on the development of net debt in 2020 and 2021. Against the reach such an agreement due to a difference of opinion on the background of the expected development of interest rates in valuation. The next court hearings are expected to be held in future, we currently identify an increased level of opportunity March 2020. Therefore, there continues to be a risk in 2020 of losand a lower level of risk. ing the water grid without receipt of adequate compensation. 106 Management report › Report on opportunities and risks Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW #03 Liquidity: Due to unforeseeable developments, especially together and play an even stronger role on the market in the margin payments, unused project funds or tax issues as well future. We believe that this is also an important step in the as financial market crashes, the Group’s liquidity planning is expansion of sustainable infrastructure and should achieve corsubject to uncertainty that could lead to deviations between responding earnings contributions for our company. This could actual payments and planned payments. In general, there is have both a positive or negative impact in the low single-digit also a risk of additional liquidity requirements if the rating million euro range on the key performance indicator adjusted agencies downgrade the credit rating of EnBW (p. 72 f.). The EBITDA in 2020 and 2021 and thus an indirect impact on the key risk of margin payments is increasing primarily as a result of performance indicator internal financing capability via the rising trading volumes and greater volatility on the energy adjusted retained cash flow and on the key performance indicamarket. These effects could have a total positive or negative tor ROCE via the adjusted EBIT. We currently identify a low level impact in the mid three-digit million euro range on net debt of opportunity and risk in this area. in 2020 and 2021, as well as an indirect impact on the key performance indicator ROCE via capital employed and on interGrids segment nal financing capability via the adjusted net investment. We currently identify a balanced level of opportunity and risk in Strategic opportunities and risks this area. Recognition of costs for high-voltage direct current (HVDC) transmission technology: TransnetBW plans to set up new conCompliance opportunities and risks nections using high-voltage direct current transmission techCompliance risk assessments focus, in particular, on assessing nology (HVDC) (Glossary, from p. 139) with other transmission risks and defining appropriate preventative measures in the system operators. A regulation stipulating the use of undercompliance risk areas of corruption, antitrust law and data proground cabling also applies to the SuedLink project. In both tection. projects, there are currently general risks of potential delays and additional costs, as well as a low level of risk that the necessity Risks for which we derive measures for fighting corruption and for these transmission lines might no longer be confirmed in a bribery primarily exist in sales activities relating to local authornew Network Development Plan. ity / political business when dealing with public officials. Important preventative measures, especially training and ad­­ Financial opportunities and risks visory services, are described on p. 49 f. Year-end balance on the EEG bank account: The EEG bank account is a separately managed bank account in accordance In addition, there are antitrust risks in the sales activities of with section 5 of the German Compensation Mechanism Or­­ some subsidiaries that could result in fines and damaged repudinance (AusglMechV) and is thus kept separate from other tation and also have significant strategic implications. This risk areas of activity. In accordance with AusglMechV, a deficit or is countered by the joint preventative measures of the complisurplus on the account balance can have a temporary positive ance and legal departments. or negative effect on the calculation of the net debt of EnBW, respectively. As of the reporting date on 31 December 2019, The incorrect handling or illicit disclosure or use of personal there was a surplus in the low three-digit million euro range on data poses data protection risks. These risks exist in view of the the EEG bank account of our subsidiary TransnetBW. Due to the digital transformation of many business activities. Advisory and EEG cost allocations (Glossary, from p. 139) defined for 2020, we awareness services and process controls are in place to guarananticipate that the bank account balance will tend to fall in tee adherence to legal data protection requirements in the 2020 and 2021. Group. Company-specific measures are coordinated via the compliance and data protection department. Renewable Energies segment Strategic opportunities and risks Sales segment #05 Political and economic environment in Turkey: We have Financial opportunities and risks been commercially active in Turkey for many years in the #04 Competitive environment: There is a risk that the con­ expansion of energy generation from wind power and hydrotinued tense competitive situation for all EnBW brands in the power. In the past few years, the economic and political electricity, gas and energy solutions business could have a negframework conditions in Turkey have deteriorated noticeably. ative effect on the customer base, sales volumes and price levels. We continue to monitor these developments very closely, In the future, there will still be pressure on prices and a willingespecially because we have a duty of care for those employees ness amongst customers to switch suppliers. The EnBW 2020 working in Turkey. There has been an increased security risk strategy also covers the development and expansion of system for a number of years, although no immediate risk to local solutions and complete solutions that are specifically tailored employees can currently be identified. We are still in regular to the various customer segments (p. 41 ff.). Alongside the tracontact with the German embassy, the German Consulate ditional supply of electricity and gas, we see good opportunities General, our partner Borusan and other German companies here also for offering our customers innovative energy soluactive in Turkey so that we will be able to identify any negations in the areas of energy technology in the home, e.g. with tive developments as early as possible and respond in good products such as photovoltaic storage systems, the area of cortime. This risk could have an effect on the key performance porate energy efficiency and also electromobility (p. 81 ff.). The indicator ROCE in 2020 and 2021. We currently identify a low EnBW subsidiaries Plusnet and NetCom BW should grow level of opportunity and risk in this area. Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Management report › Report on opportunities and risks 107 Financial opportunities and risks due to changed framework conditions. The following issues can #06 Fluctuations in wind energy yield: There is a general opporarise, amongst other things: delays to approvals, an increase in tunity or risk for wind power plants due to wind energy yield the amount of preparation work required for dismantling, fluctuations because the amounts of electricity generated by developing buffer zones and retrofitting work and bottlenecks them are subject to variations in the mean annual wind speed. in the supply of the necessary resources. In addition, there is an These fluctuations naturally grow as we acquire more and more opportunity to make cost savings due to synergies over time wind turbines. In order to take these wind fluctuations into and also due to learning effects for subsequent dismantling account in our planning, wind reports were created. In addition, activities. There could be opportunities in the mid double-digit measurement campaigns are being carried out up to the end of million euro range and risks in the high double-digit million 2020 to evaluate wind speeds. Nevertheless, these wind fluctuaeuro range that have an effect on the development of net debt tions could naturally have both a positive or negative impact in in 2020 and 2021. We currently identify a balanced level of the high double-digit million euro range on the key performance opportunity and risk in this area. indicator adjusted EBITDA in 2020 and 2021 and thus an indirect impact on the key performance indicator internal financing Financial opportunities and risks capability via the adjusted retained cash flow and on the key per#09 Hedging: When selling generated electricity volumes, EnBW is formance indicator ROCE via the adjusted EBIT. Following the exposed to the risk of falling electricity prices and the risk of the expansion of our wind portfolio with the addition of the wind unfavourable development of fuel prices in relation to electricity turbines at EnBW Hohe See and EnBW Albatros, we currently prices. The concept underlying our hedging strategy not only limidentify an increasing level of opportunity and risk in this area. its risk but also seeks to exploit opportunities. The hedging instruments utilised in 2019 were forwards, futures and swaps. The EnBW Group has exposure to foreign exchange risks from procurement Generation and Trading segment and the hedging of prices for its fuel requirements, as well as from There are general risks associated with the operation and dismangas and oil trading business. This could have both a positive or tling of nuclear power plants. During the dismantling of nuclear negative impact in the low double-digit million euro range on the power plants, there is an additional risk of a delay in the return of key performance indicator adjusted EBITDA in 2021, and thus an waste to the local intermediate storage facilities, with possible indirect impact on the key perform­ance indicator internal financadditional costs as a result of the waste being stored for a longer ing capability via the adjusted retained cash flow and on the key period of time in Great Britain and France, as well as the risk of performance indicator ROCE via the adjusted EBIT. We currently further costs for approval and authorisation procedures. identify a balanced level of opportunity and risk in the area of hedging (Glossary, from p. 139) due to increasing fuel and CO2 At the end of 2019, the remaining provisions held by EnBW were prices. Further information can be found in the section “Accountrevalued as part of the regular examination of the discount rate ing for financial instruments” in the notes to the consolidated and escalation rate. Due to changes in these kinds of assumpfinancial statements at www.enbw.com/report2019-downloads. tions in the future, we currently identify a low level of opportun­ ity and risk for the remaining nuclear provisions. #10 Power plant optimisation: Following the conclusion of the hedging of generation activities, the Trading business unit will Depending on market developments and the framework condimanage the further deployment of the power plants. This is tions related to the Energiewende, there is a general risk of a being carried out as part of power plant optimisation on the negative impact on earnings due to impairment losses on forward market (Glossary, from p. 139), through the sale of syspower plants and impending losses for onerous contracts for tem services (Glossary, from p. 139) and through placements on electricity procurement agreements. the spot and intraday trading platforms (Glossary, from p. 139). However, regulatory interventions continue to have a strong Operative opportunities and risks influence. In particular, fluctuating revenues from system ser#07 Availability of nuclear power plants: There is a general risk vices and volatility on the forward and spot markets (Glossary, that exogenous and endogenous factors will have an influence from p. 139) could have both a positive or negative impact in the on the availability of these power plants. We strive to counter mid double-digit million euro range on the key performance these risks using preventive measures. Depending on their indicator adjusted EBITDA in 2020 and 2021, and thus an indirect duration, interruptions to the operation of the power plants can impact on the key performance indicator internal financing positively or negatively impact the operating result. The availcapability via the adjusted retained cash flow and on the key ability of nuclear power plants could have a negative effect in performance indicator ROCE via the adjusted EBIT. We currently the low single-digit million euro range and a positive effect in identify a low level of risk and opportunity that is dependent on the low double-digit million euro range on the key performance the development of market prices. indicator adjusted EBITDA in 2020 and 2021, and thus an indirect impact on the key performance indicator internal financing #11 Obligation to pay EEG cost allocations for the company’s capability via the adjusted retained cash flow and on the key own and jointly owned power stations: Both for its own power performance indicator ROCE via the adjusted EBIT. We currently plants, including nuclear power plants, and for power plants in identify a rather higher level of opportunity in this area. joint ownership, EnBW AG utilises the exemption from EEG cost allocations (Glossary, from p. 139) for end usage for the respec#08 Operation and dismantling of nuclear power plants: For tive share of the power plants. There are a number of different long-term major projects such as the remaining operation and arguments that suggest that the German Federal Network dismantling of a nuclear power plant, there is a general risk that Agency and the transmission system operators could define the delays and additional costs may arise over the course of time role of the operator differently. Possible back payments for EEG 108 Management report › Report on opportunities and risks Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW cost allocations in previous years could have a negative impact during the post-operation and dismantling stages. Therefore, in the low three-digit million euro range in 2020 and a negative the costings for the consumption of electricity do not contain impact in the high double-digit million euro range in 2021 on any EEG cost allocations. There is a risk that the self-supply en­­ the key performance indicator adjusted EBITDA and thus an titlement cannot be applied, which will result in increased disindirect impact on the key performance indicator internal mantling costs. This could have a negative effect in 2020 and financing capability via the adjusted retained cash flow and on 2021 on the net debt in the low three-digit million euro range. the key performance indicator ROCE via the adjusted EBIT. We We currently identify an increased level of risk in this area. currently identify an increased level of risk in this area. #14 Phase-out of coal power: early decommissioning of power #12 Obligation to pay EEG cost allocations for leasing models: plants: The version of the Coal Phase-out Act adopted by the GerCertain virtual slices of power plants were leased to third parties man cabinet and its framework parameters (plans for operators in the past. EnBW as the operator and the third party as the regarding replacement power plants and decommissioning) are co-operator have assumed up to now that, due to this leasing open to varying interpretations with respect to the phase-out path. relationship, the third party was the plant operator at the releIn general, the later decommissioning of brown coal power plants vant site according to the EEG and was permitted to consume will mean that hard coal power plants are shut down more quickly electricity in the spatial context of their plants free of EEG cost and thus even new hard coal power plants will be removed from allocations. In general, there is a risk with these leasing models the grid earlier. The German government does not plan to provide that the transmission system operators will demand back paycompensation for any power plants decommissioned after 2027. ment for the EEG cost allocations. Possible back payments for We currently identify an increased level of risk in this area. EEG cost allocations in previous years could have a negative effect in the mid double-digit million euro range in 2020 on the No opportunities or risks relevant to the report have been elimkey performance indicator adjusted EBITDA and thus an indirect inated in comparison to the previous year. impact on the key performance indicator internal financing capability via the adjusted retained cash flow and on the key Link to the key performance indicators performance indicator ROCE via the adjusted EBIT. We currently identify an increased level of risk in this area. The top opportunities / risks can have an impact on our key performance indicators, whereby the effects on the non-financial #13 Obligation to pay EEG cost allocations for dismantling: In key performance indicators are potential and long-term in the existing planning of the dismantling costs for nuclear power nature and more difficult to measure. They have thus been plants, it was assumed that the so-called “self-supply entitleshown less boldly in the following diagram. In the past financial ment” can be used for the electricity supplied to the blocks year, these links were not monitored individually. Linking the top opportunities / risks with the key performance indicators Key performance indicators Financial Strategic performance performance Non-financial indicators indicators performance indicators Top opportunities / risks A B C D E F G H I J K L M N 1 Market prices of financial investments 2 Discount rate applied to pension provisions 3 Liquidity 4 Competitive environment 5 Political and economic environment in Turkey 6 Fluctuations in wind energy yield 7 Availability of nuclear power plants 8 Operation and dismantling of nuclear power plants 9 Hedging 10 Power plant optimisation Obligation to pay EEG cost allocations for the company’s 11 own and jointly owned power stations 12 Obligation to pay EEG cost allocations for leasing models 13 Obligation to pay EEG cost allocations for dismantling Phase-out of coal power: early decommissioning of 14 power plants Cross-segment A Adjusted Total share of adjusted H Reputation Index L LTIF for comSales EBITDA EBITDA: I EnBW / Yello Cuspanies controlled B Internal D “Customer proximity” / tomer Satisfaction by the Group / Renewable Energies LTIF overall financing Sales Index Generation and Trading capability E Grids J SAIDI (electricity) M Installed output C ROCE F Renewable Energies K Employee Commitof RE and share ment Index (ECI) of generation Direct effect G Generation and capacity accountPotential / long-term effect Trading ed for by RE N CO₂ intensity Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Management report › Report on opportunities and risks 109 Overall assessment by the management The risk situation for our company increased further in 2019. At the same time, the Energiewende offers a multitude of opporHowever, we also identify increased potential for opportunities tunities to develop new models for future business segments. We at the same time. EnBW still faces numerous factors that pose a will resolutely pursue these with our revised post-2020 strategy – danger to planning certainty and thus the achievement of its which is based on the EnBW 2020 strategy that has been successeconomic targets, and that have high risk potential, such as fully implemented up to now. For example, we believe that there regu­latory requirements and legislation dealing with sustainable are opportunities in a diverse range of customer-oriented meaenergy generation. This has far-reaching consequences for the sures such as innovative energy solutions, as well as in the areas operating business of the EnBW Group and places a burden on of electromobility and telecommunications. The commercial its earnings potential. The expansion of renewable energies is development of environmentally friendly and CO2-efficient thus subject to factors that are just as difficult to plan for, as the energy solutions will be resolutely pushed forward. The implelatest developments in the area of energy generation from coal mentation of our post-2020 strategy aims to secure the future power plants demonstrate. The persisting competitive and marviability of the company and tap into this potential for growth. ket risks could influence the operating result, financial position and net assets. No risks currently exist that might jeopardise the EnBW Group as a going concern. 119 Opportunity and risk position 2019 Development of the opportunity position Development of the risk position Cross-segment Sales Grids Renewable Energies Generation and Trading Overall assessment Decline Average Increase Amelioration Average Deterioration 2019 2018 110 Management report › Remuneration report Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Remuneration report The remuneration report summarises the principles relevant for The remuneration in the reporting year comprises basic remudetermining the remuneration of the members of the Board of neration, one-year and multi-year variable remuneration, as Management and explains the structure and level of both Board well as contributions as part of the company pension scheme. of Management and Supervisory Board remuneration. The The ratio of single-year to multi-year variable remuneration is remuneration report takes the recommendations of the Gerapprox. 40% to 60%, depending on the individual target income man Corporate Governance Code (DCGK) in the version from for the member of the Board of Management, so that multi-year 7 February 2017 and the German Accounting Standard (GAS) 17 variable remuneration significantly outweighs single-year vari(amended in 2010) into consideration in this respect. It also conable remuneration. In general, the variable remuneration comtains disclosures required by German commercial law to be ponents have a multi-year measurement basis in accordance included in the notes pursuant to section 314 HGB and the manwith section 4.2.3 sentence 4 DCGK (in the version from 7 Februagement report pursuant to section 315 HGB. ary 2017). The single-year variable remuneration component is described below as the Short Term Incentive (STI) while the multi-year variable remuneration component is described as Board of Management remuneration the Long Term Incentive (LTI). Based on proposals of the personnel committee, the Super­ Fixed remuneration visory Board passes resolutions on the remuneration of the Board of Management, including the main contract elements, The fixed remuneration comprises basic remuneration and and reviews it on a regular basis. The criteria for determining fringe benefits. appropriate remuneration include the responsibilities and performance of the members of the Board of Management, the Variable remuneration economic situation, the success and sustainable development of the company and the relationship between the remuneration Short-term variable remuneration (Short Term Incentive – STI) of the Board of Management and the remuneration of senior The STI is paid for a period of one financial year in each case and management and the workforce as a whole, as well as its develpaid out in the following financial year. The measurement opment over time. period for the STI is the financial year for which it is paid. The Board of Management remuneration system in the followThe performance indicators for calculating the extent to which ing form has been valid since 1 January 2018. The definitions of the target for the STI has been achieved are the following the performance indicators were changed on 5 December 2018 non-adjusted corporate performance indicators for the EnBW with effect from 1 January 2019 (see explanation for the perforGroup determined for one financial year: mance indicator EBT). The following diagram shows the structure of the total remuneration: › EBT (earnings before taxes), adjusted for earnings from the measurement of financial assets allocated to the financial Components of target remuneration result and outstanding items for derivatives allocated under trading as well as (since the resolution passed by the Super­ visory Board of EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG on EBT 5 December 2018 with effect from 1 January 2019) for effects due to the adjustment of the nuclear provisions and to the LTI change in the inflation rate for costs for the operation, dismantling and disposal of the nuclear power plants and in the Variable remuneration ROA discount rate › FFO (funds from operations), adjusted for the items of EBT income tax paid and income tax received STI FFO The Supervisory Board will define the target values for the performance indicators EBT and FFO each year before the start of the single-year measurement period. Basic remuneration Fixed remuneration Fringe benefits Company pension scheme Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Management report › Remuneration report 111 The target value for the performance indicator EBT is generally The actual payout factor is derived using the actual value defined on the basis of the figure actually achieved in the previachieved for the performance indicator and the piecewise linear ous year, whereby the Supervisory Board can, at its own discrefunction for the target range. tion, make the achievement of the target easier or more difficult by adjusting the figure from the previous year, taking into Target range account extraordinary events in the previous year and general considerations on the development of earnings (target-actual Payout factor in % comparison). The target value for the performance indicator FFO corresponds Target range to the value defined for the performance indicator in the sin180 (Xmax; 180) gle-year budget plan approved in the year before the start of the measurement period (plan-actual comparison). The target remuneration for the STI consists of two equally weighted partial remuneration amounts (50 : 50). Each partial 100 (Xtarget; 100) remuneration amount will be achieved if the target value for the respective performance indicator is achieved to 100%. The extent to which the individual targets for each of the perform­ance indicators are achieved is based, in the case of the underachievement or overachievement of the target value, on the ratio of the defined target value and the actual value for the (Xmin; 0) performance indicator in the measurement period as defined in Xmin Xtarget Xmax Target achievement the consolidated financial statements for the year of payment. level in % In the event of the overachievement of the target, the max­ imum possible remuneration that can be paid is limited to 180% If the definitions for the performance indicators or accounting of the partial target remuneration defined for each performance policies change, especially as a result of amendments to accountindicator (partial remuneration cap). The sum of both partial ing standards, the target values and ranges will be adjusted corremuneration caps gives the total STI remuneration cap, which respondingly during the ongoing measurement period, insofar is 180% of the total amount for the STI target remuneration. In as these changes cause the relevant achievement level to differ the event of the underachievement of the target, STI remuner­ by more than + / -5 percentage points in comparison to the value ation has no lower limit and can fall to an amount of €0. that would have been achieved without these changes. The sum of the partial remuneration amounts for each performance indiWhen defining the target values for the short-term remuner­ cator gives the total preliminary STI remuneration. ation components, the Supervisory Board can also separately define a minimum and maximum value – at its own discretion – The amount of the total preliminary STI remuneration, which is and thus the target range for each of the performance indicacalculated exclusively on the basis of financial performance tors on an annual basis. indicators, is then evaluated qualitatively using additional cri­ teria. The adjustment is carried out by multiplying the total preThe target range corresponds to a piecewise linear function, as liminary remuneration by a certain factor, whose lowest value shown in the adjacent diagram, which is determined by the is 0.7 and highest value is 1.3. Only one decimal place is used for value of the lowest achievement level Xmin in relation to the lowthis factor. If not defined otherwise by the Supervisory Board, est payout factor and the value of the highest achievement level the default factor is 1.0. The level of this factor is primarily deterXmax in relation to the highest payout factor. The relationship mined by the Supervisory Board on the basis of an evaluation between the target value and the minimum and maximum valof criteria that are defined in advance on an annual basis. The ues can be used to determine the lowest and highest achievesustainable growth of the company is an aspect that is particument levels (Xmin and Xmax), respectively, while the relationship larly taken into account. between the target remuneration and the minimum and maximum remuneration can be used to determine the lowest and highest payout factors, respectively. The partial amount of the short-term variable remuneration for each performance indicator based on the achievement level is calculated by multiplying the actual payout factor by the target remuneration defined for the respective performance indicator. 112 Management report › Remuneration report Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Calculation of the Short Term Incentive (STI) Partial target Target achievement remuneration EBT level EBT Evaluation factor based on Total defined criteria final STI remuneration Partial target Target achievement remuneration FFO level FFO In the event of extraordinary performance by the whole Board › EBT (earnings before taxes), adjusted for earnings from the of Management or one member of the Board of Management, measurement of financial assets allocated to the financial the Supervisory Board can at its own discretion grant special result and outstanding items for derivatives allocated under remuneration as part of the short-term variable remuneration. trading as well as (since the resolution passed by the Super­ visory Board of EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG on As part of a final evaluation of the short-term variable remuner5 December 2018 with effect from 1 January 2019) for effects ation, the Supervisory Board also has the discretionary power to due to the adjustment of the nuclear provisions and to the appropriately adjust the amount of the STI to take into account change in the inflation rate for costs for the operation, disextraordinary and unforeseeable events that cannot be conmantling and disposal of the nuclear power plants and in the trolled by the Board of Management that have had a considerdiscount rate able impact on the financial performance indicators on which › ROA (return on assets = return on the capital expenditure for the remuneration system is based. This discretionary power intangible assets and property, plant and equipment based does not apply to the success targets or comparative values, the on the relationship between the non-adjusted EBIT [adjusted subsequent adjustment of which should be excluded according in line with the regulations for deviations in the perform­ to the recommendations in section 4.2.3 (2) DCGK in the version ance indicator EBT] and the sum of the intangible assets and from 7 February 2017. property, plant and equipment [adjusted for subsidies related to capital expenditure]) If remuneration is granted in accordance with the two previous paragraphs, the total STI remuneration cap of 180% of the target The target values for the performance indicators EBT and ROA STI remuneration still applies. for a performance period are defined by the Supervisory Board at its own discretion on an annual basis based on the corporate Long-term variable remuneration (Long Term Incentive – LTI) strategy and with effect for the next performance period that The LTI is paid for a period of one financial year and paid out in begins in the following year. the financial year following the conclusion of the measurement period. The measurement period for calculating the LTI covers The target remuneration for the LTI consists of two equally a period of three financial years which includes the year for weighted partial remuneration amounts (50 : 50). Each partial which the remuneration is being paid and the two subsequent remuneration amount will be achieved if the target value for financial years (performance period). the respective performance indicator is achieved to 100%. The performance indicators for calculating the extent to which the target for the LTI has been achieved are the following non-adjusted corporate performance indicators for the EnBW Group determined for one financial year in each case: Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Management report › Remuneration report 113 The extent to which the individual targets for each of the The regulations for the Board of Management remuneration perform­ance indicators are achieved is based, in the case of the system that were valid up to 31 December 2017 apply for the underachievement or overachievement of the target value, on long-term variable remuneration in the measurement periods the ratio of the defined target value and the arithmetic mean of 2015 to 2017, 2016 to 2018 and 2017 to 2019, whereby the Superthe actual values for the performance indicator as defined in the visory Board of EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG passed a consolidated financial statements for each individual year of resolution on 12 July 2018 that a remuneration cap for the total the performance period. LTI of 110% of the total target remuneration will be introduced for the measurement periods 2016 to 2018 and 2017 to 2019. The In the event of the overachievement of the target, the max­ LTI value appreciation bonus according to the old remuneration imum possible remuneration that can be paid is limited to 180% system consisted of a basic LTI, a competition component and of the partial target remuneration defined for each performance a sustainability component. The total value appreciation bonus indicator (partial remuneration cap). The sum of both partial is the sum of the variable remuneration payments that are calremuneration caps gives the total LTI remuneration cap, which culated from these three components. Target values, lower limis 180% of the total amount for the LTI target remuneration. In its and upper limits are defined in advance by the Supervisory the event of the underachievement of the target, LTI remuner­ Board. The basic LTI is determined by the accumulated contriation has no lower limit and can fall to an amount of €0. bution to value added derived from the three-year mediumterm planning. It is calculated from the difference between the When defining the target values for the long-term remuneraperformance indicators ROCE and WACC (weighted average cost tion components, the Supervisory Board can also separately of capital) multiplied by the average capital employed. The comdefine a minimum and maximum value – at its own discretion – petition component measures the relative performance of the and thus the target range for each of the performance indicaEnBW Group in the respective three-year performance period tors on an annual basis (see here the information provided for against a peer group of competitors on the basis of the value the STI). spread (= ROCE – WACC). The goal of the sustainable growth of the company in its strictest sense is also taken into account The partial amount of the long-term variable remuneration for through the LTI sustainability component. In this component, each performance indicator based on the achievement level is the impact of the sustainable growth of the company on the calculated by multiplying the actual payout factor by the target areas of customers, employees and environment / society is remuneration defined for the respective performance indicator. taken into account. The extent to which the targets for all three The actual payout factor is derived using the actual value components have been achieved is determined after the concluachieved for the performance indicator and the piecewise linear sion of the three-year planning period that acts as the basis for function for the target range. The sum of the partial remunerathe calculations in each case. The Supervisory Board is entitled tion amounts for each performance indicator gives the total LTI to adjust the targets if events arise that are not relevant to the remuneration. ongoing management of the company and thus outside of the sphere of influence of the Board of Management. The size of the If the definitions for the performance indicators or accounting value appreciation bonus for 100% achievement of the targets, policies change, especially as a result of amendments to as well as the maximum and minimum values for the overaccounting standards, the target values and ranges will be achievement or underachievement of the agreed targets, can adjusted correspondingly during the ongoing measurement also be found in the table “Target income of members of the period, insofar as these changes cause the relevant achievement Board of Management”. The amount based on the achievement level to differ by more than + / -5 percentage points in compariof the relevant targets is paid out after the conclusion of the son to the value that would have been achieved without these three-year measurement period. With a view to maintaining the changes. previous level of target income, interest of 3% per annum is accrued on the calculated bonus payment for two years and is paid after the conclusion of the three-year calculation period. 114 Management report › Remuneration report Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Remuneration of members of the Board of Management in the 2019 financial year in € Dr. Frank Mastiaux, Chairman Dr. Bernhard Beck, LL.M. (until 30 June 2019) 2019 2018 2019 2018 Fixed remuneration Basic remuneration 1,040,000 990,000 257,500 515,000 Other remuneration 1 3,162 17,086 5,743 18,715 Variable remuneration Without long-term incentive 1,108,235 802,705 329,869 413,075 With long-term incentive 2 1,198,817 1,198,817 732,021 732,021 Total 3,350,214 3,008,608 1,325,133 1,678,811 1 Other remuneration includes monetary benefits, particularly from the provision of company cars amounting to €75,994 (previous year: €98,344). 2 Current preliminary value appreciation bonus for the performance periods 2018 to 2020 (and 2019 to 2021) is €1,012,095 for Dr. Frank Mastiaux (€812,174), €527,925 for Dr. Bernhard Beck (€226,823), €527,925 for Thomas Kusterer (€471,939), €0 for Colette Rückert-Hennen (€302,431) and €527,925 for Dr. Hans-Josef Zimmer (€453,647). The exact level of the value appreciation bonus for the performance periods 2018 to 2020 (and 2019 to 2021) can only be determined following the end of the 2020 financial year (and 2021 financial year), and can fluctuate within the LTI spread pursuant to the following table Target income of members of the Board of Management. Target income of members of the Board of Management1 in € Dr. Frank Mastiaux Dr. Bernhard Beck, LL.M. (until 30 June 2019) Chief Executive Officer Chief Personnel Officer 2019 2019 2019 2018 2019 2019 2019 2018 (min.) (max.) (min.) (max.) Fixed remuneration 1,040,000 1,040,000 1,040,000 990,000 257,500 257,500 257,500 515,000 Fringe benefits 3,162 3,162 3,162 17,086 5,743 5,743 5,743 18,715 Total 1,043,162 1,043,162 1,043,162 1,007,086 263,243 263,243 263,243 533,715 One-year variable remuneration performance bonus 750,000 0 1,350,000 710,000 205,000 0 369,000 370,000 Multi-year variable remuneration LTI 2017 to 2019 1,026,000 0 1,130,000 1,026,000 630,000 0 690,000 630,000 Total 2,819,162 1,043,162 3,523,162 2,743,086 1,098,243 263,243 1,322,243 1,533,715 Pension expenses 526,560 526,560 526,560 546,663 46,950 46,950 46,950 112,847 Total remuneration 3,345,722 1,569,722 4,049,722 3,289,749 1,145,193 310,193 1,369,193 1,646,562 1 This table illustrates the remuneration in both the reporting year and previous year which arises given 100% achievement of the targets (target income) and the potential minimum and maximum remuneration for the financial year. Remuneration is described for Board of Management members who were appointed at least on a part-time basis in either the reporting year or previous year to the Board of Management at EnBW AG. Payments to Board of Management members1 in € Dr. Frank Mastiaux Dr. Bernhard Beck, LL.M. (until 30 June 2019) Chief Executive Officer Chief Personnel Officer 2019 2018 2019 2018 Fixed remuneration 1,040,000 990,000 257,500 515,000 Fringe benefits 3,162 17,086 5,743 18,715 Total 1,043,162 1,007,086 263,243 533,715 One-year variable remuneration performance bonus 815,340 838,069 463,980 464,059 LTI 2015 to 2017 1,222,921 718,222 LTI 2016 to 2018 1,198,817 732,021 Total 3,057,319 3,068,076 1,459,244 1,715,996 Pension expenses 526,560 546,663 46,950 112,847 Total remuneration 3,583,879 3,614,739 1,506,194 1,828,843 1 This table illustrates payments in both the reporting year and previous year pursuant to the German Income Tax Act (Einkommensteuergesetz). Earnings are described for members of the Board of Management who were appointed at least on a part-time basis in either the reporting year or previous year to the Board of Management of EnBW AG. Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Management report › Remuneration report 115 Thomas Kusterer Colette Rückert-Hennen (since 1 March 2019) Dr. Hans-Josef Zimmer 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 600,000 515,000 380,000 0 570,000 515,000 22,508 23,594 17,333 0 39,982 39,956 629,438 419,686 371,952 0 603,431 418,477 625,931 625,931 0 0 625,931 625,931 1,877,877 1,584,211 769,285 0 1,839,344 1,599,364 Thomas Kusterer Colette Rückert-Hennen (since 1 March 2019) Dr. Hans-Josef Zimmer Chief Financial Officer Chief Human Resources Officer Chief Technical Officer 2019 2019 2019 2018 2019 2019 2019 2018 2019 2019 2019 2018 (min.) (max.) (min.) (max.) (min.) (max.) 600,000 600,000 600,000 515,000 380,000 380,000 380,000 0 570,000 570,000 570,000 515,000 22,508 22,508 22,508 23,594 17,333 17,333 17,333 0 39,982 39,982 39,982 39,956 622,508 622,508 622,508 538,594 397,333 397,333 397,333 0 609,982 609,982 609,982 554,956 430,000 0 774,000 370,000 273,333 0 492,000 0 410,000 0 738,000 370,000 535,000 0 590,000 535,000 0 0 0 0 535,000 0 590,000 535,000 1,587,508 622,508 1,986,508 1,443,594 670,666 397,333 889,333 0 1,554,982 609,982 1,937,982 1,459,956 369,898 369,898 369,898 380,180 0 0 0 0 242,401 242,401 242,401 235,725 1,957,406 992,406 2,356,406 1,823,774 670,666 397,333 889,333 0 1,797,383 852,383 2,180,383 1,695,681 Thomas Kusterer Colette Rückert-Hennen (since 1 March 2019) Dr. Hans-Josef Zimmer Chief Financial Officer Chief Human Resources Officer Chief Technical Officer 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 600,000 515,000 380,000 0 570,000 515,000 22,508 23,594 17,333 0 39,982 39,956 622,508 538,594 397,333 0 609,982 554,956 388,980 445,103 0 0 507,056 443,895 620,561 0 620,560 625,931 0 0 625,931 1,637,419 1,604,258 397,333 0 1,742,969 1,619,411 369,898 380,180 0 0 242,401 235,725 2,007,317 1,984,438 397,333 0 1,985,370 1,855,136 116 Management report › Remuneration report Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Compensation agreed with the Board of Management When the pension is due (age, invalidity, death), payment of the in the event of termination of service pension assets is generally made in five to ten instalments. Alternatively, a life-long pension payment can be made on the The Supervisory Board of EnBW AG passed a new resolution on request of the member of the Board of Management – including 18 March 2016 for the reorganisation of the company pension a 60% entitlement for surviving dependants – or a mixed form scheme for the Board of Management, effective as of 1 January of payment. Payment options are also available to the surviving 2016. dependants. If the member leaves the Board of Management before the pension is due, the pension account will remain at its The regulations that were valid up until then can be found in current balance plus any surplus payments that are still due to the following publications: be made. › The company pension scheme that was valid for members of The members of the Board of Management are entitled to make the Board of Management up until 31 December 2015 is pretheir own contributions to the pension scheme and supplement sented in detail in the remuneration report for 2015, which the pension provision financed by the employer. For this purwas published in the combined management report of the pose, a proportion of the annual STI bonus up to a maximum EnBW Group and EnBW AG for the 2015 financial year. sum of €50,000 p.a. can be converted into a pension entitle› The regulations governing the transition of the company ment. The regulations described above apply correspondingly pension scheme that was valid for members of the Board of to self-financed contributions. Management up until 31 December 2015 are presented in detail in the remuneration report for 2016, which was pubVested pension entitlements from the old pension scheme: As lished in the combined management report of the EnBW part of the transfer of the existing pension entitlements from the Group and EnBW AG for the 2016 financial year. old pension scheme, the following vested pension entitlements – in accordance with the individual term of service in each case – The company pension scheme for the members of the Board of were determined for the serving members of the Board of ManManagement at the company is a modern and market-oriented agement as of 31 December 2015: Dr. Frank Mastiaux: €80,676 pension system that provides members of the Board of Managep.a., Dr. Bernhard Beck (until 30 / 06 / 2019): €195,846 p.a., Thomas ment with flexibility with respect to how the pension benefits Kusterer: €89,523 p.a., Dr. Hans-Josef Zimmer: €174,636 p.a. are paid out. Following the introduction of the new system, there has been a shift from the previous defined benefit penIndividual pension contributions that deviate from the regusion plan to a defined contribution pension model. In the new lations for the new pension scheme: From 1 January 2016, the system, annual pension contributions will be paid that accrue annual pension contributions and the interest on the contribuinterest at a rate oriented to the capital market. In order to tions will generally be paid in accordance with the rules of the ensure that the business risks associated with the pension new system for new members of the Board of Management scheme – especially the interest rate risks and biometric risks – appointed in the future. However, a deviation was necessary for remain calculable in the future, the interest model only conthe then serving members of the Board of Management to take tains a relatively low fixed interest entitlement that forms the account of the transition to the new system, and individual basic interest rate plus a non-guaranteed surplus that is based ­pension contributions and an individual contribution period on the actual development of interest rates in the life insurance have been defined. The following individual pension contri­ industry. butions were determined: Dr. Frank Mastiaux: €360,000 p.a.,­ Dr. Bernhard Beck (until 30 / 06 / 2019): €170,000 p.a., Thomas During the term of the contract, EnBW pays fixed annual contriKusterer: €215,000 p.a., Dr. Hans-Josef Zimmer: €120,000 p.a. butions to the pension scheme to an individual pension account. Pension contributions are paid for a maximum period Regulation for limiting severance payments: No severance of three terms of office (or 13 years in office). The fixed annual benefit obligations exist in the event of premature termination contributions are €230,000 for ordinary members of the Board of service on the Board of Management. However, severance of Management and €390,000 for the Chairman of the Board of benefits may be payable on the basis of a severance agreement Management. In the event of invalidity and as a supplementary made with the individual. For agreements in place as of the risk benefit, age-dependent “notional” contributions will be reporting date, it was agreed that payments made to a member paid on top of the balance already existing on the pension of the Board of Management on premature termination of his account until the member reaches the age of 60 – although at or her contract without serious cause, including fringe benefits, the most seven contributions will be paid. shall not exceed the value of two years’ remuneration (severance cap) and compensate for no more than the remaining As well as the annual contributions, interest is paid that is oriterm of the contract. In concluding or extending contracts for ented to the market and consists of a guaranteed basic interest the Board of Management, care is taken to ensure that no payrate and a non-guaranteed surplus. The guaranteed interest is ments will be made to a member of the Board of Management paid on every contribution in advance until the defined retirein the event of the premature termination of the contract due ment age (63 years old). In addition, annual surplus payments to an important reason for which the member of the Board of can be paid above and beyond the guaranteed interest. These Management is responsible. are based on the current average interest rate for capital investments actually achieved in the past year in the life insurance In the event of the premature termination of service on the industry and are not guaranteed. Board of Management due to a change of control, the possibility Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Management report › Remuneration report 117 of a severance payment for the member of the Board of ManManagement due to illness or any other reason for which the agement is limited to the pro rata share of annual remuneramember of the Board of Management is not responsible, remution(s) for the residual term of the contract. However, the severneration will be paid for the first six months. The amount of ance payment must not exceed three times the annual variable remuneration will be calculated from the average of the remuneration. last three years, and basic remuneration will be paid for a further six months. However, payments in the event of unavail­ In concluding or extending contracts for the Board of Manageability for work will be made no longer than until the end of the ment, it is agreed that settlement or severance payments should term of the service agreement. not exceed three times the annual remuneration and must not compensate for more than the residual term of the contract in The disclosures for the 2019 financial year concerning post-emthe event of the premature termination of service on the Board ployment benefits are presented below. This presentation satisof Management due to a change of control. fies the requirements of section 285 No. 9a HGB. The disclosures include the vested entitlement as of the reporting date, the Temporary unavailability for work: In the event of temporary annual expenses for pension obligations and the present value unavailability for work on the part of a member of the Board of of the pension obligations earned as of the reporting date. Post-employment benefits in € Dr. Frank Mastiaux, Dr. Bernhard Beck, LL.M. Thomas Kusterer Colette Rückert-Hennen Dr. Hans-Josef Zimmer Chairman (until 30 June 2019) (since 1 March 2019) 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Vested benefit from previous entitlement p.a. 80,676 80,676 195,846 195,846 89.523 ² 89.523 ² 0 0 174,636 174,636 Capital from contribution model 1,767,878 1,296,167 379,626 373,116 1,096,121 777,533 198,025 0 513,058 384,086 Annual expenses for pension obligations 1 526,560 546,663 46,950 112,847 369,898 380,180 0 0 242,401 235,725 Present value of pension obligations (defined benefit obligations) 4,391,428 3,396,435 5,646,078 5,216,617 4,096,394 3,151,738 244,894 0 5,599,845 4,845,098 1 Including an addition to capital for pension benefits totalling €101,649 (previous year: €128,128). This is a pension commitment financed through voluntarily waiving part of the salary. 2 In addition to the vested pension, Thomas Kusterer also has a special capital component of €135,000. Annual expenses for pension obligations include both service Supervisory Board remuneration and interest costs. There are defined benefit obligations in accordance with IFRS of €20.0 million for the current members In response to a proposal of the Board of Management and of the Board of Management (previous year: €16.6 million). Supervisory Board, the Annual General Meeting on 25 April 2013 revised the regulations for Supervisory Board remuneration. Former members of the Board of Management and their sur­ Accordingly, members of the Supervisory Board each receive viving dependants received total remuneration of €5.2 million fixed remuneration of €40,000 for the entire 2019 financial in the 2019 financial year (previous year: €4.8 million). These year, payable at the end of the financial year in addition to reimpension payments are indexed to the percentage change in bursement of their expenses. remuneration according to the collective bargaining agreement. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board receives twice the There are defined benefit obligations to former members of the above, while the Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board Board of Management and their surviving dependants in receives one and a half times the aforementioned amount. accord­ ance with IFRS of €114.8 million (previous year: €99.0 million). Members of the Supervisory Board receive fixed remuneration of €7,500 each per financial year to offset the additional work As in the previous year, no loans or advances to members of the involved in any activities in one or more Supervisory Board Board of Management existed at the end of the financial year. committees. The Chairperson of one or more committees receives twice the amount of the remuneration for the committee work, unless the respective committee has not met in the financial year concerned. Supervisory Board members who have only belonged to the Supervisory Board or a committee or acted as a Chairperson for part of the financial year are paid remuneration proportionate to the duration of their office or their position in that financial year. 118 Management report › Remuneration report Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW In addition, members of the Supervisory Board receive an atten(previous year: €201,500) and the remuneration for offices held dance fee of €750 for Supervisory Board meetings and commitat subsidiaries include attendance fees totalling €19,575 (previtee meetings. Attendance at preliminary meetings is remunerous year: €14,390). No other remuneration or benefits for serated with €250 per meeting, but only for one preliminary vices rendered personally, in particular consulting or mediation meeting per Supervisory Board meeting. services, were paid to members of the Supervisory Board, nor did they receive any loans or advances in the reporting year. According to this remuneration system, the members of the Supervisory Board will receive the total remuneration (in­­ The members of the Board of Management and the Supervisory cluding attendance fees and remuneration for offices held at Board are covered by adequate D&O insurance concluded in the subsidiaries) shown in the table for the 2019 financial year. interest of EnBW. For this D&O insurance, the deductible for members of the Board of Management and the Supervisory The disclosures for the remuneration for members of the SuperBoard is 10% of the claim in each case, but no more than one visory Board include attendance fees amounting to €237,000 and a half times the fixed annual remuneration. Total remuneration for members of the Supervisory Board of EnBW AG Fixed remuneration Remuneration for offices in € (incl. attendance fees) held at subsidiaries Total 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Lutz Feldmann, Chairman 107,750 110,750 0 0 107,750 110,750 Dietrich Herd, Deputy Chairman 85,250 84,750 9,500 9,500 94,750 94,250 Achim Binder (since 1 January 2019) 64,500 0 10,069 0 74,569 0 Dr. Dietrich Birk 58,750 57,250 0 0 58,750 57,250 Stefanie Bürkle 1 55,750 52,000 0 0 55,750 52,000 Stefan Paul Hamm 2 64,500 64,000 7,513 7,513 72,013 71,513 Volker Hüsgen (since 1 October 2018) 56,750 13,723 13,805 2,579 70,555 16,302 Michaela Kräutter 2 57,750 46,000 7,513 950 65,263 46,950 Silke Krebs (until 31 December 2018) 0 56,500 0 0 0 56,500 Marianne Kugler-Wendt 2 57,750 56,500 6,400 6,100 64,150 62,600 Thomas Landsbek 58,500 46,000 0 0 58,500 46,000 Dr. Hubert Lienhard 64,503 54,250 0 0 64,503 54,250 Marika Lulay (since 14 February 2019) 49,274 0 0 0 49,274 0 Sebastian Maier (until 31 December 2018) 0 56,500 0 6,615 0 63,115 Arnold Messner (until 31 December 2018) 0 63,750 0 8,113 0 71,863 Dr. Wolf-Rüdiger Michel 1 57,250 54,250 0 0 57,250 54,250 Gunda Röstel 65,500 64,000 11,313 11,513 76,813 75,513 Jürgen Schäfer (since 1 January 2019) 56,750 0 0 0 56,750 0 Klaus Schörnich (until 30 September 2018) 0 42,777 0 200 0 42,977 Heinz Seiffert 1 (until 31 December 2018) 0 55,750 0 0 0 55,750 Harald Sievers (since 1 January 2019) 55,000 0 0 0 55,000 0 Edith Sitzmann 3 61,750 54,250 0 0 61,750 54,250 Ulrike Weindel 60,750 56,500 0 0 60,750 56,500 Lothar Wölfle 1 63,250 63,250 0 0 63,250 63,250 Dr. Bernd-Michael Zinow 68,250 66,250 12,000 12,800 80,250 79,050 Total 1,269,527 1,219,000 78,113 65,883 1,347,640 1,284,883 1 The regulations in the State Civil Service Act (Landesbeamtengesetz) and the Ancillary Activities Ordinance (Landesnebentätigkeitsverordnung – LNTVO) of the Federal State of Baden-Württemberg for relinquishing remuneration from secondary employment to the administrative district apply. The regulations in LBeamtVG apply instead for Mr Seiffert. 2 In accordance with the regulations of the German Federation of Trade Unions (DGB) on the transfer of supervisory board remuneration, the remuneration is transferred to the Hans Böckler Foundation and ver.di GewerkschaftsPolitische Bildung gGmbH. 3 The members of the state government and the state secretaries are obligated to relinquish any remuneration, including attendance fees, received for membership of supervisory boards, executive boards, advisory boards and all other comparable boards to which they have been appointed in connection with their office or to which they are assigned as a member of the state government, applying section 5 LNTVO analogously, provided that the remuneration received in the calendar year exceeds the gross total for level “B6 and higher” (currently €6,100) (council of ministers resolution dated 05 / 07 / 2016). Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Management report › Disclosures pursuant to sections 289 a (1) and 315 a (1) German 119 Commercial Code (HGB) and explanatory report of the Board of Management Disclosures pursuant to sections 289 a (1) and 315 a (1) German Commercial Code (HGB) and explanatory report of the Board of Management In the following, the Board of Management provides the inforright to amend the Articles of Association was transferred to the mation prescribed by sections 289 a (1) and 315 a (1) HGB and Supervisory Board where such amendments affect the wording explains this in accordance with section 176 (1) sentence 1 AktG. only. This option pursuant to section 179 (1) sentence 2 AktG is embodied in article 18 (2) of the Articles of Association. Pursuant to section 179 (2) AktG, resolutions by the Annual General Composition of the subscribed capital and Meeting to amend the Articles of Association require a majority shares in capital of at least three quarters of the capital stock represented when The composition of the subscribed capital is described and passing the resolution, unless the Articles of Association stipuexplained in the notes to the annual and consolidated financial late a different majority, which, however, for any amendment to statements in the section “Equity”. Direct or indirect shares in the purpose of the company can only be higher. Pursuant to capital which exceed 10% of the voting rights are described and article 18 (1) of the Articles of Association, resolutions by the explained in the notes to the annual financial statements in the Annual General Meeting require a simple majority of the votes sections “Shareholder structure” and “Disclosures pursuant to cast, unless legal regulations or the Articles of Association stipsections 33 ff. German Securities Trading Act (WpHG)” and the ulate otherwise. If the law requires a larger majority of the votes notes to the consolidated financial statements in section cast or of the capital stock represented when passing the reso“Related parties (entities)”. Information and explanations about lution, the simple majority suffices in those cases where the law the company’s treasury shares are presented below and can be leaves the determination of the required majority to the Articles found in note 19 of the notes to the consolidated financial stateof Association. ments at www.enbw.com/report2019-downloads. Authority of the Board of Management regarding Restrictions relating to voting rights or the possibility to issue or redeem shares transferability of shares No authorised or conditional capital nor any authorisation of Agreements were reached on 22 December 2015 between, on the the Annual General Meeting pursuant to section 71 (1) No. 8 AktG one hand, Zweckverband Oberschwäbische Elektrizitätswerke for the purchase of treasury shares by the company currently (Zweckverband OEW) and OEW Energie-Beteiligungs GmbH and, exists at EnBW. Therefore, the company may only acquire treas­ on the other, the Federal State of Baden-Württemberg, NECKARury shares on the basis of other reasons justifying such purPRI GmbH and NECKARPRI-Beteiligungsgesellschaft mbH, which chases in accordance with section 71 (1) AktG. As of 31 December include clauses relating to restrictions of authorisation over 2019, the company holds 5,749,677 treasury shares which were EnBW shares held by these parties and a general mutual obligapurchased on the basis of earlier authorisations in accordance tion of both main shareholders to maintain parity investment with section 71 (1) No. 8 AktG. The company’s treasury shares can relationships in EnBW with respect to each other. Restrictions be sold on the stock exchange or by public offer to all company relating to voting rights no longer exist to the knowledge of the shareholders. The use of treasury shares, in particular their sale, Board of Management since the aforementioned direct and in any other way can only occur within the scope of the reso­ indirect EnBW shareholders annulled a shareholder agreement lution issued by the Annual General Meeting on 29 April 2004. on 22 December 2015 that had previously existed between them. The treasury shares held by EnBW do not grant the company any rights in accordance with section 71b AktG. Legal provisions and statutes on the appointment and dismissal of members of the Board of Management Material agreements of the company subject to and amendments to the Articles of Association the condition of a change of control as a result of a takeover bid and the resulting effects Pursuant to section 84 AktG in conjunction with section 31 MitbestG, responsibility for the appointment and dismissal of The following EnBW agreements are subject to the condition of members of the Board of Management rests with the Super­ a change of control following a takeover bid as defined by secvisory Board. This competence is stipulated in article 7 (1) sentions 289a (1) No. 8 and 315a (1) No. 8 HGB: tence 2 of the Articles of Association of EnBW. If, under exceptional circumstances, a necessary member of the Board of A syndicated credit line of €1.5 billion, which had not been Management is missing, section 85 AktG requires that a memdrawn as of 31 December 2019, can be terminated by the lenders ber of the Board of Management be appointed by the court in and become due for repayment given a change of control at urgent cases. The Annual General Meeting has the right to make EnBW. This does not apply if the purchaser of the shares is the changes to the Articles of Association in accordance with secFederal State of Baden-Württemberg or Zweckverband OEW or tion 119 (1) No. 6 AktG. The specific rules of procedure are conanother German state-owned public law legal entity. tained in sections 179 and 181 AktG. For practical reasons, the 120 Management report › Disclosures pursuant to sections 289 a (1) and 315 a (1) German Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Commercial Code (HGB) and explanatory report of the Board of Management A promissory note loan of €200 million taken out by Stadtwerke of the shares is EDF (whose legal successor as shareholder has Dusseldorf AG (SWD AG) relating to the financing of their CCGT been the Federal State of Baden-Württemberg since February power plant, two bilateral bank loans together totalling around 2011) or Zweckverband OEW or another German state-owned €44 million and a syndicated loan, of which €182 million was public law corporation. Two bilateral long-term bank loans, drawn as of 31 December 2019, can each become due for repaydrawn to the value of €350 million and around €318 million as ment given a change of control at SWD AG, including an indirect of 31 December 2019, can be terminated by the lender and change of control. This does not apply if, after the change of become due for repayment given a change of control at EnBW, control, the majority of shares in SWD AG are held directly or provided the change of control has a negative effect on repayindirectly by German government entities and the City of Düsment of the loan in future. This does not apply if the purchaser seldorf holds at least 25.05% of the shares in SWD AG. of the shares is EDF (whose legal successor as shareholder has been the Federal State of Baden-Württemberg since February A syndicated credit line with a volume of €700 million agreed 2011) or Zweckverband OEW. with VNG AG, of which around €390 million was drawn as of 31 December 2019, can become due for repayment given a Compensation agreements change of control at VNG, including an indirect change of control. This does not apply if, after the change of control, the Compensation agreements pursuant to sections 289 a (1) No. 9 majority of shares in VNG continue to be held directly by Gerand 315 a (1) No. 9 HGB concluded with members of the Board of man public sector shareholders or indirectly by these shareManagement to cover any case of a change of control are holders via controlled legal entities. described and explained in the remuneration report, which is part of the management report. A bond of JPY 20 billion issued on 12 December 2008 under the Debt Issuance Programme (Glossary, from p. 139) can be termiNos. 4 and 5 of sections 289 a (1) and 315 a (1) HGB were not relenated by the lenders and become due for repayment given a vant for EnBW in the 2019 financial year. change of control at EnBW. This does not apply if the purchaser Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Management report › Index for the non-financial declaration of the EnBW Group and EnBW AG 121 Index for the non-financial declaration of the EnBW Group and EnBW AG In accordance with sections 315b and 289b HGB, the EnBW the aspects required by the act and also other aspects that are Group and EnBW AG have been obligated to issue a non-finanmaterial from the perspective of EnBW, such as standing in socicial declaration since the 2017 financial year. We comply with ety, customer satisfaction and supply quality, we fulfil the oblithe requirements by fully integrating the non-financial declar­ gations by providing information about concepts and processes, ation into the Integrated Annual Report as part of the combined measures, performance indicators and risks. management report of the EnBW Group and EnBW AG. For all of Index for the non-financial declaration of the EnBW Group and EnBW AG Themes Aspects Section Page reference Compliance » Fighting corruption and bribery » Corporate governance page 49 f. » In dialogue with our stakeholders page 55 » Report on opportunities and risks page 103 Social engagement » Social issues » In dialogue with our stakeholders page 53 ff. » Report on opportunities and risks page 103 Procurement » Respect for human rights » In dialogue with our stakeholders page 52 ff. » Procurement page 59 ff. » Report on opportunities and risks page 103 Reputation » Standing in society » In dialogue with our stakeholders page 52 ff. » The EnBW Group page 81 » Forecast page 98 » Report on opportunities and risks page 103 Customer proximity » Customer satisfaction » In dialogue with our stakeholders page 52 ff. » The EnBW Group page 81 f. » Forecast page 98 f. » Report on opportunities and risks page 103 Supply reliability » Supply quality » In dialogue with our stakeholders page 51 » The EnBW Group page 83 » Forecast page 99 Employee commitment » Employee issues » In dialogue with our stakeholders page 52 ff. » The EnBW Group page 83 ff. » Forecast page 99 » Report on opportunities and risks page 103 Occupational safety » Employee issues » The EnBW Group page 86 f. » Forecast page 99 » Report on opportunities and risks page 104 Expansion of renewable energies » Environmental issues » Business model page 32 f. » Strategy, goals and performance management system page 41 ff. » In dialogue with our stakeholders page 51 ff. » The EnBW Group page 87 f. » Forecast page 99 » Report on opportunities and risks page 104 Climate protection » Environmental issues » Business model page 32 f. » Strategy, goals and performance management system page 41 ff. » In dialogue with our stakeholders page 51 ff. » General conditions page 63 » The EnBW Group page 88 ff. » Forecast page 99 » Report on opportunities and risks page 104 122 Management report › Index for the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW The non-financial declaration is issued jointly for the EnBW Information on the diversity concept can be found in the declar­ Group and EnBW AG. Any differences between statements made ation of corporate management at www.enbw.com/corporate-­ for the Group and for EnBW AG are clearly identified in the text. governance. Information on the business model can be found in the section “Business model” (p. 32 ff.). We have not identified any material Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft is comindividual risks in the 2019 financial year that have a very high missioned to audit the consolidated financial statements and probability of a serious negative impact in relation to the relethe combined management report including the contents of vant non-financial issues. the non-financial declaration with reasonable assurance and then to issue an audit opinion following the conclusion of the The reporting of sustainability topics has been based for many audit. The full consolidated financial statements and the years on the standards issued by the Global Reporting Initiative ­combined management report for the 2019 financial year are (GRI). Since the 2017 financial year, we have based our reporting accessible to the public on the website at www.enbw.com/ on the GRI standards – “Core” option, including the Electric Utilreport2019-downloads. ities Sector Supplement (www.enbw.com/gri-index). Our sustainability reporting also complies with the requirements of the Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact. Index for the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) EnBW started to implement the recommendations from the each of the four key elements. The index also includes other TCFD in 2017 (Glossary, from p. 139). This work has continued in themes besides these where we are working on the further the 2019 financial year and is being continuously developed in implementation of the TCFD recommendations. Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) TCFD element Themes Section Page reference Governance » Corporate management » Corporate governance page 48 » Materiality analysis » In dialogue with our stakeholders page 51 f. » Investment guidelines » The EnBW Group page 76 » Climate protection initiatives » In dialogue with our stakeholders, General conditions pages 52 and 63 » Overall assessment by the management » Overall assessment of the economic situation of page 95 the Group » Board of Management remuneration » Remuneration report page 110 ff. Strategy » Robustness of business model / scenario analysis » Business model page 33 » Strategy, strategic development » Strategy, goals and performance management system page 41 ff. » Interdependencies » Strategy, goals and performance management system page 46 f. » Materiality analysis » In dialogue with our stakeholders page 51 f. » Green bonds » The EnBW Group page 74 » General conditions, climate protection » General conditions page 63 Risk » Integrated opportunity and risk management » Report on opportunities and risks page 100 ff. management including opportunity and risk map » Environment goal dimension: opportunities and risks » Report on opportunities and risks page 104 Performance » Sustainability ratings » In dialogue with our stakeholders page 53 indicators and » Key performance indicators and long-term targets » Strategy, goals and performance management system page 44 ff. targets » Environment goal dimension: key performance » The EnBW Group page 87 ff. indicators and other performance indicators Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Management report › Declaration of the legal representatives 123 Declaration of the legal representatives We assure to the best of our knowledge that, in accordance with the applicable accounting principles, the annual and consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the net assets, financial position and results of operations of the company and the Group, and that the combined management report gives a true and fair view of the business development including the result and situation of the company and the Group and also describes the significant opportunities and risks relating to the anticipated development of the company and the Group. Karlsruhe, 4 March 2020 EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG Dr. Mastiaux Kusterer Rückert-Hennen Dr. Zimmer 124 Condensed financial statements of the EnBW Group › Table of contents Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Condensed financial statements of the EnBW Group Income statement ............................................................. 125 Statement of comprehensive income ............................... 126 Balance sheet ................................................................... 127 Cash flow statement ......................................................... 128 Statement of changes in equity ....................................... 129 Information on the result of the audit of the consolidated financial statements and the combined management report of the company and the Group for the 2019 financial year......................... 130 Note The full set of financial statements of the EnBW Group 2019 including the notes to the consolidated financial statements and the unqualified auditor’s report form part of the Integrated Annual Report 2019 – Extended Version, which is available in PDF format on our website at www.enbw.com/report2019-downloads. Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Condensed financial statements › Income statement 125 Income statement in € million1 Notes 2019 2018 Change in % Revenue including electricity and energy taxes 19,270.7 21,391.0 -9.9 Electricity and energy taxes -505.7 -575.6 -12.1 Revenue (1) 18,765.0 20,815.4 -9.9 Changes in inventories 18.3 13.9 31.7 Other own work capitalised 148.1 102.1 45.1 Other operating income (2) 1,544.0 1,185.1 30.3 Cost of materials (3) -14,841.1 -16,838.1 -11.9 Personnel expenses (4) -2,007.0 -1,871.8 7.2 Impairment losses (25) -89.2 -36.7 143.1 Other operating expenses (5) -1,292.9 -1,280.3 1.0 EBITDA 2,245.2 2,089.6 7.4 Amortisation and depreciation (6) -1,648.5 -1,213.8 35.8 Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) 596.7 875.8 -31.9 Investment result (7) 401.3 100.9 – of which net profit / loss from entities accounted for using the equity method (28.9) (-24.1) – of which other profit / loss from investments (372.4) (125.0) – Financial result (8) -95.8 -380.4 -74.8 of which finance income (537.1) (295.5) (81.8) of which finance costs (-632.9) (-675.9) (-6.4) Earnings before tax (EBT) 902.2 596.3 51.3 Income tax (9) 2.1 -128.7 -101.6 Group net profit 904.3 467.6 93.4 of which profit / loss shares attributable to non-controlling interests (170.1) (133.4) (27.5) of which profit / loss shares attributable to the shareholders of EnBW AG (734.2) (334.2) (119.7) EnBW AG shares outstanding (million), weighted average 270.855 270.855 0.0 Earnings per share from Group net profit (€) 2 (24) 2.71 1.23 119.7 1 The figures for the previous year have been restated. Further disclosures are presented in the notes under “Changes in accounting policies”. We publish the full set of consolidated financial statements at www.enbw.com/report2019-downloads. 2 Diluted and basic; in relation to profit / loss attributable to the shareholders of EnBW AG. 126 Condensed financial statements › Statement of comprehensive income Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Statement of comprehensive income in € million1 Notes 2019 2018 Change in % Group net profit 904.3 467.6 93.4 Revaluation of pensions and similar obligations (20) -1,028.3 -110.0 – Entities accounted for using the equity method (13) -0.3 0.0 – Income taxes on other comprehensive income (9) 300.8 31.8 – Total of other comprehensive income and expenses without future reclassifications impacting earnings -727.8 -78.2 – Currency translation differences 24.2 5.1 – Cash flow hedge (25) 131.8 -143.8 – Financial assets at fair value in equity (14) 18.7 -16.2 – Entities accounted for using the equity method (13) -2.9 1.0 – Income taxes on other comprehensive income (9) -49.6 81.5 – Total of other comprehensive income and expenses with future reclassifications impacting earnings 122.2 -72.4 – Total other comprehensive income -605.6 -150.6 – Total comprehensive income 298.7 317.0 -5.8 of which profit / loss shares attributable to non-controlling interests (153.4) (132.6) 15.7 of which profit / loss shares attributable to the shareholders of EnBW AG (145.3) (184.4) -21.2 1 Further information is available in the notes under (19) “Equity“. We publish the full set of consolidated financial statements at www.enbw.com/report2019-downloads. Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Condensed financial statements › Balance sheet 127 Balance sheet in € million 1 Notes 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Assets Non-current assets Intangible assets (10) 3,347.4 1,748.7 Property, plant and equipment (11),(12) 18,552.7 15,867.5 Entities accounted for using the equity method (13) 1,064.0 1,600.2 Other financial assets (14) 6,356.9 5,426.5 Trade receivables (15) 331.3 302.0 Other non-current assets (16) 756.2 741.8 Deferred taxes (21) 1,214.0 1,059.3 31,622.5 26,746.0 Current assets Inventories 1,066.1 1,192.0 Financial assets (17) 448.6 774.7 Trade receivables (15) 3,976.8 4,515.7 Other current assets (16) 4,809.4 3,788.9 Cash and cash equivalents (18) 1,363.8 2,249.4 11,664.7 12,520.7 Assets held for sale (23) 0.9 342.3 11,665.6 12,863.0 43,288.1 39,609.0 Equity and liabilities Equity (19) Shares of the shareholders of EnBW AG Subscribed capital 708.1 708.1 Capital reserve 774.2 774.2 Revenue reserves 5,234.5 4,676.4 Treasury shares -204.1 -204.1 Other comprehensive income -2,565.6 -1,976.7 3,947.1 3,977.9 Non-controlling interests 3,498.0 2,295.4 7,445.1 6,273.3 Non-current liabilities Provisions (20) 14,333.1 13,246.0 Deferred taxes (21) 890.0 774.8 Financial liabilities (22) 7,360.7 6,341.4 Other liabilities and subsidies (22) 2,155.9 1,674.7 24,739.7 22,036.9 Current liabilities Provisions (20) 1,535.9 1,549.9 Financial liabilities (22) 830.2 654.8 Trade payables (22) 4,055.1 5,039.8 Other liabilities and subsidies (22) 4,682.1 4,033.1 11,103.3 11,277.6 Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale (23) 0.0 21.2 11,103.3 11,298.8 43,288.1 39,609.0 1 We publish the full set of consolidated financial statements at www.enbw.com/report2019-downloads. 128 Condensed financial statements › Cash flow statement Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Cash flow statement in € million1 Notes 2019 2018 1. Operating activities EBITDA 2,245.2 2,089.6 Changes in provisions (20) -416.0 -394.6 Result from disposals of assets (2),(5) -18.5 -88.4 Other non-cash-relevant expenses / income (2),(3),(5) 64.8 -27.6 Change in assets and liabilities from operating activities -759.4 -480.7 Inventories (-160.4) (-201.7) Net balance of trade receivables and payables (15),(22) (-517.8) (49.6) Net balance of other assets and liabilities (16),(22) (-81.2) (-328.6) Income tax paid (9),(16),(22) -409.1 -270.7 Cash flow from operating activities 707.0 827.6 2. Investing activities Capital expenditure on intangible assets and property, plant and equipment (10),(11) -1,947.8 -1,369.5 Disposals of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment (10),(11) 50.1 77.3 Cash received from subsidies for construction cost and investments (22) 90.4 86.1 Acquisition of subsidiaries, entities accounted for using the equity method and interests in joint operations (13) -1,135.1 -297.6 Sale of subsidiaries, entities accounted for using the equity method and interests in joint operations (13) 68.3 297.9 Cash paid for investments in other financial assets (14),(17) -722.6 -750.4 Cash received from the sale of other financial assets (14),(17) 1,014.0 765.3 Cash received / paid for investments in connection with short-term finance planning (17),(22) -20.9 10.5 Interest received (8) 111.6 94.4 Dividends received (7) 174.9 190.2 Cash flow from investing activities -2,317.1 -895.8 3. Financing activities Interest paid for financing activities (8) -214.9 -247.0 Dividends paid (19) -316.5 -312.8 Cash received for changes in ownership interest without loss of control (19) 23.4 4.6 Cash paid for changes in ownership interest without loss of control -0.8 0.0 Increase in financial liabilities (22) 3,148.6 1,125.1 Repayment of financial liabilities (22) -2,038.7 -1,425.4 Repayment of lease liabilities (22) -108.3 – Payments from alterations of capital in non-controlling interests (19) 59.1 -51.8 Cash flow from financing activities 551.9 -907.3 Net change in cash and cash equivalents (18) -1,058.2 -975.5 Change in cash and cash equivalents due to changes in the consolidated companies (18) 169.3 6.6 Net foreign exchange difference (18) 3.1 5.5 Change in cash and cash equivalents due to risk provisions (18) 0.2 0.2 Change in cash and cash equivalents (18) -885.6 -963.2 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period (18) 2,249.4 3,212.6 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period (18) 1,363.8 2,249.4 1 Further information is available in the notes under (32) “Notes to the cash flow statement“. We publish the full set of consolidated financial statements at www.enbw.com/report2019-downloads. Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Condensed financial statements › Statement of changes in equity 129 Statement of changes in equity in € million1 Other comprehensive income Subscribed Revenue Treasury Revalu­ Currency Cash flow Financial Entities Shares of NonTotal capital reserves shares ation of translation hedge assets at accounted the sharecontrolling and capital pensions differences fair value for using holders of interests reserve2 and similar in equity the equity EnBW AG obligations method Notes (20) (25) (14) (13) As of 01/01/2018 1,482.3 4,479.3 -204.1 -1,716.9 -12.0 -109.2 10.9 0.3 3,930.6 2,327.2 6,257.8 Other comprehensive income -74.6 3.2 -68.2 -11.2 1.0 -149.8 -0.8 -150.6 Group net profit 334.2 334.2 133.4 467.6 Total comprehensive income 0.0 334.2 0.0 -74.6 3.2 -68.2 -11.2 1.0 184.4 132.6 317.0 Dividends -135.4 -135.4 -139.2 -274.6 Other changes 3 -1.7 -1.7 -25.2 -26.9 As of 31/12/2018 1,482.3 4,676.4 -204.1 -1,791.5 -8.8 -177.4 -0.3 1.3 3,977.9 2,295.4 6,273.3 Other comprehensive income -712.0 17.3 95.8 13.3 -3.3 -588.9 -16.7 -605.6 Group net profit 734.2 734.2 170.1 904.3 Total comprehensive income 0.0 734.2 0.0 -712.0 17.3 95.8 13.3 -3.3 145.3 153.4 298.7 Dividends -176.1 -176.1 -121.9 -298.0 Other changes 3 0.0 1,171.1 1,171.1 As of 31/12/2019 1,482.3 5,234.5 -204.1 -2,503.5 8.5 -81.6 13.0 -2.0 3,947.1 3,498.0 7,445.1 1 Further information is available in the notes under (19) “Equity“. We publish the full set of consolidated financial statements at www.enbw.com/report2019-downloads. 2 Of which subscribed capital €708.1 million (31/12/2018: €708.1 million, 01/01/2018: €708.1 million) and capital reserve €774.2 million (31/12/2018: €774.2 million, 01/01/2018: €774.2 million). 3 Of which changes in revenue reserves due to changes in ownership interest in subsidiaries without loss of control of 0.0 million (previous year €-1.7 million). Of which changes in non-controlling interests due to changes in ownership interest in subsidiaries without loss of control of €26.0 million (previous year €6.2 million). 130 Condensed Financial statements › Information on the result of the audit Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Information on the result of the audit of the con­ solidated financial statements and the combined management report of the company and the Group for the 2019 financial year The condensed financial statements for the 2019 financial year and Group auditor elected by the Annual General Meeting of that form part of the Integrated Annual Report do not include EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG on 8 May 2019. Ernst & the notes to the consolidated financial statements and the decYoung GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft arrived at the laration of corporate management 2019 of the EnBW Group overall conclusion that the audit did not lead to any reservaand EnBW AG including the corporate governance report 2019. tions and issued an unqualified audit opinion. The full set of The full set of consolidated financial statements – including the consolidated financial statements and the combined managenotes to the consolidated financial statements – and the comment report for the company and the Group, both for the 2019 bined management report for the company and the Group financial year, as well as the unqualified audit opinion issued by were both audited for the 2019 financial year by Ernst & the auditor, can be accessed on the website of EnBW Energie Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft as the auditor Baden-Württemberg AG. Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Corporate bodies › Table of contents 131 Corporate bodies The Supervisory Board ..................................................... 132 Offices held by members of the Board of Management ............................................ 134 Other offices held by members of the Supervisory Board .................................................. 135 132 Corporate bodies › The Supervisory Board Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW The Supervisory Board Members › Lutz Feldmann, Bochum › Michaela Kräutter, Stutensee › Edith Sitzmann MdL, Freiburg Independent business consultant Union Secretary for Utilities and Waste Minister for Finance of the Federal State of Chairman Management and State Union Secretary Baden-Württemberg and member of the for Employees, ver.di Central State Parliament of Baden-Württemberg › Dietrich Herd, Philippsburg Baden / North Black Forest district Chairman of the Group works council for › Ulrike Weindel, Karlsruhe the EnBW Group as well as Chairman of › Marianne Kugler-Wendt, Heilbronn Member of the Group works council for the central works council for the Regional Director of ver.di for the the EnBW Group as well as Chairwoman “generation sector” and Chairman of the districts Heilbronn-Neckar-Franconia of the central works council for the Philippsburg nuclear power plant works (until 30 September 2019) and “functional units sector” and Chairwoman council for the “generation sector” of Rhine-Neckar (until 30 May 2019) of the Karlsruhe operations for the EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG, “functional units sector” of EnBW Energie Karlsruhe, Deputy Chairman › Thomas Landsbek, Wangen im Allgäu Baden-Württemberg AG, Karlsruhe Member of the Group works council for › Achim Binder, Stuttgart the EnBW Group as well as Chairman of › Lothar Wölfle, Friedrichshafen Deputy Chairman of the Group works the central works council for the “market District Administrator of the Lake council for the EnBW Group, Chairman of sector” and Chairman of the Stuttgart Constance district the central works council “grids sector” of works council for the “market sector” of EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG, › Dr. Bernd-Michael Zinow, Karlsruhe and Chairman of the regional service Karlsruhe Head of the functional unit Legal Services, works council of Netze BW GmbH, Auditing, Compliance and Regulation Stuttgart › Dr. Hubert Lienhard, (General Counsel) at EnBW Energie Heidenheim an der Brenz Baden-Württemberg AG, Karlsruhe › Dr. Dietrich Birk, Göppingen Supervisory Board Managing Director of the Verband Deutscher Maschinenund Anlagenbau › Marika Lulay, Heppenheim e.V. (VDMA), Regional Association for Chairwoman of the Managing Directors Baden-Württemberg (CEO) and member of the Board of Directors at GFT Technologies SE, › Stefanie Bürkle, Sigmaringen Stuttgart District Administrator of the Sigmaringen district › Dr. Wolf-Rüdiger Michel, Rottweil District Administrator of the Rottweil › Stefan Paul Hamm, Gerlingen district Union Secretary / Head of the Department for Utilities and Waste › Gunda Röstel, Flöha Management, ver.di Baden-Württemberg Commercial Director of Stadtentwässerung Dresden GmbH and Authorised › Volker Hüsgen, Essen Officer of Gelsenwasser AG Chairman of the works council of Stadt­werke Düsseldorf AG › Jürgen Schäfer, Bissingen until 31 December 2019 Member of the Group works council for Independent works council representative the EnBW Group and Deputy Chairman of since 1 January 2020 the works council for TransnetBW GmbH, Member of the Group works council for Stuttgart the EnBW Group and first Deputy Chair­man of the Supervisory Board of › Harald Sievers, Ravensburg Stadtwerke Düsseldorf AG District Administrator of the Ravensburg district Status › Active member › Inactive member Further information is available at: www.enbw.com/supervisory-board As of 4 March 2020 Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Corporate bodies › The Supervisory Board 133 Committees Personnel committee Audit committee Ad hoc committee (since 7 June 2010) › Lutz Feldmann › Gunda Röstel Chairman Chairwoman › Dr. Bernd-Michael Zinow Chairman › Achim Binder › Stefanie Bürkle › Stefan Paul Hamm › Volker Hüsgen › Dietrich Herd › Dietrich Herd › Marianne Kugler-Wendt › Gunda Röstel › Edith Sitzmann › Thomas Landsbek › Harald Sievers › Lothar Wölfle › Dr. Hubert Lienhard › Dr. Wolf-Rüdiger Michel › Ulrike Weindel Finance and investment committee Nomination committee Mediation committee (committee pursuant to section 27 (3) German › Lutz Feldmann › Lutz Feldmann Co-determination Act (MitbestG)) Chairman Chairman › Lutz Feldmann › Achim Binder › Dr. Dietrich Birk Chairman › Dr. Dietrich Birk › Dr. Wolf-Rüdiger Michel › Stefan Paul Hamm › Gunda Röstel › Dietrich Herd › Dietrich Herd › Edith Sitzmann › Thomas Landsbek › Edith Sitzmann › Lothar Wölfle › Edith Sitzmann › Lothar Wölfle › Dr. Bernd-Michael Zinow Digitalisation committee (since 1 January 2019) › Dr. Hubert Lienhard Chairman › Michaela Kräutter › Marika Lulay › Jürgen Schäfer › Harald Sievers › Ulrike Weindel Status › Active member › Inactive member Further information is available at: www.enbw.com/supervisory-board As of 4 March 2020 134 Corporate bodies › Offices held by members of the Board of Management Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Offices held by members of the Board of Management › Dr. Frank Mastiaux › Dr. Bernhard Beck Chairman (until 30 June 2019) – EnBW Kernkraft GmbH (Chairman) › Thomas Kusterer (until 30 June 2019) – Netze BW GmbH – Energiedienst AG – VNG AG (Chairman) – Stadtwerke Düsseldorf AG (Chairman) (until 31 December 2019) › Colette Rückert-Hennen – EnBW Kernkraft GmbH (Chairwoman) – BKK VerbundPlus, Körperschaft des (since 1 July 2019) öffentlichen Rechts (alternating Chairman) › Dr. Hans-Josef Zimmer – Energiedienst Holding AG – Stadtwerke Düsseldorf AG – Pražská energetika a.s. (Chairman) (since 1 January 2020) – EnBW Kernkraft GmbH – Netze BW GmbH (Chairman) – terranets bw GmbH (Chairman) – TransnetBW GmbH (Chairman) – Vorarlberger Illwerke AG Status Disclosures of office holders pursuant to section 285 No. 10 German Commercial Code (HGB) › Active member – Membership in other statutory supervisory boards › Inactive member – Membership in comparable domestic and foreign control bodies of business enterprises Further information is available at: www.enbw.com/board-of-management As of 4 March 2020 Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Corporate bodies › Other offices held by members of the Supervisory Board 135 Other offices held by members of the Supervisory Board › Lutz Feldmann › Volker Hüsgen › Dr. Wolf-Rüdiger Michel Chairman – AWISTA GmbH – Kreisbaugenossenschaft Rottweil e. G. – Villa Claudius gGmbH (Chairman) – Netzgesellschaft Düsseldorf mbH (Chairman) – Thyssen’sche Handelsgesellschaft mbH – Stadtwerke Düsseldorf AG – ITEOS, Anstalt des öffentlichen Rechts › Dietrich Herd – RheinWerke GmbH – Kreissparkasse Rottweil, Anstalt des Deputy Chairman öffentlichen Rechts (Chairman) – EnBW Kernkraft GmbH › Michaela Kräutter – Schwarzwald Tourismus GmbH – Netze BW GmbH – SMF Schwarzwald Musikfestival GmbH › Achim Binder – Sparkassen-Beteiligungen Baden– Netze BW GmbH › Marianne Kugler-Wendt Württemberg GmbH – Bausparkasse Schwäbisch-Hall AG – Sparkassenverband Baden-Württem› Dr. Dietrich Birk (until 31 May 2019) berg, Körperschaft des öffentlichen – SRH Holding (SdbR) – EnBW Kernkraft GmbH Rechts – SLK-Kliniken Heilbronn GmbH – Wirtschaftsförderungsgesellschaft › Stefanie Bürkle (until 30 September 2019) Schwarzwald-Baar-Heuberg mbH – SWEG Südwestdeutsche – Zweckverband Bauernmuseum Landesverkehrs-AG – Heilbronner Versorgungs GmbH Horb / Sulz – Stadtwerke Heilbronn GmbH – Zweckverband Oberschwäbische – Hohenzollerische Landesbank – Heilbronn Marketing GmbH Elektrizitätswerke (Deputy Chairman) Kreissparkasse Sigmaringen, Anstalt (since 1 October 2019) – Zweckverband Ringzug Schwarzwalddes öffentlichen Rechts (Chairwoman) Baar-Heuberg – Flugplatz Mengen Hohentengen GmbH › Thomas Landsbek – Zweckverband RBB Restmüllheizkraft(Chairwoman) – BürgerEnergiegenossenschaft Region werk Böblingen (Deputy Chairman) – SRH Kliniken Landkreis Sigmaringen Wangen im Allgäu eG – ZTN-Süd Warthausen GmbH (Chairwoman) – Sparkassenverband Baden-Württem– Gemeindewerke Bodanrück berg, Anstalt des öffentlichen Rechts GmbH & Co. KG – Verkehrsverbund Neckar-Alb-Donau GmbH (naldo) (Chairwoman) › Dr. Hubert Lienhard – Wirtschaftsförderungsund Standort– Heraeus Holding GmbH marketinggesellschaft Landkreis – SMS Group GmbH Sigmaringen mbH (Chairwoman) – Voith GmbH & Co. KGaA – Zweckverband Oberschwäbische – Voith Management GmbH Elektrizitätswerke (Deputy Chairwoman) – Zweckverband Thermische Abfall­ – Broetje-Automation GmbH (Chairman) verwertung Donautal (TAD) (until 31 November 2019) (Deputy Chairwoman) – Heitkamp & Thumann KG › Stefan Paul Hamm › Marika Lulay – Netze BW GmbH – Wüstenrot & Württembergische AG – GFT Technologies SE Status Disclosures of office holders pursuant to section 285 No. 10 German Commercial Code (HGB) › Active member – Membership in other statutory supervisory boards › Inactive member – Membership in comparable domestic and foreign control bodies of business enterprises Further information is available at: www.enbw.com/supervisory-board As of 4 March 2020 136 Corporate bodies › Other offices held by members of the Supervisory Board Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW › Gunda Röstel › Edith Sitzmann – Universitätsklinikum Carl Gustav Carus – Landesbank Baden-Württemberg, Dresden an der Technischen UniversiAnstalt des öffentlichen Rechts tät Dresden, Anstalt des öffentlichen (Deputy Chairwoman) Rechts (Deputy Chairwoman) – Landeskreditbank Baden-Württem– VNG AG berg, Förderbank, Anstalt des – Netze BW GmbH öffentlichen Rechts (Chairwoman of the Administrative Board) – Hochschulrat der Technischen – Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau, Anstalt Universität Dresden, Körperschaft des des öffentlichen Rechts öffentlichen Rechts (Chairwoman) – Stadtwerke Burg GmbH – Baden-Württemberg Stiftung gGmbH › Jürgen Schäfer › Ulrike Weindel › Harald Sievers › Lothar Wölfle – Oberschwabenklinik GmbH (Chairman) – Abfallwirtschaftsgesellschaft der – SV SparkassenVersicherung LebensLandkreise Bodenseekreis und versicherung AG Konstanz (Chairman) – Bodensee-Oberschwaben Verkehrs­ – Gesellschaft für Wirtschaftsund verbund GmbH Innovationsförderung Landkreis – Bodensee-Oberschwaben-Bahn Ravensburg mbH (WiR) (Chairman) Verkehrsgesellschaft mbH (Chairman – Ravensburger Entsorgungsanlagen­ since 1 January 2020) gesellschaft mbH (REAG) (Chairman) – Sparkasse Bodensee (Deputy – Bodensee-Oberschwaben Verkehrs­ Chairman since 1 January 2020) verbund GmbH (Deputy Chairman) – Zweckverband Oberschwäbische – Bodensee-Oberschwaben-Bahn Elektrizitätswerke (Chairman) VerwaltungsGmbH – Zweckverband Breitband Bodensee – Kreissparkasse Ravensburg (Chairman (Deputy Chairman) of the Administrative Board)) (since 24 September 2019) – Zweckverband Oberschwäbische – Wirtschaftsförderungsgesellschaft Elektrizitätswerke Bodenseekreis GmbH (Chairman) – Regionales Innovationsund Technologietransfer Zentrum GmbH (RITZ) (Deputy Chairman) › Dr. Bernd-Michael Zinow – TransnetBW GmbH – VNG AG Status Disclosures of office holders pursuant to section 285 No. 10 German Commercial Code (HGB) › Active member – Membership in other statutory supervisory boards › Inactive member – Membership in comparable domestic and foreign control bodies of business enterprises Further information is available at: www.enbw.com/supervisory-board As of 4 March 2020 Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Service › Table of contents 137 Service Financial terms ................................................................. 138 Glossary ............................................................................ 139 Multi-year overview .......................................................... 142 Important notes................................................................ 144 Rear cover pages: Financial calendar 2020 On track for growth with new wind farms in the North Sea 138 Service › Financial terms Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Financial terms Adjusted earnings figures Funds from operations (FFO) Non-operating figures Adjusted earnings figures are operational FFO is the cash-relevant earnings from The non-operating figures include effects that earnings figures that are adjusted for non-op­operating activities that is available to the cannot be predicted or cannot be directly erating effects. They include, amongst others, com­pany for investments, the distribution ­influenced by EnBW and as such are not adjusted EBIT and adjusted Group net profit / of ­dividends and the repayment of debt. rele­vant to the ongoing management of the loss. company. They include, amongst others, non-­ Internal financing capability operating EBIT and non-operating Group net Adjusted EBITDA The key performance indicator internal fiprofit / loss. The operating profitability of companies is nancing capability describes the › adjusted ­often measured based on adjusted EBITDA retained cash flow in relation to the › net Retained cash flow and adjusted retained (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation (cash) investment and is the most significant cash flow and amortisation). It describes earnings beperformance indicator in the period from 2017 The retained cash flow is decisive for the­­ fore the investment and financial results, into 2020 of the Group’s ability to finance its › internal financing capability of EnBW. After come taxes and amortisation, adjusted for activities internally. covering ongoing costs and dividend pay­ non-operating effects. The key performance ments, it is available to the company for inindicator adjusted EBITDA is the central earnNet financial debt vestment without the need to raise additionings indicator for EnBW. Net financial debt comprises the financial li­ al debt. The adjusted retained cash flow is abilities (including finance leases) taken on by the retained cash flow adjusted to take into Capital employed the company less cash and cash equivalents account the extraordinary effect of the reimCapital employed comprises all assets from and financial assets that are available to the bursement of the › nuclear fuel rod tax in the operating business. At EnBW, it primarily company for its operating business. Financial 2017. In the 2018 financial year, the reimcomprises property, plant and equipment in liabilities are adjusted for valuation effects bursed funds were used for the repayment the form of power plants or grids. Non-interfrom interest-induced hedging transactions of debt and for strategic investments. We est-bearing liabilities – such as trade payand for the portion of equity for the hybrid plan to distribute the remaining amount on ables – are deducted. bonds. a straight-line basis in the period 2019 to 2020, also for the purpose of strategic inDebt repayment potential Net (cash) investment and adjusted net vestment. Accordingly, this will lead to an This future key performance indicator (cash) investment increase in the adjusted retained cash flow describes the › retained cash flow in Net (cash) investment describes the overall over the period 2018 to 2020. relation to the › net debt and is the most cash-relevant investment less the overall significant performance indicator of the cash-relevant divestitures in the financial ROCE Group’s ability to repay its debts internally. year. In the 2019 financial year, the adjusted ROCE is the return on capital employed in a It will replace the › internal financing net (cash) investment was adjusted to take company. The key performance indicator capability from 2021. account of accelerated growth investment, ROCE describes the relationship between adwhich has already been paid for the EnBW justed EBIT including the adjusted investment EBIT 2025 growth strategy. result and the average capital employed and EBIT stands for earnings before interest and is thus the central value-oriented perform­ taxes. Net debt ance indicator of EnBW for assessing the Net debt comprises › net financial debt and return on capital employed in the relevant ­ EBITDA the › net debt relating to pension and nuclear ­financial year. EBITDA stands for earnings before interest, obligations. taxes, depreciation and amortisation. WACC Net debt relating to pension and nuclear WACC stands for the weighted average cost EBT obligations of capital and is used in combination with EBT stands for earnings before taxes. Net debt relating to pension and nuclear oblivalue-based performance indicators. The gations comprises the provisions for pensions cost of capital is determined based on the Free cash flow and similar obligations and provisions relatweighted average cost of equity and debt The cash flow freely available to the company ing to nuclear power. These provisions are together. for the distribution of dividends and for the renetted against receivables relating to the payment of debt. dismantling of nuclear power plants and the › dedicated financial assets. Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Service › Glossary 139 Glossary Certified Emission Reduction (CER) Commercial paper (CP) programme A Certified emission reductions from Clean​ The CP programme is a flexible financing Development Mechanism (CDM) projects. ­ instrument and serves to issue unsecured Asset liability management (ALM) model Pursuant to the Kyoto protocol, investors in bonds on the money market for the purpose A model for asset liability and cash flow manindustrialised countries earn these in develop­ of short-term financing. agement. A cash flow-based model is used to ing countries with CDM emission reduction determine the effects of the pension and nuprojects. 1 CER corresponds to 1 t CO2. CERs Coverage ratio clear provisions on the balance sheet, income can be used by companies to meet the obligaCoverage of the pension and nuclear provistatement and cash flow statement over the tion to return allowances under the European sions of the Group by financial assets in the­ next 30 years. This ensures that the Group can emissions trading system. › dedicated financial assets. cover its long-term pension and nuclear provisions within an economically viable time Clean Dark Spread (CDS) CSR performance ­period using corresponding financial investThe difference between the electricity price CSR performance provides an indication of a ments (so-called › dedicated financial assets). and the generation costs for a typical coal company’s entire sustainability performance. power station, which is calculated using the It examines measures to protect the environAsset management coal price, CO2 allowance price and the dement and human rights, promote good workA financial asset management system facil­ gree of efficiency of the power station. ing conditions and fight corruption within the itates the active management of investments traditional dimension of corporate social rethat are used to cover pension and nuclear CO2 allowances sponsibility (CSR) and also focuses on which provisions. The central focus of this activity is CO2 allowances have been traded on the processes a company has established to to generate appropriate returns while taking Leipzig electricity exchange since 2005. If a guarantee them. into account the risks incurred. company purchases a CO2 allowance, it is entitled to emit 1 t CO2 . D B CO2 intensity In the energy sector, CO2 intensity refers to Debt Issuance Programme (DIP) Base CO2 emissions connected with electricity genThe DIP, also known as EMTN (Euro Medium Base load product. The constant base level of eration. It is measured in terms of g / kWh or t / Term Notes), is a standardised documentation supply / demand over a period of time. MWh. CO2 intensity as referred to here in the platform for raising debt through the issuing energy sector should not be confused with the of medium and long-term bonds on the cap­ Broadband meaning used in the wider economy. ital market. EnBW supports local authorities and municipal associations with tasks ranging from Coal Commission Dedicated financial assets broadband planning and the installation of the The Commission on Growth, Structural Dedicated financial assets are cash and cash infrastructure through to operation, as well as Change and Employment (commonly known equivalents and financial assets that are held with the associated end-customer business as the Coal Commission) was appointed by to cover the pension and nuclear obligations. (Internet, telephone and television). the German government to present recommendations on, amongst other things, the Derivatives Bundle themes of climate protection, safeguarding Financial instruments whose price or market Product bundling (bundle offer) describes jobs and economic aspects related to the rate is derived from its underlying asset. ­offering multiple products or services togethphase-out of coal generated power. er in one package. Customers receive an apDistrict development propriate add-on in addition to their purchase. Combined Heat and Power Act (KWKG) District development deals with smart and The Combined Heat and Power Act (KWKG) sustainable urban planning, as well as congoverns the remuneration and feed-in of elecnecting up, constructing and operating modC tricity generated in combined heat and power ern residential districts. It comprises urban plants (large CHP power plants and small deinfrastructure themes such as energy, grids, Cash pooling centralised CHP blocks). e-mobility, digital networking, safety and Daily pooling of the cash or cash equivalents smart services. of one or multiple companies within a Group with the target of concentrating and trans­ parently depicting them at the level of the parent company in order to optimise the interest result. 140 Service › Glossary Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW EU allowance (EUA) E EU emission allowance. An EUA entitles a H company to emit 1 t CO2. Each EU state alloEEG cost allocations cates its supply of EUAs (1 EUA = 1 t CO2) to its Hedging Cost allocations under the EEG (Renewable national companies either free of charge or Hedging is a structured approach for securing Energies Act) are charged by the transmission via auctions. against financial risks through financial system operators (TSO). On the one hand, the transactions. Hedging involves engaging in cost allocations cover the difference between EU Green Deal countertrade transactions to offset a transacthe income generated by the transmission The EU Green Deal is a package of measures tion or an existing position. This is usually carsystem operators from selling the electricity from the European Union with the primary ried out in the form of futures contracts. from RE plants and the expenses incurred by aim of making the EU climate neutral by 2050 the transmission system operators for the and which contains staggered measures to HVDC fixed feed-in remuneration and market achieve this goal. High-voltage DC transmission lines (HVDC) ­pre­mium payments to direct marketers of RE are used to transport electrical energy across plants, while on the other hand, they also large distances. The transmission lines use cover the costs of implementing the EEG. ­ F direct current for transportation as the More than half of the electricity price for transmission losses are lower. household customers today consists of taxes, Forward market duties and cost allocations. The EEG cost alMarket on which the supply and procurement location accounts for the largest share. of electricity, fuel and CO2 allowances are I traded for a future period. Usual periods inElectromobility charging infrastructure clude weeks, months, quarters and years. Independent Transmission Operator (ITO) There are currently four different types of Settlement can be either physical or financial. The “Independent Transmission Operators” electrical connectors for charging electric veThe forward market has the primary function must fulfil the European unbundling regulahicles. An AC charging station provides alterof acting as a price hedge. tions for greater liberalisation of the electri­ nating current with up to 3.6 kW of electricity city and natural gas markets (3rd EU internal via a Schuko connector and up to 22 kW of energy market package), which were impleelectricity via a type-2 connector at each G mented in the German Energy Industry Act charging point. An AC / DC charging station (EnWG) in 2011. The aim of the unbundling (quick-charging station) is equipped with a Green bonds regulations defined in the EnWG is to increase CCS and CHAdeMO connector providing up to Green bonds are issued exclusively to finance competition on the European energy market. 50 kW (DC = direct current) of electricity and climate-friendly projects. The proceeds are An important prerequisite here is that the with a type-2 connector providing up to 43 kW invested in sustainable environmental and clitransmission grids are made available to all (AC = alternating current) of electricity. A mate protection projects. market participants as a neutral platform in a charging station can have multiple charging non-discriminatory way. points. The actual charging output is depenGreenhouse gas emissions dent on how quickly a vehicle can charge. The increase in the concentration of various Intraday trading Starting in 2019, existing locations are upgreenhouse gases, especially carbon dioxide Intraday trading of electricity is carried out on graded with quick-charging stations with a (CO2), increases the greenhouse effect and both the › EPEX SPOT in Paris and the OTC charging output of up to 150 kW. leads to global warming, which itself has (Over-the-Counter) market, i.e. via contracts many consequences. Alongside carbon dioxnegotiated off-exchange between electricity Energy saving contracting ide, other greenhouse gases include methpurchasers and sellers. It describes the The cross-discipline optimisation of building ane, nitrous oxide, fluorinated hydrocarbons, ­continuous purchase and sale of electricity technology together with building operation sulphur hexafluoride and nitrogen trifluoride. that is delivered on the same day. Therefore, it based on cooperation in partnership. Investis also described as short-term wholesale ments in renovations or efficiency enhanceGreenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol electricity trading. ment measures are financed through energy The Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocost-savings. col) is a globally recognised standard for Investment-grade rating calculating CO2 and greenhouse gas emisAn investment-grade rating exists if a credit Energy supply contracting sions. To identify the main sources of emisrating of at least Baa3 (Moody’s) or BBBThe outsourcing, for a specific period and for a sion in a company, it is very important to (Standard & Poor’s) has been issued. specific area, of tasks relating to energy opticorrectly define and categorise relevant dir­ misation or utility energy supplies to a third ect and indirect sources of emissions. The party. GHG Protocol defines the fundamental princ­ iples with respect to relevance, completeEPEX ness, consistency, trans­ parency and preciThe European Power Exchange (EPEX SPOT sion. It is based on the principles of financial SE) is a stock exchange for the short-term accounting and divides the greenhouse gas wholesale trading of electricity in Germany, emissions into three emission categories: France, Austria, Switzerland and Luxembourg. Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3. Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Service › Glossary 141 N S T Network Development Plan Electricity Sectoral productivity factor (Xgen) TCFD (Task Force on Climate-related (NDP Electricity) The sectoral productivity factor (Xgen) reflects Financial Disclosures) This plan describes the measures that need to the difference between cost developments in The Task Force on Climate-related Financial be deployed over the next 10 and 20 years to the efficient operation of electricity and gas Disclosures (TCFD) has developed recomexpand and restructure the German landgrids and the development of prices within the mendations for the climate-related opporbased high-voltage grid to ensure the secure whole economy. It is used as an adjustment tunity and risk reporting by companies. operation of the network. These measures factor for the consumer price index and is Companies are encouraged to disclose climake a significant contribution to the integra­taken into account in the revenue cap for the mate-related information – in the four key tion of rapidly growing renewable energies grid operators. areas of Governance, Strategy, Risk Manageand thus also to the Energiewende. The NDP ment and Metrics and Targets – where such Electricity is prepared jointly by the four GerSector coupling information is considered material for the man transmission system operators every Sector coupling is the networking of electri­ company. EnBW is represented on the intertwo years (since 2016), before being submitcity, heating, mobility and industrial processes national task force appointed by the G20 ted to the German Federal Network Agency for the purpose of lowering carbon dioxide through its Chief Financial Officer Thomas (BNetzA) as the responsible regulator. emissions. As sector coupling offers synergy Kusterer (www.fsb-tcfd.org). effects in the integration of high proportions of Network Development Plan Gas renewable energies, it is viewed as a key conTEG (Technical Expert Group on (NDP Gas) cept for the Energiewende and the developSustainable Finance) In the NDP Gas, German gas transmission ment of energy systems using 100% renewThe European Commission set up an expert system operators calculate the transportation able energies. There is a general consensus group in July 2018 with the task of drawing up capacities that they will require in the future. that sector coupling is necessary for the imkey aspects for the development of a sustainThe plan is prepared every two years in close plementation of the Energiewende and the able financial system for the European in­ cooperation with the German Federal Netachievement of climate protection targets. tern­al market. Alongside the development of work Agency (BNetzA) and in consultation a taxonomy for sustainable economic activity, with relevant market participants. Smart grid the aim is to develop minimum standards for The smart electricity grid: a communication green bonds and sustainability benchmarks, Nuclear fuel rod tax and control network that monitors and optias well as to update the non-binding guideThis tax was imposed from 2011 to 2016 at a mises the operation of its interconnected lines on non-financial disclosure while paying rate of €145 / g of nuclear fuel employed. ­elements – from electricity generators, storparticular consideration to climate-related How­ever, it was declared unconstitutional on age systems, consumers of electricity and information. The Chief Financial Officer of 7 June 2017 and also repaid to all energy network operating equipment in energy EnBW, Thomas Kusterer, was appointed to supply companies in 2017. transmission and distribution grids. The aim the expert group. is to optimise the supply of energy by operating the system efficiently, reliably and cost-­ P effectively. V Pari passu clause Special technical equipment for grids Virtual power plant A pari passu clause (Latin “pari passu” = on Special technical equipment for grids are A virtual power plant is a business segment equal footing) is an obligation in financial generation plants that will secure the elecwhere products are marketed through a agreements (for example, in bond agreetricity supply in the event of grid-related single platform that increases the value of ments or loan agreements). The debtor / issuer supply bottle­ necks after the last nuclear decentralised energy plants – renewable obligates themselves during the term of the power plants have been shut down. energies, storage systems, loads – by bund­ uncollateralised financial liability (for ex­ ling, marketing and optimising them together. ample, bond or loan) to the principle of Spot market equality, meaning future uncollateralised Market on which electricity supply and pro­financial liabilities will not be given prececurement quantities are offered and requestdence over the existing financial liability. ed for the following day. System services R The complete set of services required to ensure the quality of electricity supplies: proviRepowering sion of operating reserves, maintaining freOld power plants for generating energy are quency stability, maintaining voltage levels, replaced by newer and more efficient ones. re-establishing supply, management services. The term is mainly used in connection with wind turbines. 142 Service › Multi-year overview Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Multi-year overview Financial and strategic performance indicators EnBW Group 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Earnings External revenue 2 in € million 18,765 20,815 21,974 19,368 21,167 #TOP Adjusted EBITDA in € million 2,433 2,158 2,113 1,939 2,110 EBITDA in € million 2,245 2,090 3,752 731 1,918 Adjusted EBIT in € million 945 958 999 1,025 1,182 EBIT in € million 597 876 2,504 -1,663 277 Group net profit / loss 1 in € million 734 334 2,054 -1,797 158 Earnings per share from Group net profit / loss 1 in € 2.71 1.23 7.58 -6.64 0.58 Balance sheet Non-current assets in € million 29,321 24,643 24,878 23,382 24,388 Total assets in € million 43,288 39,609 38,785 38,535 38,158 Equity in € million 7,445 6,273 5,863 3,216 5,123 Equity ratio in % 17.2 15.8 15.1 8.3 13.4 Net financial debt in € million 6,022 3,738 2,918 3,654 3,329 Coverage ratio ALM in % 48.1 51.8 53.3 60.8 74.2 Cash flow Retained cash flow in € million 1,241 999 3,050 950 1,718 #TOP Internal financing capability 2 in % 82.6 92.2 111.9 72.1 347.8 Total investment 2 in € million 3,315 1,786 1,770 2,585 1,462 Profitability #TOP Return on capital employed (ROCE) in % 5.2 6.5 7.3 7.8 9.5 Weighted average cost of capital before tax in % 5.2 6.3 6.3 6.9 6.9 Average capital employed in € million 19,315 16,053 15,120 13,761 13,627 Value added in € million 0 32 151 124 354 Sales Electricity in billions of kWh 153 137 122 115 115 Gas 2 in billions of kWh 297 329 250 139 135 Sales Electricity sales 2 in billions of kWh 37 38 40 44 48 Gas sales 2 in billions of kWh 74 68 57 54 82 Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Service › Multi-year overview 143 Financial and strategic performance indicators EnBW Group 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 External revenue 2 in € million 7,679 7,348 7,354 7,771 9,061 #TOP Adjusted EBITDA 2 in € million 294 268 330 250 255 Grids External revenue in € million 3,460 3,215 7,472 6,644 6,351 #TOP Adjusted EBITDA in € million 1,311 1,177 1,046 1,004 747 Renewable Energies Electricity sales in billions of kWh 3 2 2 3 3 External revenue in € million 653 478 508 511 447 #TOP Adjusted EBITDA in € million 483 298 332 295 287 Generation and Trading Electricity sales 2 in billions of kWh 112 97 80 68 65 Gas sales 2 in billions of kWh 223 260 193 85 53 External revenue 2 in € million 6,970 9,768 6,631 4,434 5,300 #TOP Adjusted EBITDA 2 in € million 384 431 377 337 777 1 In relation to the profit / loss attributable to the shareholders of EnBW AG. 2 The figures for the 2018 financial year have been restated. Non-financial performance indicators 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Customers and society goal dimension #TOP Reputation Index 52.8 51.3 52.1 50.0 48.5 #TOP EnBW / Yello Customer Satisfaction Index 1 116 / 157 120 / 152 143 / 161 132 / 150 136 / 152 #TOP SAIDI (electricity) in min. / year 15 17 19 16 15 Employees goal dimension #TOP Employee Commitment Index (ECI) 2 66 62 60 59 60 #TOP LTIF for companies controlled by the Group / LTIF overall 3 4 2.1 / 3.8 2.3 / 3.6 3.0 / – 5 3.9 / – 5 3.8 / – 5 Environment goal dimension #TOP Installed output of renewable energies (RE) in GW and the share of the generation capacity accounted for by RE in % 4.4 / 31.8 3.7 / 27.9 3.4 / 25.8 3.1 / 23.1 3.1 / 23.6 #TOP CO2 intensity in g / kWh 419 553 556 577 606 1 EnBW has been working together with a new market research company since 2017. Despite using the same survey methodology and random sampling, current and earlier values are only comparable to a limited extent. 2 Variations in the group of consolidated companies (all companies with more than 100 employees are generally considered [except ITOs]). 3 Variations in the group of consolidated companies (all companies with more than 100 employees are generally considered except for companies in the area of waste management as well as external agency workers and contractors). 4 Variations in the group of consolidated companies (all companies with more than 100 employees are generally considered except for external agency workers and contractors). 5 This performance indicator has only been reported since 2019. No figures for the comparative periods 2015 to 2017 are available. 144 Service › Important Notes Integrated Annual Report 2019 of EnBW Important notes Published by Publication in the German Federal Gazette EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG The complete consolidated financial statements prepared by EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG and audited by Ernst & Young GmbH Coordination and editor Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft and the management report, which is Communication Media & Events, Karlsruhe combined with the Group management report, will be published in the German Federal Gazette (“Bundesanzeiger”) together with the unqualified Concept and design audit opinion. The necessary documents will be submitted to the German Truffle Bay Management Consulting GmbH, Munich Federal Gazette (“Bundesanzeiger”) by 30 April 2020 at the latest. Illustrations No offer or investment recommendation Jindrich Novotny, Hanover This report has been prepared for information purposes only. It does not constitute an offer, an invitation or a recommendation to purchase or sell Photos for image section securities issued by EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG (EnBW), a comEnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG; Uli Deck, pany of the EnBW Group or any other company. This report also does not Karlsruhe; Rolf Otzipka, Hamburg; Ingo Rack, Bad constitute a request, invitation or recommendation to vote or give conBuchau; Sebastian Spasic, Delbrück sent. All descriptions, examples and calculations are included in this report for illustrative purposes only. Photos of the Board of Management Catrin Moritz, Essen; Uli Deck, Karlsruhe; Forward-looking statements Paul Gärtner, Karlsruhe This report contains forward-looking statements which are based on current assumptions, plans, estimates and forecasts made by the managePhoto of the Supervisory Board ment of EnBW. Forward-looking statements of this kind are therefore only Matthias Hangst, Karlsruhe valid at the time they were first published. Forward-looking statements are indicated by the context, but may also be identified by the use of the Typesetting words “can”, “will”, “should”, “plans”, “intends”, “expects”, “thinks”, “estiIn-house using ns.publish mates”, “forecasts”, “potential”, “continued” and similar expressions. Printed by By nature, forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainElanders GmbH, Waiblingen ties that cannot be controlled or accurately predicted by EnBW. Actual Printed on RecyStar Polar events, future results, the financial position, development or performance (Recycled paper with Blue Angel certification, of EnBW and the companies of the EnBW Group may therefore diverge produced climate neutrally) considerably from the forward-looking statements made in this report. Therefore, it cannot be guaranteed nor can any liability otherwise be ISBA: R.3616.2003 assumed that these forward-looking statements will prove complete, correct or precise, or that expected and forecast results will actually occur in Publication of the Integrated the future. Annual Report 2019: 26 March 2020 No obligation to update the information Contact EnBW assumes no obligation of any kind to update the information conGeneral tained in this report or to adjust or otherwise update forward-looking Phone: 0800 1020030 (only within Germany) statements to future events or developments. This Annual Report can also E-mail: kontakt@enbw.com be downloaded from the Internet in German or English. In cases of doubt, Internet: www.enbw.com the German version shall be authoritative. Investor Relations E-mail: investor.relations@enbw-ir.com Internet: www.enbw.com/investors www.twitter.com/enbw F in a n c i a l l e n d a r 2 0 2 0 c a 26 March 2020 Publication of the Integrated Annual Report 2019 Annual General Meeting 2020 Due to the current COVID-19 crisis, the Annual General Meeting has been postponed. A new date has not yet been set. 15 May 2020 Publication of the Quarterly Statement January to March 2020 30 July 2020 Publication of the Six-Monthly Financial Report January to June 2020 13 November 2020 Publication of the Quarterly Statement January to September 2020 t h wi t h n e w a c k f o r g r o w On tr t h e N o r t h S ea f a r m s i n wind Total output of 87 wind turbines 609 MW 100 km off the North 1.9 million tonnes of Sea coast CO2 savings Renewable energies for 710,000 private households Completed in 2019, EnBW Hohe See and EnBW Albatros have a total capacity of 609 MW, which makes these two wind farms the largest offshore project to be built in Germany to date. We are continuing to push forward the expansion of renew­ able energies and are planning to construct the EnBW He Dreiht wind farm in the North Sea with 900 MW of output – for the first time without state funding. Co n t e n t s Playing an active role in shaping the Energiewende The image section can be found at the beginning of the report. The Board of Management ............................................ 18 Condensed financial statements Letter to shareholders ................................................... 22 of the EnBW Group Report of the Supervisory Board (condensed) ............... 24 Income statement .......................................................... 125 About this report ........................................................... 27 Statement of comprehensive income ............................ 126 Balance sheet ................................................................ 127 Combined management report Cash flow statement ...................................................... 128 of the EnBW Group and EnBW AG Statement of changes in equity...................................... 129 Information on the result of the audit of the Fundamentals of the Group consolidated financial statements and the combined Business model ............................................................. 32 management report of the company and the Group for the 2019 financial year.............................................. 130 Strategy, goals and performance management system .... 41 Corporate governance ................................................... 48 In dialogue with our stakeholders ................................. 51 Corporate bodies Research, development and innovation ......................... 56 The Supervisory Board................................................... 132 Procurement .................................................................. 59 Offices held by members of the Board of Management ................................................... 134 Business report Other offices held by members of the Supervisory Board ......................................................... 135 General conditions ........................................................ 62 The EnBW Group ............................................................ 68 EnBW AG ........................................................................ 91 Service Overall assessment of the Financial terms .............................................................. 138 economic situation of the Group .................................... 95 Glossary ......................................................................... 139 Forecast ......................................................................... 96 Multi-year overview ....................................................... 142 Report on opportunities and risks ................................. 100 Important notes ............................................................ 144 Remuneration report ..................................................... 110 Disclosures pursuant to sections 289 a (1) and 315 a (1) German Commercial Code (HGB) and Rear cover pages: explanatory report of the Board of Management .......... 119 Financial calendar 2020 Index for the non-financial declaration of the On track for growth with new wind farms in the North Sea EnBW Group and EnBW AG ............................................ 121 Index for the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) ........................................ 122 Declaration of the legal representatives ....................... 123 Navigation The integrated management of EnBW comprises financial and non-financial Our key performance indicators are labelled with this symbol. goals in the dimensions: The cross-references take you to further information within this report or to the definition of terms in the glossary. We have also published an online version of the Integrated Annual Report Customers 2019 at: www.enbw.com/report2019. Finance Strategy and society Employees Environment EnBW Energie Baden-Württemberg AG Durlacher Allee 93 76131 Karlsruhe www.enbw.com
