METINVEST HOLDING, LLC 116-A, Nakhimova av., Mariupol 87534 Ukraine www.metinvestholding.com Phone: +38 062 388 16 16 Fax: +38 062 388 16 00 E-mail: metinvest@metinvestholding.com UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 STATEMENT OF SUPPORT FROM METINVEST’S CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER Dear readers, Metinvest is a vertically integrated group of steel and mining companies that manages every link of the value chain, from mining and processing iron ore and coal to making and selling semi-finished and finished steel products. The Group has vast iron ore reserves, coal mines and steelmaking assets in Ukraine, Europe and the US, as well as a dedicated sales network covering all key global markets. Metinvest is in the top 45 largest steel companies in the world according to the World Steel Association and in the top 10 iron ore producers in the world. We strive to create a better, more sustainable future for both our business and our stakeholders. In 2019, we built on our efforts from prior periods through the deeper integration of Global Compact sustainability principles into our business processes and continued to work towards the achievement of UN Sustainable Development Goals. Recognising the need for a function that covers all sustainability-related aspects, in 2019, Metinvest began to merge the functions responsible for human resources, health and safety, environmental protection into the Sustainable Development and People Management Directorate. This centralised management structure will help us to ensure the Group’s long-term viability, safeguard the wellbeing of our employees and local communities, and strengthen relationships with our stakeholders. In 2019, we continued to focus on reinforcing operational and labour safety, mitigating our environmental impact and developing local communities. Acknowledging our core responsibility to provide a safe workplace, we partner with numerous companies and organisations worldwide with a common commitment to eliminate injuries. We strive not just for compliance but to ingrain safety into every aspect of our daily lives. The Metinvest Technological Strategy 2030 envisages a long-term agenda to further reduce the footprint of the Group’s operations and help to fight global climate change. While last year was a tough one for the global steel industry, Metinvest retained a clear focus on investing in green technology and major environmental programs. We also continued to work in close partnership with our communities to maintain open communications and make targeted social investments, including in such vital areas as infrastructure, education, recreation and the environment, among others. The year 2020 is posing major challenges for Metinvest and all of our stakeholders caused by the COVID19 pandemic. We will not pause during this time on our sustainability agenda, including our commitment to health, safety and the environment, as it is essential to achieving our long-term strategic goals and creating value for the stakeholders. The prompt and proactive measures that we have already undertaken to prevent the mass spread of the virus among our employees and in our local communities have helped us to weather the emergency so far. Going forward, the safety of our people at our assets in Ukraine and internationally will continue to be our number one priority. I am pleased to confirm that Metinvest reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we are proud to present our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely, Yuriy Ryzhenkov Chief Executive Officer of Metinvest Group 2 METINVEST’S VISION OF SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Metinvest recognizes that the wellbeing of its people, the prosperity of local communities in which it operates and the condition of the world’s environment are vital to the Group’s long-term sustainability, and it contributes actively in these areas by providing financing and support for dedicated projects. Metinvest Group’s activities are closely connected to the territories where it operates and plays a key role in the future of a number of cities where our plants are the city’s main employer. Therefore, we believe in building long-term partnerships based on the mutual interest and responsibility of all parties and that are supported by a strategic vision of our activity. We understand corporate social responsibility as participation, both financial and non-financial, in local communities that brings positive systemic changes in different spheres of public and private life. We believe that this approach in today’s economic conditions promotes the strengthening of our relationships with customers, employees, investors and partners as well as with a wider circle of people and organizations that we do not interact with directly in the process of our production activities. Metinvest determines key focus areas for corporate social responsibility activities as follows:  Health and safety of employees. Our employees are our greatest and most valuable asset. We do our best to protect the health and safety of our employees by building a safe working environment.  Employee wellbeing and development. We are committed to making our businesses the most attractive employers in their industries and regions of operation as well as building an effective human resources management system.  Local community development. Our operations have a significant influence on the economy and local communities where Metinvest Group is present. We engage in effective dialogue with the public to create good living conditions in the regions where we operate and contribute to their sustainable development.  Environmental protection and energy efficiency. We are committed to making our entities as energy efficient as possible and to mitigate their environmental impact. We seek to comply with European and international environmental standards, increase the operational and energy efficiency of production and reduce emissions and waste.  Stakeholder engagement. We believe it is necessary to engage in a constructive open dialogue with all stakeholders to jointly address social, economic and environmental issues.  Quality of products and services. Metinvest’s primary objective is to produce quality goods and services that satisfy the expectations and needs of our customers. We increase the efficiency of all business processes, monitor the quality of products and introduce innovative product developments.  Business ethics and corporate governance. We aim to be a leading company that meets the highest international standards of business ethics and global practices as well as ensure the transparent and efficient work of our corporate governance bodies. 3 ADHERENCE TO THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT United Nations Global Metinvest’s position Progress in 2019 Compact Principle Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses Metinvest fully supports Metinvest is committed to protecting labor and should support and and respects the human rights in all operations and business respect the protection of internationally activities. Our responsibility is to ensure that all internationally proclaimed fundamental our employees are treated with dignity and proclaimed human human rights and respect and enjoy a safe workplace that rights; and freedoms of our promotes their health and wellbeing. Principle 2: make sure employees and people Our Code of Ethics ensures that Metinvest that they are not living in local provides equal opportunities to all employees complicit in human rights communities, and has without barriers or discrimination on the abuses. zero tolerance for grounds of nationality, race, gender, age, discrimination. We religion or any other characteristics that have recognize and accept no relevance to professional competencies and this as an important part skills. In terms of labor rights, we strictly abide of our social by the laws and regulations of each country of responsibility. the Group’s operations. We support the right of our employees to join trade unions and carry out trade union activities. Metinvest recognizes the seriousness of human rights violations and provides employees with access to complaints mechanisms such as the trust line. In 2019, there were no human rights infringements reported related to our activities or business relationships. Employees Metinvest is responsible for more than 66,000 jobs worldwide, the vast majority of which are in Ukraine (without joint ventures). Over the years, the Group has developed a dedicated HR system focused on dealing with both the present and future requirements of employees and the organisation. We are committed to continuous improving in line with international best practice for creating an effective remuneration system, providing different learning and development opportunities and enhancing employee healthcare. Continuous employee development is a core aspect of Metinvest’s sustainability strategy. Metinvest has a well-developed corporate education and training system, which is constantly innovating aimed at ensuring safe workplace, efficient equipment use and employee preparation for the next stage of the career ladder. In the plants, new recruits undergo both hands4 on, supervised training as well as access to training machines and simulations, to permit virtual practice on complex equipment. For mid-level managers, we created several academies for crucial engineering and business disciplines to cover potential skills gaps and teach new techniques. Metinvest also continued education programme for senior management of the Group and its assets. Last year, it collaborated with Wharton Business School to develop a series of courses. Helping to deliver the Health and Safety agenda the upgraded HSE training for both employees and managers are provided. In 2019, 1,611 employees attended corporate health and safety trainings. Improvement of HR services quality through digital transformation is another priority of Metinvest’s HR strategy. In 2019, we continued to implement innovative SAP solutions for the automation of HR processes. As an example, in 2019, we introduced SAP Human Capital Management (HCM) for automation of HR Shared Service Center for employees to deliver responsive and efficient services across the Group. In 2019, Metinvest continued to improve social benefits for the employees. We completed the implementation of Individual Social Package at all major enterprises. Now the it covers more than 61,000 employees at 12 enterprises. With Individual Social Package, each employee can create a personal set of social benefits for the year. The list of benefits was expanded to 79 unique options in the area of health, learning and development, vacations, travel, leisure and entertainment, benefits for family and home. More details on the progress in the Human Resources area – in our Annual and Sustainability reports 2019. Health and safety For Metinvest health and safety of its employees, contractors and all the parties involved to the Group’s operations is number one priority. To prevent injuries and occupational diseases Metinvest is implementing international best practices, investing in modern safety equipment and continuously developing its health and safety management system. Metinvest increased its investments in 5 enhancing operational safety in 2019, which reached around US$102 million, up 7% year-onyear. Last year, Metinvest became the first company in Ukraine to join Vision Zero, a global movement that unites hundreds of companies worldwide with a commitment to working without harming people. In 2019, nearly all of Metinvest’s production facilities improved their performance on key metrics in year-on-year terms, particularly LTIFR, which was lowest level in the Group’s history. We developed a new, five-year roadmap that aims to reboot the Group’s health and safety management system and correct its course towards achieving the ultimate goal of zero incidents. In the roadmap we focuses on the risk-based approach aiming to improve the processes of monitoring performance, planning precise action and tracking progress. In 2019, the internal safety audit system performed around 116 thousand audits by line managers, detecting over 167 thousand nonconformities and developing around 127 thousand risk-mitigation actions. In early 2020, the Group took unprecedented measures in response to the COVID-19 pandemic to prevent the further spread of the virus. The chosen strategy in combating the COVID-19 is to reduce the number of contacts where possible, including requiring employees who can work remotely, eliminating events that do not comply with social distancing practice, cancelling business trips and providing means for personal protection in those instances where people cannot stay home. More details on Health and Safety performance – in our 2019 Annual and Sustainability reports. Local communities In 2019 we continued to work in strategic partnerships with local government and NGOs to improve the quality of life for local residents and enhance the overall appeal of the areas where Metinvest operates. We invested in social projects more than US$11 million and our joint venture Zaporizhstal invested US$2 million. Today, the city development funds are the primary channel for Metinvest to make direct investments in the local communities. Together 6 we are developing social infrastructure, medicine and education, implementing environmental projects, support sport and culture, as well as bringing local residents together and enhancing their social activism. In 2019, we strengthened our relations with the Mariupol Development Fund, Zaporizhia Platform of Joint Action and Kryvyi Rih Foundation of the Future, which increased the contribution to the sustainable development of the cities. Another important aspect of Metinvest’s community development drive is ‘Green Centre’. In 2019, Metinvest held a number of environmental events as part of the ‘Green Centre’ initiative in Mariupol and Kryvyi Rih, and Zaporizhia making them clean and green, and developing an environmental culture among the public. Through the Green Centre we are also implementing various projects, such as Green Plant, Eco School, aimed at environmental education of children and the youth. Within our comprehensive program in response to COVID-19, we are helping our local communities to minimize spread of the virus. Metinvest is involved in the activities of regional crisis response centres on fighting the pandemic. We constructed the oxygen supply points and new oxygen lines in three healthcare facilities in Mariupol. Our enterprises supply oxygen and COVID-19 rapid tests to the hospitals in the locations of our presence. We support medical personnel with the personal protective equipment. Metinvest is also delivering food kits to the veterans of production to minimize their contacts with outside world and likelihood of infection. We are investing in opening of the regional center for transmissible diseases at Mariupol city hospital which will allow to promptly respond to the infectious disease outbreaks. More information on community development and COVID-19 response – in our 2019 Sustainability report. Principle 3: Businesses Metinvest provides Metinvest has never used compulsory or child should uphold the equal opportunities to labor. In 2019, we received no claims or freedom of association employees based on complaints related to the aforementioned and the their professional issues. effective recognition of qualities irrespective of Our Code of Ethics ensures that Metinvest the right to collective their age, sex, provides equal opportunities to all employees bargaining; nationality, religious without barriers or discrimination on the 7 Principle 4: the beliefs and political grounds of nationality, race, gender, age, elimination of all forms views. religion or any other characteristics that have of forced and compulsory no relevance to professional competencies and labor; skills. In terms of labor rights, we strictly abide Principle 5: the effective by the laws and regulations of each country of abolition of child labor; the Group’s operations. and We respect the right of our employees to form Principle 6: the unions and associations. Metinvest works elimination of closely with professional unions at its discrimination in respect enterprises and has implemented collective of employment and labor agreements that cover numerous social occupation. benefits including medical insurance. We also continue to assist other employee organizations such as youth associations and councils of veterans. Youth and veteran organizations’ activities are regulated by the provisions of collective agreements. Environment Principle 7: Businesses Metinvest’s strategic In order to address an environmental issue, the should support a priority is modern, Group is working to consistently achieve precautionary approach energy-efficient and incremental reductions in emissions, to environmental environmentally friendly modernising production assets and introducing challenges; production. new technology. As part of the global Principle 8: undertake The Group has community, and given Ukraine’s increasing initiatives to promote prioritised ecological integration with Europe, Metinvest strives to greater environmental investment focusing on adhere to international requirements in its responsibility; and programmes to reduce Ukrainian operations, including measuring its Principle 9: encourage resource consumption carbon footprint in accordance with European the development and and protect the standards. diffusion of ecosystems surrounding As at the end of the reporting period, 15 environmentally friendly its facilities. Metinvest Group enterprises have certified technologies. We aim to comply with their environmental management systems as environmental compliant with the latest requirements of the legislation and take ISO 14001:2015 international standard. additional measures to Metinvest remains committed to the fight reduce our against climate change and is looking for ways environmental impact. to better evaluate the climate-related risks for its business, including reducing greenhouse gas emissions, improving water resource management and minimising the volumes of metallurgical slag, tailings and overburden. In 2019, Metinvest made important progress towards its ecological investments. The Group increased total environmental spending to US$384 million, up 46% year-on-year. Of this amount, US$155 million was allocated for capital expenditures. Our ecological modernization program involves upgrading all gas-cleaning, dust-trapping and wastewater processing equipment at major production units, including beneficiation and pelletising facilities, sinter plants, blast furnaces, basic oxygen furnaces and re-rolling mills. 8 In 2019, Metinvest completed the modernisation of several dedusting and gas cleaning systems as well as the overhaul of the sewage system at Ilyich Steel. At Azovstal, the Group rebuilt a blast furnace, along with the hot metal desulphurisation unit and a coke oven battery. The oven chambers of Avdiivka Coke and Zaporizhia Coke were also reconstructed, significantly cutting emissions. Northern GOK finished a crucial stage of rebuilding the Lurgi 552-A pelletising machine to more efficiently utilise iron ore to make premium pellets, reducing waste and the need for chemical treatments. Central GOK invested in updating the tailing storage facilities, to ensure they remain secure for many years to come. More details on Environmental performance – in our 2019 Annual and Sustainability reports. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses The Group strives to Transparent and ethical business is the should work against maintain the highest foundation of our strategic vision, as well as the corruption in all its levels of corporate basis for partnership with our stakeholders. To forms, including governance and ensure that ethical principles are respected in extortion and bribery. transparency day-to-day activities, Metinvest has introduced throughout all of its a number of policies that regulate the way we activities and conduct our business. There include the Code communications. of Ethics, Conflict of Interest Policy, Antitrust Compliance Policies, as well as a number of other policies such as Anti-Money Laundering/Countering the Financing of Terrorism Policy, which has been established in line with European regulations. We have the Compliance Program in place aimed at ensuring transparency and an effective fight against corruption, as well as abuses in the workplace. Metinvest Group’s Code of Ethics lays out the standards and framework of ethical business conduct required of all Metinvest employees regardless to follow in their everyday activities. It sets forth principles of integrity and honesty, and provides guidance for identifying and acting on critical issues that require immediate consideration. In 2019, 31,856 employees of Metinvest completed trainings on the company’s business principles and the Code of Ethics. Metinvest supports the right of every employee and other interested parties to express concerns about their work and to report misconduct through the confidential Trust line. Metinvest commits to complying with anti9 corruption laws established in jurisdictions in which the Group operates. Identification, analysis and assessment of risks associated with corruption and fraud are performed at all levels and in each of the Group’s assets. We do not offer or take bribe, and closely monitor that vendors and business partners we work with adhere to stringent anti-corruption norms. The list of job positions with high-risk of potential fraud and corruption violations was updated and expanded, and additional risk management measures were introduced during the reporting period. Metinvest performs mandatory anticorruption verification of suppliers and customers, while operations with representatives of the public sector and programmes for financing social projects receive special scrutiny. All internal and external candidates for senior and high-risk positions are subject to mandatory internal security screening. Former government officials and politicians are subject to more detailed verification. In 2019, there were no reported and confirmed cases of corruption violations. More details on business ethics and anticorruption – in our 2019 Annual and Sustainability reports. For more information on our sustainability development progress please refer to 2019 Metinvest’s Annual Report and 2019 Sustainability Report which will be published on the official website https://metinvestholding.com/ soon. 10
