PROGRESS REPORT 2 0 1 9 C R E AT I N G C O N F I D E N C E Giesecke+Devrient Progress Report 2019 Statement of Continued Support by CEO 2 Statement of Continued Support The past year showed that the global community faces ever-increasing challenges in the social and environmental spheres. Solutions are more urgent than ever before. Companies around the world can help meet that demand by optimizing and improving the existing technology base and developing new digital solutions. Used correctly and securely, these technologies can improve resource efficiency and thus pave the way for sustainable global development. As a global leader in security technology, we have set ourselves the task of building public trust and confidence in the opportunities offered by digitalization. We want to actively create solutions to the global sustainability challenges of our time. Our products and services already provide security for billions of people and bring new benefits for society and the environment. Looking ahead, we intend to adapt our portfolio to make an even greater contribution to sustainable economic development. In 2019, we therefore mapped the ways our products and solutions support and promote the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Our commitment to sustainability is clearly reflected in our Corporate Responsibility principles and the associated action areas, in our support for the UN Global Compact, and in our status as a signatory to the GSMA’s Digital Declaration. The latter initiative commits the CEOs of global technology companies to a digital future that is both responsible and sustainable. This report for the UN Global Compact provides an overview of our efforts to promote sustainability. It relates to our activities in the 2019 fiscal year. In publishing our ninth progress report, we are also renewing our commitment to the UN Global Compact for another year. Ralf Wintergerst Group CEO Giesecke+Devrient Giesecke+Devrient Progress Report 2019 About Giesecke+Devrient 3 About Giesecke+Devrient Giesecke+Devrient (G+D) is a global security technology provider headquartered in Munich, Germany. Founded in 1852, the company has a workforce of around 11,500 employees and generated sales of EUR 2.45 billion in the 2019 fiscal year. 72 subsidiaries and joint ventures in 33 countries ensure customer proximity worldwide. The Group is comprised of four independent companies. G+D develops, produces, and distributes products and solutions relating to analog, electronic and digital payment transactions, the digital connectivity of people and machines on the Internet, the protection and management of identities, and secure digital infrastructures. G+D Currency Technology provides products and secunet Security Networks AG is a leading German solutions for secure payment to central and commercial provider of high-quality cyber security solutions and an banks, banknote printers, security paper manufacturers, IT security partner to the Federal Republic of Germany. It security transport companies, and casinos around the offers an extensive portfolio of products and consulting world. The Banknote Solutions division produces and disservices around the protection of data and infrastructributes banknote paper, banknotes, and technologically tures and for the transmission, storage, and processing of advanced security features. The portfolio of the Currency information. This includes encryption technology up to Management Solutions division includes banknote the highest security level. secunet ensures public authorprocessing machines of different sizes and complete cash ities, organizations, and companies enjoy maximum procenter solutions. G+D is an international leader in the tection against cyber attacks, espionage, and sabotage. currency industry. Banks, mobile network operators, car manufacturers, and other companies rely on industry solutions supplied by G+D Mobile Security. These solutions safeguard data, identities, and a wide range of digital transactions. The Secure Transaction+Services division covers bank, ID, and healthcare cards as well as tokens and related services. The Trusted Connected Devices division is responsible for the IoT and digital solutions, including embedded SIM management, embedded OS software licensing, and digital identities as well as the traditional SIM market. 11,500 Veridos is a joint venture between G+D and Bundes33 Employees druckerei, offering customers secure and pioneering countries identification and identity solutions. The product range covers traditional printed documents as well as electronic ID documents, such as e-passports and electronic ID cards. Highly secure travel documents, ID systems, and healthcare cards can be used for conventional identification purposes as well as for authentication and protec2.45 tion in digital business processes. billion EUR sales Giesecke+Devrient Progress Report 2019 Our Responsibility 4 Our Responsibility GLOBAL CHALLENGES In addition to our business portfolio, we aim to have a positive impact on society and the environment through Our world is changing at a phenomenal pace. For the our policies and actions along our value chain. Open global community, this presents new opportunities, but and transparent dialog is an important tool in achieving also major challenges – from climate change and growing that goal. Accordingly, we maintain regular contact with social inequality to increasing scarcity of resources and climate initiatives, such as the Carbon Disclosure Project biodiversity loss. At the same time, we are seeing how (CDP) and a Peer Learning Group of the German Global disruptive technologies and digitalization are creating Compact Network (DGCN). We are also a founding memhuge potential for progress and development, while also ber of the Munich Business Climate Pact, which promotes posing specific challenges around security and the shape dialog and cooperation with important local stakeholdof future markets. ers to reduce CO2 emissions. HOW BUSINESSES CONTRIBUTE TO OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT APPROACH Businesses can help by developing new solutions to these The G+D values of innovation, reliability, and collaboraglobal challenges, thereby creating new opportunities tion also form our approach to corporate responsibility. and enabling sustainable development. This is reflected We are working to implement these values for the shared in the growing demands on business from governments benefit of society and the environment. Our CR approach and civil society. The United Nations’ Sustainable Deis based inter alia on the United Nations Global Compact velopment Goals (SDGs) are also aimed explicitly at the and Sustainable Development Goals. corporate world, framing it as a major player in achieving the 17 Goals. Companies are at the forefront of interIn 2017, we conducted internal interviews and an analysis national efforts to combat climate change – be it in the of customer requirements to define the key CR issues for annual Conference of the Parties (COPs) of the United G+D. Ultimately, we identified three main action areas: Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change employees, environmental and climate protection, and (UNFCCC) or in the development of decarbonization supply chain sustainability. Mindful of the requirements technologies. of the UN SDGs, the Global Compact, and other globally recognized reporting frameworks (e.g. the Global Reporting Initiative), we widened the focus of our CR OUR RESPONSIBILITY activities in 2019. The three action areas specified above have been joined by three more: responsibility for our G+D is keenly aware of its corporate responsibility. As we business practices (compliance), products and solutions, strive for global leadership in security technology, we see and to society. Together, these six CR principles now it as our role to secure the opportunities being created define our commitment to responsible corporate by digitalization, thereby reducing the threats to society management. and the environment. We are already helping to make life more secure for bilSDG MAPPING lions of people. We enable analog, electronic and digital payment transactions. We secure the digital connectivity The United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals of people and machines on the Internet. We protect and were adopted by the UN General Assembly in autumn manage personal identities and cross-border traffic. And 2015. They entered into force in 2016 and are a core we reduce the risk of cybercrime for states, institutions, component in the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Developand critical infrastructures. ment. The 2030 Agenda calls on governments, business, and civil society to support implementation of all 17 SusWith our products and services, we are creating the tainable Development Goals and 169 associated targets conditions for sustainable economic growth and a better over the next 10 years. quality of life for people in a digital world. http://sustainabledevelopment.un.org/sdgs Giesecke+Devrient Progress Report 2019 Our Responsibility 5 G+D intends to adapt its operations to better support GOVERNANCE the relevant SDGs in the future. During preliminary SDG mapping in late 2019, G+D identified which of the Our CR activities are coordinated and organized within 17 SDGs were directly impacted by the Group’s commerour CR governance structure. The Group CEO is responcial and CR activities. sible for the general direction of all CR activities across G+D. The individual business sectors are tasked with A total of 10 SDGs implementing the activities in their own sphere in accorwere identified as dance with their specific requirements. relevant: IMPLEMENTATION OF CR ACTIVITIES G+D has established Group-wide guidelines and policies to help implement CR activities. The results are measured using selected, centralized KPIs, e.g. accidents at work (action area “employees”), CO2 emissions (action area “environmental and climate protection”), and hazardous waste and water treatment (action area “environmental and climate protection”). For the action area “supply chain sustainability,” we established a Group-wide approach to the selection and auditing of suppliers based on sustainability criteria. This approach also covers issues, such as human rights and conflict minerals. The specific Six of these SDGs are particularly important with regard targets are still being developed. With regard to the ento G+D´s core operations. Our products and solutions vironment, G+D has adopted a Group-wide climate goal. have a significant impact on SDGs 8, 9, 10, 12, 13, and 16 We are now committed to a 25-percent relative reducand contribute to inclusive economic growth, social inclution in CO2 emissions by 2022 compared with 2016. sion, and global security and stability. Our innovations in the core areas of payment, connectivity, identity, and Our CR activities during the 2019 reporting year are docdigital infrastructures are not only improving security umented in this progress report. They are also summafor people, they are also making life better and more rized in our annual report. sustainable. The SDGs of particular relevance to G+D have been mapped to our six CR principles. G+D CR Principles Principle 1: Principle 2: Principle 3: Responsibility to our Responsibility to our Responsibility in our employees environment supply chain Principle 4: Principle 5: Principle 6: Responsibility through our Responsibility for our Responsibility for our products and solutions business practices society Giesecke+Devrient Progress Report 2019 Our Responsibility 6 Principle 1: Responsibility to Our Employees Our success is driven by the talent, knowledge, and day-to-day commitment of our 11,500 employees. Their professional development and personal wellbeing are therefore central elements in our HR policy – along with diversity and equal opportunities. This is also intended to make G+D an attractive employer for new talent. Using carefully targeted measures, we ensure all our employees have the skills they need for their current and future roles, plus an enjoyable working environment and the optimum work-life balance. Our responsibility to our employees covers five core At MS, developments include a new knowledge transfer topics: Learning and Development; Diversity and Equal program in Canada, for example. From 2020, there will Opportunities; Wellbeing and Work-Life Balance; Good be mandatory annual knowledge transfer on specific Working Conditions and Employee Engagement and subject areas for every employee. The aim is not only Health and Safety. to share information within the organization but also to improve and accelerate familiarization in the event of internal changes. In Australia, MS has implemented LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT a new leadership program and a roadmap for annual staff training. Finally, G+D Mexico has created a talent Professional development and training evaluation program for production staff with the aim of boosting productivity and employee engagement. G+D operates in highly dynamic markets that call for innovative solutions, flexibility, and the highest quality Talent acquisition standards. We enable our staff to meet these demands by identifying the knowledge and skills that G+D reFor an innovative company like G+D, it is particularly quires – both now and in the future – and continuously important to have the right expertise throughout the updating and expanding our professional development organization, both now and in the future. Our markets resources. Our staff have access to a comprehensive are extremely dynamic and growing much faster than training and education program as well as personal the number of qualified people available. Accordingly, career guidance and coaching. We also run a global we are constantly working to discover and attract young talent management program, in which we systematically talent with the skills we need at the earliest possible identify and develop staff potential. stage. These efforts include career fairs, campus events, and “Girls’ Day” in Germany – a day dedicated to encourG+D Currency Technology (CT), G+D Mobile Security aging young women to explore opportunities in science (MS), and our larger subsidiaries have their own developand technology. ment programs. CT, for example, has introduced a new and agile talent management program at the Louisenthal paper mill. Over 80 percent of the initial participants have since taken on new tasks, usually with greater responsibility. Giesecke+Devrient Progress Report 2019 Our Responsibility 7 Our commitment to our staff supports the following SDGs: 3, 4, 5, 8, and 10. Our core topics “Learning and Development” contributes to SDG 4 (Quality Education), while “Diversity and Equal Opportunities” contributes to SDG 5 (Gender Equality), SDG 8 (Decent Work and Economic Growth), and SDG 10 (Reduced Inequalities). The core topic “Wellbeing and Work-Life Balance” and “Health and Safety” strengthen SDG 3 (Good Health and Wellbeing) and SDG 5 (Gender Equality). We also attract young employees through professional CT has expanded its global “Lead.Together” campaign, training opportunities, dual and master’s study proadding executive workshops, development meetings, grams, and direct entry into the workforce. For the and management talks. The campaign is designed vocational training programs at our Munich site, we have to establish a modern leadership culture and embed formed a network between the individual business units standard management practices. It also promotes better and the Corporate Center, thereby giving trainees an exchange between employees and management across insight into different areas of the business. At locations all levels. To evaluate the success of the “Lead.Together” that are close to a university, such as MS in Barcelona and campaign, CT will design a global 180-degree feedback secunet in Dresden and Ilmenau, we work hard to build survey in 2020, to be implemented in early 2021. In 2019, contacts with potential future employees. the campaign in Germany included 3 two-day basic workshops for training new executives, around 30 deNew leadership culture velopment meetings, 7 management talks, and 26 focus workshops. Ongoing technological and societal transformation is also placing new demands on our leadership and management culture. In response, executive training is now a DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES key element in our staff development strategy. G+D regards a diverse workforce in terms of gender, G+D is rolling out out a new development program for age, and cultural origin as a clear competitive advanexecutive managers worldwide since February 2020. tage. This is reflected in our commitment to the “Charta The program comprises the following focus areas: New der Vielfalt” (German Diversity Charter), an employer Work, New Leadership, Collaboration, and Agility. In initiative promoting diversity in companies and institu2019, all G+D members of the Management Board also tions. We support diversity in the workplace in a number participated in a Board Academy training program aimed of ways, including international hackathons, training at sharing perspectives and gaining new insights into key events, workshops, keynotes, and round tables. We conmanagement issues within the G+D Group. centrate our efforts in the following areas: recruitment; onboarding and development; leadership and culture; communication. Diversity is also a key criterion when recruiting trainees and selecting participants in our talent programs. www.board-academy.com www.charta-der-vielfalt.de/en/ Giesecke+Devrient Progress Report 2019 Unsere Our Responsibility Verantwortung 8 In countries with specific legislation in this area, such GOOD WORKING CONDITIONS AND as the USA, India, and South Africa, we have set up EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT corresponding programs to promote equal opportunities and anti-discrimination. In addition, MS in UK was In order to attract the best possible talent, it is important recognized as an equal opportunity employer during that G+D provides good working conditions and a pleasthe period under review. In Australia, the MS subsidiary ant work environment. To achieve that, we use a wide introduced specific guidelines for equal opportunities range of communication and feedback tools to enable within the company. continuous dialog with staff and we encourage them to share their opinions and ideas. CT set up a special project group in 2019 tasked with driving the development of new diversity measures within To better integrate and retain new employees, G+D has the business sector. remodeled the onboarding process in Germany. Covering the first six months of employment, it is designed not Equal opportunities for women only to familiarize new staff with the work environment but also to provide a warm and friendly introduction to Equal opportunities for women and having a higher proG+D. portion of women in management and key positions are important goals for G+D as we seek to achieve greater In Australia, the MS subsidiary has a centrally managed diversity throughout the company. A third of our Superonboarding process. This enables management to monvisory Board is already made up of women. Worldwide, itor the progress of each new employee and assess their we aim to further increase the proportion of women readiness for work. G+D Mexico and G+D India have also in leadership positions. We will seek to achieve these redesigned their onboarding process to give new emobjectives by filling vacant posts with suitable female ployees the ideal start and help them identify strongly candidates and providing targeted professional support with G+D from day one. for women within the organization. We also seek to make the work environment as modern In order to raise internal awareness of gender equality, and user-friendly as possible. In Munich, for example, G+D introduced a new series of talks – “Working@G+D” the facilities will be extensively updated until the end – at its Munich headquarters with CFO and Director of of 2020. The aims here are to make the workplace more Labor Relations Dr. Peter Zattler. The first event, held in flexible, to expand team structures, and to consider psy2019, was entitled “Women@G+D.” chological factors in the planning of office spaces. Women in Management Roles Worldwide in Percent 19.3 Women in executive management 2019 11.1 16.2 2017 2018 Giesecke+Devrient Progress Report 2019 Our Responsibility 9 G+D uses a range of measures to increase employee HEALTH AND SAFETY engagement, strengthen commitment, and promote mutual exchange. As an employer, we are responsible for the health of our employees and for providing a safe work environment. • In the past, we have conducted multiple (also virtual) hackathons and installed think tanks to collect ideas We have implemented a certified occupational health and suggestions from staff. and safety management system (OHSAS 18001) at all relevant locations worldwide. In the year under review, • We offer a wide range of information and communicawe migrated our certification to the new ISO 45001 tion tools for internal users via multiple channels, e.g. standard. At CT, this involved five certified production intranet, digital dialog platforms, information events, locations and around 55 percent of all employees. In the and business talks. MS business sector, there are 15 certified production facilities, covering some 80 percent of employees. • Employees receive special recognition, appreciation, and rewards for achievements and anniversaries as We use a range of measures to promote a healthier well as initiatives, such as a cycle to work campaign lifestyle for our staff. In Germany, these range from (Munich). fitness and sporting activities to support with recovery after extended periods of illness or initiatives such as • At CT, the “Inspiring Performance” program promotes the campaign “cycle to work”. We expanded workplace a feedback-based culture of recognizing and appreci­ medical services and the occupational health package ating achievement. Plans for 2020 include tutorials on at our Munich headquarters back in 2018. The associatpreparing and implementing feedback dialogs. ed training program addresses specific prevention and health-related topics, including ergonomics guidance, • MS Spain uses the “Participa” tool to collect regular welfare advice, and addiction counseling. feedback from staff on issues and measures that directly affect them. • The MS subsidiary in the UK is pursuing a five-point strategy for integrating staff. This includes recognizing and rewarding good work, communicating the company’s values and goals, providing communication and leadership that promotes cross-level dialog, and supporting employees through transparent career Number of planning. Employees Involved in a Recordable Injury 0.90 per hundred employees 2019 0.85 0.94 2017 2018 Giesecke+Devrient Progress Report 2019 Our Responsibility 10 There are also numerous initiatives at our international WELLBEING AND WORK-LIFE BALANCE locations – from a campaign for better nutrition (Mexico) to fitness and weight-loss events (USA), health checks In addition to helping our employees to be healthy and (India, Mexico), a company sports club (India), cycle to productive, G+D seeks to ensure that each employee work programs (UK and Germany), and a road safety finds his or her own personal work-life balance. If their campaign (Spain). personal circumstances change – perhaps through pregnancy, illness, or the need to care for dependent relatives Other safety initiatives include preventing accidents and – we support our employees. Since 2004, our HR policy in near misses. In 2019, for example CT in Munich and MS Germany has been subject to external assessment in the in UK conducted awareness weeks and communication berufundfamilie audit – a strategic management instrucampaigns aimed at sensitizing staff to this issue. ment that reflects our focus on accommodating different life stages. We are certified to the highest audit level and were successfully re-audited in 2019/2020. We offer flexible working time models with no core working hours, no minimum daily attendance hours, and no limit on monthly leave as well as voluntary Saturday working and long-term time accounts. We are also flexible about where staff work, with a choice of home and mobile working options. A good work-life balance should also include psychological wellbeing. In late 2019, we held the G+D Health Day “Success Factor: Inner Balance” in Munich. This provided a wide range of information and activities for staff on numerous topics around health, resilience, and psychological stress. We also conducted an online survey on mental health at work, which we will use as the basis for future measures. To increase awareness within the company, all management staff in Munich have received training on mental health in the workplace. Among our subsidiaries, e.g. MS in Australia introduced the “Feel Good Friday” for the entire workforce and established a “Wellbeing” committee to devote additional attention to the issue. In Canada, MS launched a monthly program – “Lifeworks” – in 2019. This provides support for employees with confidential matters, such as stressful situations at work, family and relationship problems, depression, anxiety, and other emotional issues. In the US, the range of health-related offerings was complemented by a new series of seminars on financial and insurance issues developed in conjunction with the company’s insurance providers. www.berufundfamilie.de/english-info Giesecke+Devrient Progress Report 2019 Our Responsibility 11 Principle 2: Responsibility to Our Environment Our responsibility to the environment is one we take extremely seriously. We are working hard to preserve a decent world for current and future generations. Accordingly, we are reducing our greenhouse gas emissions, making more efficient use of resources, and deploying innovative technologies. In adopting these measures to protect the climate and environment, we are continuously seeking to reduce the impact of our business operations. Ongoing climate change is one of the most pressing issues of our time and business needs to play its part in finding effective solutions. Protection of our environment and climate, together with responsible use of natural resources, is therefore a key action area for G+D. GROUP-WIDE CLIMATE GOAL In 2018, we introduced a Group-wide climate goal. Our aim is to reduce emissions by 2022 to a level compatible with the two-degree limit set out in the Paris Agreement. This means cutting our direct and indirect emissions (tCO2) by 25 percent relative to sales. The base year for our calculations is 2016. To achieve this goal, we are steadily transitioning to renewable energy sources – increasingly produced ourselves – and implementing a range of efficiency measures. For example, the Louisenthal paper mill uses on-site hydropower for the production of banknote paper and has expanded its heat recycling network. By making better use of the existing waste heat, the plant reduced its carbon emissions in 2019 by 1,370 tonnes. There are also plans to increase the use of water from the local Mangfall river as a sustainable source of cooling for the production buildings and equipment. These measures alone could reduce greenhouse gas emissions by as much as 1,500 tonnes per year. Our commitment to the environment contributes to SDGs 7, 12, and 13. Our climate goal supports SDG 7 (Affordable and Clean Energy) and SDG 13 (Climate Action). Our environmental impact management also contributes to SDG 7 as well as SDG 12 (Responsible Consumption and Production). We are likewise supporting SDG 12 with measures to manage and reduce our use of chemicals. www.louisenthal.com Giesecke+Devrient Progress Report 2019 Our Responsibility 12 In Spain, Mobile Security (MS) has also ramped up its use of renewables. The Madrid and Barcelona locations are now exclusively powered by green energy. In addition, MS has updated its technical facilities in Spain, Germany, and the United States, replacing older production equipment as well as air conditioning systems, compressors, and extraction systems with new and more efficient models. The result is a reduction in power consumption at these sites of between 20 and 90 percent. Direct and indirect CO2 Emissions (Scope 1 and 2) In Malaysia, G+D has been using solar power at its banknote printing facility since 2019. In the course of 44.6 metric tons upgrading our headquarters in Munich, the entire site of CO2 per had been equipped with LED lighting by the end of million euros of sales 2019. Floor lamps were fitted with daylight sensors and movement sensors. This reduced power consumption for lighting by 40 percent. 2019 Munich Business Climate Pact G+D is one of the founding members of the Munich Business Climate Pact. In 2015, the City of Munich called on fifteen of the largest companies in the re55.3 46.4 gion to help drive improvements in environmental protection. Through a number of joint projects and individual measures, the first phase of the initiative (up to 2017) significantly exceeded the target of a 2017 40,000-tonne reduction in annual CO2 emissions. 2018 The Climate Pact is still in operation as part of Market-based factor set Munich’s climate protection program for 2019– 2021. In addition to reducing local greenhouse gas emissions, the current aims are to boost coopera­ tion between companies and identify new ways for cities and businesses to reduce carbon emissions. In addition to our local efforts in Munich, G+D is a longtime member of the Peer Learning Group Climate of the German Global Compact Network (DGCN). PLG Climate has between 10 and 15 member companies and deals with specific aspects of climate management. It uses webinars and meetings to share ideas on topics, such as climate strategy, climate risk analysis, scope 3 emissions, and the use of methodologies to develop science-based targets. The main aim of these events is to enable members to share their experience and knowledge. Giesecke+Devrient Progress Report 2019 Our Responsibility 13 MANAGING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS RESOURCE CONSERVATION AND INNOVATION We measure our activities against centrally defined Climate change is not the only consideration when it sustainability indicators, which we record for our largest comes to protecting the environment and precious sites worldwide (i.e. those with over 100 employees). natural resources. In our manufacturing operations, we These indicators are based on the internationally partner with customers to find more sustainable solurecognized Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Using our tions while also investing in R&D. Group-wide SoFi database, we can track qualitative and quantitative trends in a range of environmental, health, Louisenthal, for example, has launched a sustainabiliand safety variables and implement improvements ty initiative entitled “Life of a Banknote” that aims to where necessary. identify potential for improvement in the areas of raw materials, production, transportation, and recycling. The G+D uses an emissions controlling system to monitor the manufacturing process for banknote substrates and foils impact of climate protection measures. We report our requires significant quantities of power, heat, and water. greenhouse gas emissions in line with the internationally The Louisenthal mill has not only improved its energy efrecognized Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Additionally, we ficiency as described above, it has also reduced its water have been documenting our corporate carbon footconsumption. Thanks to on-site wastewater treatment, print for the past 10 years. In the world’s most extensive the plant is now using 40 percent less water than in 2010. climate protection ranking, the CDP, we occupied a solid Louisenthal has invested around EUR 15 million in recent mid-table position in 2019 in the supplier category. years to reduce resource consumption in its production processes. It is also dealing with the question how the We have implemented the EU Energy Efficiency Directive world’s most sustainable banknote could look like. By at all our European locations. Our 20 largest production 2021, it will have developed a “green” banknote concept sites have environmental management systems in place that takes a holistic view of the entire product lifecycle, that are certified to ISO 14001. We also deploy ISO 50001 from raw materials and energy through production and energy management systems at the banknote paper mills distribution to end-of-life recycling. in Louisenthal and Königstein. Our environmental management systems enable us to improve our environmental performance, comply with legislation, and meet our own environmental targets consistently and systematically. The environmental impacts captured by these systems include energy consumption, CO2 emissions, waste volumes, and water consumption. The business sectors and the Corporate Center are each responsible for their own management systems and for practical implementation of the associated activities and objectives. All business sectors were (re-)certified by an accredited external auditor in spring 2019. Water Recycling and reuse in percent 56.4 2019 56.4 56.7 2017 2018 www.globalreporting.org Giesecke+Devrient Progress Report 2019 Our Responsibility 14 In addition, G+D has implemented numerous initiatives, Another important environmental concern is managing – measures, and projects at other locations aimed at reducand reducing – the use of chemicals. G+D is constantly ing the company’s ecological footprint. These measures searching for alternative materials for the various range from increased recycling of production waste at production processes at CT and MS while also refining card manufacturing facilities, e.g. at MS in Australia, to these processes to reduce or even eliminate the use of a reduction in waste and packaging at G+D Neustadt chemicals that are potentially harmful for the environand G+D India. To take one example, the packaging ment. Our efforts in this area far exceed the standards used to transport cards within the organization can be required by law. reused many times over a number of years. Some card facilities have switched entirely from plastic containers In addition to the “Life of a banknote” initiative, G+D to cardboard. In addition, G+D has held “Sustainability is working in a number of other areas on innovations to Days” for staff at a number of locations, including MS conserve resources throughout the value chain, from proNeustadt, MS Canada, and the Louisenthal paper mill. curement through production to use. For example, we now offer eco-friendly credit cards made from renewable materials, e.g. a PLA card made from corn starch or a card with wooden inlay. We also use recycled PVC for some card bodies – or avoid it entirely as in the case of our halfSIM form factor, which requires less material to produce. Other options include embedded SIMs that dispense with the card body altogether. These are becoming ever more important given increasing connectivity of people and machines. Embedded SIMs require less material to produce and generate less waste, both during production and in use. In addition, Mobile Security launched a sustainability project in 2019 entitled “Product Carbon Footprint.” The aim here is to measure and improve the carbon footprint of new types of payment cards throughout their lifecycle, i.e. across raw materials, production, transport, use, and recycling. Hazardous Waste 19.6 in percent 1 2019 17.1 17.6 www.louisenthal.com/ 2017 2018 highlights/technical-trends/ sustainability-green-banknote 1 Increased production volume and special disposal of chemicals Giesecke+Devrient Progress Report 2019 Our Responsibility 15 Principle 3: Responsibility in Our Supply Chain We apply strict environmental and social standards to our extensive supply chain that meet and exceed all relevant national and international regulations. Sustainability is an important criterion whenever we select a new supplier. We also work with our suppliers to improve transparency, identify risks, and avoid associated negative outcomes. We accept that our responsibility extends beyond our own production processes. In a globalized world, it is important that we source our raw materials in a sustainable and ethical way. We therefore use a range of instruments to embed sustainability throughout the procurement process. We also strive to continuously improve the environmental and social standards in our supply chain. GROUP-WIDE PROCUREMENT STANDARDS AND SUSTAINABILITY CRITERIA Our Group-wide procurement manual contains framework requirements for supply chain sustainability and defined environmental and social criteria for the selection and auditing of suppliers. These requirements are constantly being improved and expanded. In the year under review, we added a number of new questions, including several on environmental and safety management certification. At G+D Mobile Security (MS), which has a very deep supply chain, the proportion of audited A and B suppliers rose to 30 percent in 2019. The corresponding figure for G+D Currency Technology (CT) was 10 percent. All A and B suppliers serving MS have signed the Supplier Code of Conduct. In addition, MS introduced the internationally recognized SMETA (Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit) 4-pillar standard for assessing environmental and social risks among suppliers. The areas audited include labor standards, health and safety, and environmental management systems. Twenty percent of active A and B suppliers were audited in conjunction with TÜV Rhineland in 2019. In 2020, we aim to increase that number to With our responsible approach to our supply chain – more than 70 percent. including Group-wide procurement standards and a commitment to human rights – we are actively contributing to SDG 8 (Decent Work and Economic Growth) and SDG 12 (Responsible Consumption and Production). Giesecke+Devrient Progress Report 2019 Our Responsibility 16 At CT, a new working group was established to promote This year, we also plan to create a scorecard for key supsustainable procurement and further improve the supply pliers, making it easier for purchasers to select the most chain. Formed in early 2020, the group has already suitable providers. The scorecard will include various assessed how procurement can support the UN’s Sussustainability-related issues. We will also introduce spetainable Development Goals and identified which SDGs cial measures to help suppliers improve their sustainabilshould be prioritized in the future. ity performance. These measures will include training, events, and partnerships. COOPERATION WITH SUPPLIERS HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOR STANDARDS Our suppliers report to us sustainability risks and provide relevant documentation (e.g. certificates). At MS, the We are committed to upholding human rights and labor auditing and self-disclosure process has been modified standards. Accordingly, we also work closely with all our to include questions on environmental protection, suppliers to maintain those values throughout our supply health and safety, and other sustainability issues. This chain. cooperation with suppliers will be expanded further in the future. Currently, we are rolling out a Group-wide Our policy on forced labor, human trafficking, and supplier management portal to achieve even greater slavery complies with the UK Modern Slavery Act. This transparency and rigor in our supplier management law requires organizations to publish an annual modern processes. It also complements our supplier qualification slavery statement. It also forms an integral part of G+D’s and selection procedures. In addition, the portal will processes, our Code of Conduct, and our procurement expand G+D’s supplier onboarding process and provide standards. measurability. In order to avoid the procurement of raw materials from conflict zones, G+D MS uses a reporting system that meets the requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act. This system utilizes a standardized process to record and check the composition of all incoming materials, e.g. for smartcard production. To ensure our suppliers meet our standards on human rights and conflict minerals, our compliance questionnaires and Code of Conduct cover topics, such as child labor, forced labor, human trafficking, slavery, other local human rights and labor issues plus the sourcing of raw materials from conflict zones. Giesecke+Devrient Progress Report 2019 Our Responsibility 17 Principle 4: Responsibility through Our Products and Solutions In all our products and services, we are committed to providing the best possible security, quality, and reliability for our customers. Working closely with customers, we are also contributing to global and inclusive economic growth. By securing payment processes as well as connectivity, digitalization, and identification systems, we are enabling our customers to create new digital business models and develop solutions and services that make our lives more convenient and sustainable. G+D specializes in security technology across four key SOCIAL INCLUSION fields: payment, connectivity, identity, and digital infrastructures. Through these core fields, we support the Secure personal identification is an essential prerequisite objectives of global sustainable development. for legal protection and freedom of movement. It also enables people to access government services, such as health and education. Our secure ID solutions and serINCLUSIVE AND SUSTAINABLE ECONOMIC vices play a major role in providing these capabilities. GROWTH We also promote social inclusion through our wide range G+D products provide the security required for global of payment options. For example, in countries where the commerce. We secure analog, electronic and digital cellphone network is more developed than traditional payment transactions. We ensure the digital connectivity payment systems, it is better to enable people to pay of people and machines on the Internet. We protect perwith their smartphone than with a physical payment sonal identities using highly secure ID documents. And card. There are also countries where people have no we reduce the risk of cybercrime for states, institutions, access to a bank and are totally reliant on cash. A prepaid and critical infrastructures. Our products and services payment card with biometric features can even be used are thus laying the foundations for sustainable economic by people who have no ID documents or bank account. growth at the global level and for a better quality of life in the digital world. SECURITY AND STABILITY FOR THE GLOBAL Through our projects and investment, we are helping COMMUNITY to create jobs in our customers’ home countries and promoting the development of knowledge and producG+D solutions play an important role in global security tive capacities. This active contribution to sustainable and stability. Our products safeguard payment transaceconomic growth is particularly beneficial in developing tions, provide identity security, protect national borders, and emerging countries. In Egypt, for example, G+D and enable secure data transfer around the world. is not only building one of the world’s most advanced Accordingly, we are helping governments to combat high-security banknote plants, we are also supporting threats, such as corruption, counterfeiting, identity the Central Bank of Egypt by providing specialist training fraud, cybercrime, and terrorism. We also enable the to approximately 1,500 employees. police to conduct cross-border investigations more quickly. Giesecke+Devrient Progress Report 2019 Our Responsibility 18 Our responsible approach to our products and solutions supports numerous SDGs. By promoting secure and inclusive economic growth, we are contributing to SDG 8 (Decent Work and Economic Growth), SDG 9 (Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure), and SDG 10 (Reduced Inequalities). We are also working to improve social inclusion in support of SDG 10 (Reduced Inequalities) and SDG 16 (Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions). SDG 16 is further strengthened by our contribution to global security and stability. Finally, G+D’s efforts to promote sustainability are supporting SDG 8 (Decent Work and Economic Growth), SDG 10 (Reduced Inequalities), SDG 12 (Responsible Consumption and Production), and 13 (Climate Action). DEVELOPMENT AND USE OF DIGITAL Better resource efficiency through smart utilities and SOLUTIONS FOR BETTER AND MORE smart home/office SUSTAINABLE LIVING The Internet of Things can improve energy efficiency and reliability of supply while also bringing down costs. By securing the digital connectivity between people and For example, 5G-based management of wind, tidal, and machines on the Internet and protecting digital infrasolar farms offers a host of potential benefits. There are structures, G+D is building the foundations for solutions also new opportunities for public authorities and private and services that improve the quality and sustainability service providers in the areas of recycling, street lighting, of people’s lives. We are helping to increase trust in new and autonomous waste collection, all of which benefit communication technologies, making it possible for peothe wider community and environment. Smart home and ple to share their valuable data in an increasingly digital office technologies enable centralized control and can world. Herewith, the 5G mobile standard plays a key role. significantly improve the energy efficiency of appliances and HVAC systems. All these applications require secure Sustainable mobility data connectivity, which G+D products provide. Connected vehicles and autonomous driving will improve resource efficiency, enable intermodal mobility in cities, Less travel and a better work-life balance through and offer new opportunities for car-sharing models. virtual working Nine of the ten leading automotive manufacturers use Companies are already using digital communications and embedded SIM technology from G+D for their vehicle virtual conferencing to reduce business travel and the networking applications. associated CO2. They can deploy the same technologies to enable staff to work from home, thus improving their Better healthcare through remote diagnostics work-life balance. Data security is an essential requireRemote diagnostics can significantly improve healthcare ment for these and future technologies. G+D meets that access for people in rural and remote areas, as well as in demand with specially tailored solutions. developing countries. Using 5G, health professionals can provide continuous, real-time patient care – including medication, if required. It is even possible to perform remote surgery via augmented reality and robotic systems, e.g. in emergencies or natural disasters. G+D provides the technical basis for reliable network availability and the secure exchange of confidential data. Giesecke+Devrient Progress Report 2019 Our Responsibility 19 Principle 5: Responsibility for Our Business Practices By adhering to our own values as well as national and international laws and guidelines, we strengthen our reputation as a company and create the foundation for trusting relationships with our customers. Our compliance management system and G+D Code of Conduct serve to embed integrity and adherence to the law within our organization and also in our business relationships throughout the value chain. G+D uses a range of instruments to uphold its own values and standards. It is important not only that we comply with national and international legislation as well as our own internal guidelines, but also that we adhere to G+D’s core values and provide transparency into everything we do. TRANSPARENCY We are constantly working to improve our transparency, which also improves our performance. In addition to our dedicated management systems for compliance, data security, health and safety, and environmental performance, we collect and publish information and news in our annual report, in this progress report, in our PR communications, and on relevant platforms, such as EcoVadis. CENTRAL COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM (CMS) Our CMS ensures Group-wide regulatory compliance to avoid issues, such as corruption and antitrust law violations. We have created compliance committees in all business sectors and at the Group level tasked with regularly monitoring the CMS. In 2019, G+D introduced a new tool for risk analysis and assessment in relation to potential compliance violations and refined the analysis system. The CMS was audited at G+D Currency Technology (CT) and G+D Mobile Security (MS) by external parties in accordance with IDWPS 980 standard. Veridos will be audited in 2020. By accepting responsibility for our business practices, we are promoting SDGs 8 and 16. We contribute to SDG 8 (Decent Work and Economic Growth) through our sustainable business model and to SDG 16 (Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions) through our promotion of business ethics, opposition to corruption, and support for global data protection and cyber security. www.ecovadis.com www.veridos.com Giesecke+Devrient Progress Report 2019 Our Responsibility 20 CODE OF CONDUCT DATA PROTECTION Our Group-wide Code of Conduct combines inter alia the We have implemented a global data protection manageUN Global Compact, the core labor standards of the ILO, ment system to ensure Group-wide data protection and the UN Declaration of Human Rights, and certification to data security standards for the collection, processing, OHSAS 18001 (in future ISO 45001). Compliance with all and use of personal data. The system defines standard points is checked by the Corporate Audit function. The practices in the following key areas: Code of Conduct will be updated in 2020. • Documentation of all processes and processing related to data protection BANKNOTE ETHICS INITIATIVE (BNEI) • Creation and management of all documentation and contracts required for external data processing G+D is a co-founder of this banknote industry initiative • Implementation of and support for customer inquiries to promote ethical business practices, prevent corrup• Processing of right of access requests from data subtion, and ensure compliance with antitrust law. Followjects ing the successful audit of CT in 2017, its membership was • Compliance with legally required measures for verified in a letter of confirmation in November 2018. deletion of personal data The next BnEI audit is scheduled for 2020. • Internal Training The EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) GROUP-WIDE RISK ANALYSIS requires organizations to report personal data breaches. There were no reportable breaches in the year under We proactively and systematically identify and assess review. emerging risks – including potential compliance breaches in relation to corruption and antitrust law – and Our Binding Corporate Rules (BCRs) provide consistent introduce preventive measures. In 2019, we used a newly and comprehensive data protection. They are based on introduced tool to conduct a Group-wide risk assessment the EU GDPR, which is implemented at all locations across and establish appropriate countermeasures. the Group. BCRs can be provided for both data con­ trollers and data processors (contractors). G+D was the first German company to introduce BCRs for both roles. TRAINING AND INFORMATION Our BCRs have been approved by the relevant regulatory authorities in the EU. Open communication and staff training play an essential role in preventing compliance incidents. We are therefore constantly strengthening our internal communications around this subject. In 2019, we introduced new e-learning content on the basic principles of compliance, on anti-corruption measures, and on antitrust law. We also use classroom training and intranet content to inform and sensitize staff. INTERNET-BASED WHISTLEBLOWER SYSTEM G+D has an anonymous reporting system in place for suspected violations and unlawful conduct. The system is open to internal and external users. Giesecke+Devrient Progress Report 2019 Our Responsibility 21 Principle 6: Responsibility for Our Society As a longstanding and independent family-owned company, we believe entrepreneurship and social responsibility go hand in hand. Economic activity is only truly sustainable in a society that is equitable, progressive, open, and secure. For the past ten years, we have concentrated our corporate citizenship activities in the Giesecke+Devrient Foundation. In addition to in-house projects, the Foundation also collaborates with selected partners. The majority of funding goes to culture and the arts, child and youth education, and the promotion of international exchange and intercultural skills among young people. The Foundation’s principal project is the Museum of the Printing Arts in Leipzig – the city in which G+D was founded. The Museum has been in operation for 25 years and was instrumental in having artistic printing techniques recognized as an intangible cultural heritage by the German UNESCO commission. In addition to showcasing historical printing techniques, the Museum is a place of meeting and exchange. Visitors can watch book printers and typesetters working with historical tools and machines, attend lectures and seminars, and enjoy a varied program of temporary exhibitions. In keeping with the Foundation’s remit, there are also guided tours and other educational offerings for children and young people. The Museum is officially recognized as an off-campus learning location. With our commitment to social responsibility through the Giesecke+Devrient Foundation, we are contributing to SDGs 4 and 10. In particular, we are supporting SDG 4 (Quality Education) through our funding for culture, the arts, and education, while our commitment also www.gi-de-stiftung.org/en/ supports SDG 10 (Reduced Inequalities). www.druckkunst-museum.de/en/ Giesecke+Devrient Progress Report 2019 Our Responsibility 22 In the area of culture and intercultural skills, the FoundaStaff donations and volunteering are becoming increasingly tion’s main priority is a youth development program. Run important at G+D. In addition to Christmas donations to in partnership with the Goethe Institute Munich since a Munich food charity, G+D Mobile Security has in recent 2011, the program enables young people from Europe, years organized collections for earthquake victims in Mexico Africa, Asia, and South America to spend time in Munich and donated to the Banorte Foundation in that country. In during school vacations. Along with improving their Gerthe UK, staff at MS have been volunteering in their local man language skills, they learn more about the country communities, for example renovating youth centers or thanks to an extensive cultural itinerary. In addition, the assisting school-leavers with job applications. Foundation has an alumni program that was launched three years ago to build bridges between people and cultures around the world. This year, the Foundation will make additional efforts to interlink its funding priorities and thus generate greater synergy. In addition to the Foundation’s activities, G+D has a corporate volunteering program where employees can volunteer on projects selected by the Foundation. Our subsidiaries also implement projects around the world that promote social development at the local level. These range from helping school-leavers begin their careers (MS in UK) to donating IT equipment to an NGO and medical equipment to the Red Cross (Spain and Germany). Giesecke+Devrient GmbH Corporate Communications Prinzregentenstrasse 159 P.O. Box 80 07 29 81607 Munich Germany P +49 89 4119-13 86 F +49 89 4119-12 08 csr@gi-de.com www.gi-de.com
