DANISH SHIP FINANCE 2019 > Sustainability Report WWW.SHIPFINANCE.DK CVR NO. 27 49 26 49 Table of contents 3 > CEO statement About this report This report provides an overview of Danish Ship Finance’s 4 > Danish Ship Finance at a glance approach to sustainability. We present our sustainability progress, targets and ambitions and discuss the issues that 6 > Sustainability strategy and direction are material to our business and our stakeholders. This report also represents Danish Ship Finance’s Commu7 > Sustainability in the spheres of finance and shipping nication on Progress to the UN Global Compact and covers the financial year from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2019. 9 > Responsible client engagement With this report, we also fulfil the requirements stated in sections 135 and 135a of the Danish Executive Order on Fi11 > Business ethics and compliance nancial Reports for Credit and Investment Companies. Danish Ship Finance’s annual reporting includes the Annual 12 > Sustainable finance Report 2019, the Risk Report 2019 and this report, the Sustainability Report 2019. In addition, our Sustainability Policy 14 > Responsible employer is available at: 17 > Our own direct impact on the climate and environment shipfinance.dk/the-company/corporate-governance/ 18 > Societal impact through the Danish Maritime Fund We always strive to improve our reporting, and we value any 19 > UNs Sustainable Development Goals feedback you may have regarding this report. 20 > Initiatives joined and stakeholder engagement Please contact us at: sustainability@shipfinance.dk 21 > Reporting principles 2 Sustainability Report CEO statement In many ways, 2019 was the year when sustainability rose to Our main sustainability the top of the agenda, in society as in business, not least for impact comes from us in the financial sector and for our clients in shipping. Today, there is clear consensus that sustainability and responsibility engagement with clients are fundamental for resilient businesses and key elements in creating trust and long-term value for shareholders. about the challenges associated with establishing sustainability as a central element of the business for both financial As distributors of capital, we are inherently responsible for the institutions and shipowners. impact of the activities to which we choose to allocate capital. We are acutely aware that our responsibility to focus on the We endeavour to listen and learn from our clients. These exmost prudent and forward-thinking clients has not diminished changes are essential in ensuring that we remain an indispenbut has in fact grown in importance, not only for reasons of sable partner to our clients. Yet, our clients do not shape our resilience and risk reduction, but also because financial instiapproach to sustainability. Our overarching goal is to support tutions have a unique position in terms of influencing developour clients in the transition to a more sustainable and transments in society. parent shipping industry, and we believe close and trust-based dialogue will be instrumental in achieving this. Responsibility and accountability have always been and continue to be deeply entrenched in the culture of Danish Ship We reached several milestones in 2019 that will help integrate Finance. In recent years, we have worked to step up our sussustainability into our business further. The most significant tainability efforts even further. In 2019, we ramped up our efwere our decision to sign up to the Poseidon Principles as an forts significantly, and took some important steps to embed initial signatory when they launched in June 2019 and the insustainability deeper into our operations. Our commitment to troduction of sustainability ratings for all our clients. responsible business practices and support of the UN Global We are proud of the progress we have already made and will Compact Principles will continue to guide our sustainability unhesitatingly continue our efforts to increase our own transefforts. parency and make sustainability an even more ingrained part Our main sustainability impact comes from engagement with of our business than it is today. clients. We are increasingly engaging in dialogue with our clients about sustainability, and in the past year we have expeErik I. Lassen rienced unprecedented interest from clients in talking to us Chief Executive Officer 3 Sustainability Report Danish Ship Finance at a glance Our business is fully committed to lending to reputable shipowners, many of whom are leading players in their respective segments. Since the company was founded in 1961, we have remained close to our Danish clients while gradually building up an international presence with a select group of clients. Today, we are proud to be a top 20 shipping financier globally On average, our Senior Relationship We have in-house shipping research, and one of the largest dedicated lenders in ship financing, Managers have more than 15 years of as well as technical survey, marine with gross lending of DKK 41.3 billion, of which Danish clishipping experience legal and marine insurance expertise ents account for more than one-third, collateralised by 774 vessels. The ability to issue covered bonds on competitive terms reGross lending of DKK 41.3 billion mains the second cornerstone of our business. This is supported by our strategic focus on maintaining a class-leading credit performance and robust liquidity. The resilience of our platform is evidenced by a strong investment grade ‘A’ bond rating (with the outlook lifted to ‘Stable’ in 2019) from Standard & Poor’s. We remain committed to our clients and investors as a long-term partner, with the ambition of becoming the Our headquarters is located in Our lean organisation enables quick obvious choice in ship finance. Copenhagen, enabling us to tap into decision-making processes to the strong shipping competences benefit of clients 4 Sustainability Report Vision Sustainability highlights 2019 Established a CLIENTS Sustainability Office Supporting reputable shipowners across shipping cycles Implemented first version of sustainability ratings on the client portfolio EMPLOYEES OWNERS Retaining, attracting and Leveraging our unique developing talented business model to employees in a learning provide an attractive organisation Initial signatory of the return Poseidon Principles The obvious choice in ship finance Joined the Getting to Zero Coalition SOCIETY INVESTORS Working with the shipping Utilising our strong shipping industry in its environmental expertise to create a stable and digital transition investment for bondholders Contributed to the Danish government's climate partnerships 5 Sustainability Report Sustainability strategy and direction We are committed to acting responsibly and acknowledge that In 2019, Danish Ship Finance established a Sustainability we play a key role in the transition towards a sustainable future. Office, which reports directly to and works in close collaboraSustainability and resilience are becoming interchangeable. tion with the Executive Board. While we have a track record of remarkable resilience, we must The Sustainability Office is responsible for driving, developtake advantage of the strong momentum to embed sustaining and coordinating our corporate sustainability agenda and ability more deeply into our business and organisation. Risks incorporating it into the work of the relevant departments. are evolving fast, and continuously increasing the focus on The Sustainability Office is a central coordinating function, sustainability in our lending activities and credit analysis will supporting the organisation in introducing updated policies, be a key element in maintaining our track record of resilience processes and new initiatives to ensure integration of sustainin the future as well. ability into operations and create a culture of ownership. Guiding principles for our sustainability agenda Actively engage with our Promote transparency Be a leading business employees, clients, investors both for ourselves and our partner for responsible, and external stakeholders on business partners forward-thinking, reputable sustainability and sustainable shipowners finance 6 Sustainability Report Sustainability in the spheres of finance and shipping A sustainable financial sector Sustainability has become embedded in the financial sector The Action Plan was launched to redirect capital flows in the As distributors of capital, we and its regulatory framework. In the financial sector, this deprivate sector towards sustainable investments. The new EU have a certain responsibility velopment has been particularly pronounced due to the inCommission plans to broaden this work significantly, as evicreased focus on the special impact on society that the sector denced by its proposed European Green Deal, which targets to be mindful of what and has and the responsibility this entails. climate neutrality for the EU by 2050. who we allocate capital to As distributors of capital, we have a certain responsibility to In Denmark, the government has committed to an ambitious be mindful of what and who we allocate capital to. In early target to reduce emissions by 70% by 2030 compared to December 2019, Finance Denmark’s Forum for Sustainable 1990 for the whole country and has involved businesses in Finance published 20 recommendations to address how the its efforts to reach this goal. Through the establishment of 13 Danish financial sector can become more sustainable. climate partnerships across industries, businesses are helping formulate the overall strategy to reach this ambitious target. In the EU, the work with the Action Plan for Sustainable FiThrough our unique position nestled between the financial nance and particularly the Taxonomy for Sustainable Finance sector and the shipping industry, we are participating in the is progressing at breakneck speed. climate partnership for both sectors. 7 Sustainability Report A sustainable shipping industry When comparing shipping to other sectors such as aviation, In the meantime, to compensate for the length of time the IMO the important distinction to make is that shipping is inextricaprocess will take, the Global Maritime Forum has gathered toIMOs initial strategy bly linked to trade. The shipping industry is essential for the gether ship finance institutions with the help of shipowners, The global shipping industry is today estimated to account continued growth and prosperity of the global economy. classification societies, ship finance law specialists, NGOs and for approximately 2-3% of total global CO2 emissions. academics to create the Poseidon Principles, a pioneering inShipping is the most carbon-efficient form of large-scale In April 2018, the IMO adopted an initial strategy on the itiative creating a framework for disclosing the alignment of goods transport that exists currently. However, because of reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from ships, setting ship finance portfolios with climate goals. Shipping is the only the high volume of goods transported – approximately 85% international targets to cut CO2 emissions from the shipping industrial sector in which such a regime exists. of global trade in goods is seaborne – the negative climate industry and reduce the negative impact of shipping on the impact from shipping is still substantial. The international Individual shipping companies are spending millions of dollars environment. shipping industry accounts for approximately 2-3% of total on innovation and research into new technical solutions that The IMO targets at least a 40% cut in emission intensity by global CO2 emissions annually. In a business-as-usual scenarcan accelerate the reduction of their climate impact. In addi2030 and 70% by 2050, and at least a 50% absolute reducio, emissions from shipping are projected to rise rapidly due to tion, partnerships are forming, with shipowners collaborating tion in emissions compared to 2008 levels by 2050. increased demand for trade, and therefore must be reduced. to advance the industry’s response to climate change. Initiatives such as the Getting to Zero Coalition have been launched In 2019, the conversation in the industry was dominated by to further the progress towards the common goal of decarthe question of how to manage the transition to decarbonibonising shipping and have attracted a broad following. Up sation. Individual shipowners are at very different stages on to now, the industry has been notoriously conservative and this journey, but collectively the industry is working to use all private, but it is now shedding this image in a collaborative means currently available to reduce its emissions and we enattempt to transition to decarbonisation. courage efforts towards this goal. During 2019, the International Maritime Organization (IMO) Poseidon Principles is a started the process of turning its ambitious “initial strategy pioneering initiative on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions from ships” creating a framework for from 2018 into regulation. These efforts are ongoing and are scheduled to conclude by 2023 at the latest. disclosing the alignment of ship finance portfolios with climate goals 8 Sustainability Report Responsible client engagement Delivering a good experience and providing attractive solutions that match our clients’ needs, while acting with integriCareful client selection ty and not compromising on our core values or obligations to Our client portfolio is comprised of the most prudent, top-tier In addition, our in-house surveyor carries out physical inspecthe client relationship, is our most important task. shipowners. Competition for these clients is intensifying, but tions of our clients’ vessels on a spot test basis – in 2019, 20 we remain confident that our value proposition is one of the vessels were inspected – and we analyse other factors such Client satisfaction most attractive in the industry. as fuel efficiency and design specifications of the vessels in which we are mortgagee. Most of our clients have been with us for many years, and Our vision is simple: to be the obvious choice in ship finance. when we take on new clients, we are diligent in our assessIn addition, we spend a fair amount of time getting to know An independent client survey conducted in 2019, measuring ment process. We take several measures to ensure that we clients’ management teams before progressing with any rethe quality of services in ship finance, confirmed that we are preserve our reputation and track record before we embark on lationship. Together, these measures allow us to ensure that on the right path. new client relationships. we only enter into business with the most prudent, reputable The already high underlying scores we obtained in 2018 shipowners. Regulatory know your customer procedures are always carshowed solid improvements, and reaffirmed that our longried out in accordance with the law. Clients must meet our term commitment and strong expertise in shipping are qualiinternal requirements in terms of flag state and classification ties highly valued by clients. Our clients rate us as the fourthsocieties. In 2019, all our relationship best ship finance institution globally and the second-best in the Nordics. We see this result as testament to the quality of The extent to which new clients are deemed prudent is evalumanagers engaged with the relationships we have with our clients, but we will conated through monitoring of the clients’ past financial perforclients specifically on tinue our dedicated work to become the preferred choice in mance, the track record of the management team, the alignsustainability issues ship finance. ment of incentive schemes with the interests of creditors, their performance in our internal sustainability rating and their performance in port state control inspections. 9 Sustainability Report Influence through engagement Key achievements and actions in 2019 We believe that we can We are proponents of traditional relationship banking, maintaining ongoing dialogue and strong relationships with our make our most significant • All our relationship managers engaged in dialogue with clients about sustainability issues clients. This means we have a good grasp of what is happencontribution to mitigating • We engaged with 67% of clients about sustainability ing with our clients. In 2019, all our relationship managers enthe shipping industry’s issues gaged with clients specifically on sustainability issues, and we impact on particularly the managed to engage with 67% of our clients throughout the • Our clients rated us second in the Nordics and the year. We will maintain our strong focus on active dialogue with climate by addressing chalfourth-best ship finance provider globally in an clients, and we aim to engage with all our remaining clients in lenging issues and risk with independent survey 2020. our clients and engaging We believe that we can make our most significant contribution in constructive dialogue Ambitions and strategy 2020 to mitigating the shipping industry’s impact on particularly the climate by addressing challenging issues and risk with our cli• Build responsible, long-term client relationships of ents and engaging in constructive dialogue. Through this diawhich sustainability is an integral part logue, we learn about their progress and difficulties, and have • Engage with the remainder of our clients about their the opportunity to ask questions and address topics that can sustainability impact ultimately steer them in the right direction. • Encourage clients to strengthen their commitment to transparency Relevant policies • Sustainability policy • Credit policy 10 Sustainability Report Business ethics and compliance We are subject to the same compliance regulations as the rest of the financial sector. However, we see few transactions comAnti-corruption and bribery pared to other financial institutions, primarily because we do We take a zero-tolerance approach to corruption and bribery Ambitions and strategy 2020 not take deposits or carry out cash management for clients. and address this in our Code of Conduct, Personnel Handbook • Maintain our strong compliance culture This makes us much less exposed to the risk of being used for and other policies. In practice, we work to mitigate the risk of fraudulent purposes. • Strengthen compliance awareness among all employees bribery and corruption through our compliance infrastructure, which includes continuous training, controls, and escalation Know your customer procedures. Relevant policies Regardless of this, we have a strong compliance culture, and in conducting our client relationships diligently, the KYC proceWhistleblowing options • Code of Conduct dure that we carry out in accordance with current regulations • Guidelines to prevent corruption in Personnel Handbook Finally, Danish Ship Finance has also established a whistleserves as our anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist fiblower scheme, allowing employees who witness non-compli• Policy for anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist nancing measures. This means, among other things, that we ance with financial legislation or any other serious crime to financing must verify the identity of the management teams and the report this anonymously to a third-party law firm, which will • Policy for gifts and hospitality ultimate owners of our clients. We must do this at certain ininvestigate any reports submitted. The law firm has stated tervals throughout the client relationship and in the event of that in 2019 it once again did not receive any non-compliance • Disclosure policy any change in management or ownership. reports. • Policy for data protection This partly entails relying on information provided by our cli• Policy for healthy corporate culture ents. They must give us this information by certain deadlines; we are obliged to report any failure to do so to the authorities. • Sustainability policy For the first time ever, we reported the breach of such a deadline by one of our clients to the authorities in 2019. 11 Sustainability Report Sustainable finance Danish Ship Finance, like any other business, need to take rethat this framework will create is expected to result in greater sponsibility, mitigate risk and be mindful of the impact of our incentives for continuously improving the climate alignment The Poseidon Principles activities. Responsibility has always been a core value in our of ship finance portfolios. Through the four principles and What are they? company and will continue to be in future. common definitions of key metrics, the Poseidon Principles will create a global baseline and serve to improve strategic deA framework for assessing and disclosing the climate As corporate responsibility and sustainability converge and alignment of ship finance portfolios. As Signatories, cision making about the future composition of ship finance the definition of financial risks widens, we strive to ensure that we commit to implementing the Poseidon Principles in portfolios and how lenders work with individual clients. our business activities and internal processes always reflects our internal policies, procedures, and standards, and To ensure strong governance, the Poseidon Principles Associto work in partnership with our clients and partners this. on an ongoing basis to implement the Poseidon Prination has been established, and Danish Ship Finance currently ciples. Our commitment to the has a seat on the Steering Committee of the Association. Poseidon Principles As a signatory to the Principles, we have committed to includWhat is the goal? ing a covenant in our new loan agreements to secure clients’ The Principles are consistent with the policies and A major milestone in 2019 was our commitment to join the ambitions of the International Maritime Organization, consent to share the necessary data with us. Loan agreePoseidon Principles as an initial signatory. The Poseidon Prinincluding its ambition for greenhouse gas (GHG) emisments from before June 2019 do not include this covenant, ciples are a pioneering sector-specific initiative within sustainsions to peak as soon as possible and to reduce shipand while we will do all we can to obtain the data from existing ping’s total annual GHG emissions by at least 50% by able finance, led by ship finance institutions themselves. clients, we may not be able to report climate alignment data 2050 compared to 2008. They are self-imposed guidelines for responsible banks which for our full portfolio. The four principles are: seek to be transparent about their climate impact from financBy the end of 2020, we will report our first weighted average ing shipping companies. By the end of 2019, 15 ship finance 1. Assessment of climate alignment climate alignment for our portfolio alongside the other signa2. Accountability institutions had signed up to the Principles and more institutories to the Poseidon Principles secretariat. Our results will 3. Enforcement tions are expected to announce their commitment in the combe published by 31 December 2020 on poseidonprinciples.org 4. Transparency ing year. Ship finance is global and ultimately the success of and in our Sustainability Report 2020, which we will publish in the Principles rests on as many institutions joining as possible. the first quarter of 2021. Read more at: poseidonprinciples.org The Poseidon Principles are designed to be aligned with the The Principles have been designed to take their point of deInternational Maritime Organization’s targets for decarbonisaparture in individual vessels in ship finance portfolios. This is tion of shipping, but they do not contain any specific requireprimarily due to data availability and the relative ease of apments regarding the performance of signatories’ portfolios. plying this approach across different signatories. We will, of Rather, the combination of comparable data and transparency course, apply the Principles as prescribed and report on equal terms with the other signatories. 12 Sustainability Report The framework encourages financing of new, more energy-efIt has been our experience that the conversations we are iniThe outcome of this workstream is expected to be a set of ficient ships. This is a development that we support. However, tiating about the information we expect clients to share with recommendations and actions to unlock investments in the shipowners also free up capital by financing the equity in their us and the rest of the financial sector are strengthening our transition to zero-emission shipping. existing tonnage, and this capital can be deployed for investclient relationships and enhancing our understanding of climents in energy efficiency and decarbonisation technologies. ents’ strategies and their long-term preparedness in terms of In our credit assessments, we continue to take a holistic persustainability issues. Key achievements and actions in 2019 spective on a client’s fleet and make an overall assessment on whether, on a fleet level, the shipowner is on the right path • The introduction of sustainability ratings on all clients towards climate alignment and decarbonisation. If this is the Joining the Getting to Zero Coalition in the portfolio and integration in credit application process case, we will continue to finance or refinance existing ships for In 2019, Danish Ship Finance also joined the Getting to Zero our clients. Coalition, a partnership between the Global Maritime Forum, • Commitment to the Poseidon Principles and the efforts to adapt relevant business processes to prepare to the World Economic Forum and the Friends of Ocean Action. deliver on the commitment of transparent reporting Sustainability ratings for the clients The goal of the Coalition is to bring together a broad coalition of companies from the maritime, energy, infrastructure and fiin our portfolio nance sectors with the shared ambition of making zero-emisAmbitions and strategy 2020 As a specialised and dedicated shipping lender, we created the sion vessels commercially viable by 2030. By the end of 2019, first version of a tailormade framework to assess the progress more than 80 companies had joined the Getting to Zero Coa• Collect data from as many clients as possible and report lition, representing all links in the maritime value chain along our climate alignment in accordance with the Poseidon of our clients on sustainability issues material to the shipping with attracting the support of governments and NGOs. Principles industry in 2019. The sustainability rating framework has been approved by our Board of Directors, and we have completed In 2018, the IMO agreed on an ambition to reduce emissions • Enhance our client sustainability ratings and integrate initial assessments of our full portfolio of existing clients. from shipping by at least 50% by 2050. For this goal to be them further into decision-making processes The first version of our sustainability rating framework has achieved, commercially viable zero-emission vessels need to • Initiate the development of a risk management framebeen implemented in credit applications, for both existing and enter the global fleet by 2030, which will require not only the work to increase the transparency of the climate-related prospective clients. This means that a client’s sustainability vessels, but also the fuels and future fuel supply chain to be risks in the portfolio performance and the resulting rating are now one of the topics developed. This can only be done through close collaboration • Prepare to meet new and increasing reporting requireconsidered by the Credit Committee when assessing new deals and collective action between the maritime industry, the enerments and evaluating the expansion, continuation or commencement gy sector, the financial sector, governments and intergovernof client relationships. mental organisations. • Monitor market developments and analyse the potential to issue green bonds or similar Another consequence of the new sustainability ratings is that In the first phase of what is intended to be a multi-year project, the work of the Coalition will be carried out in different • Formulate a position statement on responsible ship sustainability has become an integrated theme in the regular recycling dialogue we have with our clients. We have also introduced workstreams. We will contribute to the workstream centred more stringent demands about what information we expect around how to scale up investments in shipping’s decarbonclients to provide us with. We strive to create transparency isation, how to overcome the challenges of defining green Relevant policies and we encourage clients to share that same information pubinvestments, the absence of a clear business case for zelicly where possible. ro-emission shipping, and the risk profile of investments in • Sustainability policy the early stages of the transition. 13 Sustainability Report Responsible employer Talented and dedicated employees are essential to our busiIt is our goal to create a workness. We strive to create an inspiring and flexible work enviStrategy execution and operational ronment in which our employees feel valued and have opporexcellence place that supports the fundatunities to develop and grow. At the end of 2018, a new strategy setting a clear direction for mentals for well-being at work the future development of the company was approved by the for our employees. Culture, leadEmployee development Board of Directors. Most employees were actively involved in ership and flexibility will play a executing on the strategy throughout 2019. In particular, the In 2019, we sought to step up our focus on employee develcrucial role in this focus on operational excellence, a new model for project govopment. We implemented a new tool to help both our peoernance, and efforts to meet individual business targets have ple leaders and employees facilitate annual development reincreased the workload for many of our employees, which we views. The responsibility for employee development rests with are monitoring closely. Our intention is that when the ongoing Well-being and engagement that employee’s immediate leader, but to ensure consistency projects related to operational excellence have been completEach year, we carry out a well-being survey among our emacross the company, all people leaders received training on ed, workloads should be normalised. ployees. The results of the survey help determine the most how to conduct development processes effectively in 2019, important focus areas for creating and maintaining an attracand 85% of our employees had development reviews with their immediate leaders. Onboarding of new colleagues tive workplace for our employees. The results of the survey conducted in 2019, which had a 92% response rate, show that We want our employees to have opportunities to develop A number of new colleagues have joined the company over in terms of employee satisfaction, work-life balance and stress professionally and to gain new perspectives from outside our the past two years. This has created a need to review how we our performance remains at a satisfactory level. Overall, the organisation. Therefore, we encourage our employees to paronboard new employees most effectively. We have updated employee satisfaction index is at 77. However, for the past three ticipate in relevant external courses and training. In 2019, 61% our onboarding procedures to ensure all new employees have years, the results of the survey have shown a declining trend of our employees participated in various external courses or the best possible start in their new job. on the three main parameters that we monitor closely: employtraining sessions. In addition, we host seminars on relevant ees’ satisfaction, work-life balance and stress (see results on topics by external experts and invite employees to attend inpage 16). We take these results seriously and are doing our spirational speeches throughout the year. utmost to address the organisational issues and changes that might be causing the decline. Consequently, we have raised the target for employee satisfaction that we will work towards in the organisation to index 80, from 75 previously. 14 Sustainability Report We know that people stay in the job longer, are more engaged, We are committed to providing equal opportunities regardless and perform better when they are happy in their workplace. It of gender, age, ethnicity, sexuality or any other traits that are is our goal to create a workplace that supports the fundamenirrelevant to the job description. Like many of our peers in the Key achievements and actions in 2019 tals for well-being at work for our employees. Culture, leaderfinancial sector, we perform well on gender diversity for all • Implemented a new tool to aid the employee developship and flexibility will play a crucial role in this. employees but still have some way to go when it comes to diment process for our employees and people leaders versity at management levels. In 2019, our workforce consistWe do what we can to be a responsible employer and support • Streamlined our onboarding procedure ed of 37% women and 63% men, while 15% of people leaders our employees in their individual situations. This means we were women. go beyond the minimum requirements of the law and our collective agreements when, for example, employees experience We would like to improve the gender balance at all levels of the organisation, and have a target to have at least one woman Ambitions and strategy 2020 longer periods of non-work-related sickness. This approach affected the average number of sick days per employee in represented on the Board of Directors from 2021 and to ap• Commence leadership development program for all 2019, which increased slightly compared to 2018. In general, point or recruit at least one additional female people leader by people leaders in Q2 2020 though, our employees take very few sick days, as evidenced 2021. However, despite our focus on this, we have few man• Ensure employee satisfaction does not drop further, by the 30% of our employees who did not take any at all in agement positions and turnover in them is low, and therefore but is restored to previous higher levels 2019. a position must become available before we can meet this target. • Bring down employee turnover level to at least 8% Leadership development • Maintain a healthy workplace where the average Zero tolerance of bullying and employee has less than eight sickdays per year One of the initiatives that we believe will help improve employee satisfaction is a leadership development programme harassment for our people leaders, which will be initiated in Q2 2020. The We do not tolerate any form of harassment, sexual harassRelevant policies main objective of the programme is to create a more coherent ment, or bullying in the workplace. It is essential for us that • Code of Conduct (“Personnel handbook”) leadership culture across the company. our employees feel safe and experience a workplace culture without any form of harassment. Each year in the annual • Policy and targets for the underrepresented gender well-being survey, we ask our employees whether they have Equal opportunities and diversity been exposed to any type of harassment or bullying. We con• Anti-bullying policy Danish Ship Finance’s employees are our greatest asset. We sider any occurrence of bullying unacceptable and have in• Policy for the prevention and handling of stress value the diversity of our employees’ backgrounds, experience creased our focus on this issue. We strive to have a culture and personal qualities. Each employee makes a unique contriwhere employees can raise any incident of misconduct, safe in • Sustainability policy bution to the company and our culture. the knowledge that Danish Ship Finance will address it properly. To ensure the success of our corporate strategy in the long term, we must have access to a diverse pool of candidates. 15 Sustainability Report People and governance data Gender balance Employee satisfaction survey 2019 2018 2017 2019 2018 2017 2020 TARGET Employees 37% 34% 37% General employee satisfaction 77 78 81 80 People leaders 15% 15% 0% Employees experiencing a healthy work-life balance 77 77 81 Executive Management* 0% 0% 0% Employees not experiencing long periods of negative stress 77 75 80 Board of Directors 0% 0% 0% *Employees answer questions on a scale of 1-10, and answers are converted to an index. Index 70 is considered an acceptable score * Share of women Key employee metrics 2019 2018 2017 Total employees (FTEs) 79 80 71 Average age of employees 46 45 44 Average seniority (years) 10.3 10.4 10 Employee turnover 11.9% 7.9% 5.7% Sickness absence* (avg. no. of days) 5.7 3.8 2 Employees receiving external training 61% 53% 63% *Sickness absence data from before 2019 does not incl. long-term absences Board attendance 2019 2018 2017 Attendance rate, board meetings 89.4% 86.1% 91.0% Attendance rate, Audit Committee meetings 91.5% 100% 100% Refer to our Reporting Principles on page 21 for definitions of the metrics we use. 16 Sustainability Report Our own direct impact on the climate and environment Key achievements and actions in 2019 Compared to other industries, Danish Ship Finance as a finanOtherwise, our own direct impact on the environment stems • By choosing certain airlines and tickets, we ensured cial institution has a low level of carbon emissions. Producing from energy use in our office building and material consumed that 49% of total air travel by the company’s employfinancial services generates much lower CO2 emissions than (paper). A digitalisation project executed in 2019 related to ees was subject to carbon offsetting producing goods. Furthermore, our relatively modest size documentation of new data entries and changes in our IT sys• Digitalisation of logs, reducing paper makes our own direct impact even smaller. Nevertheless, we tems will reduce our paper consumption going forward. consumption do what we can to reduce our own direct impact on the enviFrom September 2019, we have been purchasing renewable ronment. energy from our electricity supplier. The main source of carbon emissions as a result of our busiAmbitions and strategy 2020 ness activities is the air travel of our employees. We serve clients across the world, but only have offices in Copenhagen. • Increase transparency and communication We find that meeting our clients face to face adds significant Environmental performance 2019 • Update the travel policy value to our client relationships and mitigates credit risk and thus we do not currently have any plans to reduce the amount CO2 emission (tonnes) 682 • Update our guidelines for responsible procurement of air travel related to client meetings. However, we are mindCO2 emissions per employee (CO2 tonne/FTE) 8.6 • Evaluate options to expand carbon offsetting for air ful of the necessity of air travel for other purposes. FurtherElectricity consumption (MWh) 149 travel more, our travel policy stipulates certain airlines that we would Heat consumption (MWh) 241 prefer tickets to be booked with. As a result of this, 49% of Water consumption (m3) 5,324 the total air miles travelled in 2019 were with airlines that offPaper consumption (kg) 3,070 Relevant policies set carbon emissions. Air transport (1,000 km) 943 • Travel policy • Policy for sustainability including guidelines for responsible procurement 17 Sustainability Report Societal impact through the Danish Maritime Fund Through our annual contribution to the Danish Maritime Fund, The shipping industry is among the most important industries Danish Ship Finance indirectly helps fund initiatives supportin Denmark, employing more than 90,000 people and making The Danish Maritime Fund ing the development of the Danish shipping and shipbuilding the largest contribution to Danish exports measured in DKK. The Danish Maritime Fund is a commercial foundation industries and their suppliers. established by law in 2005 upon the transformation of Danish Ship Finance into a private limited liability company. The substantial contribution to the Danish shipping community through the Danish Maritime Fund helps create new jobs, The objective stated in the Fund charter is i) to provide foster innovation and strengthen the competitive position of grants and financing to initiatives and activities that will Danish shipping internationally. grow and develop the Danish shipping and shipbuilding industries, and ii) to ensure the perpetual existence of a ship finance institution in Denmark. The Fund’s trust funds consist of a 10% permanent shareholding in Danish Ship Finance, and each year the Fund receives 15% of Danish Ship Finance’s profits in the form of a preferred dividend. This is the Fund’s only source of income. Only Danish maritime companies or organisations are eligible for support from the Danish Maritime Fund. We will make a DKK 34 million Since 2005, more than DKK 740 distribution to the Danish million of profit from Danish Ship Maritime Fund based on our Finance has been transferred to the financial performance in 2019 Danish Maritime Fund 18 Sustainability Report UNs Sustainable Development Goals Our contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals is threefold: 1. Taking action to accelerate the transition to sustainable shipping Through our commitment to the Poseidon Principles, our active dialogue with clients, and our participation in the Getting to Zero Coalition, we seek to support, encourage and creative incentives for the shipping industry’s transition to a more sustainable, climate-aligned future. This contributes to SDGs 13 and 17. 2. A stable source of finance for shipping companies We ensure a stable, perpetual source of financing for shipowners. Shipowners play a crucial role at the centre of global trade infrastructure, contributing to global economic growth through the facilitation of trade. Via our contributions to the Danish Maritime Fund, we indirectly help foster innovation in the maritime supply chain. This contributes to SDGs 8, 9 and 13. 3. Ensuring responsible business practices We conduct business with responsibility and accountability. We respect our business partners, promote equal opportunities and ensure the well-being of our employees. Through this, we contribute to SDGs 3 and 8. 19 Sustainability Report International initiatives joined We have endorsed several international initiatives and seek to encourage best practice Stakeholder engagement by following their guidelines and participating actively in them: Throughout 2019, we engaged with many of our stakeholders to address sustainability-related issues. With internal stakeholders, these were mainly related to well-being, updated sustainability policies and procedures, and information on the impact of participation in new initiatives. UN GLOBAL COMPACT UN GUIDING PRINCIPLES ON HUMAN RIGHTS We engaged with external stakeholders to increase the transThis is a UN initiative to encourage businesses to align This UN initiative from 2011 is the first global standard parency of our sustainability efforts, inform them of the impact their strategies and operations with ten universal prinfor preventing and addressing the risk of human rights of new initiatives, discuss the impact of new and proposed legciples building on UN conventions in the areas of human abuses linked to business activity, and continues to proviislation, and participate in industry collaborations. rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruptide the internationally accepted framework for enhancing on. standards and practice regarding business and human rights. Sustainability stakeholder engagement Internal Employees Management Board of Directors External Shareholders GETTING TO ZERO COALITION POSEIDON PRINCIPLES Clients Bond investors This is a multi-stakeholder initiative by the Global MariThis is a global framework for responsible ship finance Finance Denmark time Forum, the World Economic Forum and the Friends initiated by the Global Maritime Forum and leading ship Danish Shipping of Ocean Action to unite stakeholders across the maritifinance banks. The principles provide a framework for European Community Shipowners’ Association Global Maritime Forum me, energy, infrastructure and finance sectors around the assessing and disclosing the climate alignment of ship Poseidon Principles Association shared ambition to make zero-emission vessels commerfinance portfolios and are in line with the policies and Getting to Zero Coalition cially viable by 2030. ambitions of the IMO for reduction of greenhouse gases Danish government (climate partnerships) from shipping. Danish Maritime Global Compact Denmark Sea Europe and more.. 20 Sustainability Report Reporting principles Below, we present our reporting principles, which cover emSickness absence: The total number of sick days registered Rural Affairs (DEFRA). For air travel we use the CO2 emissions ployee and environmental data that can be found in this rethroughout the year divided by the number of full-time equivour travel agency report for our air travel. Their model of emisport. alent employees as of year-end. Employees include temporary sions reporting is based on the emissions factor published by workers and student assistants. Sick days exclude paternity/ DEFRA. The reporting principles have been formulated to ensure that maternity leave. we report data that is consistent from year to year. We aim Electricity consumption: Annual electricity consumption is to be fair and balanced in our reporting and we hope these Employee training: The percentage of employees who have based on automatic data transfers to the company's supplier reporting principles provide transparency about our perforreceived external training during the year in the form of coursof electricity from smart meters and meter readings. If data mance. es, seminars or conferences. for the full year is not available, estimates based on average consumption will be used. Women in the workforce: The workforce is defined as all employees excluding temporary workers and student assistants. Heat consumption: Annual heat consumption is based on Data on employees automatic data transfers to the company's supplier of heat People leaders: People leaders are defined as employees with from smart meters and meter readings or calculated on the Total employees: The number of full-time equivalent employstaff management responsibilities. basis of statements received annually. If data for the full year ees (FTEs) as of the end of the year. Employee satisfaction: Data is based on the results of our is not available, estimates based on average consumption will Average age of employees: The average age of employees be used. annual well-being survey, to which all employees are invited (excluding temporary workers and student assistants) as of to respond. Water consumption: Annual water consumption is based on year-end. data transfers to the company’s supplier of water from meter Average seniority: The average length of service of employreadings. If data for the full year is not available, estimates ees (excluding temporary workers and student assistants) as Data on environmental impact based on average consumption will be used. of year-end. The seniority of an employee is the number of full CO2 emissions are calculated on the basis of electricity, heatPaper consumption: Paper consumption is based on the volyears between the start of their employment and the current ing, water and paper consumption and air travel. The quality of ume of usage registered on the company’s copy machines or calendar year. CO2 emissions factors may vary depending on the availability on estimates for average consumption if consumption for the Employee turnover: Involuntary and voluntary leavers for of specific factors. In accordance with accepted methodolofull year is not available. Paper consumption is defined as the the full year divided by the average number of employees gy we omitted renewable electricity purchased. For electricity, amount of paper printed or copied on the company’s premises. throughout the year. Employee turnover excludes temporary heating and water we used CO2 emission factors published workers and student assistants. New employees are included by our suppliers. For paper consumption we use the “the UK Air transport: Air transport is calculated on the basis of from the month they start, and leavers are included until the Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reportstatements from our travel agency, Egencia. month their termination/resignation/retirement is effective. ing” published by the Department for Environment, Food and 21 Sustainability Report DANISH SHIP FINANCE A/S (DANMARKS SKIBSKREDIT A/S) Sankt Annæ Plads 3 / DK-1250 Copenhagen K Tel. +45 33 33 93 33 / Fax +45 33 33 96 66 / CVR no. 27 49 26 49 danish@shipfinance.dk / www.shipfinance.dk
