2019 Corporate Responsibility Message from Emmanuel Roman On behalf of PIMCO, we take great pride in helping investors achieve their objectives. Increasingly, investors are motivated by the recognition that environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues are material investment and business factors. In 2011, consistent with our goal to continuously evolve our active approach to fixed income, PIMCO formalized its commitment to incorporating ESG factors into our investment process by signing the UN Principles for Responsible Investment. Since that time, we continue to foster innovation in the market for sustainable investments as most recently evidenced by our engagement in the UN Global Compact CFO Taskforce for the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). This partnership seeks to mobilize hundreds of CFOs to tackle financing needs around the SDGs. PIMCO also supports the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company. Leadership in this area is essential to our high performance culture, and to delivering the best advice and results for our clients. We believe that our focus on sustainable business practices enhances the economy and society. I am committed to our continued progress and partnership across our industry to tackle broader global challenges. Emmanuel Roman CEO of PIMCO 2019 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S IBIL I T Y 3 PIMCO Overview Pacific Investment Management Company LLC (“PIMCO”) was services company based in Germany, with the agreement that it founded in Newport Beach, California in 1971 and is a global would be able to operate as a separate and autonomous investment solutions provider. PIMCO started as a subsidiary of subsidiary. While primarily known as one of the world’s largest Pacific Life Insurance Company managing institutional fixed income managers, PIMCO also manages a broad range of separately managed fixed income accounts. In 2000, PIMCO strategies across different asset classes including alternatives, was acquired by Allianz SE (“Allianz”), a large global financial equities, and real assets. Our Values COLLABORATION RESPONSIBILITY WE BELIEVE WE PRIORITIZE each of us is here to help others succeed client needs and objectives ahead of our own WE LEVERAGE WE NEVER STOP LEARNING diverse perspectives to make better decisions and building expertise, individually and within teams WE SHARE WE ARE ACCOUNTABLE ideas, information and intelligence for the impact of our actions on clients, culture and community OPENNESS EXCELLENCE WE SEEK WE PURSUE challenges to our most closely held viewpoints deep insight with humility WE LISTEN WE TRANSFORM and engage with fairness and candor individual solutions into institutional best practices WE RECOGNIZE WE ALL ACT AS LEADERS the importance of a global mindset and think as leaders 2019 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S IBIL I T Y 4 Organizational Structure Allianz SE (parent) Allianz Asset Management PIMCO Management Board (Managing Directors) PIMCO Executive Committee Group Chief Chief Investment Executive Officer Officer Co-Chief Co-Chief Client, Chief General CIOs Operating Operating Product & Financial Counsel Officer Officer Strategy Officer Office Services Investment Client Business Operations & Admin Legal Committee Management Management Support Media/ Portfolio Fund Product Corporate Internal Compliance Management Administration Strategy Development Communications Portfolio Risk Management* Financial Human Global Wealth Credit Research Technology Planning & Resources Management Analysis Enterprise Risk Corporate Strategic Analytics Management Responsibility Markets Strategic Services and Marketing Transformation As of 31 December 2019 * Portfolio Risk Management reports both to the Group Chief Investment Officer and the Chief Executive Officer. 2019 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S IBIL I T Y 5 Global Offices LONDON 1998 TORONTO MUNICH 2004 2000 NEWPORT CHICAGO 2 ZURICH BEACH NEW YORK 2009 MILAN 2019 2012 1971 2001 TOKYO BERMUDA1 HONG KONG 1997 SOLANA AUSTIN 2019 2006 BEACH2 2018 2019 TAIPEI 2018 SINGAPORE 1996 SÃO PAULO3 SYDNEY 2018 1997 As of 31 December 2019 1 The Bermuda office opened in April 2019. 2 The Solana Beach, CA and Chicago, IL offices relate to PIMCO’s acquisition of Gurtin Fixed Income Management, LLC in January 2019. 3 Rio De Janeiro office was established in 2012 but relocated to São Paulo in December 2018. 2019 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S IBIL I T Y 6 Snapshot as of 31 December 2019 $1.91TRILLION $13.8BILLION 175+ Total assets ESG assets 2019 ESG under management under management* issuer engagement 2,800+ 50 17 Employees Countries in which Global offices around the world clients are based $49MILLION+ 13,500+ 2016-2019 Donations since inception 2019 employee The Civic 50 of global foundations** volunteer hours Award recipient*** 18 7 2017-2020 Global diversity Employee Top score partnerships resource groups Corporate Equality Index**** * 3rd party dedicated ESG portfolios, defined as any portfolio with a sustainability objective beyond traditional financial objectives. Sustainability objectives could include carbon emissions reductions, green bond allocations, ESG issuer quality, engagement expectations or other sustainability linked objectives. These are not simply portfolios with negative screens. ** Inception date of first foundation is 2000. *** The Civic 50 recognizes the 50 most community-minded companies in the nation each year as determined by an annual survey. We also report best practices each year to provide a framework for good corporate citizenship. The Civic 50 honorees are public and private companies with U.S. operations and revenues of $1bn or more. They rank only their U.S. community engagement programs, as outlined on their website: https://www.pointsoflight.org/the-civic-50/. This award is open to all companies with $1B or more in revenue. This award was not paid for by PIMCO. **** PIMCO is honored to earn the designation as a Best Place to Work for LGBT Equality in recognition for our continued commitment to foster an inclusive and diverse work environment. The Human Rights Campaign (HRC) Corporate Equality Index (CEI), a national benchmarking survey and report on corporate benefits, policies and practices pertinent to lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) equality and inclusion in the workplace. PIMCO first received this designation 5 December 2017. 2019 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S IBIL I T Y 7 2019 Highlights •• PIMCO completed the acquisition of Gurtin Municipal Bond •• The PIMCO Foundation awarded a $2 million grant to the Management, a specialist municipal bond manager serving Global FoodBanking Network. high and ultra-high net worth individuals. In addition to •• PIMCO joined the United Nations’ Global Investors for considering ESG risk factors as part of their fundamental Sustainable Development (GISD) Alliance. In partnership credit research process, Gurtin also customizes Social with investors, governments and multilateral institutions Advancement Portfolios. around the world, the GISD will deliver concrete solutions to •• William “Bill” Thompson re-joined PIMCO in an advisory scale-up long-term finance and investment which will capacity in the role of Chairman Emeritus. Mr. Thompson specifically contribute to the realization of the UN’s served as PIMCO’s Chief Executive from 1993-2009. Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The CEO of our parent company, Allianz, is also a member and serves as a •• PIMCO launched a new insurance-linked securities business in co-chair of the alliance. partnership with Allianz. •• PIMCO announced the launch of new ESG strategies1: •• PIMCO named Dr. Richard Thaler as Senior Advisor on Retirement and Behavioral Economics. Dr. Thaler, who is a •• The PIMCO Climate Bond Strategy, including a U.S. 40-Act renowned economist and Charles R. Walgreen Distinguished mutual fund, is our first strategy dedicated to investments Service Professor of Behavioral Science and Economics at the that are linked to combating global climate change. University of Chicago Booth School of Business, was awarded •• The PIMCO Enhanced Short Maturity Active ESG the Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences in 2017. Strategy, including a U.S. 40-Act exchange-traded fund, aims to offer higher income than traditional cash investments, with a modest increase in risk, and focuses on issuers with high quality ESG practices. •• The PIMCO Research Affiliates Fundamental Index (RAFI) ESG U.S. Strategy, including a U.S. 40-Act exchange-traded fund, is benchmarked to the RAFI™ ESG US Index and seeks to outperform market capitalization weighted indices, while investing in ESG-conscious companies. •• The PIMCO Emerging Markets Bond ESG Strategy, including an Ireland domiciled Collective Investment in Transferable Securities (UCIT), is a diverse portfolio consisting primarily of fixed income securities from issuers in, or economically tied to, emerging or developing countries, excluding issuers that do not match Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) criteria. 1 For informational purposes only. This material does not constitute an offer to sell or a solicitation of an offer to buy interests in a fund or any other PIMCO trading strategy or investment product. Strategy availability may be limited to certain investment vehicles; not all investment vehicles may be available to all investors. Please contact your PIMCO representative for more information. 2019 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S IBIL I T Y 8 Overview of Materiality In 2019, PIMCO initiated an exercise to better THE MATERIALITY EXERCISE RESULTED IN A FEW CLEAR THEMES: understand which sustainability issues and business drivers are most important to our key stakeholders, which include our clients, Delivering for our clients is of paramount importance. colleagues, investors, regulators and civil society. This exercise entailed interviews with key senior leadership, evaluation of employee RESPONSIBLE INVESTING engagement data as well as a review of our partnerships with relevant external Given PIMCO’s size and market presence, sustainable investing stakeholders. We developed a list of potential presents an important opportunity to advance objectives important to material sustainability issues utilizing the our clients, colleagues and global communities. Sustainability Accounting Standards Board as a framework. These material issues were evaluated by a newly formed Sustainability SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Advisory Group at PIMCO. They based their evaluation on existing business priorities, Mitigating risk within our business operations is critical to our long-term relevant reporting frameworks, industry success. We seek to continuously evaluate and improve our efforts related associations and collaborative initiatives, to compliance, anti-corruption, cybersecurity and business continuity in stakeholder priorities as well as regulatory addition to other operational functions. considerations. The Sustainability Advisory Group is comprised of senior global business leaders COMMITMENT TO TALENT representing Portfolio Management, Legal & Compliance, ESG & Sustainability Strategy, Developing talent, supporting diversity and cultivating an Operations, Human Resources, Investments, inclusive culture are important to fostering a healthy organizational Technology, Marketing, Philanthropy and our dynamic in which teams can deliver innovative and leading Executive Office. This leadership team investment products and services. provides advocacy as well as policy and process guidance related to sustainable business practices. EMPOWERING COMMUNITIES Addressing urgent societal challenges related to the environment and human development should be an ongoing aspiration. Leadership in these areas is essential to our high performance culture and to delivering the best advice and results for our clients. 2019 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S IBIL I T Y 9 Sustainability Advisory Group Olivia Albrecht Mangala Ananthanarayanan Phillip Bufe David Flattum Head of ESG Business Strategy Head of Business Management Executive Office Global General Counsel of EMEA & APAC Dirk Manelski Scott Mather Gavin Power Sapna Shah Chief Technology Officer Chief Investment Officer, U.S. Chief, Sustainable Development Head of Corporate Responsibility, Core Strategies Responsible for and International Affairs Executive Director ESG Strategies PIMCO Foundation Robin Shanahan Cathy Stahl Peter Strelow Co-Chief Operating Officer Head of Marketing Co-Chief Operating Officer 2019 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S IBIL I T Y 10 Responsible Investing Given PIMCO’s size and market presence, sustainable investing presents an important opportunity to advance objectives important to our clients, colleagues and global communities. Like many investors all over the world, we are Recognizing the importance of sustainable deeply concerned about the global health growth, a number of other considerations drive crises and increased severity in natural our ESG investment process: disasters over the past year. Rising social •• It is our fiduciary duty to manage risk: The fragmentation and poorly managed climate long-term challenge of decarbonizing the risks have also started taking a toll on economy certainly comes with risks, but it businesses – and therefore investments. also offers opportunities for active We need a new era in financial As one of the world’s leading fixed income investors. We recognize that ESG factors innovation—that is, new managers, we at PIMCO are focusing on these are increasingly essential inputs when products, projects, and disruptive forces not only out of basic human evaluating global economies, markets, investable instruments that compassion but because we believe that in industries and business models. Material will attract the major order to maintain a robust economy – and ESG factors are important considerations investors. We see an therefore generate jobs and opportunity – when evaluating long-term investment enormous opportunity in growth has to be sustainable. If growth does opportunities and risks for all asset fixed income investments not encompass the minimum ESG standards, classes, across public and private markets. linked to the SDGs. natural resources will become scarcer and out Scott Mather, •• Bondholders have a voice to drive change: of reach for many; social unrest will become Chief Investment Officer, U.S. We believe fixed income as an asset class is Core Strategies Responsible for more disruptive, leading to extreme political ESG Strategies unparalleled in its ability to drive meaningful outcomes; and a lack of governance principle ESG change. The global bond market is may preserve abusive, inefficient, and unequal almost double the size of the equity market, organizations or societies. As citizens of this and bond issues come to the market more world and as leading capital allocators, we frequently than equity offerings. By engaging must engage in our area of expertise, bond with companies when they need to fundraise, markets, to help drive change. We believe the investors can help implement ESG standards size of bond markets and recurring nature of and accelerate change. debt issuance make fixed income investors unparalleled in their ability to drive meaningful ESG change. 2019 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S IBIL I T Y 11 •• The investment universe is evolving: The economic disruption from poorly managed ESG risks is already being felt and the winners and losers of the transition to a net zero carbon economy are emerging. Rating agencies increasingly report on bond issuers’ ESG risks in a way that affects their cost of capital – a move that is helping increase green bond supply along with other factors. This is met by increasing demand, as more and more consumers insist on products that are more sustainable. •• Climate science is real and alarming, but we can do something about it: If greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are not rapidly and materially reduced in line with goals of the Paris Agreement on climate change, it may be too late to avoid the worst environmental and economic effects of climate change. Meanwhile capital markets need to increase their readiness for potentially large transformation resulting from the energy transition, coupled with the rise in intensity and frequency of natural disasters. How We Bring ESG into Action in Our Investment Process Engaging through Encouraging Addressing material new bond issuance positive impact ESG risks Engaging with Establishing Collaborating with sovereign governments climate targets industry groups 2019 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S IBIL I T Y 12 2019 Highlights PRINCIPLES FOR RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT (PRI) RECENT PARTNERSHIPS WITH INDUSTRY GROUPS ASSESSMENT REPORT TO DRIVE A GLOBALLY COORDINATED ESG EFFORT The PRI assessment report assesses how well ESG metrics are •• UN Global Compact CFO Taskforce for the SDGs: Scott incorporated into the investment process of asset managers Mather, PIMCO CIO of U.S. Core Strategies, in partnership with signed up to the PRI. 1 the UN Global Compact and energy utility ENEL, will co-chair this two-year project with the aim of mobilizing hundreds of 2019 Principles for Responsible Investment CFOs to tackle the financing needs around the SDGs. Assessment Report PIMCO Median Strategy & Governance A+ A •• Global Investors for Sustainable Development (GISD) Fixed Income – Sovereigns, Supranationals, AgenA+ B Alliance: Launched by UN Secretary-General Guterres in cies (SSA) October 2019, the alliance consists of 30 CEOs who will focus Fixed Income – Corporate Financial A+ B on accelerating long-term investment into sustainable Fixed Income – Corporate Non-Financial A+ B development. In partnership with investors, governments and Fixed Income – Securitized A+ C multilateral institutions around the world, the GISD will deliver concrete solutions to scale-up long-term finance and PARTNERSHIP WITH INDUSTRY STAKEHOLDERS investment which will specifically contribute to the realization TO DEVELOP THE SUSTAINABLE BOND MARKET, of the SDGs. ENCOURAGE POSITIVE IMPACT AND ADDRESS ESG RISK •• Transition Pathway Initiative (TPI): TPI is a global initiative led by asset owners and supported by asset managers. We encourage corporate and sovereign issuers to advance their Aimed at investors and free to use, it assesses companies’ efforts by issuing green bonds or bonds linked to the SDGs. preparedness for the transition to a low-carbon economy, Examples include 1) partnering with an Emerging Marketssupporting efforts to address climate change. TPI data and focused bank to discuss its nascent sustainable bond tools help inform our assessment of climate risks and framework and planned CO2 reductions in its lending book, 2) engagement with bond issuers. engaging with a U.S. hospitality company focused on setting ambitious environmental targets (e.g. carbon, renewable •• Climate Bonds Initiative (CBI): CBI is a leading organization energy, water) and developing its green bond disclosure and 3) focused on fixed income and climate change solutions. CBI not recommending investment in a Central African sovereign has been instrumental in supporting more robust data and nation after the government showed limited readiness to standards to propel the green bond market, and remains improve ESG-related disclosures. heavily involved in shaping new green bond-related regulations. Partnering with CBI is an exciting development in Some bond issuers are already committed to driving positive the context of our efforts to promote robust and innovative environmental and social impact in their businesses, and we investment criteria and products to help advance the Paris want to encourage them to continue advancing their efforts. Agreement on climate change. Examples include 1) partnering with senior leaders of a UK electric and gas utility to set an emission reduction policy and •• Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures enhance disclosures, 2) working with U.S. government(TCFD): TCFD will develop voluntary, consistent, climatesponsored enterprises to encourage the development of related financial risk disclosures for use by companies in expanded ESG disclosures on mortgage-based securities and providing information to investors, lenders, insurers and 3) engaging with a global telecommunications company to other stakeholders. The Task Force will consider the enhance its environmental credentials in line with advanced physical, liability and transition risks associated with practices and green bond reporting. climate change and what constitutes effective financial 2019 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S IBIL I T Y 13 disclosures across industries. The work of the Task Force It includes tools for credit analysts, case studies, industrywill help companies understand what financial markets specific characteristics and macro trend considerations. want from disclosure in order to measure and respond to climate change risks, and encourage firms to align their SPOTLIGHT ON CLIMATE CHANGE AND THE disclosures with investors’ needs. ENVIRONMENT PIMCO recognizes that climate change will likely have a We continue to partner with a number of other organizations to profound impact on the global economy, financial markets and share and leverage expertise. These include: issuers. We have developed tools and methods that seek to •• Bank of England Climate Risk Forum incorporate material climate risk evaluations in our investment research processes over time. •• Cambridge Institute for Sustainability Leadership – Investment Leaders Group (ILG) Details on PIMCO’s broad climate research approach: •• Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) •• When evaluating climate-related risks and opportunities of specific sectors and issuers, we typically begin with two broad •• Climate Action 100+ categories: 1) transition risks (e.g., tighter regulations on •• Green Bond Principles and Social Bond Principles carbon emissions) and 2) physical risks (e.g., how the rising intensity and frequency of extreme weather events affects •• International Capital Markets Association (ICMA) critical assets and natural resources used by the issuer). •• Institutional Investors Group on Climate Change (IIGCC) •• In ESG portfolio solutions, the insights these tools provide are designed to provide material information to portfolio •• Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) initiatives: PRI managers to better manage and mitigate climate-related Bondholder Engagement Working Group; PRI Fixed Income credit risks and assess portfolios alignment with the Paris Advisory Committee; PRI Sovereign Working Group; PRI SDG Agreement targets2. Advisory Committee •• We explore climate change in the context of broader •• Sustainability Account Standards Board (SASB) sustainability risk and endorse the SDGs as the holistic •• UN Global Compact reference framework to assess these wide-ranging risks (e.g. biodiversity, water scarcity, human and labor rights). •• UN Global Compact SDG Finance Lab In sum, we support the recommendations of the Taskforce on COLLABORATIVE ENGAGEMENT Climate-related Financial Disclosures and engage with issuers – across corporates, sovereigns and others – to encourage PIMCO’s ESG platform engages collaboratively with issuers to enhanced disclosure on climate change, biodiversity, and the change ESG-related business practices. Examples include SDGs, including their efforts to advance the underlying goals, engaging on what issuers are doing to ensure gender diversity in such as those of the Paris Agreement. We will continue to employment as well as business ethics controls that make it devote PIMCO resources to build climate investment solutions more difficult for others to engage in bribery practices. More for our clients globally. recently in 2019, PIMCO’s ESG team developed a human capital management framework to serve as a guide to help analysts measure and rank human capital strategies across peer groups. 1 PRI Transparency Reports 2019 are available at https://www.unpri.org/signatories/transparency-reports-2019/4506.article . For methodology, please refer to About PRI Assessment: https://www.unpri.org/signatories/about-pri-assessment. Past performance is no guarantee of future results. 2 The Paris Agreement is the global accord to limit the global temperature rise by year 2100 to 1.5°C – 2°C above pre-industrial levels. 2019 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S IBIL I T Y 14 Sustainable Business Mitigating risk within our business operations is critical to our long-term success. We seek to continuously evaluate and improve our efforts related to compliance, anti-corruption, cybersecurity and business continuity in addition to other operational functions. CODE OF ETHICS Our Business Management units provide leadership and oversight of the various Our Code of Ethics is intended to assist functional groups, monitor ongoing business employees in meeting the high ethical line performance risks and allocate resources standards PIMCO follows in conducting its as deemed appropriate. The Business business. The following general fiduciary Management group is comprised of the principles govern our activities: Effective risk management Executive Office, Legal and Compliance, within our business •• A duty to place the interests of clients first Operations, Technology, Marketing, Human operations helps us achieve Resources, Communications and •• Raising awareness of and managing actual our firm objective of Administration groups. or potential conflicts of interest preserving and enhancing our In addition to being a core part of the firm’s clients’ assets. •• Not taking inappropriate advantage of ongoing operations, risk management is Peter Strelow one’s position Co-Chief Operating Officer formalized through committees and cross•• Complying with all applicable Securities and departmental business groups. PIMCO’s Risk Commodities Laws Committee acts pursuant to authority granted to it by the Executive Committee to oversee 100% of employees complete our annual code risk management on a firm-wide basis. This of ethics certification. includes assessing, overseeing and challenging firm-wide risk management RISK MANAGEMENT processes and procedures. The Risk Risk Management is a foundational element of Committee is comprised of senior the firm and is embedded in the daily representatives from across the firm in order functioning of each business and operational to identify and manage the various types of area. We also have developed specific risk that the firm may face. processes and procedures to identify and In 2019, we integrated multiple risk and quality manage various risk types. functions throughout our firm into a Top management oversight is provided by the consolidated Enterprise Risk & Quality PIMCO Executive Committee, which Management team, further harmonizing global includes representation of appointed PIMCO risk management practices. Managing Directors and is headed by the Chief Executive Officer. 2019 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S IBIL I T Y 15 FOCUS ON ANTI-CORRUPTION identify and manage cybersecurity risks and threats. This allows PIMCO to ensure PIMCO is committed to complying with all enterprise network security and stability with applicable statutory and regulatory minimal downtime from potential cyber requirements relating to bribery and corruption. incidents. We engage industry leading firms As such, we prohibit bribery and corruption in to conduct external and internal penetration any of our business activities or in business tests of PIMCO computer and network activities of third parties acting on PIMCO’s systems to assess the effectiveness of our behalf and have instituted a robust program information security program at least on an that is designed to detect and prevent the use of annual basis. PIMCO has also heavily our services or personnel in such activities. invested in our capabilities to deliver Security PIMCO’s Legal and Compliance department Awareness Training to all employees on a has a dedicated Anti-Financial Crimes Team quarterly basis to help foster a cybersecurity that is responsible for implementing and conscious workplace. maintaining the firm’s Global Anti-Corruption An important objective for Also in regard to business continuity, a Program. This Program is reasonably PIMCO is to engage with detailed plan, approved by senior designed to comply with applicable laws, clients, regulators and management, exists to respond to multiple regulations and rules relating to bribery and industry groups to help shape levels of contingencies, ranging from a local corruption and includes, but is not limited to: policy that will enhance the building fire to an area-wide disaster. The plan policies and procedures; risk assessments; operations and effectiveness is based on a comprehensively documented risk-based due diligence on our clients, of the asset management business-impact review that identifies the prospects and other third parties; ongoing industry to better serve the most critical parts of the business. PIMCO monitoring; and training for all employees. interests of investors. policy requires that the contingency plan be David Flattum PIMCO remains in compliance with Antitested annually to ensure its continuing Global General Counsel Corruption laws and regulation and on an feasibility and effectiveness. annual basis, compliance training on corruption and bribery is completed by all employees. SUPPLY CHAIN Being in the professional services industry, FOCUS ON OPERATIONS, TECHNOLOGY PIMCO’s procurement activities are relatively & ADMINISTRATION limited and exposure to supply chain risks is PIMCO employs a measured approach also considered limited. However, we to technology development in order to continue to take steps to ensure we mitigate mitigate risk of unpredictable technological risk associated with third party vendors. In changes disrupting the business and addition to complying with the UK Modern control environment. Slavery Act, in 2019, we updated our Vendor Management Policy to foster enhanced due Our Information Security team has partnered diligence. Updates within the policy include with Ernst & Young for dedicated Vulnerability new sections within our vendor due diligence Management and 24x7x365 Security questionnaire related to labor, inclusion & Operations Center services to proactively diversity and environment. 2019 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S IBIL I T Y 16 2019 Highlights •• Employees that complete Code of Ethics certification 100% •• Employees that complete Annual Compliance training •• Employees that complete Anti-Financial Crimes training •• Enhanced and expanded our information security and cyber security footprint to align with evolving industry standards and escalating threat levels, including 24x7 intrusion detection monitoring •• Integrated multiple risk and quality functions throughout our firm into a consolidated Enterprise Risk & Quality Management team, further harmonizing global risk management practices FOCUS ON ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT from our onsite gym such as razors and toothbrushes were either eliminated or replaced by compostable or non-singlePIMCO’s Sustainability Advisory Group offers internal guidance use options. Other global offices have also partially or fully towards best-in-class sustainability efforts at PIMCO. Consisting eliminated single-use plastics. of senior leaders from across the firm, this group offers internal guidance towards sustainability objectives, fosters accountability •• Enhancements in environmental data collection efforts: towards achieving objectives by harnessing resources across the We engaged in globally coordinated data collection efforts firm and removing obstacles to progress, and serves as internal across our global offices to collect specific data on energy, and external sustainability advocates. water, waste, travel and paper with heightened quality assurance efforts to better measure our firm-wide carbon In 2019, we internally focused on composting, waste reduction, emissions and broader environmental footprint. minimizing plastic usage and more robust collection of environmental data metrics. These efforts included: Additionally, PIMCO’s offices in Newport Beach, New York City, Austin, Taipei, Hong Kong and Toronto are recipients of LEED •• Global Food Waste Campaign in honor of World Food Day: Gold certification. The building in which our London office During this campaign, PIMCO engaged in a waste operates is certified Excellent by the BREEAM sustainability characterization study, shared facts on food insecurity with assessment method. In Singapore, the building in which we our global employee population and initiated a global operate has received the Green Mark Platinum Award from composting program. Singapore’s Building & Construction Authority and a Platinum •• Elimination of single-use plastics from Newport Beach Certification by the U.S. Green Building Council. headquarters: Water bottles, plastic containers, such as Ziploc bags and plastic wrap, as well as single-use items 2019 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S IBIL I T Y 17 Commitment to Talent Developing talent, supporting diversity and cultivating an inclusive culture are important to fostering a healthy organizational dynamic in which teams can deliver innovative and leading investment products and services. INCLUSION, DIVERSITY & CULTURE unconscious bias, cognitive diversity, and inclusive leadership. To foster a high performance culture, PIMCO’s Inclusion, Diversity & Culture (IDC) efforts seek We recognize that achieving our goals requires to heighten employees’ appreciation for a long-term sustained commitment and a diverse perspectives and skills, which in turn holistic approach. We believe that continued will help facilitate increased collaboration and progress of these IDC goals supports PIMCO enhance our ability to attract, retain, develop in achieving our core mission of delivering At PIMCO we’re committed to and engage top talent – all of which should strong investments returns, solutions, and recruiting and retaining top lead to better outcomes for our clients. service to our clients. talent from a range of industries and backgrounds. Our philosophy acknowledges a wide range of Our approach is composed of five areas of Harnessing new ideas and identity dimensions such as race, ethnicity, focus which guide our actions to fresh thinking supports our gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, and systematically integrate greater diversity ability to provide the best military status but also focuses on dimensions and inclusion into all aspects of our business ideas and solutions to our and concepts such as culture, business and culture. clients every day. segments, geographical diversity, Robin Shanahan Co-Chief Operating Officer AREAS OF FOCUS 1. Process Integration 2. Policy Enhancement • Bias Mitigation • Fertility, Adoption and Surrogacy • Talent Acquisition and Development • Parental and Veteran Leave 3. Partnership Engagement 4. Comunications & Advocacy • Intern Visits • Speaker Events • Client Events • Industry and Public Commitments • Sponsorships • Communications 5. Internal Engagement • Employee Resource Groups • Senior Level Commitment 2019 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S IBIL I T Y 18 To empower employees, we created employee resource feedback to the firm on how best to recruit, retain, develop and groups (ERGs) that provide a platform for our employee engage diverse talent as well as foster a more inclusive population. Employees who participate in our ERGs develop culture at PIMCO. their networks, develop their careers, and provide important OUR VOLUNTEER-DRIVEN EMPLOYEE GROUPS ARE CRITICAL VOICES IN FOSTERING A MORE DIVERSE AND INCLUSIVE PIMCO. ERGS AT PIMCO INCLUDE: Provides meaningful support to employees as they Celebrates the ethnic and cultural diversity of our integrate career and caregiving responsibilities employees and facilitates a culture of inclusion by raising awareness of the breadth of experiences amongst our team Fosters a culture that enables all employees to Contributes to the success of the firm by be their authentic selves, regardless of sexual supporting veterans’ transition to civilian life and orientation, gender identity or gender expression work through networking and mentoring initiatives Focuses on gender equality and on the attraction, Increases collaboration and encourage a culture development, retention and engagement of of connectivity amongst colleagues while women at all stages of their careers fostering increased appreciation for diverse skills and perspectives Focuses on improving mental and physical health and general wellbeing 2019 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S IBIL I T Y 19 OUR EMPLOYEE DIVERSITY A snapshot of our current employee diversity Employee Diversity1 Gender Diversity U.S. Minorities² U.S. Historically Underrepresented Minorities³ Global Female 48% 50% 45% 29% 28% 17% 11% 12% 5% Portfolio Management Client Facing Business Management Portfolio Management Client Facing Business Management 44% 11% 36% of U.S. U.S. Historically of Global Workforce Underrepresented Workforce identify as Minorities³ identify as a Minority Female 29% 22% U.S. Senior 18% Global Senior 14% Officers who Officers who identify as identify as a Minority3 Female4 2010 2019 2010 2019 Source: PIMCO, unless noted otherwise, data based upon self-reported information and PIMCO’s Equal Employment Opportunity reporting data as of 31 December 2019 1 These numbers reflect our U.S. population only due to varying data collection considerations of this type of data in other regions. 2 U.S. Minorities (employees who identify as African American or Black, Hispanic or Latino, Native American, Alaska Native, Asian, or 2 or more) 3 Historically Underrepresented Minorities (employees who identify as African American or Black, Hispanic or Latino, Native American, or Alaska Native) 4 Employees with officer titles of Senior Vice President and above. Self-reported information and data as of 31 December 2010 and 31 December 2019. 2019 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S IBIL I T Y 20 SPOTLIGHT ON GIRLS WHO INVEST with the commitment of 16 more in 2020 and 2021. Erin Browne, Managing Director and In 2019, PIMCO expanded its partnership with Portfolio Manager at PIMCO, serves on the Girls Who Invest (GWI), a non-profit GWI Advisory Board and Candice Stack, organization with a mission to have 30% of Managing Director and Co-Head of the world’s investable capital managed by Institutional Client Management, serves on women by 2030. Within the context of this the GWI Board of Directors. partnership, PIMCO has hosted 12 interns PARTNERS Our aim is to partner with organizations that enable us to achieve our goals globally and regionally In an industry that actively seeks differentiated and uncorrelated portfolio risk, losing a group of employees who bring diversity in ideageneration and strategy presents a tangible loss to financial services firms. PIMCO is investing in the development of a pipeline of future female leaders in asset management. Erin Browne Portfolio Manager focusing on Asset Allocation strategies SIGNATORIES & ACCOLADES Principles for Responsible Investment WE SUPPORT 2019 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S IBIL I T Y 21 SPOTLIGHT: BEST PLACE TO WORK FOR COMPENSATION & BENEFITS LGBT EQUALITY As a global organization, we embrace and support a diverse PIMCO is honored to earn 100% on the Human Rights workforce where people are treated fairly by providing equitable Campaign (HRC) Corporate Equality Index (CEI), a national benefits, opportunities for development, career profession and benchmarking survey and report on corporate benefits, policies industry and market attractive compensation. We are and practices pertinent to lesbian, gay, bisexual, and committed to paying employees fairly based on the quality of transgender (LGBT) equality and inclusion in the workplace for their performance. PIMCO participates in annual compensation the fourth year in a row (2017-2020). The Best Place to Work for benchmark surveys and engages various consultancies to LGBT Equality designation is recognition of our continued ensure pay practices are within market levels and examined for commitment to foster an inclusive and diverse work racial/ethnic or gender-based disparities. Additionally, in 2019, environment. HRC has continuously improved its standards PIMCO engaged an independent consultant to evaluate pay and ranking methodology, and each year firms are held to a equity globally. Their review found no significant differences in higher standard. This achievement is a reflection of the work pay between men and women in comparable positions when between our PIMCO PRIDE ERG and Human Resources to accounting for appropriate explanatory factors. evolve policies and processes to support IDC initiatives and PIMCO is committed to offering a comprehensive portfolio of provide industry-leading benefits to employees. employee benefits designed to support the health and wellbeing of our employees and their families. Importantly, we RESPECTFUL WORKPLACE provide equivalent coverage to domestic partners as we do PIMCO is committed to providing a work environment that is spouses, regardless of gender. free from discrimination on the grounds of any characteristic protected by law. This policy applies to all employees and We provide competitive family-friendly benefits, policies and applicants for employment and all aspects of the employment programming such as our New Expected Parent Support Team relationship. All supervisors and managers are required to (NEST) program, parental leave training guides, global fertility/ report any incident of discrimination that they observe or surrogacy/adoption, flexible work arrangements and breastmilk become aware of to Human Resources. Any employee or shipment benefits. applicant for employment who believes that he or she has suffered or witnessed discrimination should notify the person to whom they report or Human Resources. Additionally, PIMCO offers an ombudsman service for employees to discuss any workplace issues and concerns and to explore potential options and solutions. 2019 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S IBIL I T Y 22 2019 Highlights •• Employees with access to benefits •• To increase inclusivity and mitigate bias in our (full time) recruitment processes, we have incorporated a number of process improvements including, but not limited to, the •• Employees with access to skillsbased training use of tools to evaluate the gender balance and 100% •• Employees with access to inclusiveness of text in job descriptions educational assistance •• Enhanced U.S. military leave policy to provide up to 6 months of company-paid military leave within a •• Completion of respectful workplace training 5-year period •• PIMCO has received a perfect score of 100% on the •• Expanded PIMCO fertility, adoption and surrogacy Human Rights Campaign Corporate Equality Index (HRC benefits and breastmilk shipment reimbursement policy CEI) for the fourth consecutive year in EMEA and APAC •• Implementation of the Senior Manager Certification •• Engaged employees in bi-annual global regime in the UK engagement survey 2019 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S IBIL I T Y 23 Empowering Communities Addressing urgent societal challenges related to the environment and human development should be an ongoing aspiration. Our community engagement platform, Purpose at PIMCO (P@P), highlights our firm’s commitment to evolving and strategically advancing social impact. P@P integrates our foundation (PIMCO Gives), employee engagement (PIMCO Acts) and leadership efforts (PIMCO Advocates). It is through these three pillars that we engage our clients, cross-sector partnerships, and PIMCO colleagues. At PIMCO, we are extremely fortunate to have a vibrant culture of service. Since the inception of the PIMCO WE GIVE WE ACT WE ADVOCATE Foundation in 2000, and the We donate to high We invest our time, skills We aim to take launch of our corporate performing non-profit and expertise to drive leadership within our volunteer program in 2007, partners to support meaningful impact in the industry as thought we’ve sought to foster a critical on-the-ground communities where we leaders and strategic substantial, long term impact services and innovative work and live. partners to create in our global community. opportunities around solutions and advocate Cathy Stahl the globe. for change. Head of Marketing •• PIMCO Gives invests in high performing non-profit partners to support innovative opportunities around the globe. Whether by leveraging employee match, deploying disaster assistance funds, or investing in local non-profits through our local grants program, we leverage our resources to contribute to society. •• Through PIMCO Acts our colleagues invest their time, skills and expertise to drive meaningful impact by taking part in skills-based, hands-on, virtual, pro bono volunteering and nonprofit board placement. •• Under PIMCO Advocates we act as thought leaders and strategic partners, intentionally aligning our work with the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. 2019 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S IBIL I T Y 24 With an aim to take on some of the world’s greatest problems, we’ve concentrated our work specifically on two of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals. We believe that zero hunger (Goal 2) and gender equality (Goal 5) are fundamental issues critical to human development and sustainable worldwide economic growth. Below are some examples of our efforts. •• We partner with the Global Food Banking Network (GFN). Food banks represent a “triple win” in the communities where they operate, reducing food wastage and protecting the environment, providing food assistance to hungry and vulnerable people, and strengthening civil society through support of local humanitarian charities.1 Since the inception of our relationship with GFN, we have committed to investing $3 million, working toward a hunger-free world with the shared vision that food banking and food repurposing are integral to defeating hunger. Our values showcase our •• We also work with local food banks across each of our global offices. strong commitment to the For example, over the last decade, colleagues from PIMCO’s Newport community, with PIMCO Beach, New York City, Austin, Toronto and Asia Pacific offices have colleagues driving the come together to pack critical meals through our signature Share the success of our corporate Harvest event. Through this initiative to date, PIMCO has donated over responsibility initiatives. $2 million, mobilized more than 8 thousand volunteers, family and friends, and packed more than 170,000 food boxes, sacks and meals, Mangala Ananthanarayanan Head of Business Management collectively impacting more than 478,000 individuals. for EMEA & APAC Through the Women & Investing platform, we work with employees, clients, partners and communities on our gender equality efforts. The platform is supported by teams and initiatives throughout PIMCO and consists of three pillars: •• Women in Investing: We invest in the talent pipeline of our firm and our industry to bring more women into our industry. •• Investing in Women: We match the resources, time and talents of our people with organizations around the world to support gender equality and tackle the challenges facing girls and women today. Partnerships include Nomi Network, Women for Women International and Girls Who Invest. •• Women as Investors: Recognizing the growing influence of women investors, we are committed to a research-oriented approach to understanding and meeting their evolving investment needs. 1 Source: Waste Note, Want not Toward Zero Hunger, The Global FoodBanking Network 2019 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S IBIL I T Y 25 SPOTLIGHT: WHY SDG #2 – ZERO HUNGER? It is estimated that food wasted by Europe and the U.S. could feed the world three times over. On average, an astounding 21% of food we buy goes to waste while one in four people around the world are malnourished. This is why we pair the resources, time and talents of our employees with our global partners to combat hunger as both a systemic global issue and a local tragedy that prevents families and communities from reaching their full potential. As previously mentioned, over the last decade PIMCO colleagues have come together with family and friends to pack critical meals for the most vulnerable in our communities, with local partnerships supporting the Orange County Food Bank, New York Common Pantry, Central Texas Food Bank, and nine other food banks around the world. One in nine people around the With PIMCO’s support, GFN Amplifying these efforts, in May 2018, PIMCO announced a world suffers from hunger. has reached 9.6 million people strategic partnership with The Global FoodBanking Network PIMCO employees have long facing hunger through a (GFN), a global nonprofit alleviating world hunger through supported efforts to alleviate network of food banking creating and strengthening food banks. In July 2018, PIMCO food insecurity, and our organizations in more than 40 Managing Director, Sachin Gupta, joined the GFN Board of partnership with GFN allows countries including Ecuador, Directors. In 2019, PIMCO re-committed to #zerohunger, further us to reach even more Guatemala, Honduras, Peru investing into GFN’s worldwide efforts. families via the support, and India and provided a basis creation and capacity building Across PIMCO’s global offices, we now partner with local food for the launch of the Asia Food of food banks and improving banks, most of which are within the GFN network, supporting Bank Incubator program, food banks sustainability and food access initiatives such as the launch of mobile food expanding services to seven long-term impact. pantries, meal preparation, delivery and food drives. During countries across the region. PIMCO’s 2019 Global Month of Volunteering, colleagues, friends Thanks to PIMCO, we are one Sachin Gupta Portfolio Manager and and family members participated in 160+ events worldwide, step closer to our vision and Head of Global Desk the global goal of achieving 40% of which were directed towards alleviating hunger. SDG 2 Zero Hunger. Stemming from our 2019 investments and the efforts of our Lisa Moon colleagues and our nonprofit partners, approximately 2.1 million President and people experienced increased food security. PIMCO remains Chief Executive Officer, Global Food Banking Network committed to fostering progress and achieving the greatest outcomes we can for our partners and those in need. 2019 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S IBIL I T Y 26 IMPACT2030 INNOVATION AWARD Launched in 2018 and anchored by SDG 17, Partnership for the expertise of their people toward advancing the SDGs through Goals, IMPACT2030 was founded on the belief that when innovative pro bono, skills-based and hands-on employee companies join forces and harness the skills, expertise and volunteer programs. In 2017, PIMCO signed on as a Founding creativity of their people as a force for good, they can change Partner of IMPACT2030. In 2019, PIMCO was honored to be the world. The IMPACT2030 Innovation Award highlights bestincluded as a recipient of the Innovation Awards. in-class approaches to connecting the skills, passion, and THE CIVIC 50 WINNER FOUNDING PARTNER 2016–2019 PIMCO is a founding We are a recipient member of IMPACT2030, of the IMPACT2030 a private sector-led coali2019 Innovation Award tion that is committed to recognizing the impact of mobilizing employee volPurpose at PIMCO’s work. unteers to achieve the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by the year 2030. We align our PurPIMCO has been named to the pose at PIMCO strategic Points of Light Civic 50, a ranking initiatives around SDG 2 of the 50 most communityZero Hunger and SDG 5 minded companies in the U.S. Gender Equality. 2019 Highlights •• Volunteer hours (employees, family, friends) •• Global employee participation in PIMCO-sponsored 18,161 volunteer events •• PIMCO employee volunteer hours 67% 13,837 •• Number of PIMCO-sponsored global volunteer events •• Volunteers (all employees, family, friends) (unique) 343 3,035 •• Number of hours focused on •• PIMCO employee volunteers (unique) •• Zero Hunger: 9,390 1,939 •• Gender Equality: 1,532 2019 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S IBIL I T Y 27 Learn More For additional information on the practices outlined in this report, please visit the following sections of our website: •• Leadership •• ESG Annual Report •• ESG Policy Statement •• Purpose at PIMCO •• Inclusion, Diversity & Culture Please contact Corporate Responsibility with additional questions. 2019 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S IBIL I T Y 28 UN Global CompactCommunication on Progress In May 2017, PIMCO initially confirmed its support for the Ten Within this report, we have therefore integrated: Principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, •• a signed statement expressing continued support for the labor, environment and anti-corruption. Since that time, our Global Compact and renewing our ongoing commitment to CEO has reconfirmed that commitment. the initiative and its principles; We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the •• a description of practical actions (i.e., disclosure of any Global Compact is the annual submission of a relevant policies, procedures, activities) that PIMCO has Communication on Progress (COP) that describes PIMCO’s taken (or plans to undertake) to implement the Global efforts to implement the Ten Principles. To further this, we Compact principles in each of the four issue areas (human commit to support the principles of the UN Global Compact rights, labor, environment, anti-corruption); and by reporting on our progress annually in a manner consistent with UN Global Compact COP policy. •• a measurement of outcomes (i.e., the degree to which targets/performance indicators were met or other qualitative or quantitative measurements of results). Please see below for specific areas within this report where practical actions in relation to the Ten Principles are described: Responsible Investing Sustainable Business Commitment to Talent Empowering Communities •• Spotlight on Climate •• Supply Chain •• Partners •• Purpose at PIMCO Change & the •• Best place to work for •• Spotlight – Why SDG#2 – Zero Human Rights Environment LGBT equality Hunger? •• Collaborative Engagement •• Collaborative •• Supply Chain •• Inclusion, Diversity & •• Women & Investing Engagement Culture •• IMPACT 2030 Innovation Award Labor •• Respectful Workplace •• 2019 Highlights •• Compensation & Benefits •• 2019 Highlights •• Launch of new ESG •• Supply Chain •• Global Food Waste •• Global FoodBanking Networking strategies; Firm-wide Campaign (Sustainable partnership •• Focus on Environmental 2019 Highlights Business) Impact •• Partnership with Industry Environment Stakeholders •• Spotlight on Climate Change & the Environment •• Collaborative •• Focus on Anti-Corruption •• Code of Ethics Engagement (Sustainable Business) Anti•• 2019 Highlights •• Please review latest ESG Corruption annual report, available on pimco.com This update serves as additional action beyond the policies and commitments outlined in our 2018 UN Global Compact Communication of Progress, which is available here. pimco.com blog.pimco.com This material is distributed for informational purposes only. The content herein is not intended to be investment advice or a recommendation of any particular security, strategy or investment product, and should not be regarded as such. Information contained herein has been obtained from sources believed to be reliable, but not guaranteed. Socially responsible investing is qualitative and subjective by nature, and there is no guarantee that the criteria utilized, or judgment exercised, by PIMCO will reflect the beliefs or values of any one particular investor, company, country or region. Information regarding responsible practices is obtained through voluntary or third-party reporting, which may not be accurate or complete, and PIMCO is dependent on such information to evaluate a company’s commitment to, or implementation of, responsible practices. Socially responsible norms differ by region. There is no assurance that the socially responsible investing strategy and techniques employed will be successful. Past performance is not a guarantee or reliable indicator of future results. PIMCO as a general matter provides services to qualified institutions, financial intermediaries and institutional investors. Individual investors should contact their own financial professional to determine the most appropriate investment options for their financial situation. This is not intended for distribution to, or use by, any person or entity in any jurisdiction or country where such distribution or use is contrary to local law or regulation. | Pacific Investment Management Company LLC, 650 Newport Center Drive, Newport Beach, CA 92660 is regulated by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. | PIMCO Europe Ltd (Company No. 2604517) and PIMCO Europe Ltd Italy (Company No. 07533910969) are authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (12 Endeavour Square, London E20 1JN) in the UK. The Italy branch is additionally regulated by the Commissione Nazionale per le Società e la Borsa (CONSOB) in accordance with Article 27 of the Italian Consolidated Financial Act. PIMCO Europe Ltd services are available only to professional clients as defined in the Financial Conduct Authority’s Handbook and are not available to individual investors, who should not rely on this communication. | PIMCO Deutschland GmbH (Company No. 192083, Seidlstr. 24-24a, 80335 Munich, Germany), PIMCO Deutschland GmbH Italian Branch (Company No. 10005170963) and PIMCO Deutschland GmbH Spanish Branch (N.I.F. W2765338E) are authorised and regulated by the German Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin) (MarieCurie-Str. 24-28, 60439 Frankfurt am Main) in Germany in accordance with Section 32 of the German Banking Act (KWG). The Italian Branch and Spanish Branch are additionally supervised by the Commissione Nazionale per le Società e la Borsa (CONSOB) in accordance with Article 27 of the Italian Consolidated Financial Act and the Comisión Nacional del Mercado de Valores (CNMV) in accordance with obligations stipulated in articles 168 and 203 to 224, as well as obligations contained in Tile V, Section I of the Law on the Securities Market (LSM) and in articles 111, 114 and 117 of Royal Decree 217/2008, respectively. The services provided by PIMCO Deutschland GmbH are available only to professional clients as defined in Section 67 para. 2 German Securities Trading Act (WpHG). They are not available to individual investors, who should not rely on this communication. | PIMCO (Schweiz) GmbH (registered in Switzerland, Company No. CH-020.4.038.582-2), Brandschenkestrasse 41, 8002 Zurich, Switzerland, Tel: + 41 44 512 49 10. The services provided by PIMCO (Schweiz) GmbH are not available to individual investors, who should not rely on this communication but contact their financial adviser. | PIMCO Asia Pte Ltd (Registration No. 199804652K) is regulated by the Monetary Authority of Singapore as a holder of a capital markets services licence and an exempt financial adviser. The asset management services and investment products are not available to persons where provision of such services and products is unauthorised. | PIMCO Asia Limited is licensed by the Securities and Futures Commission for Types 1, 4 and 9 regulated activities under the Securities and Futures Ordinance. PIMCO Asia Limited is registered as a cross-border discretionary investment manager with the Financial Supervisory Commission of Korea (Registration No. 08-02-307). The asset management services and investment products are not available to persons where provision of such services and products is unauthorised. | PIMCO Australia Pty Ltd ABN 54 084 280 508, AFSL 246862. This publication has been prepared without taking into account the objectives, financial situation or needs of investors. Before making an investment decision, investors should obtain professional advice and consider whether the information contained herein is appropriate having regard to their objectives, financial situation and needs. | PIMCO Japan Ltd, Financial Instruments Business Registration Number is Director of Kanto Local Finance Bureau (Financial Instruments Firm) No. 382. PIMCO Japan Ltd is a member of Japan Investment Advisers Association and The Investment Trusts Association, Japan. All investments contain risk. There is no guarantee that the principal amount of the investment will be preserved, or that a certain return will be realized; the investment could suffer a loss. All profits and losses incur to the investor. The amounts, maximum amounts and calculation methodologies of each type of fee and expense and their total amounts will vary depending on the investment strategy, the status of investment performance, period of management and outstanding balance of assets and thus such fees and expenses cannot be set forth herein. | PIMCO Taiwan Limited is managed and operated independently. The reference number of business license of the company approved by the competent authority is (107) FSC SICE Reg. No.001. 40F., No.68, Sec. 5, Zhongxiao E. Rd., Xinyi Dist., Taipei City 110, Taiwan (R.O.C.), Tel: +886 2 8729-5500. | PIMCO Canada Corp. (199 Bay Street, Suite 2050, Commerce Court Station, P.O. Box 363, Toronto, ON, M5L 1G2) services and products may only be available in certain provinces or territories of Canada and only through dealers authorized for that purpose. | PIMCO Latin America Av. Brigadeiro Faria Lima 3477, Torre A, 5° andar São Paulo, Brazil 04538-133. | No part of this publication may be reproduced in any form, or referred to in any other publication, without express written permission. PIMCO is a trademark of Allianz Asset Management of America L.P. in the United States and throughout the world. ©2020, PIMCO. CMR2020-0313-1119247 67327
