25 YEAR BIRTHDAY #GoodTogether MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 Contents 01 About this report 2 Who we are 4 Our sustainability approach 10 Our impact 02 G roup president and CEO on sustainability 03 Sustainable economic value 16 Connecting the unconnected 20 Mobile financial services 24 Digital services 26 Enterprise development 04 Sustainable societies 31 Ethics 35 Human rights 39 Our workplace 44 Global sourcing and supply chain 47 Corporate social investment 05 Eco-responsibility 53 Energy and climate 60 Environment resources 06 Annual sustainability statement MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement About this report We publish a suite of complementary reports intended to provide Combined assurance our stakeholders with the information they need to assess our •• Select indicators in this report have been internally and externally independently performance for the period from 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2019. verified. Refer to the group’s independent assurance report for details. Our sustainability report provides a balanced, accurate and accessible overview of our sustainability strategy and performance Directors’ responsibility •• The MTN Group board has overall accountability for the 2019 sustainability report relating to the most material economic, environmental, social, and and has delegated responsibility for overseeing the sustainability management governance impacts of our operations. and reporting process to the social and ethics committee. Refer to the social and ethics statement. Scope and boundaries •• Included: This report covers operations in Afghanistan, Benin, Cameroon, Congo•• The social and ethics committee has read this report and considered the integrity Brazzaville, Guinea-Bissau, Guinea-Conakry, Ghana, Iran, Ivory Coast, Liberia, and completeness of the material aspects and information contained within it, Nigeria, Rwanda, South Africa, Sudan, South Sudan, Swaziland, Syria, Uganda, and is satisfied that it is a fair representation of the material matters and provides Yemen and Zambia, and MTN Enterprise operations in Kenya and Namibia. a balanced view of our responsible business strategy and performance. •• Excluded: MTN Yemen and MTN Syria have been excluded from environmental reporting due to data collection challenges associated with network management Online information in the context of the broader macro-political situation. Some MTN Group head •• Additional reports and more information about MTN’s sustainability are available office services are undertaken in the United Arab Emirates (Dubai) in leased office on our website. premises; these are deemed immaterial for environmental reporting. Mascom Botswana is excluded from sustainability reporting based on our indirect ownership holding. Our icons and links to online reports: Sustainability reporting standards and guidelines •• Our disclosures are primarily guided by the United Nations Global Reporting CDP GB GR Initiative (GRI) Standards (core option), the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC, Carbon Governance Governance as a signatory member), the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), UN Guiding Disclosure Report bodies report Principles on Business and Human Rights, JSE FTSE Russell ESG Rating, and the IR LA MM King Code of Governance Principles (King IVTM*). Integrated Material report Limited assurance matters obtained Data collection S PB •• Reports are compiled using information sourced from various information SE Material Position Social and ethics management systems, and management and board committee reports. Additional stakeholder statements report data is obtained from investor and stakeholder engagements, surveys, research, and benchmarking. TR Tax report United Nations Global UN SDG Exchange rate Compact •• All financial data is reported in South African Rand (ZAR), using the average exchange rate across January to December 2019 of ZAR14,44 to US$1 (2018: ZAR13,98 to US$1). * Copyright and trademarks are owned by the Institute of Directors in Southern Africa NPC and all rights are reserved. MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 1 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Who we are Our vision Our values Leadership Innovation Relationships Integrity Can do To lead the delivery of a bold, new digital world A clear strategy Our belief Best Returns Ignite Growth Hearts Technology customer and efficiency commercial through data and minds excellence experience focus performance and digital Everyone deserves the benefits of a modern connected life MTN is a digital operator with over 250 million customers across 21 emerging markets in Africa and the Middle East. Our markets have fast-growing youthful populations with the lowest mobile penetration globally. Together with our partners Our ambition we are ideally positioned to capture growth in these markets while playing an active role in unlocking economic growth opportunities by bridging the digital divide. Our business is guided by our BRIGHT strategy, which clearly defines the areas on which we need to focus to build our business sustainably and create value for our 300 million subscribers stakeholders. We strive to create socio-economic value using our institutional 200 million active data users capabilities while adding value to each aspect of the BRIGHT strategy. 100 million digital and MoMo users As a digital operator, we have adopted a three-pronged business model that encompasses: (1) the evolving telco focused on traditional telecommunications services, (2) the digital operator geared towards emerging digital platforms, and (3) the fintech player advancing mobile financial services. 2 MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Who we are continued Telecommunications is a rapidly changing industry, vibrant with emerging technologies and competitive disruptors that are altering established business models and creating new opportunities and risks. In this context and with a growing market of digital natives, our agility as a business and ability to adapt to changing demands are crucial to the sustainability of our business. As the leading operator in many of our markets, we have a responsibility to harness our capabilities for the benefit of MTN and our stakeholders, while ensuring responsible economic, environmental and social practices. Our future-focused sustainability framework supports the BRIGHT strategy and digital operator business model by realising tangible synergies between economic, social and environmental sustainability. The services and ambitions of the digital operator fit neatly into the centre of our BRIGHT strategy: with our work around voice, enterprise and wholesale the focus of our “I” pillar to ignite commercial performance, and the activities related to scaling up data, digital and fintech services being central to our “G” pillar of growth through data and digital. Building the digital operator The evolving telco The digital player MTN The digital operator Voice Data Enterprise Wholesale Digital media, messaging and mobile advertising The fintech player Transfers, payments, loans, deposits, insurance, marketplace One network One distribution One registration MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 3 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Our sustainability approach Three pillars of MTN’s sustainability Our sustainability vision is to create and protect shared value for MTN Sustainable Sustainable Eco-responsibility and our stakeholders through responsible economic, environmental economic value societies and social practices. Our sustainability framework consists of three pillars, around which this report is structured. Our framework goes beyond traditional models of focusing on environment, social and governance matters to include economic value that is shared with our stakeholders, which in turn provides broader socio-economic benefits to society. Sound corporate governance, ethical conduct, robust risk management and Digital and financial regulatory compliance are the foundations of our shared-value approach and our innovation that Support vibrant, Reduce long-term sustainability. Our sustainability governance and reporting structure is enhances lives successful our environmental available on our website. in society communities impact •• Addressing barriers •• Ethics: Ethics and •• Climate: Energy Group social and ethics committee to inclusion: anti-corruption efficiency and Reporting frequency: every three months Coverage, handsets, •• Human rights: Online alternative energy affordability, service freedom of investment to reduce bundling and ease of expression, privacy, greenhouse gas access education security and online outputs Group executive committee •• Digital and financial child safety •• Green offices: Reduce Reporting frequency: monthly solutions to close the •• The workplace: impact, cost, use and Group digital and financial divide Healthy and safe working conditions, waste from natural resources board Group president and CEO •• Internet of Things (IoT), smart and other skills to manage innovation disruptions •• E-waste: Electronic and electrical waste functional review Reporting frequency: every two months enterprise solutions in workplace, diversity management/ that address specific and inclusion reduction included social and •• Corporate social in upstream and Group chief regulatory and environmental investment: Investing downstream supply corporate affairs review requirements in communities and chain Reporting frequency: monthly broader society •• Supply chain: Ethical, sustainable environmentally responsible supply chain partners Economic Social and governance Environment Everyone deserves the benefit of a modern connected life 4 MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Our sustainability approach continued Our stakeholders A strong foundation of partnerships with our stakeholders has been key to our Feedback from our stakeholders not only informs our engagement approach, but is success over the past 25 years and is essential for delivering on our shared value also infused into our materiality determination process. Success indicators from the approach now and long into the future. Understanding our stakeholders underpins reputation index survey include: the effectiveness of our BRIGHT strategy and is the basis of our commitment to being a responsible business partner. At the core of our sustainability approach is stakeholder centricity and inclusivity, a 75% 73% 73% 74% Quality of Relationship lens that allows us to prioritise stakeholder concerns as we make business decisions Reputation engagement Responsiveness health and balance the needs, interests and expectations of material stakeholders and the organisation. Our sustainability stakeholder ecosystem includes a broad range of stakeholders MTN has a group stakeholder and reputation management framework which ensures the professionalisation and standardisation of our approach to stakeholder across the three pillars of our sustainability framework: engagement, while giving us the opportunity to continually gauge how our Priority stakeholders Stakeholder expectations stakeholders perceive us. The key objectives of the framework are: (1) Build healthy relationships (2) Drive reputation Subscribers/customers Fair and transparent billing (3) Manage key issues proactively Government Revenue contribution Equity partners/investor Business performance Key highlights community Compliance Sustainable Regulators/policy makers Fair terms and Focus Achievements in 2019 economic value MTN people compensation Suppliers/vendors Reliable partnerships Media Transparency and disclosure •• We embedded the framework across our markets •• Each country developed and implemented MTN people Conducive workplace its stakeholder engagement plan (SEP) Civil society Corporate governance Group stakeholder and reputation •• Monitoring and evaluation conducted on management framework (includes Equity partners/investor and transparency quarterly basis community Socio-economic strategy, policy and blueprint) Sustainable Government contribution societies Regulators Compliance •• A survey was commissioned in 2019 to Suppliers/vendors Fair terms and assess the following key objectives: compensation 1. Assess performance against reputation drivers 2. Assess MTN’s responsiveness on issues Equity partners/investor Responsible practices Stakeholder reputation 3. Assess the quality of MTN’s stakeholder community and transparency index survey engagement as experienced by priority Civil society Compliance stakeholders MTN people Leadership Eco4. Assess the health of relationships with Government responsibility priority stakeholders material to the Regulators business Suppliers/vendors MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 5 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Our sustainability approach continued Our stakeholders continued Top issues for our stakeholders Top issue Our response The topics listed below are based on engagements with stakeholders and feedback from 2019 reputation index survey: •• We see significant potential in our markets to offer vital communication services despite some of the Top issue Our response inherent risks. Such risks are factors of doing business in these markets and are not limited Operations in conflict to MTN •• MTN has clearly defined governance measures markets •• We are continuously evolving and innovating our in the form of policies and procedures based on risk framework and the way we conduct our UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human business. We also transfer lessons learnt from Rights Framework (“Ruggie’s Protect, Respect one market to another on an ongoing basis Tightening our approach and Remedy”) and transparency on •• We evolve our approach to test robustness digital human rights, of our processes and ensure lessons learnt are incorporated •• MTN adheres to the principle of anonymity when privacy and information using and managing customer data through data security •• We continuously engage and collaborate with aggregation and masking of personal information stakeholders to reduce our digital human rights Transparency and data. Our position on treating customers fairly and risks and impacts fairness in customer •• We continue to benchmark and evolve our content creation is available online billing transparency and reporting to respond to the needs of our stakeholders •• MTN has zero tolerance for any form of bribery and corruption •• We are actively pursuing various energy reduction •• Our positions on anti-bribery and corruption, and efficiencies initiatives and investing in Anti-bribery and conflicts of interest, fraud management, gifts, renewable energy sources as part of our climate corruption hospitality and entertainment, and whistleblowing Responsiveness to action response are available here climate change, defining •• We have joined the GSMA-led industry-wide plan appropriate greenhouse to achieve net-zero greenhouse gas emissions by gas targets and 2050 in line with the Paris Agreement. We are in •• Impact assessments are crucial elements in MTN’s disclosure the process of setting clearly defined targets and due diligence framework and risk assessments roadmap •• Due to the evolving nature of risks in digital •• As part of our disclosure efforts, we participate in Governance, due communications, we update our risk and impact the Carbon Disclosure Project in alignment with diligence and risk assessments on a periodical basis the taskforce recommendations on climatemanagement related financial disclosures on an annual basis •• MTN strives to conduct business with suppliers who share our commitment to high ethical standards and operate in a responsible and Supply chain ethical manner. The code we require our suppliers transformation to sign up to is available here 6 MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Our sustainability approach continued See our prioritisation matrix and the accompanying table with more information: Materiality process Connecting the unconnected This report contains information that we deem to be of material significance to our Mobile financial services ability to create value in the short, medium HIGH Human rights to long term. Ethics This report’s materiality matters complement and provide more detail to Energy and climate the material matters highlighted in the Importance to stakeholders MTN Group integrated report (IR) for the year ended 31 December 2019. (See the table below for links between these material Environmental matters.) The group’s approach in resources MEDIUM identifying, prioritising and responding to these matters is determined by considering Enterprise factors that receive the most management development and board attention during the year. These themes take into account priority interests of our key stakeholders and the impact of these on our strategy, the group’s top risks CSI and opportunities and the context in which we operate (See the integrated report for further information.) Global sourcing and supply chain In addition to this approach, the sustainability report’s materiality identification and prioritisation approach takes into LOW consideration the importance of material matters to key stakeholders. This approach includes various stakeholder engagement initiatives, the sourcing of information LOW MEDIUM HIGH from third-party assessments and through internal research and analysis. Material impact on MTN’s objectives More information on MTN’s strategy and performance is located in the group’s integrated report, this sustainability report (SR), UN Global Reporting Initiative Report (GRI) available on our website. MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 7 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Our sustainability approach continued Materiality process continued Link to group Where issue is Link to group Where issue is No Material matter No Material matter material matter covered material matter covered Sustainable economic value Sustainable societies continued 1 Creating digital inclusion •• Disruptive •• Connecting the 4 Human rights violations •• Complex and •• Human rights by enabling affordable technologies unconnected being aided by dynamic political communication and and •• Mobile financial control of information environments information sharing, and convergence services communication and greater financial inclusion: •• Digital services technologies: regulatory and This matter is the •• Enterprise Several of the countries compliance cornerstone of economic development in which we operate are requirements growth and development high risk in these terms, in the modern connected which is not limited to world MTN alone 2 Providing customers with •• Growth in data •• Connecting the 5 Driving an agile •• Disruptive •• Workplace a quality service and volumes in a unconnected organisational strategy: technologies customer experience: decreasing price •• Mobile financial Our drive to future-proof and Customers expect environment services our workplace requires convergence relevant solutions that •• Disruptive •• Digital services capability building and meet their needs and of technologies •• Enterprise reskilling, improved talent society at large and development attraction and retention convergence 6 Acceleration of diversity •• Heightened •• Workplace Sustainable societies and inclusion in our focus on workplace: sustainabilityMTN is represented related matters 3 Managing a robust and •• Complex and •• Ethics by more than rigorous approach to dynamic political 58 nationalities, multiple ethics: environments ethnicities and four We need to maintain our and greater generations adding to efforts to prevent fraud, regulatory and our rich diversity bribery, corruption and compliance manage our ethics risks requirements 8 MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Our sustainability approach continued Materiality process continued Link to group Where issue is Link to group Where issue is No Material matter No Material matter material matter covered material matter covered Sustainable societies continued Eco-responsibility 7 Sustainably enhancing •• Heightened •• Workplace 10 Reducing our impact on •• Heightened •• Energy and the health and wellbeing focus on the environment and on focus on climate of our people: sustainabilitythe societies in which we sustainabilityHealth and wellbeing related matters operate: related matters challenges relevant The increasing demand to workers in the 21st for energy is increasing century require a the impact on climate comprehensive strategy change 8 Effectively managing our •• Complex and •• Global sourcing 11 Public concerns regarding •• Heightened •• Environmental group’s supplier base: dynamic political and supply electromagnetic field focus on resources Our group relies on a environments chain exposure limits: sustainabilitycomplex and multi-layer and greater Electric fields are related matters global supply chain to regulatory and produced by voltage provide our customers compliance and magnetic fields with the products and requirements by electrical current services that they need required for all electrical equipment 9 Creating shared value •• Heightened •• Corporate social through corporate social focus on investment 12 Sustainably managing •• Heightened •• Environmental investment, with a focus sustainabilityenvironmental resources: focus on resources on youth: related matters Environmental sustainabilityDigital solutions are management of goods related matters essential to addressing and services to remain •• Complex and the challenges of youth compliant with the dynamic political empowerment, education, national laws and environments and job creation environmental regulations and greater regulatory and compliance requirements MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 9 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Our impact Sustainable economic value Sustainable societies Eco-responsibility 2 million URLs 28 889tCO2e 0,0090tCO2e/ blocked 37% female greenhouse Over containing child employees in gases subscriber 250 million R30 billion sexual abuse workforce saved/ GHG tax contribution* intensity subscribers material avoided 80% 10 998 ethics 6 126 kl 517 000 1 387 highest e-learning course mobile money diesel agents rural sites score for sustainable completions energy savings 638 renewable employee by staff engagement energy sites 675 000 39% reduction 1 670 784 tonnes of affordable in the group effective 1,9 million vendors e-waste recycled/ 38 436kg general low-cost total CSI prequalified safely disposed waste reduced/ rate per megabyte following due smartphones beneficiaries recycled distributed diligence Key UN SGDs Key UN SGDs Key UN SGDs NO DECENT WORK AND INDUSTRY, INNOVATION REDUCED PARTNERSHIPS NO GOOD HEA LTH QUALITY GENDER DECENT WORK AND PEACE, JUSTICE PARTNERSHIPS AFFORDABLE AND SUSTAINABLE CITIES RESPONSIBLE CLIMATE PARTNERSHIPS POVERTY ECONOMIC GROWTH AND INFRASTRUCTURE INEQUALITIES FOR THE GOALS POVERTY AND WEL L-BEING EDUCATION EQUALITY ECONOMIC GROWTH AND STRONG FOR THE GOALS CLEAN ENER GY AND COMMUNITIES CONSUMPTION ACTION FOR THE GOALS INSTITUTIONS AND PRODUCTION 13.1 Key UN Global Compact Principles Key UN Global Compact Principles continued 1.  Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 7. B usinesses should support a precautionary 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. approach to environmental challenges. 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to 8. U ndertake initiatives to promote greater collective bargaining. environmental responsibility. 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of 5. The effective abolition of child labour. environmentally friendly technologies. 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. * LA 10 MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Group president and CEO on sustainability To make an impact on meeting the UN SDGs by 2030, we need to deepen our focus, acting collectively and decisively. Having often reflected on this objective, I believe we can achieve this if we come together through our connected and shared humanity to collaborate effectively through partnerships. – Rob Shuter We view sustainability as an integral part of MTN’s value creation journey now and into the future #GoodTogether MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 11 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Group president and CEO on sustainability continued Inside our CEO’s headspace COVID-19 recovery: Fairer economies: The impact of COVID-19 on 1 Access to the internet worldwide economies is What does has the power to change lives challenging, our commitment sustainability mean to MTN and bridge inequalities. We will contribute to accelerating digital remains steadfast to do all we can to minimise the and why is it so important? and financial inclusion by economic and social connecting the unconnected. impact. • Being sustainable means creating economic value while Society and the protecting society and the environment – having a net positive Tech for future of work: impact. good: The Ultimately, we will be part • The world is waking up to the impacts of climate change. We have infrastructure we build of upskilling and reskilling the a role to play in mitigating and adapting to climate change risks. supports the development of global workforce and society, Globally there is a deepening sense of shared responsibility towards the technology which boosts local economies. 5 Where I see through the endless opportunities presented each other and the environment. • By contributing to the prosperity of Africa and the us going in 2020 and beyond by a connected • I was inspired by the World Economic Forum this year. world. Middle East, we are creating shared value. Considering the themes of the forum, I believe we will be able to contribute to the following: Better business: 2 Sustainability – How to save the planet: Through everything we do, we will create long-term What I am most proud We will push our boundaries shared value – that is the of and excited for... now and in the future internally to ensure we minimise the impact we have on the environment and society. At the bottom-line. • The partnerships we have made and the impact they had. Three in particular come to mind same time, we will empower our – Rapid rural roll-out programme (R3) reaching the partners to do the same through unconnected. IoT and other solutions. – Internet Watch Foundation partnership to make children safer online. – Signing up to the GSMA-led initiative for climate action. 3 4 As I Challenges we have Why I know we can write, we are in the midst of the yet to overcome overcome these challenges COVID-19 pandemic and Energy • MTN Group cares because MTNers care – we have uncertain as to how and – as we connect more people our dynamic and passionate employees who continue to empower when society will emerge. us to reach new heights in our sustainability journey. energy use and GHG emissions are • The challenges we face are ever evolving, solutions that worked in the increasing. recent past may not be relevant in the future. As an organisation, we Connecting are agile. We are deeply aware of the environment we operate in and the unconnected continually adapt to face these challenges. Human rights • In response to COVID-19, through our Y’ello Hope package we are playing – mobile and internet – the diversity of adoption remains a challenge markets we operate in our part in the alleviation of the economic and social impact through in our markets due to present an array of human the support of key institutions such as Ministries of Health and economic realities and rights challenges. Ensuring Education. Collectively, we can PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS adoption challenges. rights are protected • We are working with our partners to innovate and find bold achieve digital and remains a challenge. solutions that will decouple our growth from our financial inclusion environmental impact. through partnerships. 12 MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Sustainable economic value Case study UN SDG Mobile money has grown faster in Africa than anywhere else in the world. Before mobile money the African population was largely unbanked. Without bank accounts, there is no access to credit, no way to pay bills and no means to transfer money safely to family. Without bank accounts, there is no stage to enable African Continental access to credit, no way to pay bills and Free Trade Area’s vision of creating a no means to transfer money to family. single market across the African The power of fintech – which underpins continent. many of the UN’s SDGs – expands access to and the use of accounts is farMTN mobile financial services, the reaching and contributes to job creation, largest digital payments hub on the improvements in gender equality and continent, connects over 180 million good health, and the elimination of mobile wallets to banks, money transfer poverty. operators, and merchants to enable real-time, cross-border and crossThere is nowhere else in the world that network transactions. Through MTN’s moves more money on mobile phones MoMo, customers are able to transfer than sub-Saharan Africa. MTN’s mobile money to mobile money platforms – financial services facilitate the across borders as well as across movement of money into Africa. Money networks. MTN Homeland app offers transferred home by the African instant, low-cost digital remittances. diaspora represents a significant flow of MTN has enabled the transfer of more MTN makes the money go income into the African economy. Mobile money is not only facilitating the flow of than US$331 million into Africa each month and US$139 million has been round Africa money into Africa, but between different regions of the continent setting the transferred within Africa along corridors across our footprint. Mobile money is accelerating job creation and the transformation of African economies MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 13 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Sustainable economic value continued What we stand for We intend to create sustainable economic value through our core business to the benefit of our customers and society at large. “The digital agenda is first and foremost a growth and jobs agenda,” says Connecting the unconnected Makhtar Diop – World Bank We seek to bridge the digital divide through MTN’s CHASE framework by addressing society’s barriers to internet and mobile adoption. Financial inclusion Our goal is to transition to an end-to-end platform, creating a digital marketplace to accelerate economic and social development through digital disruption. Technology and connectivity can provide transformative solutions and act as the cornerstone for economic growth and development in our modern connected world. We offer fintech and digital solutions that pave the way for individuals’ and Digital solutions We are building a digital ecosystem centred around enabling advanced businesses’ participation in economic activities, thereby enhancing lives and messaging, local language content, expanding communities and unlocking boosting economic growth. opportunities for greater digital inclusion. Promoting digital and financial inclusion across Africa and the Middle East requires effective and innovative collaboration between governments, the private sector and Enterprise development all role players in society. As one of Africa’s largest digital operators, we have a vital As part of MTN’s efforts to position itself as preferred connectivity role to play in addressing the considerable gaps in access to connectivity as well as solution partner for enterprises, we are enabling SMEs to grow and accelerating mobile and internet adoption. digitally transform their businesses to the benefit of broader society. This gap represents a significant opportunity to achieving the SDGs by 2030. Digital access is fundamental to realising targets such as universal identification, more efficient delivery of government services, financial inclusion and job creation. We believe that to bring new opportunities to people previously excluded from the digital world, we need to accelerate universal, affordable and good quality internet access for all. 14 MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Sustainable economic value continued What we said we would do in 2019 Our stakeholders’ view Activity Progress Results 75,6% MTN’s business promotes inclusive growth Rolling out rural connectivity Rural connectivity was in seven more countries expanded across 11 countries 80% MTN has notable impact on digital inclusion Launching the MTN Smart Launch completed and over 3G T and S model feature 600 000 devices distributed 78% phones in our markets MTN’s presence in-countries translate into inclusive economic growth and contributes toward the fiscus and GDP Developing a cohesive digital Programme has been literacy programme developed and rolled out to nine markets Mobile financial inclusion; Licences issued for all offer mobile money services countries except Nigeria in Afghanistan, Nigeria, South (super agent licence issued Africa and Sudan and executed) and South Africa (partnership agreement with U-Bank to offer mobile financial services) Launch set for Afghanistan, Nigeria and Sudan in 2020 Drive Global System for Mobile Certification concluded in Communications (GSMA) Uganda, Ghana, Cameroon mobile money certification Progress indicators: Completed Ongoing: on target Ongoing: behind target MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 15 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Sustainable economic value continued Connecting the unconnected Our approach What we did We believe everyone deserves the benefits of a modern connected life. We are accelerating digital and financial inclusion by connecting the unconnected and In 2019, we executed initiatives across the CHASE pillars in our ensuring that people reap the social, economic and developmental dividends of continued quest to meaningfully connect people across our footprint. being online. Our dual data strategy aims to provide access to customers across different segments within our markets, addressing the urban-rural divide. Coverage  Coverage is the critical foundation for connecting current and potential rural and Lower-income and/or rural customers make up around 70% of our market. We low-income customers. Approximately 60% of rural populations in Africa are provide affordable solutions – at multiple low-cost entry levels – and tailored unconnected. In 2019, we extended our rural network to over 6,9 million people products and services, that connect customers to the global community. Our CHASE (2 million in 2018), through our rapid rural roll-out programme (R3). framework, introduced in 2018, guides us in overcoming the five key barriers to mobile internet adoption: coverage, handsets, affordability, service bundling, and Population Additional population covered education and ease of access. coverage (%) in 2019 (m) 100 CHASE Fulfilling the connectivity and communication needs of our customers 80 60 88 73 2G 13 3G 31 40 41 20 4G 48 0 2G 3G 4G 0 10 20 30 40 50 SERVICE EDUCATION AND COVERAGE HANDSETS AFFORDABILITY BUNDLING EASE OF ACCESS  R3 focuses on providing voice and data services to previously uncovered areas reaching the most vulnerable, marginalised and underserved members of society. Ensure Increase Increase Creating service Enhance digital sufficient and affordability data service offerings that literacy and ease Extending coverage in these areas supports social and economic transformation affordable data and access to affordability are relevant with which data and represents shared value creation. 1 387 rural sites were rolled out in 2019, coverage in data-enabled and simple and can be accessed with the help of our partners. rural and lowdevices meaningful to income areas customers  We deployed new innovative low-cost site solutions to achieve these higher levels of coverage. OpenRAN technology allowed us to install more than 200 commercial rural network base station sites across our footprint. As OpenRAN uses vendorneutral hardware and software radio access network (RAN) technologies, vendors are not locked into proprietary solutions.  As a result, we are able to jointly develop and install 2G, 3G and 4G networks more cost-effectively in previously unconnected areas. To further accelerate rural expansion in our markets we are in the process of enlisting more roll-out partners to the programme. We are looking to address the infrastructure issues that inhibit Africans from gaining access to the benefits of a modern connected life. 16 MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Sustainable economic value continued Connecting the unconnected continued Affordability  We are committed to continuously reducing the cost of connecting, especially for services most used by lower-income consumers. We have reduced our entry“Low-cost wireless coverage will fuel economic level data rates by 60% over the last two years. We also provide free data (limited) growth, improve infrastructure, and reduce costs to certain users, to give customers a chance to experience the opportunity that being connected to the internet represents. for consumers ensuring access to connectivity with the best technology and leaving nobody  We continue to partner with Facebook on Facebook Flex. Customers are able to use Facebook with the option of switching between free and data mode. In free behind.” – Rapid rural roll-out partner data mode users can actively engage by reading, commenting, liking and sharing posts at no cost to them. Data mode is required to view photos and videos. In addition to the free digital content offered through Facebook Flex, new internet users are able to sample relevant digital content for free through MTN. Handsets Service bundling Supporting smartphone adoption  Service bundling enables MTN to provide relevant value propositions to different  Increase in smartphone adoption in our biggest markets from 39% (2018) to 43% customer groups by tailoring the bundles to their needs driving down the cost of in 2019. We launched several initiatives to support smartphone adoption, communicating. These include microbundles, social media bundles, XtraByte, including the world’s first US$20 KaiOS 3G smart feature phone which is P2P Social Data and digital offerings such as Ayoba and MusicTime. In 2019, we now available in 12 operating countries. The phone was well received with focused on bundles that meet the needs of the youth market by developing 675 000 handsets distributed across MTN’s markets. The KaiOS smart feature MTN Pulse, a youth value bundle rolled out across all markets. phone is voice enabled and allows illiterate and visually impaired people to access the internet and content, ensuring digital inclusion for differently abled people. Education and ease of access The device sourcing strategy reduced the cost of entry-level data enabled device  Educating people on how to easily access information using their mobile devices by 20% (3G smart feature phone) and 30% (3G smartphone). is foundational if internet access is to add value to their lives. During the year, we launched MTN Data-Smart, a digital literacy programme, based on GSMA’s Mobile Developing device financing options Internet Skills Training Toolkit (MISTT). The programme is designed to improve  To enhance access to low-cost smartphones we are exploring device financing people’s basic understanding of the mobile internet and applications. Data Smart models including instalment and deposit or refund models. A pilot programme was rolled out in nine of our markets in 2019 and we educated over 3 million was launched across seven key markets to determine the most suitable payment people about using internet services and accessing relevant, meaningful content. options. The outcome of the pilot programme will inform the development of a portfolio of payment options based on unique customer and country needs.  We are embedding MTN Data-Smart in multiple channels to ensure the greatest chance of reaching people. Our sales and distribution teams now also provide Developing efficient handset distribution channels education to customers on how to use social media services such as Facebook   To address the impact on accessibility to handsets due to poorly developed Flex. Our focus on digital literacy included the roll-out of an additional education distribution networks we are streamlining these channels, focusing on informal pilot, Internet 101, with Facebook in Zambia. The programme aims to educate channels by creating visibility for our products and/or services and enhancing users on how to make the most of the internet while being safe and responsible. the customer experience on the MTN network by providing free WiFi in these areas. MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 17 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Sustainable economic value continued Case study Partner-enabled rapid UN SDG rural roll-out Connecting the unconnected through innovative rural roll-out solutions Millions of people still do not live within technology. We are not stopping there. reach of a mobile broadband network, We plan to deploy more than 5 000 sites and innovation is required to enable in rural areas across our 21 operating this change. In the past operators have countries which will bring 2G, 3G and 4G been unable to provide connectivity in connectivity to previously unconnected these areas due to distant locations and areas. scattered areas of settlements, lack of energy, road infrastructure and a lack of We rely on the expertise of our partners cost-effective solutions. to help build and maintain these sites, offering a start to finish solution. MTN has taken up this challenge within These new solutions are developed our ecosystem of partners resulting in alongside traditional deployments, the development and deployment of which accelerates rural expansion. rapid rural roll-out programme utilising MTN is a leading member of the Telecom OpenRAN technology. Infrastructure Project (TIP), which aims to develop 2G, 3G and 4G RAN solutions OpenRAN technology enables MTN to built on general-purpose, vendordeploy cost-effective commercial rural neutral hardware and software-defined sites using vendor-neutral technologies technology. developed by our group technology team. Our OpenRAN technologies do To see the impact these innovations not require us to partner with specific are having on previously unconnected vendors. As a result, vendors are free to communities in Cameroon and Zambia use our OpenRAN technology to innovate follow these links: and offer relevant solutions. Cameroon This increased competition ultimately drives down the cost of connecting the unconnected. In 2019, MTN deployed Zambia over 1 300 rural sites across our footprint reaching over 6.9 million people, 200 of which made use of OpenRAN 18 MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Sustainable economic value continued Connecting the unconnected continued Our impact MTN Data-Smart: background and context In 2019, over MTN has partnered with the GSMA to reach the unconnected and teach In 2019, over 6,9 million 3 million them about data (digital literacy). Data education is important for customers people benefited from over to adopt the mobile internet. With time, mobile internet adoption improves people trained on costing and access to data. 1 387 rural sites digital literacy • A visual toolkit, including short “how to” videos, to address 1 the lack of basic, functional digital skills Over the last two years, over Improved data 25 million more people • Delivered by MTN’s “foot soldiers” through short, affordability with a 39% owning smartphone mobile interactive conversations with customers at point of sale reduction in the group devices and reduced entry 2 (POS), outdoor events and street markets effective rate per megabyte level device price by an • Also being delivered digitally using two-minute long average of 20% to 30% “how to” videos • The training modules are continuously updated 3 • Future versions will include modules on MoMo, Ayoba, KaiOS and Android OS Over last two years, Over last two years, over 20 million reduced our entrymore people using level data rates the internet by 60% The internet WhatsApp You Tube Google Looking forward Facebook Wikipedia Cost Safety •• We intend to deploy more than 5 000 network sites in rural areas across 21 countries by 2022, providing coverage to 10 million people. We will rely on partnerships to ensure we meet this goal. •• Following the successful launch of our low-cost smart feature phone, we plan to launch a low-cost smartphone to connect entry-level customers to 3G and 4G handsets across Africa in early 2020 to provide affordable smart handsets Value created below the current market norm of US$40 for a low-cost handset. UN SDGs •• We will continue to focus on education through established partnerships with GSMA and Facebook, among others, capitalising on the multiplier effect this NO POVERTY INDUSTRY, INNOVATION PARTNERSHIPS has on the digital wellbeing of our customers. We aim to train more than AND INFRASTRUCTURE FOR THE GOALS 10 million customers in 2020 and help connect these customers to the global community. MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 19 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Sustainable economic value continued Mobile financial services Vision is to be the largest fintech platform in Africa, accelerating What we did Our strategy for financial inclusion in 2019 focused on offering mobile financial economic and social development through digital disruption. services to more customers in more markets, expanding the range of products available via our ecosystem, and becoming a super platform. These strategic Our approach objectives are underpinned by a foundation of responsibility, ensuring we combat Over the past 10 years, mobile money has transformed the face of financial services potential fraud in the mobile financial services system through safer, more resilient in Africa and the Middle East as the harnessing of technology provided the systems. opportunity to “leapfrog” traditional financial service solutions. This rapidly growing industry has accelerated financial inclusion, which is a potent enabler of socioOffering more products to more customers economic development that empowers the most vulnerable in society.  In 2019, we provided mobile financial services to 35 million customers across 14 markets (up from 27 million in 14 countries in 2018). The value which people We believe that MTN has the potential to be a transformational force in mobile place on the ease of such transactions is attested by the fact that in a single financial services industry. Historically, mobile financial services included basic month we facilitated more than R120 trillion in transactions. We received money solutions, payments including in-store till points and remittances, prepaid regulatory approval to launch MTN MoMo in Afghanistan and South Africa during services like electricity and data, and interoperable mobile wallets, micro-loans and 2019. micro-insurance. Today, the industry supports digital economies and marketplaces, connecting consumers and businesses in multiple ways and we plan to promote and Cashless transactions for small businesses accelerate these vast opportunities. We developed a low-cost payment acceptance solution for small retailers,   enabling their customers with feature phones to make payments with their MoMo In 2018, we outlined our intention to achieve growth by expanding our mobile money wallets by dialling a USSD code, and for smartphone users, by scanning with their offering from service-based products and basic transactions to an advanced phones using QR barcodes. MoMo Pay is now offered through a multi-channel services ecosystem. Our fintech business continues to scale and support cashless approach; face-to-face, e-commerce, m-commerce and app. These retailers are and digital economies, and our goal now is to transition to an end-to-end platform, now also able to earn additional revenue by selling MTN airtime, which customers creating a digital marketplace and connecting consumers to businesses and pay for using mobile money. businesses to businesses. We see this as a significant opportunity to change the outlook for affordable, inclusive, understandable and comprehensive financial  It has a strong value proposition; no fee is charged to the customer and the services in Africa and the Middle East. merchant gains additional value over and above accepting payments because App they can make payments such as pay salaries and bills, and access working capital. MoMo Pay is now live in 10 markets, with 211 000 merchants, 2,1 million Merchant Corporates and De active users and 71 million transactions. Feedback from our customers has been t v ce paymen businesses entre elope inn pren rs positive, and we aim to expand this solution to Cameroon, Ghana and South tan services e Re mit ov ati urs on Africa in 2020. co M pa B m ym ill stem Plat m en t Ec osy fo rm er ce MoMo Kash loans and savings  MoMo Kash allows customers to save money safely, enabling them to conveniently Air nce tim Tran ura save towards their goals. In times of need, customers can take out a loan with e Ins sfe ech dignity and repay it as required. MoMo Kash is now live in six markets: Uganda, rs nkt Rwanda, Ivory Coast, Ghana, Zambia, with Eswatini added in 2019. The microBa P2P Loans and CiCO Product evolution savings lending portfolio grew to an average of US$70 million disbursements – an average of 70 000 loans per day of about US$19 per loan. At a group-wide level Super app Any smartphone user we also introduced a savings product increasing the average saving per customer Telco USSD Super platform Basic product Marketplace and lifestyle to US$4 from US$2. Relevance of channel Banked, underbanked 20 MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Sustainable economic value continued Mobile financial services continued Intra-Africa remittance corridors Affordable insurance  We extended our range of insuretech products and now serve 6 million customers (versus 1,9 million in 2018). Over 3,8 million people who could not previously get insurance cover in Uganda and Ghana now have access to micro-short-term life and hospital insurance through our partnership with aYo, a life micro-insurer. We plan to expand this product range to Zambia, Ivory Coast and Nigeria in 2020. We also launched a digital solution in South Africa in partnership with Sanlam to address life, disability, dread disease, income protection and family funeral coverage. This is our first insuretech end-to-end solution. Remittances  For people living outside Africa and the Middle East, it is critical to have an affordable, instant and reliable means to transfer remittances to family and friends back home. MTN’s own application allows the African diaspora to transfer funds and purchase airtime across borders.  Homeland enables cross-border and cross-network transactions, meaning that users are not limited to transferring funds or sharing airtime on MTN’s network alone, but also to other existing operators. MTN Homeland remittances can now be made between network providers from Europe to a number of countries in Africa and the Middle East, keeping families and friends connected to each other. One of the UN SDGs is to reduce the price of remittances to under 3% of the value of the remittance into Africa. MTN Homeland has been developed and priced with this target in mind. “We take pride in the fact that in collaboration with our partner MTN Group MoMo Hackathon provided a platform to local talent to showcase their solid potential to address substantial social and business Status needs.” – MoMo Hackathon partner •• Intra-Africa remittances US$139 million •• International inbound remittances US$331 million •• Outbound remittances US$47,8 million MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 21 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Sustainable economic value continued Extending OpenAPI in more countries Case study  OpenAPI is a software that allows different applications to easily integrate with each other, enabling other programmers and developers access to our mobile money platform along with other mobile financial service applications. In 2018, Opening up to innovation UN SDG we tested the use of an OpenAPI in Uganda. Following successful results, the African developers are innovating and platform was fully launched in 2019 in Uganda, Ghana, Zambia, Ivory Coast, developing solutions that solve local Cameroon, Benin and Congo-Brazzaville. Through simplified technical integration, problems start-up enterprises and innovators can now develop and offer a range of financial service products that easily support the mobile wallet and other services for our customers.   In 2019, we promoted awareness and use of the API through an MTN-led Hackathon. Over 1 200 people registered for the Hackathon and 350 ideas were New technologies carry with them Cameroon and Zambia to participate submitted. Developers welcomed this event and the ability it gave them to proprietary restrictions relating to in MTN’s first MoMo API Hackathon in integrate their apps with our APIs, thereby increasing their reach and opportunity use and access that can constrain partnership with Ericsson, our MoMo for growth and scale. innovation. We believe that partnerships technology partner. The Hackathon can help to overcome these barriers challenged developers to develop Building safer mobile financial services and foster the innovation needed to financial and transactional applications  MTN’s integrated approach to anti-money laundering, fraud and risk in the mobile provide everyone with the benefits of a using the MTN MoMo API platform. The money ecosystem includes detection, prevention, education, partner collaboration modern connected life. Hackathon saw over 1 000 developers and certification. Key fraud issues were addressed by reinforcing business with over 350 ideas vying for the coveted processes and by increasing customer education in the face of a new and growing Our Mobile Money (MoMo) Application US$2 500 prize and an all-expenses trend; social engineering. Through our sustained education of end-users, Programming Interface (API) platform paid trip to Sweden, where the winners customers, agents and other stakeholders we have observed a drop in the encourages developers and will have a chance to visit Ericsson’s number of financial fraud cases in our markets in Uganda and Ghana. programmers to use the platform to Innovation Centre. innovate and develop products and  In 2019, we voluntarily applied for and received GSMA mobile money certification. solutions that solve local problems Developers welcomed this event and the Certification centred around eight principles addressing almost 300 required and creating a wider, more relevant range opportunity to integrate their apps with of digital financial offerings for our our APIs, further increasing their reach 200 recommended indicators to ensure safer, more transparent and resilient customers. This collaborative approach and opportunity for growth and scale. financial services are specified by GSMA, and operators are required to comply helps bridge the financial divide. MTN Ivory Coast’s winner, Nandêmin, with all specifications to be certified. MTN Ivory Coast was certified in 2018 and developed a crowdfunding platform Uganda, Ghana and Cameroon were certified in 2019. See more about our We accelerated the development of where entrepreneurs can seek financial certification here. innovative applications even further by assistance for their projects by setting inviting developers and entrepreneurs up charitable or financial fund-raising Value creation from Ghana, Uganda, Ivory Coast, campaigns. UN SDGs NO POVERTY 1.4 22 MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Sustainable economic value continued Mobile financial services continued Indicators 2019 2018 Status Looking forward Active MFS •• Expand and scale our basic MoMo services in new markets (SA, Nigeria, customers 35 million 27 million Afghanistan, Sudan, South Sudan) and launch aYo in Ivory Coast in 2020. •• We aim to attract new market segments by further extending our services from a largely consumer-driven approach to include products and services for small, micro and medium enterprises. •• We will continue to develop solutions for high-potential industry verticals Merchants 211 000 105 000 such as government, e-commerce, transport and agriculture. This includes pilots with strategic partners in digitising transportation. •• We will continue to expand the reach of MoMo by launching the second phase of MTN Homeland, enabling remittances from the US, Australia, UAE and other corridors into Africa in 2020. 70 000 50 000 loans Loan loans per day per day disbursement 6 million 3 million Savings using customers with customers MTN MoMo US$4 average saving US$3 products a day savings Number of active agents earning 376 000 revenue from 517 000 MoMo Total 518 million 332 million remittance Insurance registered 3 million policyholders 6 million Number of customers’ micro5 million 2 million insurance MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 23 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Sustainable economic value continued Digital services Our approach Developed as an open digital platform that enables third-party innovation, Ayoba Fostering digital inclusion supports future economic growth and empowers people, has the capacity to offer a rich and diversified experience. Businesses and content including vulnerable groups such as women and youth. MTN’s digital strategy is to providers can engage with their customers using multi-media channels. This enables provide access to affordable communications so people in our markets can reap the MTN to deliver more value to the broader ecosystem of businesses, users and local social, economic and developmental dividends of being online while driving new developers and create experiences that are optimised for local communities. revenues and data adoption. Leveraging our established customer base, local knowledge, presence, and customer insights, MTN has built a digital ecosystem What we did spanning OTT services in messaging, media and advertising that aims to bring more Launched Ayoba Instant Messaging Application people into the digital world.  Launched early in 2019, by year-end Ayoba reached over 2 million monthly active users and currently supports 16 local languages spoken across the MTN markets, Ayoba is a key part of our digital ecosystem , offering users access to an ecosystem of some of which are not part of the Android operating system. The languages digital and rich media services through channels, micro-apps and payment solutions, include isiZulu, isiXhosa, Dari, Yoruba, Swahili, Hausa, French and English to embedded within an African super-app. Ayoba is highly localised and tailored for name a few. Ayoba was shortlisted at the Mobile World Congress #GLOMO Awards African and Middle East consumer needs. Ayoba promotes digital inclusion by breaking in the Most Innovative Mobile App Award category. down barriers such as limited access to the internet and digital services, low-smartphone penetration, lack of locally relevant content, and affordability.  Ayoba platforms aim to enable: •• Communication and connections (digital communities, messaging ) Users can send and receive encrypted messages, share photos, videos, files and •• Education and empowerment (promote own business online, learn skills, voice notes and can also subscribe to live channels. Localised content is available research, study, job search, self-help) through curated channels aimed at entertaining, educating and empowering •• Entertainment through locally curated channels (pass time – play games, Building a digital ecosystem to capture the R25bn opportunity communities. Ayoba will expose contextual MoMo services, allowing users to make person-to-person transfers enabling access to mobile financial services to a browse aspirational places, fashion, read articles or diaries, listen to music, funny videos, memes, GIFs, current affairs ) historically unbanked market. Media Messaging Mobile advertising Building our own OTT services • • Over The Top Services Locally relevant content • • Over The Top Services Design to meet local needs • • MTN’s Mobile Customer Base Expanding into OTT Services users • Mass market appeal • Evolving as a Super App • Regional adverts network • Brighter for MTN Mobile Customers • Brighter for MTN Mobile Customers • Integrating to other add networks 24 MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 forms Platform capabilities 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Sustainable economic value continued Providing localised content  Local content providers were engaged to provide locally relevant content in the Case study different markets in which we operate. These include Pulse Ghana, Pulse Nigeria, Mobi Media, Content Connect Africa and My Pregnancy Journey. In Cameroon a local translation company was engaged to translate all local content for channels. Finding solutions through UN SDG partnerships  Ayoba has successfully onboarded My Pregnancy Journey, in alignment with UN SDG 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote wellbeing for all at all ages, with a view Scaling new-venture acceleration and to empower all women with content they need to know about pregnancy, health capacity building to empower and parenting. Ayoba is in process of exploring ways to localise the content for entrepreneurs of the future other territories where the app is live. Release of the first time-based music streaming app – MusicTime! Innovation that creates shared value is mobile financial services ecosystem to  MusicTime! is a time-based music streaming application that offers users premium essential in our modern connected world. help scale promising ideas by utilising trending and locally relevant music through partnerships with key music labels and Through collaboration, innovative ideas MTN’s platforms including Ayoba and providers. MusicTime! aims to be the music streaming app of choice for the early might be cultivated and developed into MusicTime. Prospective entrepreneurs adopters in Africa and the world, with affordable and flexible plans, as well as businesses with scalable international are able to assess the viability of their becoming the best and recommended platform for local artists in the market we potential. MTN has undertaken a business ideas through a tailored operate in. By focusing on identifying music relevant to the audience, matching partnership with the UCT GBS’s filtering process. For example, if an business models to target markets, providing a growth path for customers to Solution Space E-Track Programme. The entrepreneur’s idea is to create a mobile programme is a new-venture acceleration healthcare app, through the programme migrate from an entry level service through to a premium desired service – we hope and capacity-building programme, in the idea might be introduced to software to grow the music streaming business across Africa. MusicTime! also promotes partnership with the University of Cape developers, medical students, professors growth by creating an ecosystem for local artists to monetise from the content that Town, its Graduate School of business and MBAs. is promoted on the app. and the “Solution Space” in Philippi. MTN, as a proud corporate partner of the GSB MBA student Jay Chouhan was part   MusicTime! is supporting local artists through workshops and events. This Solution Space and E-Track Programme of the E-Track Programme in 2019 and includes showcases with a focus on enabling the discovery of indigenous talents provides industry insights and access to remarked that “Through the programme, in local communities, allowing collaboration between artists across Africa and MTN’s platforms. I gained an understanding of what I creating an avenue for indigenous talent to showcase their creativity. needed in order to test if the idea was Furthermore, the partnership allows viable, and to design a pitch deck that  Uliza, the company responsible for translating Ayoba and MusicTime! into local MTN to engage with start-ups as would be presentable to investors. It languages, is a tech start-up that emanates from UCT’s Solution Space Venture potential service providers, prospective was amazing to take my business idea Incubation Programme, which is run in partnership with the MTN Group. Uliza also employees or future innovators. and let it grow. You do not usually find worked with local people in each market to create job opportunities for translators. Ultimately, we are creating a digital and opportunities like that.” Venture acceleration and capacity building  MTN acquired Progressive Tech Holdings LTD (PTH), a music-streaming business, with access to more than 42 million tracks and agreements in place with all of the “Its primary goal is to train teams to be able to major record labels, for the MusicTime! service. Simfy will be run as an OTT service that is not exclusively available to MTN customers. create new businesses. From there we aim to have  MTN partnered with Solution Space on the E-track programme on three-part scalable companies that solve real problems.” new-venture acceleration and capacity building programme, designed to support – Solution Space teams to build scalable businesses with international potential. The primary goal is to train teams to be able to create new businesses and enable them to grow into scalable companies that solve real problems. MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 25 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Sustainable economic value continued Digital services continued Enterprise development SDGs Our approach Value created We acknowledge that small and medium enterprises (SMEs) are the continent’s current and future economic growth engine. NO INDUSTRY, INNOVATION PARTNERSHIPS POVERTY AND INFRASTRUCTURE FOR THE GOALS Spanning across various industries and ranging in size from a one man shop to a one hundred employee-strong business, they are opportunely positioned to be at the forefront of digital innovation and to reap the benefits of a modern connected world. MTN’s commitment is to usher these businesses into an unprecedented convergence of people, business and things, to allow these businesses the opportunity to disrupt and challenge the status quo of current business models, by driving them into a Our impact space of digital inclusion through striving to become their preferred connectivity solution partner across the markets in which it operates. 2 million MTN also has a focused business strategy to support and enable SMEs from an Ayoba monthly enterprise development perspective. The multi-pronged approach ranges from active users Ayoba live in 12 markets helping SMEs build their capacity through providing expert education, access to markets, cash flow and access to finance. In addition MTN is committed to include SMEs as part of its own supply chain. MTN is confident that its current and planned initiatives will support SMEs operating 24 million rich across our footprint to grow sustainably, contribute to the economy, as well as ultimately be a key creator of employment opportunities. media digital MusicTime! live subscriptions in six markets What we did Building the capacity of female-owned businesses  Zambia has over the last few years seen a growth in the number of SMEs with a particular rise in the number of women entrepreneurs. Women are now at the forefront of various business segments including sectors that have been Looking forward predominantly considered to be male dominated segments like mining, medical and pharmaceuticals, earth moving equipment supplies, etc. •• We are hosting a digital innovation week aimed at building our supplier ecosystem in partnership with UCT’s Solution Space Venture Incubation  To support the female entrepreneurs and ensure there is inclusion for all players, Programme and MTN Global Sourcing and Supply Chain in a bid to connect MTN Zambia in 2019 partnered with a bank to work with business women in the with smaller suppliers and entrepreneurs. SME space or emerging businesses sector in Zambia to try and build capacity by •• The integration of MoMo into the Ayoba platform is under way and is expected providing them with not only financial management skills but also provide access to go live in the year ahead. to finance for them to purchase the most recent devices that would enable them •• Micro-app functionality will be fully embedded in the app in the financial year to compete more favourably in the digital space. 2020 and 2021. •• Bot functionality will be added to the platform introducing a new method of  Three educational workshops were held to empower and give them insights on engaging with customers to complement our conversational interface. how their current propositions could help them catapult their businesses forward through better financial organisation of their businesses and improved access to technological platforms and devices. 26 MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Sustainable economic value continued Enabling access to finance Case study  In South Africa, we collaborated with one of the major banks to provide financial and operation support to SMEs. Through this collaboration, SMEs have access to financial facilities that enable them to carry out projects timely and efficiently. MTN Zambia celebrates, UN SDG connects and supports SME capacity building   MTN Eswatini held a series of workshops to empower SMEs with access to female entrepreneurs markets, business development and training. Over 400 SMEs participated in Accelerating the role of women in society these workshops, obtaining valuable insights with some of them having concluded by empowering female-owned businesses agreements with the government of the Kingdom of Eswatini to access markets outside the country. Zambia has seen significant growth in skills as well as financing for the most  There was also further clarification into the role played by government in ensuring the SME sector in the last few years with up to date digitally enabled devices, that SMEs are supported to grow their business. The Eswatini Standards Authority a particular rise in the number of women and the entrepreneurs each receive guided the SMEs on how to obtain acceptable market quality standards to entrepreneurs. Zambia is ranked in the personal advice on the products best top three countries in sub-Saharan suited to their business. facilitate export of their products and services. Africa for female majority-owned small businesses and in the top seven for MTN’s products and services are the Value creation small to medium-sized female majorityfoundation of many small businesses in SDGs owned businesses (World Bank, 2019). Africa, effectively lowering the barriers Women in Zambia are stepping up to to entry and streamlining operations. NO POVERTY INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND INFRASTRUCTURE PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS the plate in all markets, including those Access to social media platforms and traditionally considered to be malewebsites provide the opportunity to dominated markets, like mining, medical showcase their products and services and pharmaceuticals and earth moving and MoMo makes the transfer and equipment supplies. receiving of money easy. Entrepreneurs report time and cost savings in making MTN Zambia fully supports female mobile payments, and considerable entrepreneurs, through specific efficiency improvements in their Our impact programmes and enabling products and logistics and customer service, all at the services. In 2019 MTN Zambia’s “I am touch of a button on their mobile phone. an SME” campaign highlighted women Financial inclusion for women in Africa MTN has over 4,4 million SME customers across its footprint running businesses in all segments and is a potent driver of change. Digital sectors of the economy from selling financial services have the power to charcoal in your back yard to owning maximise gender equality, increase fully fledged medium-sized businesses. earning opportunities and address Through partnerships with a number of poverty and hunger, all of which will bank’s we focused on capacity building strengthen the social fabric. by providing financial management Looking forward •• Deeper understanding of evolving SME needs. •• Providing SMEs with opportunities to access new markets. •• Provide innovative and relevant connectivity led solutions for SMEs. “We believe that SMEs are key drivers of the Zambian economy •• Build an SME community across our markets for shared learning and and therefore we would like to partner with them on this new and business development. exciting digital journey.” – MTN Enterprise Business MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 27 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Sustainable societies UN SDG The internet has created a wonderful new world for learning, working and playing. We expect our customers to enjoy these rights responsibly. It is important to us that we ensure that all who are touched by our products and services are impacted positively, including children. Children are more vulnerable and wide telecommunications company to depend on adults to safeguard their do so. The IWF strive to eradicate online rights, development and wellbeing. We images of child sexual abuse as quickly are deeply committed to minimising and efficiently as possible. any adverse risks and impacts that We have scanned over 10 billion URLs mobile services can pose for children. suspected as hosting Child Sexually Online child sexual abuse imagery is Abuse Material (CSAM) and clocked a global problem, which demands a close to 2 million abusive URLs during global solution as the internet does the course of 2019. Every five minutes not respect geographical borders. To IWF analysts in #Cambridge find and contribute to addressing this scourge, remove an image or video online of MTN partnered with the Internet Watch children suffering sexual abuse. Foundation (IWF) and is the first AfricaMaking children safer online Let us make the internet a safer place for children through partnerships 28 MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Sustainable societies continued Position statements/frameworks Ethics We enable thriving communities through Wherever we operate in the world, MTN adheres to a culture of sound ethical business conduct that generates economic value for the benefit of our communities creating jobs and equipping our people and and stakeholders and in a manner that is eco-responsible and sustainable. Our African youth for the future world of work, while positions on anti-bribery and corruption, conflicts of interest, fraud management, gifts, hospitality and entertainment, and whistleblowing are available here. always upholding the rights of all our customers. Freedom of expression, privacy and information security rights MTN is committed to respecting human rights and will make every effort to protect the rights of all people using its services in the respective jurisdictions in which it operates. Our digital human rights position, approach and frequently asked The digital revolution is a powerful agent for transforming society for the better, but questions are available here. conversely a lack of access to the digital world creates wider social and economic disparities. As an emerging market operator, addressing social challenges is an Treating customers fairly and the use of customer data inherent part of our business. MTN adheres to the principle of anonymity when using and managing customer data through data aggregation and masking of personal information data. Our MTN can only flourish when the communities and ecosystems in which it operates position on treating customers fairly and content creation is available online. are healthy. In all we do, we strive to operate ethically, transparently and accountably by considering all the concerns relevant to our stakeholders, and balancing them, Children’s rights while meeting our licence obligations. Leveraging the size, resources and capabilities MTN has zero tolerance for all forms of abuse and exploitation of children. To of our business we enable socio-economic development of the communities within ensure the responsible use of digital communications we support and are which we operate, underpinned by our core belief that everyone deserves the signatories of key international agreements that aim to create significant benefits of a modern, connected life. barriers to the misuse of mobile networks and services for hosting, accessing, or profiting from child sexual abuse. What we stand for Gender diversity We strive to always conduct business that supports the long-term MTN is committed to the advancement of gender equality and the empowerment sustainability of societies in which we operate. To meet objectives, we of women as well as the elimination of all forms of discrimination against have defined several positions that guide us in operating ethically, women. We strive to address the inequalities that hinder girls and women from respectfully and in rights-driven ways that have the least negative fully participating in and benefiting from the bold, new digital world. impacts. Our social and ethics statement and detailed positions are on Corporate social investment our website. We are committed to the sustainable upliftment of the communities in which we operate, with a focus on inclusion of the marginalised and disadvantaged in our societies, such as youth and women. Global sourcing and supply chain MTN strives to conduct business with suppliers who share our commitment to high ethical standards and operate in a responsible and ethical manner. The code we require our suppliers to sign up to click here to access. MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 29 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Sustainable societies continued What we said we would do in 2019 Activity Progress Results Activity Progress Results Ethics: Launch of MTN The passport was launched to all Our workplace: Focus on Our diversity focus was conduct passport operations through innovative workplace diversity accelerated, and we launched our digital and physical communication first global Diversity and Inclusion channels Forum in 2019 Continued focus on fraud The anti-bribery and corruption Our workplace: Finalise We commenced an update of management policy was revised. Employee fraud wellness strategy our wellness strategy. This will be awareness campaigns, as well as finalised in 2020 information on anti-bribery and corruption risks, were undertaken Corporate social We have commenced reorientation investment (CSI): towards youth empowerment Ethics: Complete new The 2019 ERA commenced Reorient our CSI funding through focused programmes ethics risk assessment later than planned, and will strategy towards youth in 2019. The group policy was (ERA) be completed in 2020 empowerment by finalised, and will be approved in finalising group policy early 2020 and strategy Ethics: Conduct annual Annual and ongoing declaration conflict of interests of conflict of interests are disclosure process for implemented Our stakeholders’ view 2019 67,9% MTN is clear on its position pertaining to digital human rights Ethics: Implement ethics The dashboard was developed and management outputs now measures inputs to improving 74% dashboard ethics management. We continue MTN adheres to good corporate to work on measuring output governance principles indicators 73% MTN corporate social investment initiatives are Human rights: Revise The policy was revised. Our privacy informed by the needs of its communities privacy policy standards are available at 76% MTN creates opportunities for locals Human rights: Update The digital human rights policy to participate in its business and value chain digital human rights was updated in 2019, and will be processes improvements approved in early 2020 73,5% MTN has done a lot in-country to develop skills, people and local businesses Progress indicators: Completed Ongoing: on target Ongoing: behind target 30 MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Sustainable societies continued Ethics We remain steadfast in our efforts to ensure a strong ethical culture Our code of ethics states our position on corporate governance, customer treatment within our business. and service, employees, interactions with governments, a commitment to communities, society and the environment. We remain steadfast in our fight against fraud, bribery and corruption as articulated in a series of policies, and Our approach enabled through structures such as an independently monitored, confidential It is a priority for MTN to strengthen our risk and regulatory structure and culture to whistleblowing function that is available to employees, suppliers, customers and preserve and create value. In recent years, weaknesses in our compliance members of other stakeholder groups. environment came to light resulting in a significant loss of value. In response, we began implementing a more robust and rigorous approach to ethics in 2015. This The group’s ethics governance and management framework, set out below, is our has steadily gained traction, galvanised by an exemplary “tone at the top”. Our structured approach to assist us as we strive to nurture an ethical culture across leaders are proactive in their responsibilities and are held accountable. We actively the group. create a working environment where all employees are educated and encouraged to consider the ethical dilemmas, challenges and opportunities that present themselves Our Board, MTN Group president and CEO and leadership are committed role as they execute MTN’s BRIGHT strategy and their responsibilities. models of ethical behaviour to all our stakeholders, actively supporting ethics management interventions at every level. Please refer to our group governance framework online. 1. Tone at the top/leadership commitment re 2. Governance structures Cu tl u ltu Cu re (i) Ethics risk management (v) Monitoring and reporting (ii) Ethics strategy 3. Ethics management (iv) Institutionalisation (iii) Code and policies Cu ltu ure re lt 4. Independent assessment and external reporting Cu MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 31 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Sustainable societies continued Ethics continued Case study What we did Enhancing ethics governance structures MTN Irancell makes its UN SDG  Thomson Reuters’ Worldchecks are performed on all suppliers during the prequalification process. Every supplier will undergo a Worldcheck to understand if mark with ethics game they pose a corruption risk to the business by identifying any politically exposed Taking ethics to new heights through persons, or sanctions against the company or associated individuals. All suppliers fun and games are required to sign and accept MTN’s anti-bribery and corruption policy. The three-yearly ethics risk survey includes questions to gauge employee perceptions on corruption. The framework shown above provides a structure to ensure that we continually enhance the elements of our ethics governance and management. In 2019, we focused on enhancing country-level governance, updating our ethics management strategy, and commencing an assessment of our risks MTN Irancell won the Ethics Institute’s and the questions were displayed on a and performance. Ethics Initiative of the Year Award for big screen for all the spectators to see. 2019 for their ethics game called “Are we  As part of our efforts to strengthen our control and compliance environment, we all Ethical?”. MTN Irancell’s game was designed to implemented a three lines of assurance approach in 2018 that was further deepen ethics sensitivity and awareness embedded across our footprint during the year. We have ensured that each MTN Irancell’s staff participated in the in a fun and engaging manner which life-sized game, throwing the dice and earned the respect and favour of the operation has an ethics office and an operational ethics committee. Training for taking on ethics-related challenges in a audience. Competitors in the Ethics ethics officers is under way and is already complete at several operating companies. bid to get to the end of the game as fast Institute’s Ethics Initiative of the Year as possible. First to the end was a winner Award for 2019 included corporates Managing ethics but there were also awards for the most from across African and the Middle East.  This encompasses our collective efforts to create and maintain a strong ethical ethical person in the game and the most culture, marked by ethical leadership, ethics awareness, ethical decision making unethical one. As one of three selected finalists, the and sustained ethical behaviour. MTN Irancell ethics officer presented an The game was designed to deepen overview of the initiative and its impact ethics sensitivity and awareness in a fun to ethics practitioners from across the and engaging manner. continent, who voted for the top initiative. Contestants were presented with ethical This is the second year that MTN has won “Our Ethics Initiative of the Year award creates dilemmas to solve and were tested on this coveted award. The 2018 winner was their knowledge of MTN’s code of ethics. MTN Sudan with their Quick Quiz game the opportunity for ethics practitioners to share MTN Irancell’s staff were encouraged to which aim to socialise and embed ethics successes and learning among peers. The award prepare by reading the code of ethics policies within the company. recognises overall excellence in initiatives that are aligned to an organisation’s strategic objectives. Irancell was the most worthy recipient of the 2019 Ethics Initiative of the Year award.” – The Ethics Institute 32 MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Sustainable societies continued Ethics continued Ethics risk management Enhancing anti-bribery and corruption awareness   To enhance our ethics risk assessment function, we conduct an ethics risk  The group-wide conflicts of interest policy, anti-bribery and corruption policy, assessment every three years to help us understand our ethics risk profile. This disciplinary policy, whistleblowing policy and our policy for gifts, hospitality and enables us to follow the King IV recommendation that the governing body should entertainment were reviewed and approved in 2019 and systems updated ensure that codes of conduct and ethics policies address the key ethics risks of accordingly. Guidelines on the management of conflicts of interest and antithe organisation. We have commissioned an independent ethics risk assessment. bribery and corruption were issued to the ethics officer of each operation. Our This is in the early stages and is progressing well with qualitative interviews ethics communication campaigns conducted throughout the year included the complete and a survey to be rolled out in early 2020. annual Fraud and Ethics Awareness Week in November 2019. The objective of the campaigns is to foster an organisational culture and an environment where Ethics strategy leadership as well as employees across the group are expected to avoid situations  A new ethics management strategy for 2020 and 2021 has been approved by the and disclose any direct or indirect conflicts of interest. social and ethics committee and will be further augmented once our independent ethics risk assessment is completed during 2020. The focus of our strategy is on  All operating companies are assessed for conflicts of interest and anti-bribery “Leaders in Ethics” and it has been augmented to include interventions to mitigate and corruption risks, and if they are identified are included in the risk mitigation risks identified with respect to conflicts of interest. The group strategy and plan. The ethics risk assessment under way will assist in identifying, assessing operating company strategies are in line with the King IV recommendation that and mitigating conflicts of interest as well as bribery and corruption risks. The the governing body should assume responsibility for the governance of ethics by assessment includes a review of existing policies, guidelines, and organisational setting the direction for how ethics should be approached and addressed. culture and ethical behaviour risks. Institutionalisation Ensuring an ethical supply chain   We make ethics real through initiatives implemented across our operating  Our supply chain partners are a critical stakeholder in helping us improve our companies to ensure the institutionalisation of a culture of ethics. In 2019, the ethics culture. In addition to requiring our suppliers to endorse our supplier code of following initiatives were implemented: Ethics and Fraud Awareness Week 2019 conduct, awareness workshops were held by a number of countries to enhance with the “See it – Say it!” campaign; the roll-out of the conduct passport continued understanding of our supplier code of conduct and policies such as anti-bribery through, among other initiatives, the Conduct Quiz Game; and e-learning courses and corruption, fraud, conflicts of interest, whistleblowing and other defined areas. on ethics including policies, with special emphasis on the conflict of interest policy.  Please see our supply chain section (page 43) for more information on how we engage our suppliers on responsible business practices. Monitoring and reporting on ethics management effectiveness  We developed a measurement instrument aimed at improving ethics management Independent assessment across the organisation. Our ethics risk dashboard measures our ethics  Our ethics management processes are assessed independently by our Internal management programme’s effectiveness and determines the impact of our Audit Department. We report on our ethics performance to our external efforts. The input dashboard, which provides the measurement of inputs that stakeholders, as well as to international independent standards organisations improve ethics management across the organisation, was updated and we that help us understand and communicate our impact on our ethical culture. continue to work on measuring the outputs.  Our preliminary analysis of input and output measurements indicated that we needed to continue working on improving employee sentiments with regard to respect and ethics and strengthening the control environment. We are developing solutions to these findings. MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 33 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Sustainable societies continued Ethics continued Our value creation SDG PEACE, JUSTICE AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS Employees’ perception of MTN’s corporate integrity Our impact 78% Our efforts are bearing results: we are seeing a positive change in the ethical 79% 2018 culture across the group. For example, 2019 the recent group culture audit showed an improvement in employees’ perceptions of MTN in terms of ethics and corporate integrity. 232 disciplinary sanctions 10 998 ethics e-learning (including pending cases) course completions by employees Looking forward Our ethics management programme for the next two years will focus on the following: •• Completion of the ethics risk assessment to enable us to update our ethics risk profile, strategy and management approach for the next three years. •• Review the results of the corporate integrity and the ethics dimensions of the 2019 group culture audit to identify what aspects of our ethics management programme may require improvement. •• Conduct awareness campaigns to deepen understanding of conflicts of interest policy, anti-bribery and corruption policies and our policy for gifts, hospitality and entertainment. •• Review MTN Group’s social and ethics statement. 34 MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Sustainable societies continued Human rights MTN’s digital human rights due diligence framework We believe everyone has the right to communicate, access and share Receive Assess Action Close information freely and responsibly and to enjoy data and digital communications privacy and security. Continuous Request Explore and Provide risk assessment act upon remedies Our approach assessments to confirm all possible where relevant, More people worldwide have access to information, services and opportunities than are conducted, request options (seek monitor ever before, with instant connections that transcend locations and borders. This has prior to any is official, request request created significant innovations and opportunities for people to enhance their lives request. from legally amendment, to ensure and enjoy greater access to rights and opportunities than ever before. Request authorised set aside, reject compliance validation and body, where possible, and provide MTN believes in the rights of all people using digital communications to freely determine compliance partially updates communicate and share information and opinions and to enjoy the right to privacy urgency and to laws and comply and to relevant and information security without interference. We are committed to respecting impact of licence terms, as last resort stakeholders human rights and endeavour to respect and protect the rights of all people using our request implications on comply with services in the respective jurisdictions in which we operate. rights, human request) lives and other Several of the countries in which we operate are prone to human rights violations. factors The control of information communication technologies through shut downs, restrictions and the interception of digital communications, for example, presents an unprecedented form of power affecting human rights. MTN is a provider of vital communication services, these issues have to be weighed against our responsibility to continue to operate, so that people can access basic and emergency services, share information and maintain connections with family and friends locally and globally. MTN’s response to human rights is underpinned by sound policy, principles, risk “It is only thanks to partnerships like these that we assessment and due diligence framework to respecting the digital rights of its are able to drive forward our mission to eliminate customers in a manner that is consistent with internationally recognised principles, while ensuring that MTN remains compliant with the terms of its various jurisdictional, photos and videos of child sexual abuse from the licence conditions and legal obligations. internet. As the largest mobile operator in Africa, We are deeply committed to respecting human rights and remain vigilant of the risk MTN’s alliance with the IWF will significantly of human right infringement. We recognise that these risks are a part of doing business in our markets and are not limited to MTN. MTN will attempt to avoid impact the spread of criminal imagery across the negative human rights impacts by exploring all possible alternatives where it continent and further afield.” – IWF appears these rights may be at risk of being infringed. MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 35 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Sustainable societies continued Human rights continued What we did To ensure that the human rights of our customers and all other “Now the internet is back through MTN only.” stakeholders are respected, we focused on the following aspects in 2019: – Civil society activist Updating our digital human rights policy  Across various human rights issues, we remain aware of new developments, review lessons learnt and continue to update our processes and policies to align to the highest international standards. We reviewed our digital human rights Case study principles and policy in 2019 and will finalise this in early 2020. The revised policy places a greater emphasis on risk detection and mitigation. The policy is consistent with internationally recognised principles. Balancing the rights of MTN Sudan constructively UN SDG various stakeholder groups remains a challenge, and the policy sets out how we navigates internet shut work to ensure our actions have minimal negative human rights impacts. down Managing our customers’ privacy rights Advancing the rights of all people to   The group’s privacy policy was approved for implementation. The policy access vital communication services considered data privacy/data protection developments and regulations in MTN’s markets and globally, including POPIA, GDPR, Data Protection Act, and numerous other laws on the African context. It prescribes a set of principles that govern the As a telecommunications operator, authorities and other key stakeholders. manner in which we protect the personal information that MTN processes, we sometimes have a challenging role Our process includes understanding the ensuring the rights of customers are protected, that we purport to comply with all to play in volatile and fragile political options available before any decision is applicable regulatory requirements regarding privacy and data protection. We situations. Given the number of people made to comply or reject the requests. also hold third parties that may have access to our customer data to the same that rely on us, it is critical that we The process also considers the safety standards that we adhere to. continue to operate, so that people can and security risks to employees, access basic and emergency services, customers and operations. share information and maintain connections with family and friends All operators in Sudan were affected locally and globally. We always strive to by social media restrictions during this protect, respect and ensure the rights of time. MTN Sudan was commended by our customers. It is not always possible its customers for being one of the last to act in opposition to the law or the operators to shut down and one of terms of our licence in the markets the first to reinstate services. This was “MTN proved it is the most ethical and respectful where we operate. a testament of MTN Sudan’s tireless to customers. It is the first operator to restore In June 2019, Sudan experienced a efforts to minimise the impact to customers and robust engagements the service and was the last to disconnect month-long near-total internet shut with key stakeholders ensuring services down due to the unrest which took place were back online in the shortest time #longliveprofessionalethics.” in the country. MTN followed its robust possible. – MTN Sudan customer risk-based process that starts with active engagement with the relevant 36 MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Sustainable societies continued Human rights continued  We further protected our customers’ personal information through group privacy   In 2019, we partnered with a third-party threat intelligence and monitoring standards which, in conjunction with the privacy policy, serve to embed data organisation to alert us when breaches of personal information occur, both within protection practices within MTN’s businesses as well as to provide direction, MTN’s markets and in other areas where MTN may have been affected. In 2019, guidance and practices for the protection of personal information. All MTN an information security breach was detected in Afghanistan. The relevant operations are required to comply with the privacy policy, unless the country’s regulator and law enforcement were informed. specific context prevents compliance to some of the principles or standards. Managing major freedom of expression incidents  Finally, we are in the process of setting up an MTN group-wide data privacy  In 2019, our customers experienced four major incidents related to restrictions compliance function to provide advisory services on data privacy management to on freedom of expression in Sudan, Benin, Liberia and Iran. Each of these each of our operating companies and ensure implementation of our policy. Data incidents occurred in the context of socio-political or socio-economic events in protection training has been provided to a number of our operating companies these countries. All mobile network operators or internet service providers (ISPs) and MTN is in the process of finalising this initiative. This is currently one of the were affected by internet disruptions in these countries. Our governance key focus areas for the function which is being executed through training-theprocesses ensured that each of these situations received management’s trainer educational sessions on the group privacy policy and standards across attention and resolution by both country and group level management, in line numerous operating companies. with our due diligence approach to managing digital human rights. Enhancing information security   In each of these countries, we rely on third-party ISPs for international  The group information security policy is updated on an ongoing basis and was connectivity. When internet services are restricted or shut down, we have no last updated in 2019. The policy sets out requirements for securing the group’s operational control over the gateways managing international traffic and we are information, systems and people using a formal information security management therefore limited in our ability to manage the impacts on our customers. Wherever system (ISMS), based on global leading practice including ISO/IEC 27001:2013, possible, we engage with key authorities, customers and other stakeholders, to Centre for internet security controls and the National Institute of Standards discuss the nature of the request or event and determine how to best manage the (NIST) cybersecurity framework. Our information security control framework, situation with the least possible impacts on customers. As a result, we were able including identification of critical controls, has also been defined in order to to alert our customers of the disruptions in some cases. We also remedied the protect and defend against cyberattacks. situation in some instances through the provision of free data to affected customers.  Implementation of the policy and the control framework is supported by a number of group initiatives, including the group’s marshall plan, which aims to address Empowering customers through fair treatment and mobile advertising key areas of risk identified in conjunction by the risk committee and group exco. controls The marshall plan has been implemented initially covering six key workstreams  In 2016, MTN implemented a group-wide policy on treating customers fairly (TCF). across a range of operations, from which we are drawing lessons and applying In early 2018, we contracted Deloitte to conduct an audit on the level of compliance findings to other operations across the group. in seven identified countries. A second audit, started in late 2018 and completed in 2019, included the majority of MTN operations and the average overall   We maintain tight control over several issues related to data security. This compliance indicated a significant improvement in the TCF scores. Self-audits includes addressing data security risks and required controls before and during were conducted in the remaining countries. product development and undertaking vulnerability testing and remediation before products are released. Ongoing and periodic vulnerability testing and risk assessments are also undertaken to ensure the security of systems and of the customer data that systems may hold. We also encourage the public to report any potential security concerns to MTN either directly or through the Hacker One hosted vulnerability disclosure platform. MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 37 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Sustainable societies continued Human rights continued Protecting children online  Several communication campaigns and processes commenced in late 2019 and  MTN is committed to ensuring the safety of children online. In 2019, we deepened will be extended across our operations in 2020 to create public awareness of the our commitment by developing our position on the rights of children online. We broader issues that children face online and how everyone can ensure that launched child online protection programme, prioritising focus on child sexual children can enjoy the benefits of connectivity while remaining safe. Toolkits and abuse material. MTN formalised its membership with the IWF. We are the first communication material have been developed and useful tips and advice for African-wide operator to sign the agreement which covers the majority of our parents, guardians, teachers and children have been published on the group’s markets. We have therefore extended our ability to fight back against the use of website. our networks to share child sexual abuse material (CSAM) in most African and Middle Eastern markets. This commitment towards the protection of children  We continued to monitor network traffic processed by our international internet online is aligned to our youth focus. access points hosted in the UK and the Netherlands and believe that we are making a material contribution to preventing the spread of CSAM online. URL lists supplied  One of the key levers in combating online CSAM is public awareness and the by IWF are uploaded up to twice daily to a third-party platform that scans and availability of safe and confidential reporting mechanisms. As a result, we blocks abusive traffic on our network. We scanned over 10,9 billion URLs suspected launched a link to the IWF’s reporting portal available to all customers and as hosting CSAM and blocked close to 1,6 million abusive URLs. A single URL may employees. The portal allows anyone to report images, videos or other information contain any number of images, videos and other CSAM content and we therefore showing children who are potentially being sexually abused online. IWF believe that blocking a complete URL prevents multiple potential instances of investigates all reports and works with law enforcement authorities to take down abuse from being shared. We also shortlisted several new monitoring and blocking confirmed cases of URLs hosting CSAM. In 2020, we will roll out links to the IWF’s solutions that will enable us to scan all our intraand inter-country web traffic not reporting portal via country websites. processed in the UK or the Netherlands. MTN’s operating companies will start implementation in 2020. Our value creation Our impact SDGs Looking forward Over 251 million GOOD HEA LTH PEACE, JUSTICE AND WEL L-BEING AND STRONG INSTITUTIONS customers enabling •• We will finalise updates to the digital human rights policy and commence implementation in our operations. We will focus training and awareness in their digital rights business units directly involved in managing digital human rights in our operations. •• We will continue to implement TCF policy changes and embed the TCF policy in operational practices to improve compliance levels in 2020. •• We will enhance public awareness about CSAM in MTN markets and ensure Four Over 10 billion URLs internet users can report potential abuse cases using the IWF reporting portal. major incidents scanned, suspected as hosting related to CSAM and blocked close to restrictions on 2 million abusive URLs freedom of expression 38 MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Sustainable societies continued Our workplace Consciously embedding agility, diversity and inclusion as a primary “Trust me, this is the most transformational learning experience lever across organisation and talent strategies/practice. I have ever been to. I experienced learning which we will take back Our approach to our operating companies and change the MTN world of work, The fourth industrial revolution (4IR) and artificial intelligence (AI) herald the making it more agile.” – MTN Nigeria participant transformation of the way in which we live, work and relate to one another. We operate in a rapidly changing business environment, which is frequently impacted by disruptions and developments that happen faster than we can predict. The Empowering our MTNers with future-fit skills workplace is changing at a rapid pace and technologically driven advancements are  Keeping pace with the 4IR requires us to be mindful of skills for the future. At MTN, creating new ecosystems where the world of work is transforming. we believe that “every MTNer deserves the right to future-proof their skills and capabilities”. To this end, we have consciously reshaped our learning strategy to It is essential for our sustainability to understand change and build resilience by make digitally enabled future-of-work skills available to our employees. Specialised enhancing skills, knowledge and attributes for our people, our business and our content covering digital, cognitive and new-age social skills, were deployed in stakeholders. We have actively instilled an agile approach within our workforce. This 2019 across 19 of our markets through our cloud-based learning experience is vital to support business growth and meet the current and future business needs. platform (MTNLearn). Our skills enhancement agenda spans across critical Agility encompasses cognitive flexibility, the ability to adapt, learn, reskill at pace and it encourages sound judgement and decision making. technical competencies including AI, robotics, agile, social entrepreneurship. We believe that diversity and inclusion is a critical aspect of enhancing our strength Enhancing talent attraction and retention and competitive advantage. We operate in diverse markets and our workforce must  Our evolution to a digital operator is driving a shifting talent demand. We aim to reflect this. leverage our people to increase productivity, through improved talent attraction and retention. Our employees will benefit from more fulfilling work and increasing What we did opportunities as they become multi-skilled and flexible. To ensure our employees are supported and that we work towards our shared ideals, we focused on the following aspects in 2019: Driving our agile-organisational strategy GROWTH  O  ur drive to future-proof our workforce encompasses capability building and reskilling. Our agile, high-performance operating strategy is aimed at ensuring that both the business and our employees as individuals are equipped for the rapidly changing pace and continuous need to adapt. Digital Cognitive Social  In 2019, we held a global employee agile training programme, which was a Digital skills are core future Cognitive skills are an Social skills for the future transformative learning opportunity aimed to enhance our customer experience. skills which are essential imperative in the future are primarily centred to the future of work. To of work job compendium. around an entrepreneurial Over 100 MTNers from 19 countries attended the kick-off workshop, which upskill all our MTNers Development of cognitive mindset to drive a marked the launch of the agile learning programme. The programme aimed at with a common base of skills is critical to all self-starter and owner revolutionising the way MTNers learn and apply emerging practices, such as understanding, awareness job categories and will approach in all that our and aptitude in digital skills, give every MTNer the MTNers are engaged in implementing an agile approach to enhance customer experience. Designed in this suite comprises both opportunity to develop collaboration with group HR, CEX and group technology, the overarching objective standard foundational and “insight” centred segmented digital skills capabilities from both a of the programme to embed a “culture of learning”. In conjunction, we also standard foundational and launched infrastructural enablers such as “Agile Coach Networks” and digital segmented perspective tools, to sustain and improve cross-border collaboration across our footprint. MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 39 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Sustainable societies continued Our workplace continued  The following initiatives embodied our progress towards higher levels of diversity and inclusion across the group:  As part of enhancing our talent pool, we are improving our focus on high-potential •• Global diversity and inclusion philosophy: We established our position and talent and the critical skills needed to sustain our business and meet the evolving commitment to diversity and inclusion as core to our identity and purpose. needs of our stakeholders. We focused on seven key areas of talent management •• Global diversity and inclusion wireframe: We developed a global diversity in 2019 to deliver our business strategy and enable the growth curves. Our skills for and inclusion wireframe which includes principles, a framework, tactical the future involves three key aspects: programmes and group interventions to support diversity and inclusion. •• Global Diversity and Inclusion Forum launch: We set up our group diversity and Accelerating diversity and inclusion inclusion committee and global forum to drive strategy and execution across  Both global and MTN’s trends suggest a strong correlation and impact of diversity our diverse footprint. In addition, localised committees were established in on sustainable engagement and business growth. In 2019, MTN continued with several countries to champion and deliberately focus on diversity and inclusion its efforts to embed diversity and inclusion into the heart of our identity and in the context of geography. organisational culture. •• Diversity and inclusion success measurement: We redefined how we intend to measure success in diversity, inclusion across the group and various quantitative parameters. Case study  The acceleration of diversity and inclusion was reflected in our global culture Improving gender UN SDG audits where MTN experienced its highest ever diversity score and composite inclusion equality in Ghana index score. Our Group Culture Audit (GCA) diversity scores are 13 percentage points higher than digital/ICT industry norms average, while our The time is now for gender group-wide inclusion scores are four-percentage points higher than digital/ICT equality in tech industry norms average and on par with global telco norms. Technology in its various forms, including The three-year programme allows We respect – We connect – We celebrate information and communication participants to explore a variety of technologies (ICTs), continues to redefine information sources and learning and revolutionise the way we all live and options that have been proven to Our philosophy work. Harnessing this technology to significantly reduce the learning curve “At MTN, we are advance gender equality and women’s and improve readiness for future roles. proud of our empowerment is not only vital for women We respect We connect We diversity and value each other because we celebrate and girls, but critical throughout the 2030 Since the launch of Ghana’s WIT all that makes us Agenda for Sustainable Development. programme in 2018, we have seen for our are here for each other, one” shared a common for our a 283% increase in internal upward MTN Ghana has responded to the movements of female employees at MTN humanness purpose uniqueness “We believe that challenge of including more women in Ghana. Supporting women in technology diversity empowers technology by developing MTN Ghana’s contributes to the diversity of MTN at us while inclusion We are human, We are MTN We celebrate the Women in Technology (WIT) programme. all levels. Developing a more inclusive amid all that for a common uniqueness of unites us to is diverse in purpose – to each individual’s The programme is curated and includes workforce empowers us to innovate succeed” everything we create a modern strengths and blended learning opportunities targeted and meet the challenges of our modern are and stand for connected life for thoughts – in at high potential female employees in connected world. our customers this we create and for the value in all that functions and roles with low female good of our we do representation. communities 40 MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Sustainable societies continued Our workplace continued  We operate in 23 countries in Africa and the Middle East and as a result we are MTN has achieved the highest diversity score and naturally diverse. Our people represent 58 nationalities, multiple ethnicities and composite inclusion index score since 2014 and exceeds four generations adding to our rich diversity. We are supportive and encouraged the digital/ICT function norms by the youth which constitute 55% of our global workforce with 14% in management.  We are also particularly proud of our women at MTN who make up 37% of our 86 employees and 28% of our management teams. These levels of women 85 Group-wide diversity representation show the results of our fundamental support of diversity. We 83 stand firmly committed to the advancement and empowerment of women within 82 82 75 Group-wide the organisation through targeted development programmes such as “women in 81 technology and leadership”, gender-caring leave policies, flexi-work policies for composite 73 improved work-life balance, together with programmes to diversify regional inclusion index hiring across our African and Middle East footprint. 64  We believe that differently abled persons contribute to the richness and diversity 63 of our organisation. We have undertaken initiatives focused on opening doors for 66 64 their participation and recognition as active contributing members of society, who must not face any discrimination. We are repositioning our hiring strategies 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 to consciously improve diversity hiring and continue to invest in infrastructure to create a conducive-work environment. MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 41 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Sustainable societies continued Our workplace continued “Our diversity and inclusion vision is to be the most inclusive and Our impact successful organisation across Africa and the Middle East, putting diversity and inclusion into action to help employees, customers and Amount spent on employee communities thrive.” learning and development: 37% of women in the global workforce  We have deliberately widened our diversity outlook to consider gender, generation, R282 million thought, race, ethnicity, abilities, personalities, sexual orientation, age and religion. We recognise that diversity needs serious actionable targets, while inclusion needs mindful culture-conscious behaviours and strong championing. 0,4% of global 55% of youth  MTN is a signatory to the UN Global Compact, which includes the promotion of differently within global equality and prevention of unfair discrimination. The employee conduct pledge, a abled staff workforce part of each employee’s contract of employment, requires employees to respect age, colleagues, suppliers and those we serve, regardless of gender, race, religion, culture, mental and physical abilities, sexual orientation, disability, nationality and to treat them with dignity, respect and compassion. Our anti-harassment 58 nationalities policy is being reviewed with a view to obtain approval in 2020. represented within 9 deaths our global workforce Enhancing employee wellness   We are actively focusing on moving from point-in-time or single wellness initiatives to a more comprehensive wellbeing strategy for greater relevance to workers in the 21st century. Our intent is to adopt a strategy to sustainably enhance the health and wellbeing of our people through four core dimensions: 23 workplace•• Psycho-social factors such as mindfulness, stress management and related injuries rejuvenation. •• Personal factors such as nutrition, fitness, hygiene and mental health. •• Environmental factors including awareness, accountability and proactiveness. •• Social factors such as balanced living, social connections, celebratory engagements and community upliftment. Looking forward •• With the rise of COVID-19, we have taken all measures to enable our people Our value creation to work from home, focus on hygiene to minimise the risk of infection and SDGs have the required support to get through this tough time via the launched of a Global Staff-Care Emergency Fund. GOOD HEA LTH QUALITY GENDER DECENT WORK AND •• In 2020, we will launch programmes across two areas. Firstly, we will focus on AND WEL L-BEING EDUCATION EQUALITY ECONOMIC GROWTH women through skills upliftment and leadership development. Secondly, we will increase our focus on targeted hiring and development of women in core business areas. •• Through our diversity and inclusion approach, we intend to establish short and long-range targets to improve inclusion in talent segments including leadership, critical skills and succession. •• Executing on talent, customer and community priorities for diversity and inclusion. 42 MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Sustainable societies continued Our workplace continued Global sourcing and supply chain Our approach Case study In a globalised world, organisations must rely on and work with one another to succeed. MTN Group is no different. As a result, we rely on a complex and multilayer Embedding sound ethical UN SDG global supply chain to provide our customers with the products and services that they need. We have embedded integrity into our supply chains by managing different conduct in supplier legal, social, ethical and environmental risks and by ensuring that our suppliers have sustainable business practices in place. relationships in Ghana Embedding sound corporate ethics Our centralised sourcing and supply chain function negotiates all global framework amongst our business partners agreements with group vendors, procuring items within four broad categories, namely network, IT equipment and software, commercial and indirect. Each of our policies, our code of ethics and other operating countries also has their own sourcing and supply chain teams, who are In a globalised supply chain with different cultures and values interacting related policies to ultimately gain responsible for managing the in-country supply base and logistics. on a professional level, variances may support and ensure compliance with occur in individuals’ understanding of these policies. The event also gave MTN We manage our group supplier base through a rigorous end-to-end supplier fraud and ethics. In order to ensure the opportunity to share with vendors management framework, which includes the identification of vendors, onboarding, universal application of MTN’s policies the channels that are available to them due diligence, performance management and grey or blacklisting (where applicable). and standards, MTN Ghana engaged to report any instances of bribery or When a supplier is grey listed, due to poor performance, they are given an opportunity suppliers through a roadshow. In 2019, misconduct related to MTN Ghana staff. and the necessary support to improve their performance. MTN Ghana presented their second vendor fraud and ethics awareness The workshop has increased vendors’ Suppliers are blacklisted when there is an issue of fraud or unethical behaviour, or workshop to 90 representatives from awareness of MTN’s policies and when they do not improve their performance following grey listing. All vendors, new 70 vendors from across Ghana. They provided vendors with the opportunity and existing, are made aware of our zero-tolerance approach to bribery, fraud and presented on the topics, “embedding to highlight gaps in MTN’s procurement corruption and they are regularly reminded of our policies throughout the year. sound corporate ethics among our process. The opportunity for open Vendors are unable to access our procurement system and tender for business with business partners’ and ‘embedding and transparent communication was MTN without successfully passing our due diligence process and signing our supplier ethical consideration into business welcomed by all parties. As a result, code of conduct. as usual, a paradigm for sustainable the vendor ethics and fraud awareness business growth”. workshop will be held annually to ensure We monitor the ongoing risk and performance landscape of our vendors and long-term commitment and support in regularly update our records with any changes or potential changes that could The workshop aimed to educate vendors ensuring that MTN Ghana continues to on MTN’s anti-bribery and corruption maintain an ethical supply chain. affect our supply chain. Vendors are required to self-declare their compliance to any environmental, social or other risk or compliance aspects detailed in our supplier code of conduct. We also monitor the risk and performance landscape of vendors’ businesses through research, press reports and ongoing due diligence. “I would recommend MTN as an ideal business partner.” – We have a cross-functional committee in place that is able to respond quickly to any 100% of participants in MTN Ghana’s second Vendor Ethics risk developments within our supplier network, improving our capacity to prevent or and Fraud Awareness Workshop agreed or strongly agreed mitigate issues caused by a major supply chain disruption. with this statement – quote from survey results for Vendor Fraud Ethics Awareness 2019 MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 43 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Sustainable societies continued Global sourcing and supply chain continued Ensuring data protection in the supply chain  IT security annexures were added to all contracts in 2019. This enables higher levels of data security with our vendors and ensures measures and processes are What we did in place for dealing with potential security breaches. In 2019, we acknowledged the importance of our supply chain to being a sustainable organisation and the need to report on important Supporting local suppliers and implementation partners developments. As a result, we focused on the following aspects:  MTN’s global sourcing and supply chain is supporting small, medium and microenterprises (SMMEs) in the countries by assisting them in early payments, it helps Enhanced prequalification local suppliers in maintaining adequate cash flows to run their operations  We ensured that suppliers signed up to our code of conduct and continued efficiently. to focus on ensuring suppliers complete the prequalification assessments prior to working with MTN. In 2019, 1 476 suppliers accepted MTN’s supplier code of   Across all MTN operations, local implementation partners provide civil work conduct (2018: 1 135). To date, all MTN Group suppliers have signed our code services, installation and commissioning services and network managed services. of conduct. It supports local suppliers and generate local employment opportunities. Improved demand management Enterprise (ED) and supplier development (SD)  One of our key strategies is to utilise digital tools to support effective demand  MTN has made great strides in improving its B-BBEE procurement spend over planning and forecasting. For example, improved demand planning in 2019 time as well as increasing the participation of Black-Owned, Black Women-Owned enabled us to shift shipments from air to sea channels saving costs and energy. and Black Designated SMMEs in its supply chain. This is illustrated in the table This initiative has also resulted in less waste with a focus on procuring only what below. we consume. MTN South Africa procurement statistics 2015 2016 2017 2018 2018/2015 % increase % increase Preferential procurement spend Spend Vendors Spend Vendors Spend Vendors Spend Vendors vendors spend Black-Owned (BO) vendors >51% R2,0bn 176 R3,5bn 94 R4,2bn 168 R6,4bn 186 6 213 Black-Women Owned (BWO) vendors >30% R3,5bn 80 R9,2bn 44 R9,8bn 77 R11,9bn 87 9 241 Exempted micro-enterprises (EME) <R10m R1,48m 148 R326m 42 R216m 97 R443m 90 (39) 70 Qualifying small enterprises (QSE) <R50m R1,0bn 184 R1,2bn 120 R1,6bn 153 R3,2bn 145 (21) 220 Designated groups R0,00 R0,00 R52,7m 5 R727m 16 44 MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Sustainable societies continued Global sourcing and supply chain continued MTN’s ESD programmes in South Africa Supply chain transformation Retail channel transformation Retail channel transformation The MTN Zoners initiative is a Early payment terms – MTN SMME development programme pay at least 51% Black-Owned 1.1 MTN within South Africa (targeting 2.1 SMMEs within fifteen (15) days Zoners per the Amended ICT sector Minimum 51% black designated group’s) Procurement Black-Owned programme which seeks to develop Blackpolicy directive code requirements; three-year Owned micro-entrepreneurs contracts – all SMMEs that will eventually grow into (> 51% BO) should be awarded All 100% a three-year contract. SMMEs resulting in an increase Black-Owned in economic inclusion of BlackOwned enterprises. MTN’s targeted growth trajectory for Collaboration between MTN and these micro-entrepreneurs is for Absa ensuring that SMMEs secure them to expand and grow their funding with Absa to enable them 2.2 Black Minimum 51% operations to being dealers in to carry out their contractual Black-Owned SMME obligations. This programme has MTN’s Branded Retail Channel. enablement EMEs and QSEs improved SMMEs cash flow and ensures sustainability of these entities. The transformation of the Branded Retail Channel aims to significantly change the Procurement infrastructure 1.2 Branded demographics of the channel 100% roll-out projects have optimised Retail Channel ensuring that there is greater Black-Owned Minimum 51% 2.3 Localisation to enable participation of local Black-Owned participation and inclusion of Black-Owned SMMEs. black SMMEs, persons with through EMEs and QSEs infrastructure disability and the youth. roll-out MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 45 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Sustainable societies continued Global sourcing and supply chain continued Our value creation UN SDGs A number of vendors were rejected: NO POVERTY DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH PEACE, JUSTICE AND STRONG 11 suppliers, most of the rejections were due to INSTITUTIONS high-financial risks, few related to reputational risks. Our impact Looking forward 1 670 vendors signed 1 273 vendors •• With the emergence of COVID-19, we are providing the appropriate measures are monitored to support our suppliers as the impact of the pandemic unfolds. supplier code of conduct or audited •• We will continue to focus on digitising decision support. Many of the digitisation initiatives are driving decision support and help us to procure the right products and services at the right time, thereby reducing waste as well as, the 1 670 vendors 293 vendors need to airfreight products and the movement of delivery vehicles through prequalified trained on supplier consolidation of inventory and better transportation planning. following due code of conduct •• We are consistently reviewing and assessing solutions to enhance our due diligence in 2019 (or other types of training) diligence process, to improve robustness and include additional data points that continue to improve and expand the due diligence of the organisations which we work with. 46 MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Sustainable societies continued Corporate social investment Case study Driving socio-economic development for vulnerable and remote communities. MTN challenges youth to UN SDG find innovative ways to Our approach The digital revolution is transforming society and how livelihoods are created and achieve the SDGs maintained. However, in many instances, the advent of technology has also resulted Leveraging digital technology to in a deepening and widening of long pre-existing social and economic disparities, eradicate poverty between the “haves” and the “have-nots”. We can only flourish when the communities and ecosystems within which we operate are healthy and growing. We leverage our core capabilities to enable the socio-economic development of the The 2030 Agenda and its 17 SDGs, The students had to develop digital communities within which we operate, underpinned by our core belief that everyone 169 targets and 231 indicators could health, education and agriculture be seen as the responsibility of services that contribute to alleviating deserves the benefits of a modern and connected life. politicians and policymakers. However, the challenges experienced within as pressures on people and the planet these sectors, in the form of a service, Africa is the world’s youngest continent. As one of the largest digital providers on the increase dramatically, it is evident that platform or using gamification. The top continent, our footprint in youthful markets is far greater than any other provider realising the ambitions of the SDGs will six solutions included: Cape Peninsula globally. This market positioning is reflected in our approach to CSI. About 60% of take collaboration across civil society, University of Technology’s health app Africa and Middle East’s population is under the age of 24. While this demographic the private sector and the public at Mobi-Health, University of Cape Town’s dividend represents exciting opportunities, it also poses challenges. Youth large. We know that digital technologies Nozari mobile app, which provides unemployment trends across our markets are exceptionally high. We believe we have a transformational impact on our instant translation of high school have an important role to play in building sustainable societies that can unlock the ability to meet the 2030 Agenda. textbooks from English to other South potential of young people and enable prosperity for all. African languages. The MTN ICT challenge joins the dots Digital solutions are essential to addressing the challenges of youth empowerment, encouraging collaboration between University of Fort Hare’s Health Care digital skills development and job creation. We are ideally positioned to be a proactive South African youth, academics and Made Easy aimed at creating a link leader in tackling this issue in a range of roles as thought leader, resource partner business leaders by asking students between healthcare facilities and and innovator. from 26 universities to address problems patients; University of Johannesburg’s in achieving the SDGs by harnessing Snap Solve, a mobile app which the power of digital technology. MTN allows registered users to take “It has been an absolute honour and truly gratifying partnered with Enactus South Africa, an pictures of any educational problems international non-profit organisation and have it explained; University of experience being part of the MTN-ICT Enactus Challenge. It that brings together student, academic Pretoria’s FarmFresh, a digital market has reinforced the idea that young people have the capacity and business leaders committed to for agricultural produce for smallusing the power of entrepreneurial scale farmers; and Vaal University of to get involved in a significant way. It equipped us with the action to improve the quality of life and Technology’s Notes, which provides day-to-day tools any young person needs in trying to make standard of living for people in need. students access to summarised and detailed notes made by other students. a difference.” – University of Pretoria student MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 47 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Sustainable societies continued Corporate social investment continued  We increased our focus on empowering young people in our markets. Programmatic support is aimed at people between the ages of 15 to What we did 24 including school learners, students, young entrepreneurs and youth who are unemployed. MTN Foundation programmes in South Africa, Our CSI focus for the year reflected the reorientation of our strategy towards Cameroon, Benin, Afghanistan and Nigeria, among others, have focused the key theme of driving youth empowerment. on youth empowerment through the installation of digital classroom, digital skills training, such as coding, as well as access to online platforms Finalised group CSI policy and strategy and scholarships.  The group’s new CSI policy has been developed and will be presented for approval in 2020. The policy sets out MTN’s principles, focus areas as well as implementation and governance  Young entrepreneurs are encouraged, mentored and supported through approach to CSI, with the aim of contributing towards inclusive and sustainable economic a number of programmes. This includes the SAGE entrepreneurial growth of the communities in which it operates. programme for schools, in South Africa, the Young Farmers Village in Cameroon and the Y’ello Start Up programme for entrepreneurs in Enhanced youth empowerment Congo-Brazzaville. We believe investing in students who take  We recognise that to achieve our overarching strategic goal of youth empowerment, we entrepreneurial action for others creates a better world for us all. need to take a systemic approach to job creation, enhancing competitiveness and driving inclusive growth. In 2019, our youth empowerment focused on scholarships, capacity Supporting national priorities building, the promotion of ICT skills and access to digital content, as well as entrepreneurship.  In each country in which we operate, a portion of our CSI is allocated to programmes or projects that are aligned to the stated government National Development Plan (NDP) priority areas and are underpinned primarily by SDG 4: quality education and SDG 3: good health and MTN’s CSI strategic framework wellbeing. National priority programmes also include support for rebuilding efforts following war or humanitarian incidents, disaster prevention and National priority area (NPA) Youth empowerment management, which tend to be once-off or donation-based in nature. (OPCO specific) (global programme)  Some examples of national priorities projects undertaken during the year Meet the needs Provide the youth under review include MTN Uganda’s support for victims of the Bududa of communities with the tools, skills, landslides in June 2019 and the MTN Foundation easy health where we operate access, knowledge by aligning with and opportunity to access/“market doctor project” in Nigeria. Government National become Development Plan economically active  The landslides in Uganda resulted in the death of six people and scores priority areas, citizens injured. As many as over 80 households had been washed away, leaving contributing to UN SDG Goals hundreds of survivors with no shelter, food and warm clothing among other needs. Partnering with the Uganda Red Cross Society, MTN donated relief items worth 30 million Shillings to the people affected by landslides. Partnerships Volunteering A successful Encouraging our sustainable employees to be development agenda co-creators and underpinned by volunteers with partnerships with their time and skills communities, through 21 Days governments, the of Y’ello Care and private sector and beyond civil society 48 MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Sustainable societies continued Corporate social investment continued Our impact  In Nigeria, most traders working in public markets can neither afford to make MTN Employee volunteers Foundation and (Rm) CSI investment (Rm) time to visit public health facilities, which are often understaffed, resulting in long waiting queues or use private health institutions, which are often too expensive. In partnership with Market Doctors, the MTN Foundation Easy Health Access 2017 172 Project aims to make affordable primary healthcare accessible to market women and their children. Volunteering medical personnel conduct medical tests for 2018 185 selected ailments such as high blood pressure, diabetes, hepatitis B and HIV. Where required, referrals are made to healthcare facilities. The Easy Health 2019 189,5 Access Project has successfully improved accessibility of primary healthcare services to approximately 40 000 people in the past year, while minimising 0 50 100 150 200 disruption to social economic activities. Volunteering  Our 21 Days of Y’ello Care employee volunteering programme gives MTNers the opportunity to contribute to the communities in which we operate. Over Employee volunteers (Number) 11 000 MTNers working together with young people to create a brighter future. We focused on creating opportunities for employment, entrepreneurship and increasing or supporting skills development. Addressing substance abuse, mental health and wellbeing were also key aspects of our programme in 2019. 2017 11 027   To encourage all employees to develop and deliver an effective, sustainable 2018 10 003 initiative that will benefit communities, the MTN Group president and CEO awards a prize to the value of US$100 000 to the most innovative and impactful initiative. 2019 11 007 The worthy winner of the 2019 overall award, MTN Eswatini, ensured an enduring, impactful programme by creating over 300 sustainable youth-owned businesses. 0 2 000 4 000 6 000 8 000 10 000 12 000 More information on how we help build BRIGHTer lives in our communities is available on our website. Our value creation UN SDGs “Africa’s youth fully embrace the new bright and NO POVERTY GOOD HEA LTH AND WEL L-BEING QUALITY EDUCATION GENDER EQUALITY DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC GROWTH PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS brave world that we live in today. We must follow.” – South African President Cyril Ramaphosa at the World Economic Forum MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 49 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Sustainable societies continued Corporate social investment continued Our impact continued Beneficiaries profile for 2019 (Number) Total 1 924 350 Youth 345 232 Women 458 623 0 500 000 1 000 000 1 500 000 2 000 000 Looking forward Our objective for 2020 and ahead is to leverage our core competencies to advance digital and financial inclusion particularly in marginalised and vulnerable groups. We will achieve this through the following: •• Approval and embedding of CSI policy. •• Implementation of Y’ello Hope package to alleviate the economic and social impact of COVID-19 through the support of key institutions such as Ministries of Health and Education. •• Launching a rural digital education programme to the reach rural communities in our countries of operation, leaving no one behind. •• Partnerships to drive development of women and girls to bridge the digital gender gap. 50 MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Eco-responsibility UN SDG Artificial intelligence (AI) is changing the way we live and work at an unprecedented pace and holds great potential in helping us understand and manage our environmental impacts and resource use. 13.1 MTN, in partnership with a vendor and lowest environmental impact power management AI tool, embarked on a site source based on site characteristics and optimisation platform proof of concept in historic performance. 2019. The platform aims to reduce costs, ensure resilience and reduce MTN’s The platform automatic selection carbon footprint. of power sources has resulted in an initial 53% reduction in CO2 emissions The vendor management platform first through the proof of concept process. identifies built-in problems on each site Not only did the platform reduce upon installation. On a day-to-day basis negative environmental impacts, it also the platform uses AI to optimise power resulted in zero network downtime usage of each tower site by monitoring and continuously drives improvements the real-time status of site components across our infrastructure. We are very including grid availability, battery life, optimistic about these findings and the solar availability and generator fuel role AI stands to play at the heart of levels. The platform then uses IBM MTN’s infrastructure programme. Watson™ AI to choose the lowest cost Power management tool Artificial intelligence holds significant potential to reduce our carbon footprint MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 51 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Eco-responsibility What we stand for We strive to responsibly manage the use of natural resources, while keeping in mind the impacts of resource use on both people and the MTN is determined to ensure that environment. our growth and success positively contributes to the future of our planet Mobiles and health We are committed to the protection of the general public against known adverse health effects from exposure to electromagnetic fields (EMF) by adhering to industry occupational and public protection limits on an ongoing basis with regards to our network equipment and MTN branded and distributed mobile devices, as best we can within our scope of control. Our position on mobiles and health are available online. Our approach  ne of the most significant ways business is shaping the world we live in is through O Networks and the environment energy use and its contribution to climate change. Scientists and policymakers One of the largest areas of environmental impact by mobile network largely agree that Africa’s population is more vulnerable to the effects of climate operators occurs during the installation of base station sites. MTN ensures change than many other regions globally. We believe growth and success of any that environmental, health and safety matters are considered and business should not come at the expense of the future of our planet. As a result, we addressed during the process of planning, installation, deployment and take responsibility for our environmental impacts and manage the aspects that are maintenance of business operations by conducting environmental due within our control throughout our geographic footprint in Africa and the Middle East. diligence and impact assessments, ensuring regulatory compliance and implementing the necessary risk management plans where necessary to MTN primarily focuses on reducing our impact on the environments related to minimise impact. Our positions on networks and the environment are energy and climate, mobiles and health and reducing our resource use impacts available online. since these issues are material to us. At present our largest impact is driven by our energy use. We are actively pursuing various energy reduction and efficiencies initiatives and investing in renewable energy sources. 52 MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Eco-responsibility continued Energy and climate Our approach What we said we would do in 2019 As global demand for energy increases the world is increasingly experiencing the impacts of climate change. The link between these two issues is undeniable, leading Activity Progress Results to complex questions of how to meet economic and global developmental goals while mitigating negative environmental impacts associated with climate change Development of a group Developed in 2019, to be risks. MTN recognises our role in this and the importance of reducing our impact on energy management strategy approved and implemented the environment and on the societies in which we operate. in 2020 As we assess the likelihood and severity of energy and climate-related risks and impacts, we develop management solutions for more severe risks. Although the Increase number of energy Due to the constantly transition to a lower carbon economy poses significant transition risks, which we partner engagements changing number of assess, there are also significant opportunities for businesses who are able to partnerships, we are unable to provide climate change mitigation and adaptation solutions. specify the number of energy partner engagements we had MTN continuously works to reduce our own impacts by understanding our energy in 2019. Please refer to our energy and climate sections consumption and its drivers, managing anomalies and rectifying issues as they below for information on our arise. We also focus on extracting greater efficiencies from our infrastructure and partnerships facilities and on replacing inefficient and old products with more efficient solutions. Where possible, we invest in renewable energy sources. Transparency and disclosure are also important to us. Consequently, we participate in the Carbon Disclosure Review of Group EMP policy Developed in 2019, to be Project on an annual basis, which is in line with the task force recommendations on approved and implemented climate-related financial disclosures. in 2020 Progress indicators: Ongoing: on target Ongoing: behind target Our stakeholders’ view 71% MTN takes care not to cause environmental harm through its activities 82,9% MTN honours the spirit or intent of the law and regulations 79,4% MTN collaborates with other mobile players on matters of common concern MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 53 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Eco-responsibility continued What we did Case study In 2019, we focused on partnerships to help us realise our goals of enhancing energy efficiency, reducing our greenhouse gas (GHG) Getting smart UN SDG emissions and helping meet our goal of transitioning to renewable about parking energy. Internet of Things (IoT) has the Signed up to the GSMA-led initiative for climate action potential to efficiently reduce our  T he GSMA-led industry-wide plan to achieve net-zero GHG emissions by 2050 is environmental impact in line with the Paris Agreement. The initiative will develop a climate action roadmap for the mobile industry, which will reduce the risks and effects of climate change. Our participation in the initiative will inform our approach and Through partnerships, MTN Irancell action on climate change, particularly in defining targets and establishing a The shortage of parking lots in large cities is an ever-increasing issue. has launched a pilot project using NBclearly defined roadmap to achieve our goals. Municipalities often rely on private IoT technology to offer smart parking companies to monetise their surplus solutions in Mashhad city. Irancell will parking spaces while roadside parking be responsible for providing NB-IoT spaces are generally managed through coverage and SIM cards, while a local self-payment meters. technology partner will provide the In 2019, we signed up to the GSMA-led climate magnetic parking sensors and develop In both cases, equipment and the platform to a commercially viable initiative to develop an industry-wide climate supervision costs are high and occupancy status cannot be monitored level. action roadmap and decarbonisation pathway for in real time, which results in inefficient After conclusion of the pilot project, the mobile sector in line with the Paris Agreement. planning and management. The IoT has future steps will be considered in the potential to efficiently manage the order to scale the solution. The issue through internetenabled sensors implementation of this pilot programme and a connected application. will empower Irancell and its partners to increase the maturity level of NBRolled out additional network sites impacting energy use and Narrowband (NB-IoT) smart parking IoT-based solutions, paving the way for GHG emissions solutions use magnetic parking sensors future innovations.  T o meet our goal of digital inclusion, we increased the number of network sites to detect the availability of parking by 2% in 2019. MTN’s energy consumption and GHG emissions are primarily spaces and use the NB-IoT network to driven by the number of base station sites, which resulted in: synchronise a parking lot’s status with an application server. Drivers are then able to search for available parking bays through an application resulting GHG emission per in a significant saving of time and Increase of energy GHG emissions subscriber reduced by frustration for the driver while reducing consumption increased by traffic congestion and air pollution in 14% to 0,2% the broader community. 7% to 2 281 348tCO2e 0,0090tCO2e/ 22 808 701GJ subscriber 54 MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Eco-responsibility continued Energy and climate continued Efficiency and alternative energy solutions implemented Our energy sources are predominantly diesel and power from national grids between 2011 and 2019 (%) (including grids powered by fossil fuel sources, hydro power and others). We also co-generate and self-generate some power from gas, solar and hybrid solutions. Given the variable conditions and energy supply challenges in many of our markets, each of our operations have set individual energy management objectives and strategies. This ensures that customised outcomes suitable for local operating conditions are implemented. Nearly half of MTN’s energy use and associated GHG emissions are Scope 3 emissions, which are not within our control as a result of leased services. Our network tower outsourcing strategy, for example, currently sees 44% of our network sites operating from assets leased from tower management companies. We are partnering with equipment manufacturers to consistently maintain and upgrade their products to ensure optimal operations and efficient use of energy and to provide MTN with innovative solutions that can ultimately help us reduce our GHG emissions. MTN is also working with network tower companies to put reduction mechanisms in place to reducing Scope 3 emissions. As we continue to connect more people, our net energy use and GHG emissions are increasing either through our operations or those of our partners. At this stage, we cannot decouple our growth from increased environmental impact completely, but we are actively working on reducing the gap between business growth and fossilfuel based energy consumption to mitigate our impacts as described in the following Fuel Hydromix Diesel hybrid Solar hybrid sections. optimisation diesel BTS sites BTS sites 0 0 22 12 Focused on efficiencies and renewable energy  W e continued to focus on ensuring our base station and data centre sites are as Energy efficient as possible and, where possible, are powered by renewable energy Energy efficiency: Efficient sources. The cumulative number of the efficiency and alternative energy efficiency: Vehicle fuel more efficient cooling (Data lighting reduction equipment Centre) solutions implemented between 2011 and 2019 are indicated below. 1 1 11 3 Energy Efficient efficiency: “Today’s announcement marks the start of a cooling optimisation (BTS site) Solar PV (BTS) Fuel switch collaborative action by the mobile industry to 1 16 7 5 tackle the climate emergency, demonstrating Energy efficiency: how the private sector can show leadership and cooling (BTS and Data responsibility in addressing one of the gravest Centre) Co-generation Solar CSP challenges facing our planet.” – GSMA 14 7 0 MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 55 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Eco-responsibility continued In 2019, we installed 54, increasing the total number of renewable energy sites Risks Description Management solutions by 9%. Lifecycle analysis shows that batteries last longer than before, allowing us to Acute and chronic •• Preventative measures are consume less fossil fuel-based power. We are increasingly using a combination of physical climate taken to minimise physical diesel, renewable energy and battery solutions on some sites to ensure the change effects include risks in site selection availability of power with the lowest environmental impact. In 2019, we shortlisted a Physical extreme weather including environmental number of vendors who will now provide us with new, more efficient batteries on new events, high rainfall and surveys and impact and upgraded sites, or sites where replacements are required. snow fall levels, high assessments temperatures and sea •• Site resilience is increased level rise impacts on through regular maintenance Identified and managed energy and climate risks infrastructure schedules and preventative  E nvironmental risks are part of the group’s risk management framework and maintenance quarterly principal risk reports are consolidated and reviewed by management. Risk monitoring and management received increased attention in 2019, as we tracked potential risks and impacts to our business in line with both the CDP and Includes the availability, •• Implementation of a broad task force on climate-related disclosures (TCFD) guidelines. MTN’s top energy reliability, supply and range of energy management and climate-related risks are monitored regularly and management solutions cost of energy. Examples solutions, including are focused on mitigating, reducing, outsourcing or adapting to these risks. Energy supply include increased energy monitoring and measurement security and costs and frequent grid of peak demand and battery costs power outages storage solutions •• Inclusion of radio access network (RAN) features for energy efficiency Includes current and •• Ongoing monitoring of emerging regulations regulatory developments that attempt to constrain for changes to existing, or actions that contribute emerging climate-related to adverse effects regulations Regulatory and of climate change or •• Preparing for taxes and financial promote adaptation and regulatory requirements in mitigation to climate financial planning processes change. Examples and by reducing GHG include carbon taxes emissions through various regulation (currently only initiatives in South Africa applicable to operations where carbon tax regulation in South Africa) was implemented effective and environmental 1 July 2019. We have protection requirements completed MTN South Africa’s 2019 estimated carbon tax liability which is currently not financially material 56 MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Eco-responsibility continued Energy and climate continued Engaged in partnerships and using tools to meet energy and climate Case study objectives  E ngaging with equipment manufacturers, product vendors and tower Continuing our focus UN SDG management partners in our technical infrastructure value chain helps us reduce energy use and GHG emissions. We seek partners that are already on e-waste focused on reducing their own energy use and GHG intensities, have climateLeveraging e-waste solutions to related goals and who share our vision of transitioning to a more efficient and ensure responsible consumption environmentally friendly network. In 2019, we accelerated our rapid rural rolland production out (R3) programme with 497 solar-powered sites installed in nine countries in partnership with various vendors. The environmental results of this programme are depicted below. As the use of electronics increases specific containers installed at various the need to responsibly manage the locations throughout the district.  E nergy losses and waste are a key contributor to GHG emissions. Machine disposal of e-waste increases in parallel. learning systems that use autonomous artificial intelligence promise to efficiently Since 2016, MTN Ivory Coast has been MTN Ivory Coast, in partnership with manage energy systems, manage the switch to cleaner sources of energy collecting and recycling e-waste, which EWA-PAGANETTI, and Prosuma, a dynamically and inform decision making. In 2019, we tested a power management has resulted in 72 tonnes of e-waste supermarket chain, extended the reach tool through a proof of concept process. The power management tool was being diverted from landfills. of the e-waste collection campaign by installed on three network sites. Firstly, to determine a baseline of energy usage providing collection points in Prosuma and secondly to implement the tool’s energy management function and to In 2019, MTN Ivory Coast and its supermarkets. Teams of ambassadors reduce our net energy consumption. The results were positive, we will develop a partners launched a second e-waste are present at collection sites to educate request for proposal (RFP) process to secure and deploy such tools to more collection campaign. The goal of the visitors on the importance of e-waste network sites across our operations in the last quarter of 2020. second campaign is to empower the recycling. population of the Abidjan district to Implemented Internet of Things (IoT) solutions for climate management continuously take part in e-waste The collection of e-waste reduces the  W e are leveraging our core business capabilities to support other industry collection and recycling. The success of health risks associated with improper sectors to reduce their environmental impacts. This can be achieved through an the campaign required collaboration and e-waste disposal and ensures that we effective eco-system that will enable us to offer more enhanced and advanced partnerships. Throughout the campaign protect the environment from pollution. IoT and smart solutions, which we are currently building. One of the objectives of people are invited to bring their e-waste To date, the campaign has enabled and other electronic equipment including the collection and recycling of more such solutions is real-time or near real-time fault and wastage alerts, enabling appliances, refrigerators, telephones, than 20 tonnes of electrical waste and our customers to monitor their use of energy, track assets, reduce air pollution computers, game consoles, televisions, electronic equipment in the Abidjan and more. This will result in cost savings and environmental benefits remote controls and used batteries to district. for enterprises. MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 57 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Eco-responsibility continued Energy and climate continued MTN is a connectivity leader and this should be no different in the rapidly growing IoT domain 3 Wave 3: Advanced IoT 2 Wave 2: Enhanced IoT 1 Wave 1: Initial IoT (M2M) Defence Banking Healthcare Smart cities Building Consumer Building Cattle Industry Cattle Smart cities management Leisure electronics management Consumer Industry Transportation Construction Mining electronics Agriculture Environment Mining Agriculture Environment Construction Utilities Surveillance Retail Utilities Security Retail Transportation Utilities Security Retail Transportation • Connecting the first M2M devices • Extended reach and cheaper roll-out • Increased throughput and reduced latency • Building initial use cases (typically industrial • Low power and low data consumption • Improved mobility and network security applications) • New use cases; mass deployments • Wide range of use cases1 Generic capabilities Advanced capabilities Managed connectivity through Zsmart and Jasper with third-party connectivity partnerships Analytics, machine learning, BI and own GUI Deployment of NB IoT and build out of IoT network technical capabilities MTN “owned” applications and solutions Capability building for sales transformation, solution architecture, pricing, device certification Advanced IoT, AI and security capabilities IoT lab and dedicated partnering capability across ISVs, professional services and GTM Verticalised professional services IoT marketplace (same as enterprise marketplace) and managed services capability End-to-end opex only managed services 58 MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Eco-responsibility continued Energy and climate continued Based on implementation of key initiatives: In 2019, we focused on two applications of a Narrow Band-IoT (NBTotal electricity saved Total diesel reduced IoT) solution to trial these solutions and understand their potential benefits. IoT is an energy-efficient technology that connects objects Total electricity saved (MWh) Total diesel reduced (kℓ) that have long battery lives and which support deep network coverage over wide areas. Its capability can also provide widernetwork coverage more cost effectively and offers the ability to monitor infrastructure performance and manage scarce resources 2018 1 026 2018 317 more effectively. This increases labour and equipment costs. In Iran, the lack of 2019 6 126 2019 12 483 parking spaces in large cities is increasingly causing significant traffic congestion and air pollution. We piloted an NB-IoT smart parking solution which uses magnetic parking sensors to detect 0 3 000 6 000 9 000 12 000 15 000 0 1 750 3 500 5 250 7 000 the availability of parking spaces. Drivers can also search for available parking bays and navigate to the parking lots via an app. This results in multiple benefits including reduced time and fuel Other renewable powered sites (cumulative) GHG emissions reduced and avoided consumption, cost and air pollution reduction and increased turnover of space resources. This pilot implementation will help MTN and its partners to increase the maturity level of NB-IoT-based Renewable powered sites (Number) GHG emissions avoided (tCO2e) solutions over time. Our value creation 2018 450 2018 1 520 UN SDGs 12 12 AFFORDABLE AND SUSTAINABLE CITIES RESPONSIBLE CLIMATE CLEAN ENERGY AND COMMUNITIES CONSUMPTION ACTION 2019 638 2019 28 889 AND PRODUCTION 13.1 0 200 400 600 800 0 5 000 10 000 15 000 20 000 25 000 30 000 Looking forward •• We will finalise our energy strategy to accelerate efficiency and renewable energy programmes and set targets to measure progress and drive improvements. •• Launch of Project Zero to drive energy saving and efficient solutions to improve fuel consumption and reduce carbon emissions. •• Based on our 2019 proof of concept outcomes, we will investigate the business case for our power management tool and issue an RFP for vendors with potential solutions to assist in intelligent energy monitoring and switching to lower cost and carbon-intensive power sources for our network. MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 59 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Eco-responsibility continued Environmental resources What we did Our approach In 2019, we focused on staying up to date with international Environmental resources are common goods that must be managed sustainably for developments and further developing our operations to better the benefit of all people. We operate in various geographies which influences how manage our environmental resources. we manage environmental resource use on a per country basis. As a result, we work to remain compliant with the national laws and environmental regulations of the Reviewed of Group EMF policy countries in which we operate while maintaining group-wide standards.  T he group is focused on situational awareness, governance and management oversight of EMF to ensure risk management and standardised compliance We comply with electromagnetic field (EMF) exposure limits set by the international across all operations over time. We are currently reviewing our EMF policy, which commission on non-ionising radiation protection (ICNIRP) and relevant national we will finalise in 2020. The purpose of the policy is to prescribe standards and regulators where applicable, in the countries in which we operate. We also ensure guidelines to ensure compliance with national and international EMF exposure that user equipment supplied directly by MTN, like handsets, complies to the relevant limits across the group. The policy is supported by a review of EMF management, specific absorption rate (SAR) limits in addition to undergoing conformity assessment activities and procedures across our operations. specific to the country in which they are supplied. To this end, we maintain an inhouse EMF testing facility as an additional step of verification. Maintaining pace with international EMF developments We take a conservative approach to the use of resources such as paper, plastic,  T he continued development of wireless network technologies and increased water and other resources through demand reduction, refurbishment, recycling and stakeholder engagement has focused the industry on ensuring safe and upcycling. Employee awareness and support is also critical to ensuring that the sustainable development. In 2019, MTN participated in several global forums on individual actions to conserve resources result in meaningful outcomes. the subject globally and joined the GSMA global working group on EMF and health.  e follow developments regarding the revision of the ICNIRP guidelines on EMF W exposure which are expected to be finalised in the first half of 2020. According to the ICNIRP, the revised guidelines apply to all people, young and old, sick and healthy, and they apply to all radio frequency spectrum bands that have been “Waste stored at home or in marketplaces is a identified for 5G. At present the existing guidelines, to which MTN complies, adequately cover 5G equipment. MTN continues to comply with international hazard for people and their health. It is therefore standards and strives to keep EMF exposure as low as reasonable and important to collect and recycle it. Recycling helps achievable. to create jobs and will enable the Ivory Coast to Conserving environmental resources achieve its goal of being a waste-free country  M TN’s green office programme helps our operations identify how to conserve resources, reduce consumption and ensure responsible waste, recycling and by 2020.” upcycling management practices. Through this programme, we also seek opportunities to engage with external stakeholders such as environmental regulators, community organisations and customers, either by partnering with – Ivory Coast Department of Environment them to extend our existing resource conservation initiatives, or to support the development of standards, skills or income-generating opportunities related to waste management. 60 MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Eco-responsibility continued Environmental resources continued  In our operations end of useful life mobile and other electronic and electrical devices are given to e-waste management companies for value extraction and  E mployee awareness has been critical to enabling environmental resource safe disposal in a number of countries. In 2019, we recycled 784 tonnes of savings. In addition to ongoing communications and engagements such as e-waste across our operations. We also contracted suppliers with specific terms motivating our employees to manage their environmental impacts through to replace existing network batteries or install new batteries ensuring safe and competitions, we leverage global environmental dates such as Earth Hour and proper disposal, in compliance with e-waste regulations and environmental World Environment Day to create awareness of specific environmental issues management standards in each of the countries in which we operate. such as energy use and air pollution. We also offer our employees practical advice on how to reduce their impacts on the environment. Our value creation Looking forward UN SDGs •• We will finalise the group EMF policy to formalise and harmonise compliance with EMF exposure limits across all operations. AFFORDABLE AND DECENT WORK AND INDUSTRY, INNOVATION RESPONSIBLE PARTNERSHIPS CLEAN ENERGY ECONOMIC GROWTH AND INFRASTRUCTURE CONSUMPTION AND PRODUCTION FOR THE GOALS •• We will review the green office programme to identify opportunities to enhance impactful outcomes, potentially by focusing on a single resource area. Green office key highlights Electricity savings: non-technical General waste reduced/recycled (kg) operations (kWh) 2018 18 2018 477 723 12 12 2019 38 436 2019 1 059 129 0 10 000 20 000 30 000 40 000 0 300 000 600 000 900 000 1 200 000 E-waste (tonnes) Paper use avoided (kg) 2018 272 2018 225 12 12 2019 784 2019 2 477 0 200 400 600 800 1 000 0 500 1 000 1 500 2 000 2 500 MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 61 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Annual sustainability statements UN SDG Our annual sustainability statements bring together key sustainability indicators throughout the report as well as additional indicators used to track our sustainability journey in the year under review. Our sustainability statements list MTN’s This statement complements and social and environmental and social extends the MTN Group statement on business performance in terms of the how we create and sustain value, as standards described in the sustainability reported in the MTN Group Limited reporting standards and guidelines integrated report for 2018. The group’s at the beginning of this report. We GRI and Integrated reports are set out our performance in terms of available online. To obtain additional material indicators that provide a clear, information on MTN’s Sustainability go comprehensive and useful measure of to MTN’s website our progress quantitatively. We strive to continuously enhance our effectiveness, accountability and transparency as an organisation 62 MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Annual sustainability statements continued The table below lists MTN’s social and environmental and social business performance in terms of the standards described in the sustainability reporting standards and guidelines at the beginning of this report. We set out our performance in terms of material indicators that provide a clear, comprehensive and useful measure of our progress quantitatively. This statement complements and extends the MTN Group statement on how we create and sustain value, as reported in the MTN Group Limited integrated report for 2019. The group’s UN GRI and other sustainability and integrated reports are available at . Indicator Unit 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 The workplace Total employees Number 19 288 18 835 18 931 19 989 21 804 Contractors and temporary employees % of total employees 16 Not previously Not previously Not previously Not previously reported reported reported reported Employee turnover % of total employees 5 4,53 7,9 7,2 7,8 Employees retrenched Number 113 151 337 330 335 Females % 37 37 37 37 37 • Females at group board level Number 3 4 3 3 3 • Female management 3 and up % 28 27 27 27 26 • Females in succession pool % 21 16 Not previously Not previously Not previously reported reported reported • Female senior management 3H and up % 26 24 24 24 25 • Females in middle management % 29 29 29 28 27 Unionised employees Employees unionised (South Africa) Number 47 22 22 22 16 Employees unionised (Group) of Number 13 Not previously Not previously Not previously Not previously permanent employees reported reported reported reported Learning and development • Spend R million 271 270 252 392 224 • Time spent on employee development Total hours 571 445 Not previously Not previously Not previously Not previously reported reported reported reported • Hours per employee Hours per employee 30 18 22 32 13 Employee culture survey results LA % 80 78 75 67 66 Employees receiving performance review % 99 96 95 95 100 Wellness and safety • Deaths Number 9 1 1 3 0 • Workplace-related serious injuries Number 23 14 34 22 17 MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 63 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Annual sustainability statements continued Indicator Unit 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Ethics Employee perceptions of MTN % 79 78 75 73 72 as an ethical organisation Calls to tip-offs anonymous Number 132 94 119 120 128 whistle-blower line Additional certified ethics officers Number 7 11 27 Not previously Not previously reported reported Ethics e-learning course completion by Number 10 998 Not previously Not previously Not previously Not previously staff reported reported reported reported Conflict of interest declarations % of employees 55 Not available Not available Not available Not available Disciplinary sanctions enforced total Number 232 157 400 Not available Not available • Not guilty Number 7 9 4 Not available Not available • Counselling Number 8 4 8 Not available Not available • Verbal warning Number 63 35 76 Not available Not available • Written warning Number 44 61 87 Not available Not available • Final written warning Number 38 16 131 Not available Not available • Suspension Number 17 10 52 Not available Not available • Dismissal Number 41 20 42 Not available Not available • Pending Number 14 2 – Not available Not available Instances of employees acknowledging Recognition Number 121 480 100 401 Not available Not available Not available colleague ethics/integrity system introduced in 2017 Supplier endorsement of supplier Number 1 670 1 197 175 Not available Not available code of conduct Suppliers prequalified following due Number 1 670 Not previously Not previously Not previously Not previously diligence reported reported reported reported Change to suppliers monitored or audited Number 1 273 Not previously Not previously Not previously Not previously reported reported reported reported Suppliers trained Number 293 Not previously Not previously Not previously Not previously reported reported reported reported 64 MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Annual sustainability statements continued Indicator Unit 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Environment Total energy consumption GJ 22 808 701 19 543 742 19 095 879 13 958 119 15 212 286 • Electricity GJ 6 293 608 5 997 898 4 939 263 4 327 157 3 812 440 • Diesel GJ 16 315 508 13 257 391 13 699 077 9 050 707 11 243 698 • Other Petrol, LPG and 199 585 288 452 457 539 580 255 156 148 natural gas GHG emissions total Tonnes carbon 2 281 348 2 131 042 2 006 248 1 609 174 1 589 888 dioxide and equivalent (tCO2e) • Scope 1: direct emissions tCO2e 466 163 270 721 324 101 315 603 645 428 • Scope 2: indirect emissions tCO2e 895 748 973 465 806 339 755 109 651 233 • Scope 3: indirect emissions tCO2e 919 437 886 857 875 808 538 462 293 227 GHG intensity per subscriber tCO2e/subscriber 0,0090 0,0091 0,0091 0,0071 0,0072 Energy savings: diesel kℓ 6 126 0 030 313 3 705 2 870 Alternative energy sites Number • Cumulative to year under review 4 262 3 578 3 147 2 688 1 687 • Current year under review 684 64 459 1 001 1 132 GHG avoided/reduced tCO2e 28 889 2 188 1 529 833 7 947 Green office • E-waste Tonnes 784 272 216 537 535 • Paper use avoided Kg 2 477 225 1 617 685 15 646 15 271 • Electricity savings: non-technical kWh 1 059 129 477 723 807 181 518 023 Not available operations • Potable water savings kℓ No reported 86 144 000 Not available Not available savings • General waste reduced/recycled kg 38 436 18 141 728 Not available Not available • Plastic, metal, drinks cartons avoided kg 32 No reported 1 540 1 808 629 savings MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019 65 01 About this report 02 Group president and 03 Sustainable economic 04 Sustainable societies 05 Eco-responsibility 06 Annual sustainability CEO on sustainability value statement Annual sustainability statements continued Indicator Unit 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Corporate social investment (CSI) CSI (MTN Foundations) R million 189,5 185 172 294,4 335,4 Total number of beneficiaries Number (million) 1,9 — — — — Number of youth beneficiaries Number 345 232 — — — — Number of girls/women beneficiaries Number 458 623 — — — — Number of differently abled persons Number 11 143 — — — — supported Number of projects implemented Number 150 — — — — Number of scholarships awarded Number 2 585 — — — — Number of digital learning/computer Number 36 — — — — laboratories established Employee volunteers Number 11 007 10 003 11 027 10 459 8 209 Youth trained on ICT/digital skills Number 7 149 — — — — during Y’ello Care Y’ello Care overall beneficiaries Number 71 831 — — — — (direct and indirect) Y’ello Care Cause Day beneficiaries Number 46 806 — — — — (direct and indirect) 1. These are emissions that have been avoided or reduced through efficiency and renewable energy investments. MTN’s Scope 1 and 2 emissions would have been higher than reported in the table above, if these interventions had not been undertaken. 66 MTN Group Limited Sustainability report for the year ended 31 December 2019
