UN Global Compact Communication on Progress – February 2020 Linklaters has always sought to be a responsible business and this year’s COP provides good evidence of that. Yet it is increasingly obvious that business as usual is not enough to counter the threats to our planet and to the lives of billions who are wholly dependent upon it. The past 12 months has seen such a shift in public opinion that positive environmental stewardship has become almost non-negotiable. This is driving greater expectations elsewhere, whether in human rights, social inclusion or, more philosophically, in priorities for business itself. As a firm that plays a key role in global growth, clarity and commitment to our purpose is more important than ever. Just as we advise our clients in navigating this changing world, so we are reflecting on our own role. We are delighted that a new firmwide “Responsible Business Reference Group” is now in place to steer our leadership in decision-making and that we are looking at a new sustainability strategy that will set out commitments influencing our progress over the next 5-10 years. This neatly dovetails with our commitment to the UN’s “Decade of Action”, and we will, as ever, remain an active and enthusiastic part of the UNGC family in stepping up to the challenges – and undoubted opportunities – that await. Charlie Jacobs, Senior Partner and Chairman Our new reference group will help us to tackle environmental and for the firm. We are committed to playing an active role in societal shifts in a planned and effective way. Bringing in experts conversations that shape the future of business, as illustrated by our from across our business, its role is to ensure that our organisation recently-announced membership of the “Action Platform” for Goal is sustainable in the very broadest sense of the word. We are clear 16 of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Here, we will do that our professional success depends wholly on a licence to operate much to promote the rule of law but, with ten years to go, we know that extends further than ever before. This document provides some we have a wider role to play and so will do all we can to address all illustration of what we are doing but we recognise that it is by no goals relevant to our business. means enough. So the coming year will see us establish a bold new strategy that will ensure we are using our professional expertise and resources to Key contacts:  maximum effect, not just for our commercial clients but for a wide range of stakeholders, each of which represents a key relationship Owen Clay, Partner, Chair of Corporate Responsibility Committee owen.clay@linklaters.com Matt Sparkes, Global Head of Corporate Responsibility matthew.sparkes@linklaters.com 1. Linklaters supports and respects the protection of In relation to our supply chain, our Sustainable Procurement internationally proclaimed human rights. Policy and Statement is available online and sets out our Our statement of intent on human rights makes explicit our commitment to responding to human rights concerns, not only in commitment and clarifies our ambition. The statement endorses the selection of suppliers but also in their ongoing management. the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human No concerns have been identified but we continue to track this Rights and supports the principles contained within the through supplier review across our global network. International Bill of Human Rights and the International Labour Commitment: In parallel with our internal review, we will assess Organisation’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights the efficacy of our current supply chain assessment to ensure that at Work. The statement is approved at the highest level, is publicly our processes remain robust and effective. available and is communicated internally and externally. It remains 3. L  inklaters upholds the freedom of association and the effective under regular review, as does the extensive supporting material recognition of the right to collective bargaining. provided for additional internal guidance. We have a firm-wide policy in place that we maintain employment Our international Business and Human Rights practice arrangements and agreements that do not prohibit or discourage continues to advise clients on developing human rights policies, freedom of association or collective bargaining. due diligence, impact assessments and supply chain risk management. In particular, we advise many large multi-national Commitment: We will continue to implement this policy across all corporations on the implementation of the UN Guiding Principles our operations. on Business and Human Rights and on disclosure requirements 4. Linklaters upholds the elimination of all forms of compulsory or relating to human rights risks and impacts. Recent work includes forced labour, and undertaking human rights impact assessments in relation to contracts for the provision of high-risk goods and services in 5. Linklaters  upholds the effective abolition of child labour. fragile states, engagement with military organisations and the We have a firm-wide policy in place that we will not use, be provision of services into conflict-affected areas. complicit in, or knowingly benefit from forced, compulsory or We have also worked extensively with the UN Global Compact to child labour. We will engage our people on the basis of recognised prepare a Guide for General Counsel on Corporate Sustainability partnership, employment, collaboration and consultancy with the aim of assisting clients in relation to the governance arrangements established through national law and practice. of environmental and social issues (which includes human For several years, we have been advising clients on the rights); advising lenders and sponsors on the management of implications of the UK Modern Slavery Act. We have also been human rights risks and impacts in project development and reviewing our own operations to ensure that we are already finance documentation; and assisting multiple companies complying with the new legislation, not only in setting out a policy, with their obligations under the UK Modern Slavery Act and in but also in monitoring our suppliers and by being prepared to their engagement with Governmental and non-governmental act where we have concerns. Our Modern Slavery Statement organisations in relation to compliance. (expanded, in fact, to cover broader human rights) is refreshed Alongside this, we provide significant pro bono advice to further annually and an interactive guide to the legislation is freely human rights. During 2019 we carried out a study for Penal available on our website. Reform International on the sentencing of women convicted of Again, pro bono activities support this principle. low-level drug-related offences across 18 countries. Women > We advised on an Alternative Dispute Resolution mechanism are disproportionately affected by convictions for drug offences with NGO Liberty Shared where we hope to aid companies in criminal justice systems and our research will support and employees across Asia in more effectively discussing and crucial advocacy to address this. In the US, we filed amicus resolving grievances that may indicate human trafficking. briefs relating to the “Travel Ban” for a partner organisation defending undocumented immigrants. We also filed amicus briefs > We work with Sanctuary for Families in New York representing challenging whether the federal government could require states victims of sex trafficking and related forms of human trafficking to provided federal immigration authorities with access to, and on immigration matters. information on, undocumented immigrants in state custody in > In 2019, we celebrated the 10-year anniversary of our order to receive critical law enforcement funding. partnership with Lawyers Without Borders. Globally our lawyers Commitment: We will undertake a significant review of internal have helped to build capabilities for successfully prosecuting guidance to ensure it is fit for greater scrutiny. We are committed human trafficking offences in Tanzania and Liberia. to sharing our commercial expertise pro bono and will this year > We provided support on a landmark human trafficking case grow the depth and reach of our programme. through the UK’s Supreme Court to expand the rights of persons who are victims of trafficking in the UK. 2. Linklaters  makes sure that it is not complicit in human rights abuses. Commitment: We will continue to extend the reach of our modern slavery and human rights policy through our supply chain. We will In line with the UN Guiding Principles, we strive to avoid causing build on our expertise in this principle and use that to inform our or contributing to adverse human rights impacts on our people own practice as well as that of pro bono clients. and, through the running of our offices, those who work for us through our supply chain. We also commit to addressing such 6. Linklaters upholds the elimination of discrimination in respect impacts immediately should they occur. of employment and occupation. We encourage our people to consider potential or actual adverse Linklaters opposes all forms of unlawful discrimination. We are human rights impacts in their work. Our internal guidance on committed to providing equal opportunity to everyone in all aspects human rights at the firm provides for a discussion of actual and of work, including recruitment, selection, training, promotion, potential human rights impacts as part of existing consideration redeployment, performance improvement measures, disciplinary of wider business risk and reputational issues, particularly for and grievance procedures, redundancy situations and terms and higher risk areas. Our Business and Human Rights practice has conditions of employment. We believe that individuals should be extensive expertise in how multi-national corporations should treated on their merits and that employment-related decisions address human rights risks and opportunities in their operations should be based on objective job-related criteria such as aptitude and is asked to give training to clients. We have also been and skills. Additionally, Linklaters is committed to ensuring that invited to speak at a number of human-rights related sessions at all professional dealings with third parties will be free from any conferences and high-level meetings this year. discriminatory behaviours. We are committed to ensuring a safe working environment, free ultimately diversify representation in business and society. In New from bullying or harassment. Our bullying and harassment policy York, we host high school summer interns through the Inner City (applicable to employees and contractors) sets out the responsibilities Scholarship fund, Job Opportunities programme and we run a of individuals and managers in reducing workplace bullying and week-long programme to introduce students to the legal profession harassment, as well as explaining what support is available. The through Legal Outreach. In London, in collaboration with UBS policy is published on our intranet and is regularly referred to in core and Société Générale, we help individuals in Hackney through skills training for managers and in internal communications. workshops and CV support. In Hong Kong, we provide employability We know that we must also ensure that our culture enables people to skills training to refugees, and, in Singapore, our people support raise issues promptly, confident in the knowledge that they will feel CV writing and mock interview workshops for students from less supported and that issues will be dealt with swiftly, sensitively and in privileged socio-economic backgrounds. accordance with our values and local law or regulation. Naturally, the Commitment: Our success on this to date inspires us to do more firm has an internal global whistle-blowing policy for employees to and we commit to ensure that our D&I work will remain “best in raise concerns as well as an external hotline for those outside. class” wherever we operate. However we can, we will apply our Our Global Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) Strategy and Action learning to not-for-profit organisations working in communities Plan also helps to give our people an enhanced understanding around us. of D&I through specific initiatives, training, engagement and 7. L  inklaters supports a precautionary approach to environmental communications. Our strategy is governed by our most senior challenges. leadership bodies – Executive Committee, Partnership Board and The Environment and Climate Change Group advises clients on our People Committee. Key activities include: climate change, policy, emissions abatement, product stewardship > Setting goals – measuring progress against our gender targets for and decommissioning legacy management. The group is well new female partner elections and for our two leadership boards. known for its standalone expertise across law, regulation and soft > Collecting global data – gathering the data to measure how law application to environment issues, and functions seamlessly effectively we attract, retain and progress diverse talent, noting with market-leading corporate, projects, financial regulatory and legal restrictions to collecting data and a need to explain to derivatives teams. our people why we need this information. We also use regular In support of the cutting-edge expertise Linklaters lawyers global engagement and pulse surveys to measure whether we provide, the firm-wide Environmental Policy commits the firm to are living up to our ambition to be a diverse and inclusive firm. minimising the harmful effects of our services and operations > Ongoing education – educating our people about the on the environment and ensures we focus on a programme of importance of D&I at the firm at every stage of their careers, continual improvement. A consistent approach to managing including pre-joining and in regular firmwide communications this has been achieved through the firm-wide Environmental and messages. Management System (EMS), with the governance of this system > Continuing to deliver unconscious bias and inclusive culture overseen by a sub-committee of the Partnership Board, the training – embedding diversity and inclusion in all our learning Corporate Responsibility Committee. The in-house environmental and development programmes. sustainability team manage and drive the integration of the EMS to support our Responsible Business commitment. Our five > Ensuring local relevance – using the principles set out in our global environmental focus areas concentrate on our greatest impacts D&I strategy, supporting each office in developing their local D&I and where we have the biggest opportunities for achieving change. plans to ensure that cultural nuance and context is captured. > Resource conservation. > Engaging D&I partners and D&I champions – leveraging this network (and senior champions from our top leadership > Climate change. committees) to drive awareness and behaviour change across > Waste management. our priority diversity strands. Using local D&I champions > Supporting biodiversity. across all levels of the firm to identify actions and initiatives to > Pollution prevention. accelerate progress. We report our progress publicly via this update, progress on our > Shifting attitudes – establishing the policies, systems and website, complete the CDP (formerly Carbon Disclosure Project) programmes to support changes in our culture, including Climate Change survey and have our greenhouse gas emissions enhanced benefits for new parents and embedding agile working. externally assured against ISO14064:Part 3 to ensure accuracy and Our commitment to D&I is not limited to within our four walls: transparency. For the third year, we have retained a CDP Climate > We have taken on three case reviews for women in the UK who Change score of A-, placing the firm in a leadership position for the were convicted of criminal offences where gender bias was legal sector globally. alleged as part of their conviction or sentencing. After eleven years of efficiency projects and energy management > We are assisting the International Center for Advocates Against focus, it is now harder to achieve further reductions, however we Discrimination on an ambitious project combining tech and data take opportunities when they arise. For example, in our Hong Kong to eliminate discriminatory language and practices in sexual and refurbishment project, environmental strategies include Energy Star gender-based violence cases in Pacific Island countries. rated equipment, installation of efficient LED lights, access to and > Globally, we work with people seeking asylum who are fleeing use of daylight to reduce the need for lighting, occupancy sensors, persecution because of their sexual orientation or gender low emission paints and flooring, products with recycled content, identity. We have now represented over 20 LGBT clients in renewable materials and FSC timber. the US with their asylum applications while our pro bono To complement our resource efficiency efforts, the firm became partnership with UK Lesbian and Gay Immigration Group Carbon Neutral in 2017, offsetting the unavoidable carbon emissions reached an important milestone with asylum granted for our resulting from energy use, business travel and waste. In 2018 tenth client, maintaining our success rate of 100%. we committed to a three-year carbon neutral project: The Gola Our community investment work applies professional skills from Rainforest Conservation Project in Sierra Leone. It is a partnership across our business to effect positive social impact. Our focus is between the Government of Sierra Leone, The Conservation Society on supporting individuals who are from lower income backgrounds of Sierra Leone, the RSPB and local communities. or those from under-represented groups in the workforce. Through Commitment: We will continue to advise our clients on education and employability programmes, we aim to increase environmental issues and will explore future targets for emissions individual potential, promote equal access to opportunities and reduction recognising the new challenges faced by us all. 8. L  inklaters undertakes initiatives to promote greater As well as external alignment, we have reviewed our own environmental responsibility. environmental sustainability programme against the SDGs. We We are one of only two global law firms, that we are aware of, have identified the goals with greatest alignment to this part of to have achieved ISO 14001 certification of our Environmental our business: affordable and clean energy (Goal 7), responsible Management System (EMS) comprehensively across our global consumption and production (Goal 12), and climate action (Goal operations. At Linklaters, all locations with 30 people or more join 13). Since 2010, Linklaters GHG emissions have reduced by 27%, the EMS. In May 2018, we completed the global transition to the supported by 25% reduction in emissions from water use, 34% latest ISO14001:2015 standard and the firm was awarded the reduction in electricity, 2% from business travel and procuring at Certificate of Registration, valid until May 2021. least 60% of electricity from renewable sources. Our offices in the UK, France, Germany and Sweden procured 100% renewable In 2019, we completed our secure print rollout solution that builds energy in the financial year 2017/18. awareness around good and bad printing habits, implementing best practice “follow me” printing globally. This solution improves In addition to implementing the “follow me” printing initiative security, reduces paper use, energy consumption and transportglobally, Telepresence facilities in our Frankfurt, London, Hong associated impacts. We have reduced paper reams purchased by Kong and New York offices, combined with global video20% between 2010 and 2018, and on average by 3% per person conferencing facilities continue to provide an alternative to business between 2017 and 2018. travel. Over a period of three years, use of these facilities has increased by 60%, with further technology upgrades planned. We continued engaging our people in 2019 through internal Moreover, electric car charging points were installed in the firm’s communication updates on our three year carbon neutrality UK office car parks during 2018. commitment to conserve the Gola Rainforest, celebrating WWF Earth Hour in 28 offices and celebrating #BeatAirPollution, the Commitment: We will continue to consider environmentally UN World Environment Day theme for 2019. Our global network efficient technologies in our operations and willingly share our of over 150 environmental representatives and champions held experience with others. many events, seminars, workshops, surveys and launches of new 10. L  inklaters works against corruption in all its forms, including initiatives to encourage sustainable behaviours and choices. The extortion and bribery. New York and Washington DC offices focussed on the removal of single-use paper, plastic and disposables from the café and Linklaters’ work in risk, regulation and governance addresses pantries. In Frankfurt, use of the office bike was promoted as well many of the most critical challenges faced by our clients, as taking train rather than plane and using e-taxis or hybrids. The bringing together a broad range of expertise, specialist Singapore office offered plants to improve indoor air quality while, in knowledge and innovative thinking to enable us to offer holistic Madrid, our champions highlighted the city’s levels of air pollution. advice in any given situation. Of particular note, is the team’s work advising on the application of anti-bribery frameworks in As executive members of the UK’s Legal Sustainability Alliance, new and developing markets. Recent work has included: we continue to engage with other firms across the sector and our Head of CR is now Co-Chair. In addition to CDP, we use > Advising a multi-national corporation on corruption concerns. the Ecovadis sustainability benchmarking platform to share our > Performing a governance review of a multi-national company performance with clients and were delighted in 2019 to retain a operating in the FMCG sector, which included an assessment score of 80 out of 100 in the Environment category despite ever of its policies and procedures for the management of antihigher standards. bribery and corruption risk Our pro bono practice frequently advances this principle. In the > Authoring the USA – Law and Practice chapter for Chambers past 12 months, we assisted an organisation aiming to clean up & Partners 2019 Global Practice Guide to Anti-Corruption the waterways in Hong Kong enter into a significant investment > Producing an informative, client-facing video series on the agreement with a global financial sponsor, while our lawyers in the UK’s new corporate offence of failing to prevent bribery. UAE provide ongoing contract review expertise to social enterprise Goumbook, the main reference network on the best green and We also began to offer bono assistance to the American Bar sustainability practices for environmentally conscious businesses Association’s initiative supporting governments to implement antiacross the UAE and the Gulf region. corruption best practices. Commitment: We will build upon the renewed firm-wide ISO We have robust policies and procedures on client and matter 14001:2015 environmental management system to continually onboarding, anti-money laundering and bribery and corruption improve. We will use the UNEP World Environment Day to engage which we review regularly. Our people are encouraged to raise with our clients and staff on environmental issues, and we will concerns quickly and confidentially and our Legal and Risk team continue to report and communicate with our interested parties provides support to our people wherever they may be. “Our Ethical eg clients, regulators and other stakeholders. Code” applies globally to everyone in Linklaters and contains guidance on our zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption. 9. Linklaters encourages the development and diffusion of Commitment: We will continue to raise awareness among our environmentally friendly technologies. people of the bribery and corruption risks that are inherent in our Linklaters’ expertise in environmentally friendly technology covers business and ensure that there is consistency between our advice a full spectrum of relevant projects, including onshore and offshore to clients on anti-bribery and corruption and the approach we wind, solar, biomass, biofuels, wave/tidal, geothermal, hydropower, take to this issue within our own operations. waste and waste to energy. By way of example, in 2019 Linklaters advised on the issue by ENEL Finance International N.V. of three series of bonds which are each linked to the achievement of the SDGs for a total of €2.5bn across the three series. In particular, two of the series, totaling €2bn, are linked to ENEL’s ability to achieve its goal relating to affordable and clean energy, whilst the third series, totaling €500m, is linked to ENEL’s ability to achieve its goal relating to climate action. linklaters.com GC18709_F/01.20 Linklaters LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number OC326345. It is a law firm authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority. The term partner in relation to Linklaters LLP is used to refer to a member of the LLP or an employee or consultant of Linklaters LLP or any of its affiliated firms or entities with equivalent standing and qualifications. A list of the names of the members of Linklaters LLP and of the non-members who are designated as partners and their professional qualifications is open to inspection at its registered office, One Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ, England or on www.linklaters.com and such persons are either solicitors, registered foreign lawyers or European lawyers. Please refer to www.linklaters.com/regulation for important information on our regulatory position.
