Kinnevik AB ∙ Annual & Sustainability Report ∙ 2019 CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S REVIEW Dear Shareholders, 2019 was characterized by strong performance in our large listed companies and high activity in our portfolio including new and follow-on investments in exciting growth companies. We accelerated our pivot towards growth by distributing Millicom to our shareholders and completing a sell-down of a 5 percent stake in Zalando to finance our continued investment momentum. During the year, we have also increased our efforts to future-proof our companies by supporting the integration of sustainability in their core business models. We enter 2020 with a strong foundation to execute on our strategy. F ull Year Results During 2019, Pivoting our Portfolio Towards Growth Kinnevik’s Net Asset Value amounted In December, the distribution of our Millicom shawe released to SEK 73.3bn, or SEK 265 per share, reholding to our shareholders was concluded. This at the end of 2019, an increase of SEK 9.1bn from significant distribution of value to our investors 31 percent over the year including our more mature reinforces our dedication to allocate a larger share dividends paid. The NAV developassets through of our portfolio to disruptive and technology-enament was driven particularly by strong share price divestments and bled growth and venture businesses. Through the performance in Zalando and Tele2. dividends, cordistribution, the contribution of these businesses responding to in Kinnevik’s portfolio increased materially. Our Large Listed Companies over 12 percent During 2019, we released some SEK 9.1bn from Zalando is our largest holding and a cornerstone of of the portfolio our more mature assets through divestments and our growth portfolio. While the company’s growth we entered the dividends, corresponding to over 12 percent of the has been truly impressive since our first investment year with. portfolio we entered the year with. About a third of almost 10 years ago, we believe Zalando will conthe capital was re-invested into our existing portfotinue to benefit from its large market opportunity. lio and an additional SEK 1.6bn was invested into In September we decreased our stake from 31 to two new businesses – VillageMD and MatHem. With 26 percent to maintain our own pace of investthese transactions, we have improved the makeup ment into private growth companies. Zalando fits of our portfolio, and made it more balanced both squarely with our strategy and we fully support in terms of maturity profile and sector exposure. the company’s ambition to continue investing in growth to become the starting point for fashion. Doubling Down in Healthcare Following its 2018 merger with Com Hem, Tele2 The healthcare industry is struggling to deliver acis the leading fixed-mobile operator in Sweden cessible, effective and affordable care to all. We are and the Baltics, providing connectivity and digioptimistic that consumerization, new technology tal services in our Swedish home market. With its and innovation in payment models can yield better, strong cash conversion, disciplined disposals of more accessible and lower cost care. During the non-core operations, and focus on maintaining year, we doubled down in our healthcare portfoan efficient capital structure, Tele2’s shareholder lio with follow on investments in Babylon, Cedar remuneration is fuelling the growth in some of our and Livongo, and a new investment in VillageMD, less mature companies, while providing stability a leading US based provider of primary care. At to our portfolio as a whole. the end of 2019, the value of our healthcare portfolio amounted to SEK 6.7bn, corresponding to 9 percent of our portfolio compared to 2 percent in 2 Kinnevik AB ∙ Annual & Sustainability Report ∙ 2019 31% 2018, and 0.5 percent in 2017. We are convinced capital generated by our investment activities to that these companies are only at the beginning of shareholders through extra dividends. In this contheir growth journeys. text, the dividend in kind of Millicom corresponded to SEK 60 per Kinnevik share when the distribution Taking On the Nordic Food Market was completed in the beginning of December. Another exciting investment theme in 2019 was our newly established leadership position in the Nordic Future-Proofing Our Portfolio online groceries market. Having been historically As consumer behaviours are shifting across the dominated by large incumbents with strong market world, Kinnevik believes there is a real opportunity positions, the sector is on the verge of significant for businesses putting sustainable development at transformation. We started with an investment in the core of their business model. In May 2019, we the largest online grocer in Norway, Kolonial, in adopted a Diversity & Inclusion Framework to drive 2018 and in the beginning of 2019, we invested change within Kinnevik and our portfolio, not only SEK 0.9bn into MatHem, the Swedish market leader. from an equality standpoint but, most importantly, During the year, we have materially strengthefrom a business and performance perspective. ned MatHem’s leadership team, including hiring Read more about the Framework and our four a new CEO. The team is dedicated to improving overarching targets on page 18-19. the company’s customer offering, drive efficiency Something we are very proud to note as an gains, and steer the company towards a strong, owner, is Zalando’s new sustainability strategy launlong-term growth trajectory. ched in 2019. It is an ambitious strategy setting out the company’s bold vision of being a sustainable Financial Position and fashion platform with a net-positive impact on peShareholder Renumeration ople and the planet. Zalando also set new diversity We ended 2019 with a strong financial position targets for its top leadership levels, emphasizing and net debt of SEK 0.9bn or 1.3 percent of portOur NAV increased the need for the company to reflect its customer folio value, enabling us to carry out our capital by 31% during 2019 base. Many of the companies in our portfolio have re-allocation plan for the coming years. As commade significant progress in future-proofing their municated in 2019, rather than paying an ordinary businesses by integrating sound governance strucdividend to our shareholders, going forward we tures, ensuring social responsibility across different will generate shareholder returns primarily through aspects and taking measures to reduce their encapital appreciation and will seek to return excess vironmental impact. Read more about Kinnevik’s and our portfolio companies’ efforts in the 2019 Sustainability Report. Concluding Remarks With a portfolio consisting of a higher share of growth companies, fewer but larger new investWe ended 2019 ments, significant capital deployed into the health­ with a strong care sector, and a bold step into the Nordic food financial position space, we have executed on the priorities that we and net debt of highlighted at the beginning of the year. Looking SEK 0.9bn or 1.3 forward, we will maintain our pace of investment percent of portand deploy our capital systematically into the leading businesses of tomorrow. We expect to folio value, enaREAD MORE invest slightly less capital in 2020 than in 2019, bling us to carry but enough to continue our transformation. Thank out our capital you, our shareholders, for your continued support re-allocation plan on this exciting journey. for the coming years. Georgi Ganev Chief Executive Officer Doubling Down in Healthcare: Our Healthcare portfolio ended the year at SEK 6.7bn 3 Kinnevik AB ∙ Annual & Sustainability Report ∙ 2019 STATEMENT BY THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD The consumers are in charge. At Kinnevik, we view sustainability as a ­business opportunity. In recent years, there has been a significant shift in ­consumer ­behaviour towards buying products and services that are produced in a sustainable manner. The increased consumer focus on sustainability creates opportunities for those companies that can meet these increased expectations. It is our responsibility as an active owner to put sustainable business development at the top of the agenda at our investee companies and make sure they seize the opportunities arising from this. We truly believe that to be a long-term successful company, you need to be part of the solution – not the problem. The Decade of Delivery Companies in Sustainability Performance 2019 2015 marked an inflection point globally as goDuring the year, we have put a lot of effort into the top quartile vernments across the world agreed on a compredeveloping sustainability roadmaps for the ten hensive framework for sustainable development, for gender companies we invested in during 2018. As for all namely Agenda 2030 and the UN’s Sustainable diversity are 21% early stage companies, the challenge is to balance Development Goals (the ”Global Goals”). They more likely to growth with sustainability initiatives. A key focus are a shared blueprint for peace and prosperity outperform on area has been the implementation of Kinnevik’s for people and the planet, now and in the future. profitability. Diversity & Inclusion Framework and many of our With ten years left until 2030, 2020 starts off what companies have showed clear progress both on dihas been called the Decade of Delivery. McKinsey, versity and in creating a more inclusive workplace. One central aspect of the Global Goals is that 2018 In response to the climate crisis many companies they recognize that long-term sustainable deveare also taking decisive action to reduce their clilopment must go hand-in-hand with strategies that mate impact. Environmental aspects will be a key build economic growth. All levels of society are focus area for Kinnevik in 2020 and onwards. expected to contribute to the goals: governments, In the fourth quarter of 2019 our portfolio comcivil society and businesses. As an organization, we pany Quikr, an online classifieds platform operating have defined which role we want to play in 2030 in India, discovered that certain dealers had placed and beyond. We have used the Global Goals as fictitious or misrepresented transactions on its plata basis for our sustainability strategy and in our form. Kinnevik is working closely with Quikr’s board Sustainability Report, we outline our holistic apand management to address the effects of this, proach to value creation and how we contribute and to improve the company’s internal controls. to the Global Goals while creating value for our Read more about the measures taken on page 22. stakeholders. All Value is Created by People Focusing on Diversity & Inclusion to Kinnevik’s purpose is to make people’s lives better Drive Better Business Outcomes by providing more and better choice. People are Diversity and inclusion is a business imperative for at the centre of what we do, and they are also our Kinnevik. A diverse organisation is able to maingreatest asset in creating value for our stakeholders. tain relevance for customers and at the same time I would like to take this opportunity to thank increase productivity, innovation and profitability. Kinnevik’s senior management team and all emDuring the year, we launched a Diversity & Incluployees for all the incredibly hard work during the sion Framework for gender equality to drive the year. Through the committed teams at Kinnevik and important change we want to see at Kinnevik, in in our investee companies, I am convinced we will our portfolio and in the broader industry. Read continue to build long-term sustainable businesses more about our ­efforts to support Global Goal that leverage disruptive technology to meet the number 5, Gender equality, on page 18-19. demands of consumers today and in the future. Dame Amelia Fawcett Chairman of the Board of Kinnevik 4 Kinnevik AB ∙ Annual & Sustainability Report ∙ 2019 KINNEVIK IN SUMMARY Kinnevik is an industry focused investment company with an entrepreneurial spirit. Our purpose is to make people’s lives better by providing more and better choice. In partnership with talented founders and management teams we build challenger businesses that use disruptive technology to address material, everyday consumer needs. As active owners, we believe in delivering both shareholder and social value by building long-term sustainable businesses that contribute positively to society. We invest in Europe, with a ­focus on the Nordics, the US, and selectively in other markets. Kinnevik was founded in 1936 by the Stenbeck, Klingspor and von Horn families. Kinnevik’s shares are listed on Nasdaq Stockholm’s list for large cap companies under the ticker codes KINV A and KINV B. Five Year Annualized IRR per Sector Portfolio Composition E-Commerce & Marketplaces E-Commerce & Marketplaces 4% Financial Services 8% 50% Healthcare 42% TMT 8% Total 6% TMT 34% Total Shareholder Return (TSR) 40% 9% 16% 12% 9% Healthcare 6% Financial Services One Year Five Years Ten Years Thirty Years NAV Development (SEKbn)1 1.3% 92.0 Leverage to 89.0 Portfolio Value 84.3 73.3 70.5 Investment Activity (SEKm) 4 566 n Investments n Divestments (1 620) n Net Investments (6 186) Q4’18 Q1’19 Q2’19 Q3’19 Q4’19 1 During 2019, Kinnevik distributed its entire shareholding in Millicom to its shareholders, corresponding to SEK 16.5bn. 5 Kinnevik AB ∙ Annual & Sustainability Report ∙ 2019 KINNEVIK’S BUSINESS MODEL AND HOW WE CREATE VALUE OUR VALUE CREATION PROCESS. Kinnevik applies a holistic view on value creation. We are long term business builder that provide hands-on operational support to our companies, as well as a high-level strategic­ perspective. To create value for our companies as well as other key stakeholder groups, we draw on various types of resources. Resources We Draw On Systematic Financial Sourcing and Funds available through investment Assessment management activities, dividends from of New Investments Vis investee companies and debt financing Mis Intellectual Val Organisational capital such as systems, Stra policies, processes and tools Human Our employees’ and consultants’ competencies, capabilities, experience, Dyn loyalty and motivations Cap Re-allo Social Relationships and interactions with our stakeholders and networks, as well as our brand and reputation Natural Our vision and mission identif Environmental resources we draw on to enable Our strategy defines how we m for example business travel and office locations resources, and our values guide u Read more about this and o CONNECTION TO THE GLOBAL GOALS Shareholders Employees The value we create for our stakeholders 8.1: Sustainable economic growth 5.5: Ensure women’s full participation through our active ownership is clearly 13.2: Integrate climate change measuin leadership and decision-making connected to the Global Goals. Read res into policies and planning 8.8: Protect labour rights and more about our stakeholder dialogue promote safe working environments 16.5: Substantially reduce on page 11, and about the most relecorruption and bribery vant Global Goals for Kinnevik and our portfolio on page 14-15. Furthermore, 16.6: Develop effective, some of our companies contribute to accountable and transparent the Global Goals by virtue of their core institutions business models, read more on page 24. 6 Kinnevik AB ∙ Annual & Sustainability Report ∙ 2019 Value We Create for Building Our Stakeholders Long-term Shareholders and the Financial Community Sustainable Long-term economic and sustainability Businesses performance ion sion Employees ues Strong corporate culture, improved skills and tegy knowledge, equal opportunities, compen­ sation, diversity and work-life balance Portfolio Companies and Entrepreneurs Economic and sustainability performance, amic financial and operational support, network ital and knowledge sharing. Through our portcation folio companies we provide consumers with more and better choice Society and Authorities Well-governed companies that ­contribute positively to society. Good corporate y our purpose as an organization. ­citizenship and improved policy landscape aximize opportunities and allocate s in how to implement our strategy. ur business model on page 8-9. Investee Companies and Entrepreneurs Society and Authorities 5.5: Ensure women’s full participation 13.2: Integrate climate change 16.6: Develop effective, in leadership and decision-making measures into policies and planning accountable and transparent 8.1: Sustainable economic growth 16.5: Substantially reduce institutions 8.2: Diversify, innovate and corruption and bribery 17.16: Enhance the global upgrade for economic productivity 16.6: Develop effective, partnership for sustainable accountable and transparent development 8.8: Protect labour rights and promote safe working environments institutions 12.5: Substantially reduce 17.16: Enhance the global waste generation partnership for sustainable development 12:6: Encourage companies to adopt sustainable practices and sustainability reporting 7 Kinnevik AB ∙ Annual & Sustainability Report ∙ 2019 OUR BUSINESS MODEL among other aspects, human rights screWe conduct bi-annual investment reening and a corruption risk assessment. views with all our companies in which Sustainability is an integrated part of our In instances where potential investments our investment team discusses the combusiness model, from the sourcing and do not adhere to relevant standards or panies’ development across a number assessment of new business opportuniare not considered to be likely to underof parameters, including sustainability ties to the ongoing development of our take the required improvements, Kinaspects. In addition, Kinnevik’s Sustainabicompanies and the re-allocation of capital nevik refrains from proceeding with the lity Function conducts yearly assessments into new opportunities. investment. of all portfolio companies, including imWe believe that companies that opeWhen a portfolio company is seeking plementation of the roadmap, and sets rate in a responsible and ethical manner additional funding, they are evaluated targets and priorities for the coming year. will be able to offer better products and again in stage two of the EIC and a key Read more about the assessment process services that meet the demands of their condition for follow-on investments is that on page 21. customers, as well as recruit the best the company has shown clear sustainabiemployees, thereby outperforming their lity progress, including D&I, in accordance Dynamic Capital Re-Allocation competitors in the long run. with their roadmap. Kinnevik’s Board of Kinnevik systematically re-allocates capiDirectors oversees and conducts an antal from companies where we believe our Systematic Sourcing and Assessment nual evaluation of the EIC process. tenure as owner is over into new venture of New Investments During 2019, Kinnevik invested in two and growth companies. With a distribuKinnevik has a well-defined process to new companies, MatHem and ­VillageMD, tion of companies along the growth and source and assess potential new investboth of which were subject to sustainabimaturity curve, we benefit from a uniments involving the Management Team, lity due diligence. To address identified que system of companies spanning from Investment Team and the Sustainability issues, a roadmap was agreed with both venture and growth businesses that are Function. Kinnevik’s Board of Directors is companies and progress is being made. not accessible on the public markets to also involved in the investment process more mature listed companies providing depending on the size of the investment Building Long-Term Sustainable stability to the portfolio. and if the investment goes beyond our Businesses strategy execution plan. Investing in the best companies is critical, In pipeline discussion meetings, the but how we contribute to the developteam takes a broader view of our target ment of our companies after investment sectors and maps the opportunities in is key to creating value. We develop a Our Sourcing and Assessment Process each sector. A small selection of compaplan for each company depending on nies is brought to stage one of the Execueach business’ characteristics and needs. tive Investment Committee (the “EIC”) and We can provide hands-on operational evaluated based on Kinnevik’s investment support as well as high-level strategic guiPipeline criteria. Kinnevik’s investment team only dance. Read more about how we support Discussion brings companies that fit our investment our companies on pages 22-23. We also Meetings ethos to pipeline discussion meetings provide access to the Our Group Platform, and to the EIC. a global network of companies, advisors The most promising opportunities and experts, read more on page 21. move on to stage two of the EIC. A key evaluation aspect is the quality of the Stage #1 team and the passion, drive and values Initial Investment of the founders. During this stage we also Proposal conduct thorough due diligence on the Due Diligence companies across key functions including • Commercial Executive among others, financial, legal, commer• Financial Investment cial and sustainability. • Technology Committee In the sustainability due diligence, • Cyber Security Stage #2 companies are evaluated based on their • Legal Detailed Investment performance and structures in relation • Sustainability Proposal to economic, social and environmental aspects, and the key risks and opportunities are identified. We use the Kinnevik Standards (read more on page 21) as a Investment basis for the due diligence. It includes, 8 Kinnevik AB ∙ Annual & Sustainability Report ∙ 2019 VISION TO MAKE PEOPLE’S LIVES BETTER BY PROVIDING MORE AND BETTER CHOICE MISSION WE BUILD DIGITAL BUSINESSES THAT ADDRESS MATERIAL, EVERYDAY CONSUMER NEEDS VALUES INTEGRITY BOLDNESS EXCELLENCE STRATEGY A LEADING GROWTH INVESTOR • Backing challenger businesses that use technology to address material, everyday consumer needs • A bold and long-term business builder, partnering with talented entrepreneurs • Focusing on Fashion & Food e-Commerce, Online Marketplaces, Financial Services, Healthcare and TMT, large sectors in the process of significant technological disruption • Investing in Europe, with a focus on the Nordics, the US, and selectively in other markets • Leveraging our experience and expertise to build leading, long-term sustainable businesses 9 Kinnevik AB ∙ Annual & Sustainability Report ∙ 2019 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY AND FRAMEWORK Kinnevik’s sustainability strategy and framework is based on the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development which balances the three dimensions of sustainability: Economy, Society and Environment. EXTERNAL FRAMEWORKS The 2030 Agenda and the Sustainable Development Goals Kinnevik is a signatory of the UN Global Compact which is the Sustainable development has been defined by the United ­Nations world’s largest corporate sustainability initiative. A part of this as: ”Development that meets the needs of the present without initiative’s multi-year strategy is to drive business awareness and compromising the ability of future generations to meet their action in support of achieving the Global Goals by 2030. This own needs.” Sustainability Report serves as Kinnevik’s annual Communication Sustainability is the foundation for today’s leading global on Progress to the UN Global Compact, containing our implemenframework for international cooperation – the 2030 Agenda tation of its principles on human rights, labour, environment and for Sustainable Development and its Sustainable Development anti-corruption. Kinnevik also recognises the special importance Goals. Adopted by all United Nations Member States in 2015, of international standards on responsible business conduct, such the 2030 Agenda is a broad and universal policy agenda with 17 as the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and the Global Goals split into 169 associated targets to be achieved by UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. 2030. The Global Goals are integrated, indivisible and balance The Sustainability Report 2019 is prepared in accordance with the three dimensions of sustainable development: economy, the Global Reporting Initiative’s (”GRI”) Standards: Core option, society and environment. including the GRI Sector Disclosures for Financial Services. The GRI index is available on page 29-31. The UN Sustainable Development Goals 10 Kinnevik AB ∙ Annual & Sustainability Report ∙ 2019 KINNEVIK’S ORGANISATION topics are applied on both a Kinnevik and a Portfolio level with specific targets and KPIs for each level. The Board of Directors is responsible for Kinnevik’s overall ­strategy, including how we integrate sustainability aspects as Kinnevik’s purpose is to make people’s lives better by propart of our value creation. To assist the Board in monitoring viding more and better choice. We work towards that vision the implementation of our sustainability agenda Kinnevik has by leveraging our experience and expertise to build digital, established a Risk, Compliance & Sustainability Committee, aplong-term sustainable businesses that address material, pointed by the Board of Directors. To drive the integration on a everyday consumer needs. day-to-day basis, on a Kinnevik level and in relation to our investee companies, Kinnevik has a dedicated Sustainability Function. Stakeholder Dialogue Maintaining a close dialogue with our principal stakeholder SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY groups is central in defining and confirming our material aspects. The key stakeholder groups are identified through board and Kinnevik’s sustainability strategy is a framework set up to focus management discussions as those that are most affected by our resources on the most relevant economic, social and enviour operations, as well as have a high degree of influence over ronmental issues, drive performance and to engage internal Kinnevik’s ability to implement our strategies or achieve our oband external stakeholders. The framework consists of Kinnevik’s jectives. The focus areas for each stakeholder group have been material topics as well as targets and key performance indicators raised in ongoing dialogues throughout the year. (“KPIs”) for each material topic. Kinnevik addresses sustainable business development on two levels, Kinnevik: A Responsible Company, and Portfolio: Our Active Ownership. The material Key Stakeholder Groups Focus Areas Methods of Engagement Response/Outcome Shareholders and the Strong and long-term economic Investor meetings and road Continuous communication financial community and sustainability performance shows, Capital Markets Day, across available communication including solid governance interim reports and webcasts, channels regarding Kinnevik’s structures and sound social and interviews in the media, corporate strategy, financial development environmental practices. website, press releases, annual and sustainability progress. general meetings and annual and sustainability reports. Employees Corporate culture, performance Town hall meetings, local staff Structured on-boarding for new management, equal opportumeetings, team conferences, employees, bi-annual reviews nities, diversity and inclusion, bi-annual reviews of performance and objective setting, annual work-life balance, attractive and personal objectives. compensation review, training compensation structures and of key policies and implementastrong economic and sustainabition of the Diversity & Inclusion lity performance. framework. Portfolio Companies and Strong and long-term economic Ongoing communication Continuous operational and Entrepreneurs and sustainability performance, through investment team, financial support, support in financial and operational support, annual ­assessment relating to ­implementing sound sustainabinetwork and knowledge sharing. the ­Kinnevik Standards, active lity practices and access to the representation on Boards and in Our Group network. committees. Society and Authorities Upholding of social responsibility, Dialogues with local Actively engage in open good corporate citizenship and ­governments, authorities and key dialogues to contribute to and overall transparency. policy makers. Corporate website improve the policy landscape. and annual and sustainability Participate in public consultations report. in areas of importance to Kinnevik and our companies. 11 Kinnevik AB ∙ Annual & Sustainability Report ∙ 2019 Material Topics for Kinnevik and Our Portfolio Across the three dimensions of sustainable development ECONOMY ENVIRONMENT SOCIETY Sound Governance Social Responsibility and Good Reduced Climate Impact Structures and Economic Growth Corporate Citizenship • Corporate Governance • Human Rights • Greenhouse Gas Emissions • Risk Management • Business Ethics • Use of resources • Compliance • Health & Safety • Economic Growth • Diversity & Inclusion • Well-being & Personal Development • Community Outreach 12 Kinnevik AB ∙ Annual & Sustainability Report ∙ 2019 Material Topics Targets and KPIs Scope and Boundaries of Reporting Kinnevik’s material topics are identified On the next two pages is an overview This report covers the sustainability through interactive stakeholder dialoof Kinnevik’s targets and KPIs for each ­performance of Kinnevik for the period gues, Board and management discusof our material topics on a Kinnevik and 1 January to 31 December 2019. Our strasions, peer benchmarking and industry Portfolio level. The KPIs should be seen tegy involves being a lead shareholder in best practices. as quantifiable representations of our susour companies with a sizeable minority When determining our material totainability performance and as a tool to shareholding which provides us influence pics, we consider topics that are the most measure progress. They do not however over outcomes. This means that while we important to us and our stakeholders, as cover the full extent of Kinnevik’s efforts. can exercise influence over our investee well as the significance of Kinnevik’s ecoA number of our investee companies companies mainly through board reprenomic, social and environmental impacts. are in the early stages of their sustainabisentation, we do not directly control our The material topics comprise the key risks lity development, which is reflected in the investee companies. and opportunities that we believe are outcome of the KPIs on a portfolio level. The issues identified as relevant for important to focus on, on a Kinnevik and We cannot expect all companies to fully investee companies relate to those Portfolio level. meet our expectations with regards to ­organisations at group parent level and The material topics have not changed sustainability at the point of investment, does not consider issues which may be significantly from last year, but the areas and we define a clear roadmap for our relevant for their local operations or subof social responsibility and diversity and companies with key priorities each year. sidiaries. inclusion in particular, as well as climate In addition, Kinnevik invests primarily in The focus of this report is on sustaiimpact have risen in importance. growth and venture companies and the nability performance and initiatives in composition of our portfolio changes Kinnevik’s own operations. Additional Kinnevik’s material topics: over time which has an impact on the KPIs. case study material on the investee comA full account of the KPIs on a portfolio panies is provided on a summary basis, ECONOMY level, including comparative numbers for as well as in the form of case studies on Sound Governance Structures 2019 and 2018, is available on page 28. specific initiatives. More information on and Economic Growth investee companies’ performance can be found on their respective websites. SOCIETY Kinnevik’s economic performance is Social Responsibility and Good directly influenced by the economic perCorporate Citizenship formance of our investee companies, and therefore economic performance is only ENVIRONMENT covered in this report on a Kinnevik level. Reduced Climate Impact Kinnevik has identified climate impact, and Greenhouse Gas emissions in particular, as our most material environmental topics. In the future, we may include other environmental aspects, such as waste management and water consumption. 13 Kinnevik AB ∙ Annual & Sustainability Report ∙ 2019 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT FRAMEWORK: KINNEVIK LEVEL Dimensions of ECONOMY SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT Sustainable Development Most Relevant 8.1: Sustainable economic growth 5.5: Ensure women’s full participation 13.2: Integrate climate change meaGlobal Goals in leadership and decision-making sures into policies and planning 16.5: Substantially reduce corruption and bribery 8.8: Protect labour rights and promote safe working ­environments 16.6: Develop effective, accountable and transparent institutions 17.16: Enhance the global partnership for sustainable development Material Sound Governance Structures and Social Responsibility and Good Reduced Climate Impact Topics Economic Growth Corporate Citizenship Targets • Maintain sound corporate gover• Attract, recruit and retain talented • Measure emissions nance structures including risk employees • Reduce climate impact management and compliance in • Be an attractive employer with Kinnevik’s own operations • Offset emissions through an diversity & inclusion, well-being internationally recognized offset• Deliver an annual total shareholand personal development in ting project der return of 12-15% over the focus business cycle • Contribute to and improve the • Carry low leverage not exceeding policy landscape and society as a 10% of portfolio value whole through open dialogues • Community outreach engagement through Reach for Change Status • Yearly review of all policies and • Yearly employee performance • Conduct a yearly greenhouse gas handbooks reviews and bi-annual objective emission estimate by scope and • Dedicated Risk, Compliance & setting activity Sustainability Committee (Board) • Personalized career development • Offsetting our carbon emissions and Risk Committee (manageand training opportunities in full ment) • Best-in-class parental leave • Yearly compliance training benefits including Code of Conduct and • Launched the Diversity & anti-corruption Inclusion Framework • On-going commitment to Reach for Change KPIs • Net Asset Value development • Number of employees split by • Carbon dioxide equivalents • Economic value generated and office and function (”CO2e”) emissions in total and distributed • Number of nationalities per employee • Leverage in relation to Portfolio • Age distribution of employees • CO2e emissions in Scope 1, 2 Value and Board and 3 • Annualised Total Shareholder • New hires and employee turn­ • CO2e emissions per activity and Return (per 30, 10, 5 and 1 year) over by type of Greenhouse Gas • Share of women across teams and Board • Parental and sick leave • Number of social entrepreneurs supported, and children helped through Reach for Change Note: Read more about the KPIs on a Kinnevik level on page 16-20. 14 Kinnevik AB ∙ Annual & Sustainability Report ∙ 2019 SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT FRAMEWORK: PORTFOLIO LEVEL Dimensions of ECONOMY SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT Sustainable Development Most Relevant 8.1: Sustainable economic growth 5.5: Ensure women’s full participation 12.5: Substantially reduce waste Global Goals 8.2: Diversify, innovate and upgrade in leadership and decision-making generation for economic productivity 8.8: Protect labour rights and pro12:6: Encourage companies to adopt 16.5: Substantially reduce corruption mote safe working environments sustainable practices and sustainabiand bribery 16.5: Substantially reduce corruption lity reporting 16.6: Develop effective, accountable and bribery 13.2: Integrate climate change meaand transparent institutions 16.6: Develop effective, accountable sures into policies and planning and transparent institutions 17.16: Enhance the global partnership for sustainable development Material Sound Governance Structures Social Responsibility and Good Reduced Climate Impact Topics and Economic Growth Corporate Citizenship Targets • Build companies with sound cor• Ensure our companies build • Ensure our companies measure porate governance, risk manage­responsible business relationsCO2e emissions ment and compliance structures hips with suppliers, including hu• Ensure our companies have im• Ensure long-term sustainable man rights, business ethics and plemented concrete measures to economic growth across our health & safety considerations reduce their climate impact portfolio companies • Ensure our companies are • Ensure our companies offset attractive employers with human emissions through an internarights, health & safety, diversity & tionally recognized offsetting inclusion, well-being and persoproject nal development in focus • Ensure our companies have committed community outreach programs Status Read about the sustainability performance of our portfolio companies on page 21-23. KPIs PV #COs PV #COs PV #COs The Portfolio level KPIs are Has implemented a Code 92% 69% Has implemented 83% 46% Engages in environmen78% 23% of Conduct across its a Supplier Code of tal reporting derived from organisation Conduct based on interour annual national standards Has implemented 79% 31% assessment of Has implemented a 94% 54% measures to reduce the portfolio Whistleblowing system Conducts periodic 94% 77% the Company’s CO2e companies employee surveys emissions based on Has conducted a risk 87% 46% the Kinnevik assessment Has incorporated anti93% 73% discrimination principles Standards, Has a defined risk limits 42% 23% in the Company’s policies read more on statement to monitor risk page 21. levels Has at least 40% of the 4% 12% underrepresented Conducts regular 96% 81% gender in the compliance training management team Has incorporated anti89% 62% Has at least 40% of the 37% 8% corruption principles in underrepresented the Company’s policies gender in the board Has implemented a 82% 31% community outreach or philanthropic program Note: A full account of the Portfolio level KPIs is available on page 28. PV = % of Portfolio Value, #COs = % of Number of Companies. 15 Kinnevik AB ∙ Annual & Sustainability Report ∙ 2019 KINNEVIK A RESPONSIBLE COMPANY As a responsible and active owner, Kinnevik aims to SOUND GOVERNANCE STRUCTURES AND ECONOMIC GROWTH be a role model for our investee companies across economic, social and environmental aspects. For Kinnevik as a company, it is important to have sound governance, risk management and compliance structures in place, including clear structures, policies and processes across functions. Being a financially strong company is imperative to our role as active owners, supporting our portfolio companies towards achieving long-term sustainable and profitable growth. Governance The basis for corporate governance in Kinnevik is Swedish legislation, Nasdaq Stockholm’s Rule Book for Issuers, and regulations and recommendations issued by relevant self-regulatory bodies. Kinnevik also follows the Swedish Corporate Governance Code (Swe. Svensk kod för bolagsstyrning). Kinnevik’s Board is responsible for 12% Kinnevik’s overall strategy, including sustainability, and is well informed about Kinnevik’s policies and procedures. The 30 Years 40% Board is supported by the Risk, Compliance & Sustainability­­Committee (a subset 1 Year of the Board) and the Risk Committee consisting of Kinnevik’s management team and investment directors. The Risk, Compliance & Sustainability­ Committee assists the Board in monitoring the governance structures of Kinnevik’s investee companies, Kinnevik’s risk management process and compliance with laws, regulations and codes 16% of conduct. More information about Kinnevik’s governance bodies and their work is available in the Corporate Gover10 Years 9% nance Report 2019. Kinnevik’s key policies are our Code 5 Years of Conduct, Whistle-blower Policy, Corporate Responsibility Policy, Supplier Code of Conduct and Lobbying Policy. The policies have been communicated to all employees and members of the Board and are available on our website. All employees and representatives of Kinnevik are expected to fully comply with the Code of Conduct. Kinnevik has TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN is calculated on the basis of an onboarding process for new employshareholders reinvesting all cash dividends, dividends in kind and ees that introduces them to the Code mandatory share redemption proceeds into the Kinnevik share. of Conduct, which includes provisions 16 Kinnevik AB ∙ Annual & Sustainability Report ∙ 2019 KINNEVIK ECONOMY on anti-bribery and business ethics, and Compliance During 2019, Kinnevik divested a other key policies and procedures. Kinnevik’s compliance framework is 5 percent stake in Zalando, representing As outlined in the Whistle-blower Pomainly focused on compliance with the 17 percent of our total shareholding in licy, Kinnevik expects all employees, as laws and regulations that govern listed the company, generating gross proceeds well as relevant third parties who deal with companies in Sweden, such as Nasdaq of SEK 5.9bn. Kinnevik also distributed the company, to come forward and voice Stockholm’s Rule Book for Issuers, the Euits entire shareholding in Millicom to all serious concerns about any aspect ropean Union Market Abuse Regulation our shareholders, a value transfer of of Kinnevik’s work, including the areas (No 596/2014), the Swedish Companies SEK 16.5bn in total. of human rights, labour, environment, Act, and other laws and regulations relaKinnevik does not consolidate operaanti-corruption and antidiscrimination. ting to Kinnevik’s operations and investting subsidiaries and has a negative opeKinnevik whistleblowing service is mament activities. The Risk, Compliance & rating result and is therefore not subject naged by the external party WhistleB. Sustainability Committee and the Audit to corporation tax. During 2019, Kinnevik did not receive Committee receive periodic updates on any reports to the whistleblowing service. compliance status. A compliance review Amended Shareholder in relation to the laws and regulations Remuneration Policy A part of the compensation for Kinnevik’s that govern Swedish listed companies is For a number of years, Kinnevik aimed to investment team is linked to the portfolio performed annually to ensure full compay an annual dividend growing in line companies’ sustainability performance. pliance and identify potential areas for with dividends received from our investee improvement. companies, mainly Millicom and Tele2, Risk Management Kinnevik conducts mandatory annual and the cash flow generated from our Kinnevik’s Board is responsible for internal compliance training, including Code of investment activities. In light of the districontrol in accordance with the Swedish Conduct and Insider Trading Rules, for bution of Millicom, and the entailing step Companies Act (Swe. Aktiebolagslagen) all employees, as well as periodic deepchange in our portfolio’s composition, we and the Swedish Corporate Governance dives on specific matters such as anti-coramended our shareholder remuneration Code. Kinnevik’s risk framework is outruption and supply chain management. policy. Going forward, we will cease to lined in the Risk Management Policy. pay an ordinary cash dividend and inKinnevik’s management has established Economic Performance stead use dividends received, primarily a Risk Committee that meets thrice a year During 2019, Kinnevik’s Net Asset Value from Tele2, to fund and accrete our owto review key risks, developments since increased by 31 percent, adjusted for nership in the companies we believe are the previous meeting, the efficiency of dividends paid, to SEK 73.3bn (70.5). Total tomorrow’s winners in our private portfoany mitigating actions and our overall risk investments for the year amounted to SEK lio. Further, we will seek to return excess appetite. The work of the Risk Commit4.6bn (2.7). Total divestments amounted capital to shareholders from ­successful tee is presented at each meeting of the to SEK 6.2bn (1.6). Kinnevik ended 2019 exits in the form of extra dividends. Risk, Compliance & Sustainability­ Comin a net debt position of SEK 0.9bn (2.9), mittee and to the Audit Committee on a corresponding to a leverage of 1.3 (4.0) periodic basis. percent of portfolio value. Kinnevik’s economic value generated and distributed during 2019, SEKm Economic value generated Economic value distributed Divestments of 6 186 (18 819) Dividend distributed financial assets Dividends 2 907 (4 566) Investments in received financial assets Other operating 50 (391) Operating expenses income including employee wages (49) Interest paid 17 Kinnevik AB ∙ Annual & Sustainability Report ∙ 2019 KINNEVIK SOCIETY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND GOOD Well-Being and Personal Out of the 86 percent of employees that CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP Development in Focus responded to Kinnevik’s 2019 employee Kinnevik offers its employees continuous survey, 95 percent said they would reKinnevik’s greatest asset is and has ­always opportunities for personal and professiofer someone else to work at Kinnevik. been our people. As such, attracting nal growth in order to develop their skill and retaining top talent is a key priority. set and to take increasing responsibility Kinnevik encourages parental leave Kinnevik regards diversity and inclusion for value creation at Kinnevik and our for both men and women. In 2019, the as core levers for value creation, and we investee companies. The small size of our average parental leave taken was 39 (0) make full use of the opportunities that organisation enables us to personalise weeks for men and 46 (52) weeks for woarise from employing a team with different career development and training oppormen. This refers to parental leave that backgrounds and perspectives. We also tunities for each employee. These include started during 2019 and includes the full have a firm belief in contributing to the educational programs such as leadership number of weeks requested. The leave wider community, which we have done for courses and topic specific training sesmay therefore be completed during the many years through the Kinnevik-founded sions, as well as hands-on operational following year. non-profit organisation Reach for Change. experience through secondment at a portfolio company. In 2019 Kinnevik implemented a new A Small and Diverse Team Ongoing assessments of employees’ parental leave policy, stipulating that While the nature of our work changes freperformance and success in meeting their every permanent employee is eligible quently, our core values do not. Kinnevik’s objectives are central in order to ensure for nine months paid ­parental leave team members share an entrepreneurial that Kinnevik offers the right personal with 100 percent of their fixed salary. spirit, as well as a belief in building longdevelopment tools at an individual and The policy reflects our ambition to be term sustainable businesses. group level. All employees participate at the forefront regarding equal oppKinnevik’s organisation comprised 40 in yearly performance reviews and have ortunities and to promote well-­being (37) people on average during 2019 (fullindividual objectives that are reviewed and a healthy work-family balance. time equivalents “FTE”, including wholly twice a year. owned subsidiaries), with 27 people baKinnevik is committed to promoting a Kinnevik’s Diversity & sed in the Stockholm office and 13 pegood, safe and healthy work environment Inclusion Framework ople in the London office. The investment for all employees across physical, orgaIn May 2019, Kinnevik launched a D&I management organisation consisted of nisational and social aspects, where the framework to drive the important change 12 professionals, whereof eight based in risks of occupational injuries and workwe want to see in our portfolio and the London and four in Stockholm. Moreover, related ill-health are prevented. The goal broader industry. Besides our fundamenduring 2019 Kinnevik employed 28 peis to strengthen the employees’ motivatal belief in equal rights for all employees, ople across Finance, Legal, Strategy, Sustion, effectiveness, health and well-being. Kinnevik believes diversity and inclusion tainability, Corporate Communications, As stated in Kinnevik’s Work Envibrings clear business benefits as it leads HR and Administration. All employees ronment Handbook, if an employee is to improved financial performance, higbut four were on permanent contracts. involved in an incident, accident or any her degree of innovation, better decisionAll employees but one were on full-time other situation of ill-health they immemaking and creation of value over the contracts. diately need to inform their manager. long-term. Kinnevik strongly advocates diversity During 2019, Kinnevik did not report any In order to deliver on our vision of and inclusion. This is reflected in the incidents to the Swedish Work Environproviding more and better choice we composition of our organisation, where ment Authority (Swe: Arbetsmiljöverket). need to truly understand our customers, a total of nine different nationalities are The low level of sick leave, below 1 (<1) which is why it is vital that our organisation represented. The proportion of women percent of total working time, highlights and portfolio company teams reflect their employed across Kinnevik’s organisaKinnevik’s efforts to improve our employcustomer base. While diversity may be tion averaged 49 (44) percent in 2019. ees’ health through healthcare insurance, measured by many different characterisThe proportion of women in Kinnevik’s fitness subsidies and other initiatives. tics, gender diversity is widely considered investment organisation was 27 (17) perIn order to assess how employees feel to be one of the most significant. Thecent, and on the Board of Directors 50 about working for Kinnevik, we conduct refore, we have initially chosen to focus (43) percent. Our target for 2022 is to yearly employee satisfaction surveys. The our concrete actions on gender diversity. achieve a 40/60 gender split across all results of the employee survey 2019 did Kinnevik’s Board of Directors and Kinnevik teams. not indicate any significant issues with ­management have agreed on four overarregards to human rights, equal opporching targets, signifying Kinnevik’s amtunities or work environment. bitions and setting the foundation for Kinnevik’s D&I framework. 18 Kinnevik AB ∙ Annual & Sustainability Report ∙ 2019 KINNEVIK SOCIETY • 40/60 Composition – by end of 2022 • Leadership – all Kinnevik managers assessment and education process for Kinnevik shall have a 40/60 composiare to be measured on diversity and employees which included a survey, indition (at least 40 percent of the underreinclusion, and the results will be linked vidual interviews and customized educapresented gender) in the Management to their remuneration tion sessions. team as well as in the Investment and Progress regarding the D&I Framework Corporate teams Kinnevik has formed an internal D&I Taskwill be reported annually in connection force to drive our agenda forward by prowith Kinnevik’s Annual General Meeting. • 10% Female Capital – from 2019 and viding input on the D&I Framework and onwards, at least 10 percent of the another initiatives, set goals and action plans Read more about Kinnevik’s nual investment budget shall be reseras well as to track progress. To ensure that community outreach efforts through ved for investments in female-founded multiple perspectives are represented, Reach for Change on page 27. or led companies. If the 10 percent is the Taskforce comprises a group of six not invested in full, the residual will employees across different genders, loroll over and increase next year’s ear­ cations, functions and seniority. To further marked budget ensure everyone’s voice is heard and to avoid group thinking, the composition of • No Follow-Ons – Kinnevik will only conthe taskforce will rotate after a term of 12 sider making follow-on investments in months. The Taskforce provides periodic companies that it believes have made progress updates to Kinnevik’s Board of progress in relation to diversity and Directors and management. inclusion To set the agenda for the Taskforce and raise awareness regarding D&I across the organisation, Kinnevik initiated an Age distribution of employees in 2019 (FTE) New employee hires and turnover during 2019 (FTE) n Female n Male New Hires 20-29 30-39 40-49 50+ Total Rate 10 Stockholm 8 Women 0.6 0.6 1.5% 6 Men 5 4 London 3 2 2 Women 0.4 0.4 1.0% Men 20–29 30–39 40–49 50+ Total 1.0 2.5% Turnover 20-29 30-39 40-49 50+ Total Rate Age distribution of the Board of Directors in 2019 (FTE) Stockholm Women n Female Men 0.9 0.9 2.3% n Male London Women 0.8 0.8 2.0% Men 0.5 0.5 1.3% 2 2 Total 2.2 5.6% 1 1 0 0 40–49 50–59 60+ Note: New hire and turnover rate is stated in FTE equivalents and calculated in relation to the FTE average number of employees in 2019. 19 Kinnevik AB ∙ Annual & Sustainability Report ∙ 2019 KINNEVIK ENVIRONMENT REDUCED CLIMATE IMPACT Result for 2019 organisational GHG emissions reporting. During 2019, Kinnevik generated 659 All use of company owned cars during All businesses have an impact on the en(645) tonnes of CO2e in total, correspon2019 has been included in the assessvironment. An area which has become ding to 16.6 (17.6) tonnes per full time ment, although they are primarily used increasingly important for Kinnevik is equivalent employee. Our largest climate by employees outside of work and for measuring, reducing and offsetting our impact was in Scope 3 where business personal purposes. Petrol is subject to carbon footprint. travel (which consists almost entirely of fringe benefits tax. District heating in air travel) accounts for 95 (95) percent of the Stockholm office is already subject Greenhouse Gas Emissions Estimate Kinnevik’s total emissions in 2019. to a carbon offsetting program directly Kinnevik conducts a yearly greenhouse In 2020, we are aiming to raise our amthrough the supplier. gas (“GHG”) emissions estimate which bition level regarding our climate impact. quantifies the total direct and indirect For example, we are looking to expand Compensating Our Carbon Emissions greenhouse gas emissions produced by Kinnevik’s Scope 3 emissions by including In order to take responsibility for our carour operations. The estimate provides the emissions of our total portfolio. The bon footprint, we compensate by offsetus with a tool to monitor and reduce our next step is to set overall portfolio targtes ting our emissions in full. For 2019 emisclimate impact. The GHG assessment to reduce climate impact. sions, we have continued our partnership quantifies all seven Kyoto greenhouse with a community-based reforestation gases where applicable and is measured Read more about the conflict between initiative in the municipality of San Juan in units of carbon dioxide equivalence, or economic growth and reducing carbon de Limay in Nicaragua. The initiative is CO2e. The results of the report are sumemissions at Kinnevik on page 26. designed and verified to the Plan Vivo marized below, and the full Greenhouse Standard, the oldest standard for certiGas Report is available on our website. Methodology and Assumptions fication of climate protection projects The report includes Kinnevik AB and KinThe assessment has been carried out in the field of land usage. The projects nevik Capital Ltd. in accordance with the GHG Protocol must pursue a holistic approach, fighting Corporate Accounting and Reporting deforestation and poverty while focussing Standard. This protocol is considered on reforestation. current best practice for corporate and Kinnevik’s 2019 emissions Kinnevik’s 2019 emissions Kinnevik’s 2019 emissions Summary by Greenhouse Gas Summary by Activity Summary by Scope Global Warming Potential Tonnes Greenhouse Gas (IPCC 2007) CO2e Activity Tonnes CO2e Scope Tonnes CO2e Carbon dioxide (CO2) 1 582 n Business travel 625 95% n 1. Direct emissions 18 3% Methane (CH4) 25 0.77 n Premises 12 2% n 2. Indirect Emissions Energy 10 1% Nitrous oxide (N2O) 298 2.95 n Company-owned/leased vehicles 21 3% n 3. Indirect Emissions Other 631 96% Other gases 1 72.9 n Materials purchased 1 0% TOTAL 659 100% TOTAL 659 TOTAL 659 100% Scope 3 Business travel Business travel and other 95% 96% 20 Kinnevik AB ∙ Annual & Sustainability Report ∙ 2019 PORTFOLIO OUR ACTIVE OWNERSHIP Kinnevik has significant influence over our investee companies through ­capital allocation, board representation and the operational support we ­provide. Driving an ambitious sustainability agenda in our companies is ­central in Kinnevik’s role as an active owner. THE KINNEVIK STANDARDS SOCIETY lity Function, identify key risks and set • Supply chain compliance priorities for the coming year. Following Kinnevik’s general expectations in relation • Human rights approval by the company’s board or auto our investee companies’ sustainability • Health & Safety dit committee, the agreed sustainability performance is outlined in our Corporate • Diversity & Inclusion agenda is implemented and followed up Responsibility Policy. As we invest across • Employee development and wellby management. different sectors and geographies, and being Private investee companies at an in companies at different stages of de• Community outreach programs earlier stage of development generally velopment, the maturity of our investee benefit from active support on a managecompanies’ sustainable business deveENVIRONMENT ment level to implement the Standards. lopment practices vary. • Emissions reporting Their performance is assessed yearly Kinnevik has developed a structured • Reducing climate impact by Kinnevik’s Sustainability Function toframework to define best practices for gether with the company’s management. our companies, to measure performance The Scoring Process Based on the priorities for the coming and to set priorities and roadmaps, called Kinnevik performs a yearly assessment of year, a roadmap is defined and adopted the Kinnevik Standards (the “Standards”). all our material investee companies, puby the company’s board where Kinnevik They were developed based on stakeholblic and private, based on the Standards. is represented. der dialogues, peer benchmarking and Material companies are defined as those Kinnevik’s Risk, Compliance and Susindustry best practice. stated separately in our NAV reporting, tainability Committee review the compaKinnevik’s investment team, supported or with a fair value exceeding SEK 100m nies’ assessments once a year and track by the Sustainability Function, is responper 31 December the previous calendar progress regularly during the year. sible for implementing the Standards in year. Following the completion of the our investee companies. At its core, the assessment, Kinnevik scores the investee Our Group Platform Sustainability Function is a b­ usiness decompanies on their fulfilment of each The Kinnevik Group forms a network of velopment function with the purpose of standard. The development of the scores companies and people that we believe supporting our companies to put the can be tracked over time for the total can learn from each other. In order to necessary structures, processes and culportfolio and for individual companies. create opportunities for knowledge shature in place to be successful over the The assessments are performed through ring and networking, Kinnevik organises a long term. interviews with the investee companies number of events and conferences. The Standards mirror our material toand our board representatives and by the During 2019, in connection with Brilpics and comprise 64 standards across Sustainability Function’s periodic visits to liant Minds we organised the Kinnevik the three dimensions of sustainable dethe companies. Summit, a day of inspirational speakers velopment: economy, society and enviThe assessment for 2019 included 26 and interactive discussions for the comronment. (24) companies, 6 (6) public and 20 (18) panies’ CEOs. We also hosted events for private, corresponding to circa 100 (99) subject matter experts in the portfolio; in Example of Content in the Standards percent of Kinnevik’s portfolio value per Stockholm for Legal and Internal Audit 31 December 2019. professionals, and in New York for Risk ECONOMY and Compliance experts. These events • Code of Conduct Assessment Process were designed to be a forum to share • Board membership and committees Our public investee companies perform best practice, discuss trends and to in• Whistleblowing system a yearly self-assessment to evaluate their spire. In addition, we organised a pro• Risk framework and organisation fulfilment of the Standards. The selfgram of workshops for HR Managers, a • Business ethics and anti-corruption assessment is compared to Kinnevik’s series of sessions for our Young Talents • Data privacy and protection assessment and any material gaps are Network and social events for the Kinaddressed. The company’s management nevik Group Alumni. The events have team, together with Kinnevik’s represenbeen well-received and in 2020 we aim tative on the board and the Sustainabito expand our platform-building efforts. 21 Kinnevik AB ∙ Annual & Sustainability Report ∙ 2019 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE IN OUR PORTFOLIO Examples of Our Companies Developing Their Governance, COMPANIES 2019 Risk and Compliance Structures A cornerstone of our sustainability work is the active dialogue with our companies. Kinnevik provides high-level strategic as well Tele2 as hands-on assistance. For example, we have provided some After the merger with Com Hem in 2018, one of the key focus of our companies with concrete input and recommendations on areas for the business was to deliver on the business plan of the combined entity in a sustainable manner. Kinnevik as the largest the content and design of their Code of Conduct and internal shareholder of Tele2 supported this agenda through an active diacontrol environment. We have invited our portfolio companies logue with the management team. A portion of the variable comto two Our Group platform events focusing on sustainability pensation of the senior management team members within Tele2 performance, read more on the previous page. We have also for 2019 included their performance on sustainability initiatives. assisted in building best practice frameworks to identify, mitigate and manage risks and to build strong governance structures. We aided some companies in identifying sound whistleblowing Livongo systems and in developing strong information security structures. Since Kinnevik’s first investment in Livongo in 2017, through Following the roll-out our D&I framework, we have assisted our our board representation and the Sustainability Function, we have worked closely with the management team to develop companies in implementing diversity and inclusion aspects in key Livongo into a long-term sustainable business. Among other policies and provided support and examples of how to create a initiatives in 2019, Kinnevik actively assisted the Board of Dimore inclusive work culture. rectors to recruit an independent Chairman to the Audit Committee to improve independence and governance structures ECONOMY within the business. A key focus area in 2019 was to develop sustainability roadmaps in companies we invested in during 2018. Most of the companies were in early stages of their journey and did not have structured Monese Kinnevik invested at a very early stage in Monese in 2018. At workstreams around sustainability initiatives. Most new companies the time of investment, Monese met basic levels of compliance with regulated businesses created sub-committees of the board required by the regulators. Kinnevik together with the manato oversee the development of initiatives across different aspects. gement team recruited subject matter experts to drive specific Kinnevik also assisted the companies to set up internal goversustainability initiatives. We worked closely with the Board to nance structures such as risk groups and governance committees, set up a Risk and Audit Committee to oversee the developresponsible for driving the development in the respective comment. Kinnevik also worked closely with the management team panies. One of the main challenges for our early stage companies to set up an internal cross functional risk committee to oversee is balancing growth with sustainable business development. the ‘on-the-ground’ development. In the fourth quarter of 2019 our portfolio company Quikr, an online classifieds platform operating in India which Kinnevik invested in in 2014, discovered that certain dealers and vendors within their managed rentals and cars segments had placed SOCIETY fictitious or misrepresented transactions on its platform. This A key focus area during 2019 has been diversity and inclusion. means that the value of revenue generated in these categories In line with Kinnevik’s highly set expectations outlined in our may be overstated, and there is a risk that some receivables may D&I Framework, many of our companies have made strong not be entirely recoverable. As a response, the company has progress by implemneting key policies and setting up training reduced its footprint in the concerned segments, is managing for employees, among other initiatives. As a result, many have its overall cost base and is pursuing criminal action against become more attractive employers with equal opportunities and those responsible. An independent review of the internal control well-being in focus. D&I is a long-term commitment and many process has also been initiated. Kinnevik is working closely with companies have plenty of room for improvement and this will Quikr’s board and management to strengthen the company’s continue to be an important issue in the coming years. internal controls and improve its overall governance, risk management and compliance structures. While we are very disappointed with what has been uncovered, we believe that the measures that are being taken are forceful and proportionate. 22 Kinnevik AB ∙ Annual & Sustainability Report ∙ 2019 Examples of Our Companies Taking the Lead on Diversity & ENVIRONMENT Inclusion As the climate crisis escalates, Kinnevik and our portfolio companies are responding. With our active support, our companies are increasingly taking action to reduce their environmental Zalando impact. In addition to the examples below, many of our comThe company believes that the diversity of people, lifestyles, panies are running initiatives with a general trend being that opinions and attitudes are crucial drivers of innovation and companies that are more mature have the more mature climate success. In October 2019, Zalando announced new diversity initiatives. During 2020, Kinnevik will continue to engage with targets for its top leadership levels. The company aims for a our portfolio companies to support, encourage and influence balanced representation of women and men on its top six mathem on their journey towards environmental responsibility, nagement levels by the end of 2023, meaning at least 40 perfocusing on those companies with the greatest carbon footprints. cent of the underrepresented gender. The new targets are part of a general revision of the company’s D&I strategy, in which Examples of Our Companies Taking Responsibility for Zalando aims to diversify its workforce across several metrics Environmental Issues including gender nationality and educational background. “During the past 11 years, we have been very focused on establisZalando hing and growing our business, and we didn’t put enough effort Aiming to be net-positive for people and planet, Zalando launched its do.MORE sustainability strategy in October 2019 and into countering structural imbalances that have evolved. We ackalready has net zero emissions for its own operations through nowledge that today we lack diversity in our senior management, off-setting. Zalando’s dedicated sustainability team is leading the and we are committed to changing this. We strongly believe that work to set Science-Based Targets in line with the Paris Agreement only a diverse and inclusive culture will ensure that we have the during 2020. best talent on board and can truly serve our customer base”, says Rubin Ritter,Co-CEO of Zalando. Tele2 Carbon neutral across its own operations, Tele2 is engaging exterBetterment nal advisers to measure its upstream and downstream emissions in 2020 with the aim of setting Science-Based Targets. As a large Betterment sits at the intersection of two industries; finance and user of energy, Tele2 continues to work to source clean power technology – both with large historical gender gaps and underfor its operations in each market. represented populations. Betterment is working hard to change this by building a company of passionate individuals who reflect their customers and brings new and different perspectives. To Kolonial achieve a better gender balance, the company has an internal D&I Food waste has halved each year for past 3 years at Kolonial and it Committee to celebrate the many backgrounds and experiences is zero waste in bakery because all products are baked to order. In of its employees. In 2018, the Women of Betterment group launDecember 2019 Kolonial switched from plastic bags for deliveries to recyclable cardboard boxes. Most of Kolonial’s delivery fleet ched SHARE (Support, Hire, Aspire, Relate, Empower), a network runs on biofuels and the company plans to increase the number of diverse individuals aimed at fostering deeper connections of electric vehicles in 2020. among women in the fintech community. Global Fashion Group GFG believes that having a truly dynamic and diverse workforce enables it to develop the deep local knowledge and expertise required to succeed within its markets. Since its foundation in 2014, GFG has increased the percentage of women in its management team from zero to 50 percent in December 2019. The same trend is seen on the board, which is headed up by a female chairman and where the percentage of women has increased from none in 2014 to 50 percent in December 2019, demonstrating GFG’s commitment to gender diversity. 23 Kinnevik AB ∙ Annual & Sustainability Report ∙ 2019 OUR COMPANIES ARE CONTRIBUTING TO THE GLOBAL GOALS Many of our portfolio companies contribute to the Global Goals by virtue of their core business models. The 2030 Agenda and sustainable business development is a business opportunity as it represents unmet demands across the globe. ECONOMY SOCIETY ENVIRONMENT GOAL 1.4: Equal rights to ownership, GOAL 3.7: Universal access to sexual GOAL 12.3: Halve global per capita food basic services, technology and economic and reproductive care, family planning waste resources and education By 2030, halve per capita global food By 2030, ensure that all men and women, By 2030, ensure universal access to sexual waste at the retail and consumer levels in particular the poor and the vulnerable, and reproductive health-care services, and reduce food losses along production have equal rights to economic resources, including for family planning, information and supply chains, including post-harvest as well as access to basic services, ownerand education, and the integration of relosses. ship and control over land and other forms productive health into national strategies of property, inheritance, natural resources, and programmes. • Karma: Marketplace platform that conappropriate new technology and financial nects consumers with local restaurants services, including micro-finance. • Livongo: Pregnancy and Early Parenand grocery stores that have surplus ting program, an evidence-based food. By letting customers buy unsold • Bayport: Financial solutions to formally behavioural health program offering food at a discount through the app, and informally employed individuals in personalized digital support Karma is reducing food waste emerging markets • BIMA: Affordable and uniquely desigGOAL 3.8: Achieve universal health ned life and health insurance products coverage via mobile phones Achieve universal health coverage, including financial risk protection, access • Monese: Fully mobile current account to quality essential health-care services service with a technically advanced KYC and access to safe, effective, quality and solution that enables people to open affordable essential medicines and vaca UK account within minutes cines for all. • Livongo: Consumer digital health company that empowers people with chronic conditions to live better and healthier lives • Babylon: Digital healthcare service company. Combining mobile tech and artificial intelligence with medical expertise, Babylon’s mission is to make healthcare more accessible and affordable for people everywhere • VillageMD: Provider of primary care and a pioneer in the delivery of valuebased care. The company transforms the healthcare experience for consumers by enabling primary care physicians to operate higher quality, risk bearing clinical models 24 Kinnevik AB ∙ Annual & Sustainability Report ∙ 2019 KINNEVIK’S NEGATIVE CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE GLOBAL GOALS Sustainable development is about doing good while doing no harm. The contributions of businesses across the globe is critical in reaching the Global Goals by 2030. While this report focuses on Kinnevik’s positive contributions to the Global Goals, we are also mindful of our actual or potential negative contributions. The below should not be seen as a comprehensive overview but a representation of Kinnevik’s key areas of actual or potential negative contributions. Kinnevik focuses its investments primarily in Europe and the US and our exposure to emerging markets has decreased significantly in recent years. As such, risks relating to political changes or instability, human rights and business ethics across the portfolio have generally become less prominent. Actual or Potential Negative Contribution Method of Mitigation ECONOMY Kinnevik’s economic performance Through our investment management activities and a dynamic may be negatively affected by: allocation of capital, Kinnevik seeks to maintain a balanced • Portfolio concentration in terms of the size of specific comportfolio across stages and tenures, sectors, share of public panies and sectors, and share of private companies in vs. private and geographies. relation to public companies in the portfolio Over the business cycle, Kinnevik relies on our investment • Liquidity risks including financing and availability of funding management activities as well as dividends received from investee companies to cover our funding needs. In addition, in line with Kinnevik’s financial target we can carry debt up to 10% of portfolio value. Our financial targets are available in full on our website. During 2019, we amended our shareholder remuneration policy (see page 17). Management of financial risks is conducted on the basis of our finance policy, read more in Note 17 of the Annual Report 2019. SOCIETY Kinnevik’s efforts to drive a diversity and inclusion agenda Kinnevik is actively working to expand the existing pipeline may be negatively affected by: of potential investments. The EIC (see page 8) has mandated • Inability to find female-founded or female-led companies the investment team to find and present female founded and to reach the target of 10 percent capital allocation led businesses. We are also working to broaden our network and exposure to female founded and led businesses through • Inability to source female talent to investee companies’ conferences and sponsorships. boards and management teams The Nomination Committees in our public companies have an extensive pipeline of potential board candidates and works with recruitment firms ensuring the right fit for the companies. Kinnevik’s investment team are mandated to source potential board and management candidates for the unlisted companies. Read more about diversity initiatives in our investee companies on page 22-23. 25 Kinnevik AB ∙ Annual & Sustainability Report ∙ 2019 Actual or Potential Negative Contribution Method of Mitigation SOCIETY For some of Kinnevik’s companies, particularly in fashion Our portfolio companies have structured onboarding proe-commerce and food, certain employee group’s work engrams for new employees and periodic mandatory health and vironment is characterized by more monotonous tasks and safety training. Hours worked are actively monitored and the a lower level of influence. Therefore, some employee groups companies have inbuilt controls to ensure that employees are are at higher risk of psychosocial health issues, for example not overworked. Middle and lower level managers are offered in warehouse operations. In addition to the moral and ethical leadership development programs. Most of our companies aspects, this also pose a reputational risk for Kinnevik. have active whistle-blower hotlines where employees can address issues that are being overlooked by their immediate managers. Kinnevik continuously works with portfolio companies to keep health and safety on the agenda of the Board and Management teams. Some of Kinnevik’s companies, particularly in fashion eAll Kinnevik’s companies are in the process of rolling out, or commerce, due to the global nature of their operations have already have in place, supplier Code of Conducts. In addition, an elevated risk of human rights violations in their supply all companies are performing a risk-based audit of compliance chain. In addition to the moral and ethical aspects, this also with the Code of Conduct. For high risk suppliers where portpose a reputational risk for Kinnevik. folio companies have significant influence over practices within the supply chain (for example with private label suppliers), the suppliers are audited periodically to ensure that they comply with the Company’s Code of Conduct. Corrective Action Plans (CAPs) are put in place for material gaps that are identified during such audits which are followed-up periodically by the supply chain compliance team. Commercial agreements are terminated if suppliers are unable to demonstrate satisfactory progress. ENVIRONMENT Kinnevik has a negative impact on the climate through business We compensate for our emissions including business travel travel, primarily by air travel, which accounted for 95 percent of through a reforestation initiative, read more on page 20. emissions in 2019. Kinnevik’s investment focus on Europe and the US means we will likely invest more in those regions in the coming years. We believe being physically present is important in active ownership and that the benefits of actively driving our sustainable business development agenda on site outweighs the negative impact of business travel. Read more about our work to help our portfolio companies mitigate sustainability risks on page 22-23. Some of Kinnevik’s companies in the e-Commerce & MarketFor 2020, we are looking into ways of measuring our portfolio’s places sector, particularly within fashion and food, as well as aggregated climate impact. The next step is to set overall the TMT sector have relatively higher environmental impacts. portfolio targets to reduce climate impact. Read more about This may be because of the nature of their operations and/ climate initiatives in our investee companies on page 23. or due to their relative size in our portfolio. For the fashion companies, the major sources of impact are the manufacturing processes, transports and packaging. For the food companies, the production of food as well as transports and food waste are the main causes of negative environmental impact. For TMT, electricity consumption is a major source of emissions of greenhouse gases. 26 Kinnevik AB ∙ Annual & Sustainability Report ∙ 2019 PORTFOLIO LEVEL KPIs The 2019 and 2018 Actual KPIs include the companies in Kinnevik’s portfolio per 31 December 2019 and 2018 respectively, excluding Millicom, Westwing and Nelly. The 2019 Comparable KPIs excludes Mathem and VillageMD as Kinnevik invested in the companies during 2019 and Nelly as it was not rated as a separate entity during 2018. % of Portfolio Value % of Number of Companie 2019 2019 2018 2018 2019 2019 2018 2018 Actual Comp Actual Comp Actual Comp Actual Comp ECONOMY Has implemented a Code of Conduct across its organisation 92% 94% 95% 94% 69% 70% 60% 61% Has implemented a Whistleblowing system 94% 95% 95% 94% 54% 57% 48% 48% Has conducted a risk assessment including rating risks based on likelihood and impact 87% 89% 62% 48% 46% 48% 32% 30% Has a defined risk limits statement to monitor risk levels 42% 43% 64% 49% 23% 26% 24% 22% Conducts regular compliance training 96% 97% 89% 85% 81% 78% 56% 57% Has incorporated anti-corruption principles in the Company’s policies 89% 91% 96% 96% 62% 61% 56% 57% SOCIETY Has implemented a Supplier Code of Conduct based on international standards 83% 85% 92% 90% 46% 43% 40% 39% Conducts periodic employee surveys 94% 96% 92% 88% 77% 78% 64% 61% Has incorporated anti-discrimination principles in the Company’s policies 93% 96% 96% 96% 73% 74% 56% 57% Has at least 40% of the underrepresented gender in the management team 4% 4% 34% 7% 12% 13% 16% 13% Has at least 40% of the underrepresented gender in the board 37% 38% 29% 41% 8% 9% 8% 9% Has implemented a community outreach or philanthropic program 82% 84% 88% 84% 31% 26% 28% 26% ENVIRONMENT Engages in environmental reporting 78% 79% 60% 44% 23% 22% 20% 17% Has implemented measures to reduce the Company’s carbon emissions 79% 81% 84% 79% 31% 30% 24% 22% 28 Kinnevik AB ∙ Annual & Sustainability Report ∙ 2019 GRI INDEX Kinnevik’s Sustainability Report refers to the calendar year 2019 and is prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option, including the GRI Sector Disclosures for Financial Services. A description of how we identified the Material Topics is available on page 12-13. The Sustainability Report 2019 has been listed companies is performed annually good, safe and healthy work environment subject to a limited assurance review, see to ensure full compliance and identify for all employees across physical, orgastatement on page 32. Kinnevik intends potential areas for improvement. nisational and social aspects, where the to continue our sustainability reporting Kinnevik conducts mandatory annual risks of occupational injuries and workin accordance with the GRI Standards on compliance training, including Code of related ill-health is prevented. In order to an annual basis. Conduct and Insider Trading Rules, for assess how employees feel about working all employees, as well as periodic deepfor Kinnevik, we conduct yearly employee MANAGEMENT APPROACH dives on specific matters such as anti-corsatisfaction surveys. DISCLOSURES ruption and supply chain management. In May 2019, Kinnevik launched a Kinnevik recognizes that the key to D&I framework to drive the important Kinnevik continuously evaluates our long term successful business developchange we want to see in our portfolio efforts within each material aspect to ment is ensuring we operate in a sustainaand the broader industry. Besides our identify potential improvements and take ble manner. Equally we believe that good fundamental belief in equal rights for all appropriate actions. sustainability performance is a prerequiemployees, Kinnevik believes diversity site for good economic performance. and inclusion brings clear business beEconomy nefits by promoting efficiency, innovation (GRI Material Topics; Sound Governance Social and financial performance, empowering Structures and Economic Growth) (GRI Material Topics; Social Responsigood decision-making and attracting top We believe it is important for any combility and Good Corporate Citizenship) talent. pany to have sound governance, risk maOur greatest asset is and has ­always Our Code of Conduct, Whistle-blower nagement and compliance structures in been our people, within Kinnevik and Policy, Talent Management Policy and place, including clear structures, policies in our companies. As such, attracting Employee Handbook set out both our and processes across functions. Being and retaining top talent is a key priority. commitments and expectations towards a financially strong company is imperaKinnevik regards diversity and inclusion our employees in the way we do business. tive for Kinnevik in being active owners as core levers for value creation, and we and supporting our portfolio companies make full use of the opportunities that Environment towards achieving long-term sustainable arise from employing a team with diffe(GRI Material Topics; Reduced Climate and profitable growth. rent backgrounds and perspectives. We Impact) All employees and representatives of also have a firm belief in contributing to All businesses have an impact on the enKinnevik are expected to fully comply the wider community through community vironment. An area which has become with the Code of Conduct. Kinnevik has outreach or philantropic programs. increasingly important for Kinnevik is an onboarding process for new employKinnevik offers our employees conmeasuring, reducing and offsetting our ees that introduces them to the Code tinuous opportunities for personal and carbon footprint. of Conduct, which includes provisions professional growth in order to develop Kinnevik conducts a yearly greenhouon anti-bribery and business ethics, and their skill set and to take increasing rese gas emission estimate which quantifies other key policies and procedures. sponsibility for value creation at Kinnevik the total greenhouse gases produced Kinnevik’s risk framework is outlined and our investee companies. Ongoing directly and indirectly by our own opein the Risk Management Policy. Kinnevik’s assessments of employees’ performance rations. This is Kinnevik’s fourth yearly management has established a Risk and success in meeting their objectives estimate and it provides us with a tool to Committee that meets thrice a year to are central in order to ensure that Kinnevik monitor, raise awareness and reduce our review key risks, developments since the offers the right personal development climate change impacts. More informaprevious meeting, the efficiency of any tools at an individual and group level. tion about our emissions is available on mitigating actions and our overall risk All employees participate in yearly perKinnevik’s website where you can also appetite. formance reviews and have individual download our Greenhouse Gas Protocol A compliance review in relation to the objectives that are reviewed twice a year. Report for 2019 and previous years. laws and regulations that govern Swedish Kinnevik is committed to promote a 29 Kinnevik AB ∙ Annual & Sustainability Report ∙ 2019 REPORTED PAGE GRI DISCLOSURES COMMENT (Y/N) GRI 102-1 Name of the organisation (2016) Y 34 GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services (2016) Y 34 GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters (2016) Y 34 GRI 102-4 Location of operations (2016) Y 59, 71-72 GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form (2016) Y 34-36 GRI 102-6 Markets served (2016) Y 34 GRI 102-7 Scale of the organisation (2016) Y 18-19, 34, 54 GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other workers (2016) Y Four employees are on temporary contracts and one employee is on a part-time 18-19 contract. GRI 102-9 Supply chain (2016) Y Kinnevik’s purchases include services and products to office operations in Stockholm and London and consultancy services in relation to the acquisition and sales processes as well as development procedures. Suppliers operate primarily in the Nordic countries and the UK. GRI 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain (2016) Y No significant changes this year. GRI 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach (2016) Y See Kinnevik’s Corporate Responsibility Policy on www.kinnevik.com. GRI 102-12 External initiatives (2016) Y UN Global Compact, GRI Standards: core option and Our Impacts. GRI 102-13 Memberships of associations (2016) Y Stockholm Chamber of Commerce, Stockholm School of Economics, Brilliant Minds, Di Female Founders, Nine Muses Festival, Innovate Finance and Reach for Change. GRI 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker (2016) Y 2-4 GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior (2016) Y 8-9, 16-17, 21, 29 GRI 102-18 Governance structure (2016) Y 39-40 GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups (2016) Y 6-7, 11 GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements (2016) Y No (zero) employees are covered by such agreements. However, freedom of assembly and association is clearly stated in our Code of Conduct. GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders (2016) Y 11 GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement (2016) Y Stakeholders have not been specifically consulted in preparation of the Sustain11 ability Report 2019. GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised (2016) Y 11 GRI 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements (2016) Y 71 GRI 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries (2016) Y 11-13, 29 GRI 102-47 List of material topics (2016) Y 12-13 GRI 102-48 Restatements of information (2016) Y No restatements have been made. GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting (2016) Y No significant changes have been made. GRI 102-50 Reporting period (2016) Y 13, 29 GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report (2016) Y The Sustainability Report 2018 covers the sustainability performance of Kinnevik for the period 1 January to 31 December 2018. Note: Publication year is indicated in parenthesis. 30 Kinnevik AB ∙ Annual & Sustainability Report ∙ 2019 REPORTED PAGE GRI DISCLOSURES COMMENT (Y/N) GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle (2016) Y 13, 29 GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report (2016) Y Torun Litzen, Director of Corporate Communications: +46 8 562 000 83. GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards (2016) Y 29 GRI 102-55 GRI content index (2016) Y 30-31 GRI 102-56 External assurance (2016) Y The Sustainability Report 2019 has been subject to a limited assurance review. 32 ECONOMIC GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary (2016) Y All topics concern Kinnevik’s own operations as well as our portfolio and contri12-13, 29 butions and actions in relation to such. GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components (2016) Y Given the nature of Kinnevik’s material topics, we have not implemented any 16-17, 21-22 specific grievance mechanisms for such. To the extent relevant components are applicable to Kinnevik’s material topics these have been included under the respective sections describing each topic. GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach (2016) Y 29 GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed (2016) Y 17 GRI 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption (2016) Y All Kinnevik’s larger investee companies are covered by the Kinnevik Standards. 21 GRI 205-2 Communication and education about anti-corruption policies and procedures Y The Code of Conduct covers anti-corruption and is communicated to all employ17 (2016) ees and Board members. Kinnevik conducts mandatory annual Code of Conduct training for all employees. Given Kinnevik’s verly limited proprietary operations we only engage with very few but well-known suppliers and therefore do not currently communicate our anti-corruption policies and procedures to such suppliers. From 2020 onwards, relevant suppliers will be covered by our Code of Conduct. There is no data accessible on how many employees in the portfolio companies that have received anti-corruption training. SOCIAL GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary (2016) Y All topics concern Kinnevik’s own operations as well as our portfolio and contri12-13, 29 butions and actions in relation to such. GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components (2016) Y Given the nature of Kinnevik’s material topics, we have not implemented any 18-19, 21-23 specific grievance mechanisms for such. To the extent relevant components are applicable to Kinnevik’s material topics these have been included under the respective sections describing each topic. GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach (2016) Y 29 GRI 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover (2016) Y 18-19 GRI 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development Y 100% of employees. 18 reviews (2016) GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees (2016) Y 18-19, 41-43 GRI 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses Y All Kinnevik’s new investments in private companies are subject to a sustain8 or that underwent human rights screening (2016) ability due diligence process based on the Kinnevik Standards which includes compliance with relevant human rights laws. GRI 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area (2016) Y No fines or non-moneraty sanctions were received during 2019. GRI-FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in the institution's portfolio with which Y All Kinnevik’s larger investee companies are covered by the Kinnevik Standards. 21-23 the reporting organization has interacted on environmental or social issues ENVIRONMENTAL GRI 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary (2016) Y All topics concern Kinnevik’s own operations as well as our portfolio and contri12-13, 29 butions and actions in relation to such. GRI 103-2 The management approach and its components (2016) Y Given the nature of Kinnevik’s material topics, we have not implemented any 20-21, 23, 29 specific grievance mechanisms for such. To the extent relevant components are applicable to Kinnevik’s material topics these have been included under the respective sections describing each topic. GRI 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach (2016) Y 29 GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions (2016) Y Company-owned or long-term leased vehicles. 20 GRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions (2016) Y Power consumption and district heating. 20 GRI 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions (2016) Y Business trips by plane, train and taxi, office material/paper consumption and 20 waste from properties. 31 Kinnevik AB ∙ Annual & Sustainability Report ∙ 2019 AUDITOR’S LIMITED ASSURANCE REPORT ON KINNEVIK AB’S SUSTAINABILITY REPORT This is the translation of the auditor’s report in Swedish. accepted auditing standards in Sweden. The firm applies ISQC 1 (International Standard on Quality TO KINNEVIK AB (PUBL), CORPORATE IDENTITY NUMBER Control) and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of 556047-9742 quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional Introduction standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. We We have been engaged by the Board of Directors of Kinnevik are independent of Kinnevik AB in accordance with professional AB (publ) (“Kinnevik AB”) to undertake a limited assurance enethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our gagement of the Kinnevik AB Sustainability Report for the year ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. 2019. The Company has defined the scope of the Sustainability The procedures performed consequently do not enable us Report on page 29-31 in this document. to obtain assurance that we would become aware of all significant matters that might be identified in a reasonable assurance Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Executive engagement. Management for the Sustainability Report Accordingly, the conclusion of the procedures performed do The Board of Directors and the Executive Management are not express a reasonable assurance conclusion. responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report in Our procedures are based on the criteria defined by the accordance with the applicable criteria, as explained on page Board of Directors and the Executive Management as described 29 in the Annual Report, and are the parts of the Sustainability above. We consider these criteria suitable for the preparation of Reporting Guidelines published by GRI (Global Reporting Initiathe Sustainability Report. tive) which are applicable to the Sustainability Report, as well as We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient the accounting and calculation principles that the Company has and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion below. developed. This responsibility also includes the internal control relevant to the preparation of a Sustainability Report that is free Conclusion from material misstatements, whether due to fraud or error. Based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that Responsibilities of the Auditor the Sustainability Report, is not prepared, in all material respects, Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Sustaiin accordance with the criteria defined by the Board of Directors nability Report based on the limited assurance procedures we and Executive Management. have performed. Our engagement is limited to historical information presented and does therefore not cover future-oriented Stockholm 26 March 2020 information. We conducted our limited assurance engagement in acDeloitte AB cordance with ISAE 3000 Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information. A limited assurance engagement consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Jan Berntsson Report, and applying analytical and other limited assurance Authorized Public Accountant procedures. The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature from, and are less in extent than for, Lennart Nordqvist a reasonable assurance engagement conducted in accordance Expert Member of FAR with International Standards on Auditing and other generally 32
