UN Global Compact Communication on progress 2019 Rubix Group International Limited May 2020 1 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Statement of continued support by the CEO “Our purpose is to keep the wheels of industry turning, right across Europe.” Our purpose is to keep the wheels of industry turning, communication on progress, we outline the actions right across Europe. It is our responsibility to do that we have undertaken to integrate the compact this in a way that also advances our business in the and its principles into our culture, operations and areas of human rights, labour, environment and antibusiness strategy. corruption, recognising the importance of these issues to employees, customers and stakeholders. I am Yours sincerely, pleased to confirm that Rubix Group International Limited reaffirms its support of the ten principles of Martin Thomsen the United Nations Global Compact. In this annual Chief Executive Officer About Rubix We are the leading industrial distributor by market share and the only one with a panEuropean footprint, carrying all premium brands. Our scale has increased our buying power and helped us to attract new European key accounts. We have established ourselves as a multi-specialist, employees, investors and other stakeholders. As providing products and services, backed by a growing Europe’s market leader, we have both the opportunity digital business, a commitment to excellence in and the responsibility to reduce the environmental distribution and a well-oiled M&A machine. impact of European manufacturing. With turnover of €2.4 billion in 2019, we are Europe’s Since the last communication on progress by Rubix largest supplier of industrial maintenance, repair and from 8 October 2018, our sustainability model overhaul (MRO) products and services. changed as rapidly as we did. Every section of this report contains new content and new ways to fulfil the Our 750+ locations across 22 countries offer specialist ten principles of the UN Global Compact. expertise in specifying, providing and installing an unrivalled scope of industrial parts, with a tailor-made We have allocated responsibility for ESG service for all customers. (Environment, Social, Governance) at board level. Keith Reville, Chief Digital and Marketing Officer, is We exist to keep the wheels of industry turning – our executive sponsor. Keith is supported by the Audit right across Europe. We are committed to delivering Committee, which is chaired by Vartan Vartanian, sustainable long-term value for our customers, Non-Executive Director. 2 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Human and Labour Rights Rubix is committed to acting with honesty, integrity, the highest ethical standards, and in compliance with all applicable local and international legislation. Rubix is committed to upholding and respecting human rights and has been a full signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) since the business was created in 2017. Rubix is committed to upholding and respecting environment that promotes equality of opportunity for human rights and has been a full signatory to the all staff members and job applicants. We aim to create United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) since the a safe working environment in which all individuals business was created in 2017. We respect the ten are able to make the best use of their skills, free principles of the UNGC on human rights, labour, from discrimination or harassment, and in which all environment and anti-corruption. This includes decisions are based on merit. the commitment to report transparently on the implementation of the ten principles annually. We aim to create a safe working Rubix also acts in compliance with all applicable environment in which all individuals are national laws in relation to minimum wage, working time regulations and overtime pay. able to make the best use of their skills, free from discrimination or harassment, and in Rubix is committed to meeting its responsibility to respect and promote human rights, and to avoiding which all decisions are based on merit. any infringement of human rights or any adverse impact on, or abuses of such rights. It is especially important when addressing the topic of human rights A formal human resources policy framework is to stress on the fact that we respect all local and followed throughout the Group. Rubix has several international requirements. However, in case of a policies in place to ensure a minimum of rights and conflict between them and our code of conduct, we benefits for all employees. They are as follows: aim to enforce the most stringent approach. • Labour Practices Policy: safe work environment, equal opportunities, benefits as holiday Rubix is committed to meeting its entitlement, pension contributions, private healthcare, childcare vouchers, training responsibility to respect and promote opportunities, labour relations and promotion of human rights, and to avoiding any diversity. infringement of human rights or any • Recruitment Policy: regulates attraction, selection adverse impact on, or abuses of such rights. and offers to new employees. Also, internal transfers get a formal procedure. Rubix recognises and respects the principle of freedom • Dignity at Work Policy: manages harassment, of association. Where staff members are represented discrimination and bullying at work. by a trade union, we are committed to making arrangements to accommodate such representations. • Paternity and Maternity Policy: minimising of risks Rubix does not condone and will not participate in during pregnancy, holidays, payment, pensions and any form of child or forced labour. Rubix committed company contact during maternity or paternity itself in its dignity at work policy to providing a working leave and the process when returning to work. 3 UN GLOBAL COMPACT • Flexible Work Policy: regulates condensed working, rolled out to track health and safety issues in a working from home and adjusted working hours. clear and transparent way. • Rubix has interactive sessions with its employees • Rubix encourages the involvement of employees regarding working conditions such as the employee in health and safety matters and aims for forum in the United Kingdom and the companycontinual improvement through a formal structure wide employee engagement survey. incorporating a training, reporting and review process that ensures every employee of Rubix is In January 2020, Rubix started to implement a aware of methods to prevent accidents and to Supplier Code of Conduct: deal with them in an appropriate manner when they happen. • Rubix endeavours to select suppliers who adopt high ethical standards which are consistent with • Rubix has established health and safety Rubix’s corporate beliefs and values. Rubix Group committees across its different entities to expects its suppliers (and their subcontractors) to assist the senior leadership team in fulfilling its operate their businesses and conduct employee responsibilities in relation to health and safety relations in an ethical manner and to meet the matters, including occupational health, arising out requirements stipulated by both international and of the activities of the Group. regional laws and industry standards. • In order to achieve best practice across all its • Rubix has the right to take onsite audits in order operations, compliance with health and safety to confirm the loyalty to the Supplier Code of policies and legislation, and progress on the Conduct. If suppliers fail to meet these expected implementation of country-specific health and safety standards, Rubix may suspend its relationship with plans, is monitored on a country by country basis. that supplier until the issue is resolved. Rubix’s fulfilment of its obligations under the Modern The Group strives to provide and maintain a safe Slavery Act of 2015 are published in an annual environment for all employees, customers and visitors Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement (see to its premises and to comply with relevant health https://www.rubix-group.com) which sets out the and safety legislation, with several Group entities steps taken to remove the risks of slavery and human implementing mandatory health checks for their trafficking within its business or supply chain. employees. There is a whistle-blowing mechanism administered • Rubix aims to minimise the risk of workplace by a third party in place to enable employees to accidents by ensuring systems are in place to voice compliance-related concerns in a responsible address the health and safety of its employees. and effective manner, helping to prevent and detect Group entities collect data (total incidents, serious malpractice or wrongdoing. The 24-hour lost time, injury frequency rate etc.) on every hotline is confidential and can be contacted by every workplace accident to track the development and employee. Employees can complain about every improvements in safety measures. Across our major issue regarding Rubix including human rights, labour, distribution centres, the ‘green cross’ initiative was environment and corruption. There is a whistle-blowing mechanism administered by a third party in place to enable employees to voice compliance-related concerns in a responsible and effective manner, helping to prevent and detect serious malpractice or wrongdoing. The 24-hour hotline is confidential and can be contacted by every employee. 4 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Environment Rubix accepts its impact on the environment. The Group employs the services of an independent consultant, EcoAct, to produce a carbon accounting tool to measure our global carbon footprint. The carbon accounting methodology adopted is the saving and the efficient use of its natural resources aligned with the GHG protocol corporate standard, at the frontline of its activities. At Rubix, our objective an internationally recognised standard that provides is to have a positive impact on the environment whilst guidelines for companies and other organisations limiting our environmental footprint. As such, we are preparing a GHG emissions inventory. The standard committed to respecting all applicable laws and norms classifies emissions as follows: regarding environmental stewardship.” • Scope 1 Direct emissions from greenhouse gas sources owned or controlled by the organisation; At Rubix, our objective is to have a positive impact on the environment whilst limiting • Scope 2 Energy indirect emissions from the generation of imported electricity, heat or steam our environmental footprint. As such, we consumed by the organisation; and are committed to respecting all applicable • Scope 3 Other indirect emissions which are laws and norms regarding environmental consequences of an organisation’s activities but stewardship. arise from sources that are owned or controlled by other organisations. As result of different legislative requirements in each Information about the reporting year ending 31 country, subsidiaries of Rubix operating many subsidiaries December 2018 can be found on www.rubix-group. have their own environmental policy in place. com (Walker Guidelines Addendum). Data for the year ending 31 December 2019 is in the process of being All employees are provided with relevant collated and will be published by 30 June 2020. environmental training and awareness, to meet all relevant legislative requirements on environmental As a distribution business, the interests of our major issues and ensure that all contractors follow our stakeholders and the environment are well aligned as practices whilst working on site and respond promptly increased efficiencies reduce our carbon footprint, and efficiently to adverse incidents. drive increased shareholder value and improve costs for customers. It is Group policy across all operations to seek to conserve energy and natural resources by minimising It is the policy of the Group, so far as is reasonably waste, recycling paper, glass and residual waste practical, to protect and conserve the local and wider where possible, and maximising the use of renewable environment from any adverse impacts caused by its resources. Initiatives in this area include: operations and to take all reasonable steps to reduce its impact upon the environment, including reducing its • Encouraging recycling and reusing old packaging carbon footprint through reducing energy consumption within national distribution centres and and proactive waste management. administration centres across the Group as well as working with local partners to ensure that most of This target is written in the code of conduct: “The its waste gets recycled and reused. Group is sensitive to environmental issues and places 5 UN GLOBAL COMPACT • Centralised printing and e-Business initiatives to sector. Rubix can help its customers to solve this reduce paper consumption. problem. • A number of projects to reutilise boxes for all Rubix takes efforts to fulfil its business model, satisfy its internal transport and to improve the recycling customers and tackle environmental issues with the use rates at both national distribution centres and and development of new technologies. Because of this, branches. Rubix has an e-Business team with over 50 employees to avoid printing and to replace paper catalogues. • Three-year-plans to reduce waste. In 2019, the Group has been certified “EcoVadis Silver Our products and services include different ways that 2019”, placing it in the Top 30% for corporate social we can help our customers on their sustainability responsibility in the industry. EcoVadis has recognised journeys, reducing cost and wastage and maximising the following strengths at Rubix: energy efficiency. • Numerous sites are ISO 14001 & 50001 certified. These include a wide range of condition monitoring and maintenance services that support our customers • Company specific awareness program in place to in their efforts, reducing the energy consumption of assist customers with environmental issues. their manufacturing and processing plants. • Monitoring of direct and indirect CO2 emissions. For example, air pressure leakage is causing 14% energy consumption waste across the manufacturing Anti-Corruption Rubix demands compliance with all applicable regulations on prohibiting corruption and seeking transparency, such as major international requirements like the OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions, the French Sapin II Law, U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (“FCPA”), the UK Bribery Act, and all other national and local anti-corruption laws in force wherever we operate. Rubix has a policy of zero tolerance of fraud or Suppliers are forbidden to directly or indirectly corruption in any form as stated in the Group’s code offer, pay, promise or accept money or anything of conduct: “Employees shall not directly or indirectly of value to/from a national or foreign government offer, promise, grant or authorise the giving of money official or private business partners or individuals or anything else of value to a government official or to influence an official action or obtain an improper private business partner to influence official actions advantage, obtain or retain business, or to secure any or obtain an improper advantage.” All employees are commercial or financial advantage for itself, the other strongly encouraged to complete anti-bribery training party or any of their respective affiliates. provided by the Rubix Academy – the company’s home of learning. 6
