5/6/2020 Communication on Progress (COP) MAY 2020 Green Touches Phone: +971 4 3880355 Mobile: +971 501611832 The Sustainable City, Sustainable Plaza, Block E2, 1st Floor, Office 103. PO Box 454906 Dubai UAE. services@greentouches-uae.com CONTENTS PAGE 1. Statement of continued support by Chief Executive officer (CEO) Ms. Adrienne Doolan. 2. Description of Actions: a. Human Rights b. Labour c. Environment d. Anti-corruption 3. Measurements of Outcome: a. Demographics of management and employees. b. Age distribution. c. Rate of occupational diseases, injuries and absenteeism d. Percentage of water saving and recycled materials. www.greentouches-uae.com 1 P.O Box: 454906 Dubai, UAE | The Sustainable City, the Sustainable Plaza, Block E2, 1st Floor | Tel: +971 4 388 0355 1. Statement of continued support by Ms. Adrienne Doolan CEO: To our stakeholders & members of the UNGC Platform: I, Adrienne Doolan, CEO and owner of Green Touches continue to pledge support for the United Nations Global Compact Ten Principles. This being our second COP, we continue not only to pledge support to, but ensure that the Ten Principles continue to permeate all aspects of our business and remain the very foundation upon which it has been built. We continue to run our day to day operations in an entirely ethical manner and our business strategy remains aligned to the Ten Principles and supporting the 17 SDGs. We never compromise on our values. We stand with our sustainable partnerships and fellow UNGC members. Since our establishment in 2015 we continue to work with the same stakeholders and seek new ones, who share our ethical values and despite the downturn in the economy, they continue to support our way of working as we are committed to making changes and creating a better future for all. I am now, more than ever, committed to enforcing change in our society as we rapidly approach 2030 with many goals yet to be achieved. Ms. Adrienne Doolan CEO/Owner | Green Touches Dubai | United Arab Emirates. www.greentouches-uae.com 2 P.O Box: 454906 Dubai, UAE | The Sustainable City, the Sustainable Plaza, Block E2, 1st Floor | Tel: +971 4 388 0355 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS: a. Human Rights: As an ecological cleaning services company our task is to provide cleaning staff to our clients for commercial and residential projects. By the mere fact that our company’s operations are based on the Ten Principles, our clients are also chosen to be in alignment with our company values so we ensure that our staff will work within a safe and pleasant environment. Not only do we respect them, but we try to source and work with companies who align themselves with our beliefs and ethos, thereby ensuring across the board attention is paid to the Ten Principles. We never discriminate against creed, colour, age or sexual orientation. Despite the economic downturn in the UAE economy, we remain committed to providing decent salaries for our staff and working conditions and will never compromise our values over money. All staff members are made aware of their rights and all documentation which they may need to sign to be part of our team is explained in detail. We operate an open-door policy to maintain open conversations. b. Labour: As a provider of jobs for a mostly immigrant population, we remain committed to avoiding the use of recruitment agencies as many of these companies continue to exploit the vulnerabilities of those seeking employment in the United Arab Emirates and tend to extort large sums of cash for an ‘entry visa’. Our staff are provided with all the benefits as prescribed by law under the Ministry of Labour contracts and all their rights are observed. Since our operations began in 2015, there have been no complaints lodged against the company. We pay attention to fair pay, equal rights for male and female employees and pay above the market rate to ensure sustainability for all. We are committed to be disrupters within our industry to make changes for cleaning staff members to provide better salaries and rights and to educate the market as to the importance of and the necessity of cleaning, and therefore this job should be respected, and salaries and working conditions need to be a reflection of this. Health & Safety are of paramount importance to us and our staff are provided with on the job training and are issued company policy booklets. As an ecological cleaning services provider, our staff do not have to work with any hazardous products or materials, and to date we have a rate of zero accidents within the company. www.greentouches-uae.com 3 P.O Box: 454906 Dubai, UAE | The Sustainable City, the Sustainable Plaza, Block E2, 1st Floor | Tel: +971 4 388 0355 c. Environment: We are entirely committed to protecting our environment. Our day to day operations reflect this ability to support our fragile planet and thereby ensuring the health of our staff and clients alike. We carry out sustainable green cleaning, provide the market with sustainable clean technology solutions by means of our Aqueous Ozone (O3) machines, producing a most powerful generalpurpose cleaner. We achieve zero waste and zero pollution to ground water. Using the Aqueous Ozone clean technology, we have no risk of accidents or any HAZMAT restrictions. Health & wellness our high on our agenda. With this in mind, we provide consultancy to our stakeholders on the importance and impact of a healthy and environmentally responsible space. We teach energy efficiency, the importance of utilizing recycled paper, responsible sourcing of products i.e. Fairtrade, recycling of materials and general health & wellness techniques. We are proud to say that our operations have zero effect on our environment. d. Anti-Corruption: Businesses play a major role in ridding the world of corruption and malpractice. This is a serious commitment for a business to take on. It means working in a totally ethical manner and only doing business with companies who have the same mindset. We do not believe in compromising on any of our values. By committing ourselves to the avoidance of any corruption or cheating, we can ensure a healthy operation and adhere strictly to our values. We monitor our business partners, suppliers and clients to make sure that we work with the most above-board stakeholders and thereby eliminate any risk of corruption. We choose to work with companies who are transparent and operate with integrity and accountability. This is a commitment one has to make in order to enforce change within society. www.greentouches-uae.com 4 P.O Box: 454906 Dubai, UAE | The Sustainable City, the Sustainable Plaza, Block E2, 1st Floor | Tel: +971 4 388 0355 3. Measurement of outcomes: a. Demographics of all employees – male and female www.greentouches-uae.com 5 P.O Box: 454906 Dubai, UAE | The Sustainable City, the Sustainable Plaza, Block E2, 1st Floor | Tel: +971 4 388 0355 b. Age distribution : Age 20-30 years 30-40 years 40-50 years 50-60 years www.greentouches-uae.com 6 P.O Box: 454906 Dubai, UAE | The Sustainable City, the Sustainable Plaza, Block E2, 1st Floor | Tel: +971 4 388 0355 c. Rate of occupational diseases, injuries and absenteeism 2019 % Occupational diseases 0 Injuries 0 Absenteeism 15 d. Percentage of water saving & recycled materials environmental impact Environmental Impact 2019 2.5 ltr Plastic Packaging materials Water saving using our bottles not used (cardboard) SGCP** *Replace traditional 17,000 4,400 18,942,614 ltr/yr. cleaning products *Using Aqueous Ozone O3 in services by stakeholders & ourselves. **Sustainable Green Cleaning Programme www.greentouches-uae.com 7 P.O Box: 454906 Dubai, UAE | The Sustainable City, the Sustainable Plaza, Block E2, 1st Floor | Tel: +971 4 388 0355
