                        Sustainability repor t              factbook 2019                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        2 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook Editorial Dear Readers, Bosch is committed to sustainability and is constantly evolving in this respect. The corresponding strategic foundations are anchored in our “New Dimensions – Sustainability 2025” target vision, which we have developed with an eye on the prevailing megatrends: in all dimensions – climate, energy, water, urbanization, globalization, and health – we focus our activities on those areas in which we can achieve the greatest benefit for people and the environment. But we take our corporate responsibility even further: we want to promote social progress and play an active role, even beyond the boundaries of our core business. In this regard, we are especially committed to education and science – which we consider an investment in the future. We made significant progress last year. We have come a big step closer to our goal of making our sites CO₂ neutral by the end of 2020. Over 1,000 newly implemented projects have improved our energy efficiency. We have also extended our commitment to the careful use of water. Our efforts in this regard are specifically focused on regions affected by water scarcity. In 2019, we launched around 50 projects in such regions that will enable us to save a total of around 200,000 cubic meters of water – or around 80 Olympic-size swimming pools. As in previous years, we also focused on the occupational health and safety of our associates. Thanks to a variety of measures, we were once again able to rigorously reduce the accident rate. And last but not least, a sustainable orientation requires transparent reporting in which we disclose our processes and document our progress. In this report, the factbook 2019, we present our sustainability activities over the past year, the challenges we faced, what we accomplished, and our goals for the future in detail and backed up with extensive data. Our report is based on the standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). It is supplemented by our magazine Spotlights, in which we offer illustrative and vivid insights into the implementation of our sustainability target vision. I hope you find this report inspiring. Thank you for your interest! Yours sincerely, Christoph Kübel Member of the board of management and director of industrial relations 3 Editorial | Contents Contents 2 Editorial 3 Contents 4 Foreword by the board of management 6 Company 8 Bosch Group profile 13 Sustainability strategy and organization 19 Corporate governance and compliance 24 Products 26 Management approach 30 Product development 35 Sustainable products 42 Supply chain 44 Management approach 46 Social and environmental requirements for suppliers 47 Supplier assessments 49 Further development of sustainability performance 50 Environment 52 Management approach 54 Energy and climate action 60 Water and wastewater 63 Materials and waste management 66 Associates 68 Management approach 71 Employer of choice 76 Leadership and collaboration 78 Learning and development 83 Occupational health and safety 88 Society 90 Management approach 91 Global commitment 94 Political lobbying About this report 97 Sponsorship This factbook reports on all facts, figures, and nonfinancial informa98 Annex 99 GRI content index tion concerning the Bosch Group’s 105 Independent auditor’s assurance report sustainability activities. 107 About this report 107 Publication details Spotlights magazine presents highlights from the reporting year – consistent with the “New Dimensions – Sustainability 2025” target vision: 4 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook Foreword by the board of management Dear Readers, It’s not just the world that is changing, Bosch is changing Mobility solutions are a major constituent of our product with it. Our markets are undergoing a profound transfor­ portfolio. We want climate action in road transportation, mation. One consequence of this is that our company is and we are advancing toward the powertrain of the future faced with new challenges in terms of sustainability, which with an open mind with regard to technology. Accordingwe are tackling by balancing economic, ecological, and ly, we are developing electromobility based on both batsocial responsibilities – every day and at all our sites tery as well as fuel cell technologies. And we see synthetworldwide. ic fuels as an opportunity for diesel and gasoline engines to be CO₂ neutral. We are making considerable upfront Above all, we are making a contribution to climate action, investments in sustainable mobility – more than one biland we are making every effort to limit the rise in temperlion euros for electrified, automated, and connected drivature of the Earth’s atmosphere. Our sites worldwide will ing in 2020 alone. Beyond this, we are also active in key be climate neutral before the end of 2020. From developgrowth areas. Our expertise in the domains of the Interment to production and administration, Bosch will no net of Things (IoT) and artificial intelligence (AI) gives us longer have a carbon footprint from then on. That’s an a considerable edge. ambitious goal. But we are in no doubt that we can reach it. In fact, we can already look back at some initial progIrrespective of the technological or entrepreneurial ress: all Bosch sites in Germany have been climate neucourse we take, the key to success lies in the expertise tral since 2019. of our roughly 400,000 associates. We are systematically empowering them to accompany our organization’s digital Yet we are not resting on our laurels. We are setting our transformation in particular. With a new training program, sights further afield – indeed, beyond our company’s for instance, we are getting around 20,000 associates in boundaries. We are involving our business partners in shape to handle AI. More than ever, Bosch sees itself as a our climate action measures and are also training our learning company. attention on our indirect emissions. These include the impact of purchased goods and services and their transOn the following pages, you can find out how we are port, as well as the impact of our products. Throughout stepping up to face the ecological challenges, how we our supply chains and in the use phase of our products, are achieving our goals, and what else we are planning we aim to reduce our absolute CO₂ emissions by at least as we look ahead to the future. I thank you for your trust 15 percent by 2030. Our climate targets have been and look forward to a constructive exchange of ideas. reviewed and approved by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi). We are the first automotive supplier Yours sincerely, worldwide to join the SBTi. Dr. Volkmar Denner Chairman of the board of management 5 Foreword by the board of management 6 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook Company As a leading global supplier of technology and services, the Bosch Group has a special social responsibility. Particularly in times of far-reaching changes, we want to use our innovations to protect the natural resources on which present and future generations depend. In this sense, sustainable, ecological, and socially responsible action is the foundation for our success in business. “In the long term, an honest and fair approach to doing business will always be the most profitable.” The conviction held by our company founder Robert Bosch still guides our actions today. 7 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society 398,200  associates 150 from some nations 77.7 billion euros in sales revenue 440 subsidiaries and regional companies 60 in over countries 1,000 Over stakeholders worldwide  surveyed on sustainability 8 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook 1.1 Bosch Group profile The Bosch Group employs some 398,200 associates worldwide (as of December 31, 2019) and Robert Bosch Stiftung generated sales revenue of 77.7 billion euros in the 2019 fiscal year (previous year: 78.5 billion A charitable foundation, Robert Bosch Stif Bosch 2019 annual report euros). The group comprises Robert Bosch GmbH and its roughly 440 subsidiary and regional companies in over 60 countries. Together with all tung finances its work from the dividend it receives as a shareholder in Robert Bosch GmbH. In 2019, Robert Bosch Stiftung spent about 105 million euros on charitable causes. sales and service partners, Bosch’s global manufacturing, engineering, and sales network extends Since it was established in 1964, Robert across nearly every country in the world. Bosch Stiftung has been carrying on the company founder’s public welfare endeavors. It is devoted to social challenges and promotes 1 | 01 projects whose aim is to develop innovative Head count solutions and models for our future. To this Bosch Group by region, end, it is active in specific funding areas, as of Dec. 31, 2019 among them international understanding and cooperation, health, education, science Total 398,150 and research, and active citizenship. Robert Bosch Stiftung sees itself both as an “operaEurope tive foundation” that pursues its objectives Asia Pacific (including other 242,506 with projects of its own and as a supportive countries, also foundation that enables others to develop and in Africa) implement their projects. 111,717 Americas With more than 50 years of experience, 43,927 Robert Bosch Stiftung has extensive knowledge in the fields it supports, the capacity to develop solutions, and an extensive network of partners, experts, and practitioners With innovative products and services, Bosch on the ground. For further information on Robert Bosch Stiftung and its projects, visit offers exciting technology that is “Invented for www.bosch-stiftung.de/en. life” and improves quality of life worldwide. As a leading IoT company, we offer innovative solutions for smart homes, smart cities, connected mobility, and connected manufacturing. With our expertise in sensor technology, software, and antees the entrepreneurial freedom of the Bosch services, as well as our own IoT cloud, we develGroup, making it possible for it to plan over the op connected, cross-domain solutions for our long term and to undertake significant up-front customers from a single source. The basis for investments designed to safeguard its future. the company’s future growth is its innovative Ninety-two percent of the share capital of Robert 72,600 associates strength. Bosch employs some 72,600 associates Bosch GmbH is held by Robert Bosch Stiftung in research and in research and development worldwide (also see GmbH, a charitable foundation. The majority of development the “Products” section). voting rights are held by Robert Bosch Industrie­ treuhand KG, an industrial trust that carries out The company was set up in Stuttgart in 1886 by the entrepreneurial ownership functions. The Robert Bosch (1861–1942) as a “Workshop for remaining shares are held by the Bosch family Precision Mechanics and Electrical Engineering.” and by Robert Bosch GmbH. Robert Bosch GmbH’s ownership structure guar9 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Bosch Group profile | Sustainability strategy and organization | Corporate governance and compliance Business sectors and Industrial Technology In the 2019 fiscal year, the Industrial Technology business fields business sector generated roughly ten percent of total Bosch Group sales revenue. This business sector includes the Drive and Control Technology The Bosch Group pursues its objective to develop division (Bosch Rexroth AG), which specializes in and bring to market solutions that are “Invented drive and control technology for efficient, powerfor life” in four business sectors: Mobility Soluful, and safe movement in machines and systems. tions, Industrial Technology, Consumer Goods, With smart components as well as customized and Energy and Building Technology. They are system solutions and services, the division creamong the leading players in many of their fields ates the prerequisite environment for fully conof activity. nected applications. Focusing on the factory of the future, our Bosch Connected Industry busiMobility Solutions ness unit drives forward Industry 4.0 software The Mobility Solutions business sector, one solutions and projects for internal and external of the world’s biggest automotive suppliers, customers. The Robert Bosch Manufacturing accounts for 60 percent of total sales revenue. Solutions unit works on Bosch-internal assembly The vision we pursue is to make mobility as systems solutions and innovative production proemission-free, stress-free, and accident-free as cesses. We sold our subsidiary Robert Bosch possible and at the same time multimodal and Packaging Technology GmbH including its pharpersonalized. Key areas of activity are injection maceutical and food units at the end of 2019. technology and powertrain peripherals for internal-combustion engines, diverse solutions for Consumer Goods powertrain electrification, steering systems, safeThe Consumer Goods business sector contrib­ ty and driver-assistance systems, and technology uted some 23 percent of total Bosch Group sales for user-friendly infotainment, as well as vehiclerevenue in 2019. This includes the Power Tools to-vehicle and vehicle-to-infrastructure communidivision, which offers not only power tools such cation, repair-shop concepts, and technology and as jigsaws and hammer drills, but also gardening services for the automotive aftermarket. Particuequipment such as lawnmowers, high-pressure lar strategic priorities include transforming the cleaners, and measuring technology. Its focal powertrain and expanding our business in the points are on convenient, high-performance cordarea of electrification, automated driving, new less tools, and increasingly also Web-enabled electrical and electronic architectures for vehitools and services. The key pillars of the Power cles, accessing adjacent market segments, and Tools strategy are innovativeness, continuing developing additional services. digitization, strong brands, and the expansion of business in emerging markets. The business sector also includes the Automotive Aftermarket division, the service provider ConThe Consumer Goods business sector also nected Mobility Solutions, the new Bosch eBike includes BSH Hausgeräte GmbH – a supplier of Systems division, which was created at the start modern, energy-efficient household appliances, of 2020, and activities involving two-wheelers, which are increasingly also Web-enabled. Its commercial and off-highway vehicles, and engiproduct portfolio ranges from washing machines, neering services. and tumble dryers, through refrigerators, and freezers, stoves, and ovens, and dishwashers to small appliances such as vacuum cleaners, coffee makers, and food processors. The Bosch sub10 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook sidiary is concentrating on a customer-centric Opening up new areas of business Hardware+ strategy and increasingly offering digiThe Bosch Group’s global software and systems tal and personalized services in addition to innounit, Bosch Software Innovations GmbH, based in vative household appliances. Berlin, Germany, was renamed Bosch.IO GmbH at the beginning of 2020 and given responsibility Energy and Building Technology for other Bosch activities in the IoT domain. In 2019, the Energy and Building Technology Bosch.IO helps the operating units to develop business sector generated seven percent of total scalable solutions and digital business models. Bosch Group sales revenue. The constituent It is also responsible for IoT activities relating to Building Technologies division comprises the agriculture, commercial buildings, and energy, global product business for innovative security as well as external sales of the Bosch IoT Suite, and communications solutions as well as the including in combination with Bosch’s hybrid regional integrator business. The latter offers cloud solutions. solutions and customized services for building security, energy efficiency, and building automaSince 2013, already, grow platform GmbH has tion in selected countries. Both units focus on provided a platform within Bosch for developing commercial applications. The product portfolio and implementing new business models. In this encompasses video-surveillance, intrusion-detecway, it helps cultivate new business and strengthtion, fire-detection, and voice-alarm systems, as en the start-up culture within Bosch (also see well as access-control and professional audio and the “Products | Product development” section). conference systems. Through Robert Bosch Venture Capital GmbH, we additionally invest in external technology startThe Thermotechnology division offers solutions ups around the world. This gives us early access for air-conditioning, hot water, and decentralized to innovative technologies, some of which have energy management to customers worldwide. disruptive potential. The company’s investments It provides heating systems and energy managefocus on projects involving highly automated drivment for residential buildings, water heaters, and ing, AI, IoT, and mobility solutions, as well as commercial and industrial heating and air-condicomputer architectures of the future. tioning systems. The portfolio includes highly efficient technologies such as condensing boilers, Our subsidiary Bosch Healthcare Solutions solar thermal systems, heat pumps, and comGmbH, based in Waiblingen, Germany, offers bined heat and power generation. connected products and services in the new business field of healthcare and medical technology The third division, Bosch Global Service Solu(also see the “Products | Sustainable products” tions, offers outsourcing for business processes section). and services, primarily for customers in the automotive, travel, and logistics industries and in information and communications technology. Robert Bosch Smart Home GmbH pools Webenabled solutions for the home. 11 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Bosch Group profile | Sustainability strategy and organization | Corporate governance and compliance Business in 2019 Bosch’s strategic approach The Bosch Group is experiencing fundamental changes in its markets. These changes will open up major opportunities in the medium and long The starting point for our goals and strategies is term. But they will also pose key challenges, prithe objective of securing the company’s future as marily in the automotive sector at present. In enshrined in the will of founder Robert Bosch – addition, the company felt the impact in 2019 of in other words, ensuring the company’s developa cooling global economy and the marked fall in ment and securing its financial independence. We global automobile production. want to become a leading IoT company and provider of the mobility of the future. Nonetheless, the success of many products kept the Bosch Group’s sales revenue virtually on a Our ambition is to always develop products that par with the previous year. The development of are “Invented for life,” that spark enthusiasm, that earnings was not particularly favorable. This was improve quality of life, and that help conserve chiefly due to three factors: First, upfront investnatural resources. In this respect, “products” ments in technologies with future potential such means not only physical products and services as electromobility, automated driving, AI, and IoT but also software-based solutions. We are driving continued to grow. Second, there was the weakinnovation, opening up new business areas, and ness of automotive markets such as China and evolving our organization. At the same time, we India, which had previously generated high marare adapting our existing activities to market gins, and of the diesel passenger car market segrequirements. ment. Finally, this meant significant expenses for necessary restructuring measures, especially in The Bosch Group is currently seeing fundamental the Mobility Solutions business sector. An imporchanges in technologies and markets. Besides tant strategic step toward a sharper focus was digitization and increased connectivity, this is taken with the divestment of the former Packagalso due to global concern about climate change, ing Technology division. geopolitical developments, and social trends such as increasing urbanization. Connectivity is For further details on Bosch’s business situation, affecting all our areas of business – from mobility see the 2019 annual report (page 45 et seq.). solutions, industrial technology, and consumer goods through to building and energy technology. 1 | 02 Another disruptive factor is increasing electrificaSales revenue tion, especially in automotive technology, but Bosch Group 2019 by region, also in industrial technology and energy and in billions of euros building technology. Total 77.7 Europe Asia Pacific (including other 40.8 countries, also in Africa) 22.5 Americas 14.4 12 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook Mission statement and values One of the strategic focal points of our “We are  “We are Bosch” mission Bosch” mission statement is shaping change, taking into account the aspects of connectivity, electrification, automation, energy efficiency, and statement emerging markets. It is our ambition to play a part in molding the far-reaching changes in markets and technology. Additional key strategic focal points are customer centricity as well as entrepreneurial and innovative excellence. For us, customer focus means understanding the needs of our customers and, against this backdrop, finding the best possible solution for products and business models. Excellence is a prerequisite to reach our goals. We measure ourselves against our best competitors and always aim to take the lead. When putting our strategy into practice, we build on our strengths: our culture, our high level of innovation and quality, and our global presence. The Bosch values are the bedrock of our actions: future and result focus, responsibility and sustainability, initiative and determination, openness and trust, fairness, reliability, credibility and legality, and diversity.                                                                                     13 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Bosch Group profile | Sustainability strategy and organization | Corporate governance and compliance 1.2 S  ustainability strategy and organization Sustainability concerns us all – and has therefore natural resources with our products, solutions, been defined as a central task at Bosch on which and services. The “Invented for life” ethos is the various business sectors work together. Ambiingrained throughout our entire product developtious targets and systematic sustainability manment (also see the “Products” section). agement form the basis. The contents, tasks, and related controlling are firmly anchored in our proOur “New Dimensions – Sustainability 2025” cesses. Clear responsibilities and decision-making processes secure the efficiency of our actions. target vision developed in 2018 describes six globally important issues, each of which is specified and further developed based on two major  Read more about the aspects with clearly defined, medium-term tar“New Dimensions – 1 | 03 gets. Derived from the megatrends that are signifiSustainability 2025” Target vision: target vision in Spotlights cant for our company and the results of our matemagazine New Dimensions – Sustainability 2025 riality analysis, the issues set the frame for our activities in the years ahead. En The issues set the priorities for our commitment to 1 | erg +2 2 | Ene y sustainability and clearly show the way forward. e1 Re rgy m ate scop e 3 ne wa effic That includes our commitment to climate action, i p Cl CO 2 sco ble ien 1 | CO 2 en cy as well as continuously striving toward energy erg 2| y efficiency, and the conscientious use of natural resources such as water. Also in an increasingly 1 | Health + Safety urbanized world, we want to keep the ecological 1 | Water scarcity footprint of our operations and products as small New Dimensions as possible and gear our operations more and 2 | Substances of concern 2 | Water quality Sustainability 2025 Water more toward the principle of a closed-loop or cirHealth cular economy. As a globally operating company, we also assume responsibility for society and the Gl environment worldwide. In this way, we are makts 1 | oba en 2 | Res lizat sm on es te ing our actions transparent and are including our Su pon ion ati ass as pp ly sibil niz cle + W supply chain in our efforts to do business in a ch ity ba cy es ain Ur Life ourc 1| s Re sustainable and responsible manner. We also 2| endeavor to keep people and the environment from harm – occupational health and safety, compliance with materials restrictions, and the responsible use of substances of concern are key It is also our ambition to play a leading role in issues in this respect. Our plans regarding the sustainability management: we want to help respective issues are described in the following improve quality of life worldwide and conserve sections of this report. 14 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook Clear responsibility for sustainability The strategic orientation with regard to sustainAt Bosch, we take a holistic approach to sustainability is developed jointly by the Communicaability. The highest technical committee for sustions and Governmental Affairs corporate sector tainability is the corporate social responsibility and the EHS and Sustainability corporate sector. steering committee under the aegis of the CEO. From a content point of view, the CommunicaThis committee brings together the board of mantions and Governmental Affairs corporate sector agement member responsible for sustainability focuses on sustainability communications and as well as the competent department heads – for stakeholder engagement. The EHS and Sustainexample, for HR, real estate and facilities, enviability corporate sector is responsible for sustainronment, and communications. The steering comability management, which mainly entails setting mittee concerns itself with Bosch’s strategic oriand tracking goals, designing and accompanying entation in relation to sustainability, whereas goal programs, as well as preparing concepts for furagreements and management review for all susther development. tainability-related issues are the responsibility of the CEO and the board of management member responsible for sustainability. 1 | 04 How sustainability is organized at Bosch Chairman of the board of management Goal agreement and board of management member Management review responsible for sustainability Corporate social responsibility Strategic approach steering committee Sustainability management Head of EHS and Sustainability and sustainability report Head of Communications and Sustainability communication Governmental Affairs and stakeholder engagement Implementation and monitoring Specialists responsible of the sustainability strategy and targets in the divisions 15 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Bosch Group profile | Sustainability strategy and organization | Corporate governance and compliance Responsibility for worldwide implementation of the sustainability strategy and monitoring the EHS Award: recognizing achievement of goals rests with the competent exemplary projects specialists at headquarters and in the divisions. The structure we apply in sustainability manageBosch recognizes outstanding projects ment is one that has already served us well in with the annual EHS Award. Bosch locations other areas: strategy and framework conditions worldwide can apply in the categories CO₂/ are defined centrally, and the divisions focus on energy efficiency, resource efficiency, and occupational health and safety – and since compliance with the standards and processes, 2019 in the new category sustainable prodright through to certification. Our associates in ucts. A jury of experts then chooses the three the regions and at the more than 400 Bosch sites best projects in each category, and the board worldwide then have the task of putting the of management member responsible for susrespective requirements into practice locally and tainability presents the trophies at an interensuring compliance with the defined framework nal awards ceremony. The rising number of conditions. applications is testament to the award’s high profile within the company: a total of 162 In order to reduce the complexity of our sustainapplications were submitted in 2019 – ability management, we use a central core proan increase of 57 over the previous year. cess that is based on the ISO standard process definitions, in particular ISO 31000 (also see Fig. 1 | 05). 1 | 05 Core process of sustainability management Core process of sustainability management Internal and external Management responsibility Requirements requirements Planning Operation Steering are fulfilled (incl. stakeholders and legislation) Commitment and cooperation for more sustainability relating to human rights, labor standards, We want to make a relevant contribution to jointly environmental protection, and anti-corruption overcoming global social challenges and are measures. With this factbook, we also satisfy the therefore involved in numerous initiatives. For requirement associated with this commitment of instance, Robert Bosch GmbH has been a memreporting on the progress we made in 2019 in ber of the United Nations Global Compact since terms of these principles. 2004 and a member of the German Global Compact Network’s steering group since 2013. We are We also support the United Nations Sustainable committed to the ten Global Compact principles Development Goals (SDGs) adopted in 2015. 16 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook Accordingly, we regularly benchmark our sustainAs signatory of the WIN Charter developed by ability activities against the 17 SDGs. As in the the Sustainable Business Practices initiative of previous year, the following are of particular relethe German federal state of Baden-Württemberg, vance for our company: Good Health and Wellwe have also committed to our economic, ecologBeing (SDG 3), Quality Education (SDG 4), Genical, and social responsibility at the regional levder Equality (SDG 5), Clean Water and Sanitation el. In addition, we are active members in a large (SDG 6), Decent Work and Economic Growth number of other sustainability-related initiatives (SDG 8), Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure including since 1995, as a corporate member of (SDG 9), Sustainable Cities and Communities Transparency International Deutschland e. V. and, (SDG 11), Responsible Production and Consince 2007, as a member of the Forum Complisumption (SDG 12), and Climate Action (SDG 13). ance & Integrity. Bosch’s diverse activities also support aspects of other UN goals. Dialogue with internal and external stakeholders Our reporting serves to make our commitment We want to hear what our stakeholders have to transparent. We support various reporting forsay and make their needs the yardstick against mats, such as the German Sustainability Code, which we measure our activities. That is why we CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project), engage in continuous dialogue – as cooperative and the Standards of the Global Reporting Initiaand intensive exchange is essential for us to tailor tive (GRI). our efforts so that they can achieve their maximum potential and meet the various stakeholdFounding member As one of seven founding members of the value ers’ expectations. of value balancing balancing alliance e. V., since 2019 we have been alliance e. V. working together with other internationally operAs a company with global operations and a very ating companies on a global standard for measurextensive product portfolio, we face the challenge ing and disclosing companies’ true contributions of addressing a very wide range of stakeholders of value to society. The aim of the value balancing with often widely diverging requirements. alliance is to factor in the environmental, social, and economic impact in companies’ financial ▶▶Customers reporting and performance measurement. We are in regular and intensive exchange with companies from various industries. In the automotive industry, a focus is on the consequences of new mobility concepts. In practically all industries and often in cooperation with other companies, we are also working on topics including energy efficiency and connecting mobility, buildings, and industry. And, last but not least, our trade and retail customers appreciate tools and household appliances from Bosch (also see the “Products” section). 17 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Bosch Group profile | Sustainability strategy and organization | Corporate governance and compliance ▶▶Suppliers ▶▶Associates Our responsibility for the environment and sociThe legacy of our company founder Robert Bosch ety stretches beyond our company boundaries also finds its expression in our corporate culture: and across the entire supply chain. Accordingly, the dialogue with associates includes, for examwe include our suppliers in our sustainability ple, continuous feedback talks with their respecefforts and perform regular environmental and tive managers. Bosch also conducts a companysocial audits with them, among other measures. wide associate survey at regular intervals to obtain The exchange includes extensive analyses as well feedback on, among other things, associates’ as training on topics such as resource efficiency working conditions, their identification with the and workplace safety (also see the “Supply chain” company’s values, and work–life balance (also section). see the “Associates” section). ▶▶Universities and research institutes Further important stakeholders in our company We maintain dialogue with research institutes by include the people living in the vicinity of our promoting research projects in areas of relevance locations around the world, as well as environfor Bosch such as digitization, renewable energies, mental and social nongovernmental organizaand electrification. In addition, we offer students tions, banks, insurance companies, the media, and graduates the opportunity to write their bachreligious organizations, and representatives of elor or master thesis and dissertations on suspublic authorities. With them, too, we engage in tainability topics of practical relevance (also see discussions. By attending conferences and as a the “Products | Product development” section). part of our work in associations and committees, we continuously review our extensive activities. ▶▶Policymakers As a supplier of technology and services with a multitude of different products, we are bound by regulatory frameworks in our endeavors to demonstrate what is technologically possible. We therefore actively participate in efforts to represent the interests of associations and engage in dialogue with policymakers, be it directly or through committees. In this context, Bosch is viewed as a reliable partner and is regularly specifically asked to share its knowledge. Our dialogue with policymakers focuses on issues of technical feasibility while considering the inter­ dependence of costs and effects (also see the “Society | Political lobbying” section).                                                             18 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook Material topics assessment of the relevance of sustainability We use a materiality analysis to determine which issues. The following materiality matrix presents aspects of sustainability to focus our activities on. the aspects that Bosch and its stakeholders The analysis is regularly compared with the outdeemed to be of material relevance within the come of our trend monitoring and adjusted as defined fields of activity. necessary. We updated our materiality matrix at the end of 2019: more than 1,000 international The survey confirmed in particular the high relestakeholders – including business partners, repvance of climate action and energy efficiency, resentatives of the scientific community, policydata security and protection, and compliance and makers, the capital market, and relevant non­ integrity. The outcome of this analysis also forms governmental organizations, as well as associates the basis for the choice of topics in this factbook. and prospective job applicants – gave their 1 | 06 2019 materiality matrix Very high Occupational health Compliance and integrity Sustainability awareness Climate action and energy efficiency Data security and protection Relevance for stakeholders Water Air quality Mobility transformation Sustainability reporting Associate development Employer attractiveness Diversity Social commitment Sustainable product Resources and waste development Environmental/social supply chain standards Occupational safety Demographic change Fire protection Digitzation (IoT) and Land consumption artificial intelligence (AI) Biodiversity Entrepreneurial Investor relations freedom Donations Moderate Moderate Relevance for Bosch Very high Sections: Company Products Environment Associates Society 19 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Bosch Group profile | Sustainability strategy and organization | Corporate governance and compliance 1.3 C  orporate governance and compliance A clear commitment to taking responsibility, obeying the law, and behaving ethically is Risk management immensely important to Bosch. “We promise only what we can deliver, accept agreements as bindManaging risks in a forward-looking and responsiing, and respect and observe the law in all our ble manner and identifying opportunities at an business transactions.” We have also anchored early stage and seizing them sets important founthis philosophy in our mission statement. dations for our success in business. In the Bosch Group, risk management encompasses the entire company, including all operations, functional Responsible corporate areas, divisions, regional organizations, and busigovernance ness sectors. It is thus a core responsibility for all managers on every level of the Bosch Group. The board of management of Robert Bosch As a rule, responsibility for risk management is GmbH defines the strategy for the entire company assumed locally on all group management levels, and manages the company as a whole. Its responwith certain governance tasks being organized sibilities are set out in the board of management at corporate level. This means that risks are idenorganization chart. The Robert Bosch GmbH tified and managed where they arise: in other supervisory board appoints, monitors, and adviswords, above all in the divisions and regional es the board of management. In making appointorganizations. The latter are also primarily ments to the supervisory board, Robert Bosch responsible for introducing measures to reduce GmbH is subject to the German Codetermination or control risks. In addition, corporate departAct (Mitbestimmungsgesetz). Owing to the compaments for areas such as compliance manageny’s size, the supervisory board has 20 members. ment, legal services, tax, and the corporate office Ten members are appointed by the shareholders for the risk management system direct and moniwith voting rights. The other ten members are tor the operating units’ control activities. Internal elected by the employee representatives. auditing, which acts as an independent authority and reports directly to Robert Bosch Industrie­ Robert Bosch Industrietreuhand KG acts as mantreuhand KG as the shareholder, has responsibiliaging partner. In line with the mission handed ties including assessing the appropriateness and down in the will of the company founder, Robert effectiveness of the tasks described and, if necesBosch, the trust is responsible for safeguarding sary, initiating remedial measures. the company’s long-term existence and, above all, its financial independence. The aim is to guaranThe corporate coordinating office for the risk tee that the company remains independent and management system is responsible for making able to act at all times. For further information on this topic fit for the growing tasks ahead. In 2019, the board of management and the supervisory this included the preparation and publication of a board, see pages 6 and 10 of the 2019 annual risk management directive, which is applicable to report. the whole Bosch Group worldwide and will be enforced in full in 2020. This directive serves to ensure greater clarity regarding basic principles and responsibilities. The corporate coordinating office also began introducing a new, standardized electronic risk information system across the 20 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook Bosch Group in 2019, which supports risk recordcommittee, comprising representatives from legal ing and analysis and improves transparency. This services, internal audit, and HR, supports the work also involved further developing the methCCO in an advisory capacity. odology for assessing risk. In addition, a new, cross-functional risk committee is tasked with In 2018 and 2019, we further developed the comidentifying significant risk areas across the divipliance organization and broadened its scope by sions and analyzing disruptive technological and appointing new positions. In order to further strategic risks. strengthen the organization’s independence, the compliance officers of the regions were integratFor further details on our risk management sysed into the corporate headquarters as of January tem and a description of significant risks, see the 2020 by assigning them target responsibility. In 2019 annual report (page 58 et seq.). The main 2020, we also want to integrate the compliance antitrust and legal risks are also described there. officers of the divisions into the corporate headquarters. With these measures, we are pursuing the goal of further strengthening the indepenCompliance at Bosch dence of the compliance officers while at the same time maintaining the proximity of contact Compliance refers to the observance of legal persons to the divisions and regions. In doing so, requirements and company guidelines. At Bosch, we continue to develop steadily from essentially this is an integral part of our corporate values. rule-based compliance to a primarily valuesTo this end, we have clearly and unequivocally based approach. We want to be a pioneer in valformulated our position on legal requirements ues-based conduct that extends beyond mere and ethical issues in our globally applicable Code com­pliance with the law. of Business Conduct. Together with the Bosch values, it provides a foundation that we believe is We aim to keep our policies and procedures up to key to Bosch’s success in business. And because date, even in a constantly evolving environment. responsible and lawful conduct is important That is why we continuously monitor the effectivebeyond company boundaries, we have formulated ness of our CMS and develop it further. To this our expectations of our business partners in a end, we carry out regular risk analyses in selected corresponding code of conduct (see the “Supply priority areas. This includes, for example, the chain” section). analysis of corruption risks carried out worldwide in 2019 with the aim of collecting information on Group-wide compliance the thematic, regional, and organizational distrimanagement system bution of relevant risks. The audit was based on Bosch’s group-wide compliance management predefined questionnaires and was performed system (CMS) is the organizational framework using a proprietary IT tool. In addition, we initiatwithin which we work to ensure that our values ed another review of money laundering risks in and rules are observed worldwide. The Chief 2019, which we will complete in 2020. Depending Compliance Officer (CCO) heads the Compliance on the results of the analyses, we define and corporate sector and reports directly to the board implement systematic measures to the extent of management and the chairman of the supervinecessary. sory board. In the regions and divisions, the COO is assisted by the compliance offices and addiTo complete the control loop, the Internal Audittional staff. In addition, the corporate compliance ing corporate department tests compliance with 21 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Bosch Group profile | Sustainability strategy and organization | Corporate governance and compliance internal policies and processes in the course of Our actions are always based on legal conduct its regular internal audits. Both the corporate and our “Invented for life” ethos. That means department and its local units have correspondthat, in case of doubt, legality and Bosch values ing authority to demand information and perform take precedence, including over customer wishes. audits. CMS design and effectiveness are also After all, Bosch products should deliver in everycovered by the internal audits. In addition, we day use the specified quality and safeguard test our CMS system in external audits and conhuman life while conserving resources and prosulting engagements, which have repeatedly tecting the environment to the greatest possible attested its effectiveness in recent years. We extent. It is not permitted to develop functions for always take the results as an opportunity to furcycle/test recognition. ther develop and optimize our CMS. In 2019, we elaborated on and updated the Code Code of Business Conduct by preparing and adding a comprehensive appenThe Code of Business Conduct provides guidance for all Bosch associates on values-based and legally irreproachable conduct. It outlines the dix with examples and specific notes. As a result, we were able to make it more accessible for users and take their feedback on board.  Code of Business basic rules of conduct at the company and takes a Conduct stance on ethical issues such as how to deal with Our ethical guiding principles, which go beyond insider information, whether to accept gifts, and what is required by law, apply throughout the how to avoid conflicts of interest. Our aim is to Bosch Group and to all Bosch products and serprovide clear guidance and, at the same time, to vices. If a customer does not observe the principrotect our associates, our company, and our ples of our Product Development Code, we do business partners. not take part in their invitations to tender. Since mid 2017, for example, Bosch has no longer been The Code of Business Conduct also includes our involved in customer projects in Europe for gasocommitment to social responsibility, in particular line engines that are not designed to be equipped with regard to respecting human rights and the with particulate filters. In the event of noncompliprohibition of forced or child labor. Our code also ance with the Product Development Code in the extends to our business partners. The Code of course of existing business relations, measures Business Conduct is available to all associates in can encompass a delivery stop. 33 languages and has been expressly communicated by the CEO to all associates exempt from Dual use collectively bargained agreements worldwide. Bosch does not conduct basic research for miliThey have confirmed in writing their acknowledgtary applications. Some of our products feature ment of the Code of Business Conduct. In additechnology that might permit dual use or deploytion, an abbreviated version of the Code with the ment for military purposes. Dual use means that key messages has been distributed to all asso­ the products leaving our plant are in principle ciates. constructed to enable their potential use in a wide range of applications. We adhere to export Product Development Code control regulations without exception in this In product development as well, we observe regard. clearly formulated basic principles as summarized in our Product Development Code and reflected in the Code of Business Conduct. 22 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook Compliance of Training and business partners communication Bosch takes a holistic approach to corporate We use extensive training and communication social responsibility. Therefore, clear policies measures to sensitize our associates to compliand procedures also apply with respect to our ance issues, including our social responsibility  Code of Conduct for business partners. They are subject to a standardized and risk-based compliance check, for instance. The depth and breadth of the check and human rights. The compliance training program is available to all associates as Web-based or classroom training courses. Participation is Business Partners depends on various factors, such as the nature of mandatory for specific groups of associates, the business relationship, and may also include including associates without collectively barthe ownership and HR structures. The findings gained contracts due to their special responsibilare assessed using a standard process and approity as specialists or managers, as well as numerpriate measures are defined and introduced as ous associates in selected areas or in special necessary. These can range from a more in-depth functions. assessment right through to withdrawal from the business relationship. Our Web-based training courses are regularly refined and updated with new content and current In our Code of Conduct for Business Partners, we developments. We also take into account feedhave formulated what we expect from business back as we develop the course further. In 2019, partners in terms of compliance. If necessary, we published a total of four new Web-based trainthis is made the basis of the business relationing courses, one of which relates to the Product ship or a fixed contractual component. Development Code. Having conducted extensive classroom training on this topic in recent years Moreover, there are additional internal policies that reaches the entire target group, this Webthat provide clear guidance on responsible conbased training serves as a regular refresher duct and define further processes with respect course that must be taken every two years. Furto our business partners. The Purchasing and ther training includes updates on antitrust law, Logistics Guideline, for example, contains clear export control, and donations (anti-corruption). 770,000 compliance guidance for associates in these areas and Mandatory worldwide, the current compliance training courses defines the regulatory framework with regard to training courses have been taken over 770,000 completed the supply chain. The “Supply chain” section of times. this report describes in detail how we discharge our responsibility in the supply chain.                                         23 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Bosch Group profile | Sustainability strategy and organization | Corporate governance and compliance Communication measures on Complaint compliance mechanisms and We want our associates to know, experiwhistleblower system ence, and embrace what compliance means at Bosch. For this purpose, we use the entire If there is any suspicion of possible misconduct, range of internal communication channels such as a violation of applicable law or the Code available. This is accompanied by further of Business Conduct, associates as well as busimeasures designed to increase the visibility ness partners and other third parties can submit of the topic of compliance and the pertinent contact persons within the company. To raise a report – also anonymously – to the compliance awareness of compliance, we implemented a organization. To this end, we have set up a global company-wide poster campaign and a series whistleblower system that is available in 14 lanof intranet articles as well as a compliance self-test for our associates, among other measures, in the reporting period. As part of the guages on the Internet and our intranet. In some countries, it is also possible to report concerns by telephone. To help users, the whistleblower  Whistleblower system campaign, the compliance officers carried out system offers predefined reporting categories by local activities worldwide, such as Compliance topic, but any other topics – such as possible vioDays, trade show booths, videos, mailshots, lations of human rights – can, of course, also be newsletters, and articles published in in-house reported. Aside from this option, Bosch associnewspapers. ates can also directly contact their superior or the respective compliance officer in their division or region. The compliance organization follows up all reports without delay and involves additional Compliance dialogue experts in individual cases. Cases are dealt with The compliance dialogue provides a forum for an in the local language, and progress and status are intensive and open exchange between managers recorded in a central database and monitored. and associates on compliance issues. Compliance is also one of the topics discussed in the In 2019, a total of 883 reports (previous year: annual feedback talks held between associates 652) were recorded using the whistleblower sysand supervisors. In the reporting year, we expandtem. Any incidents reported through the system ed the compliance dialogue by revising existing that are not compliance-related are handed over content to make it more user-friendly and tailored to the respective specialist departments for furto the target groups as well as adding new conther processing. For instance, HR is responsible tent. for handling cases of discrimination. We have seen a steady increase in the number of reports over the last few years, a development we primarily attribute to the comprehensive measures in the field of compliance and the resulting increased awareness of compliance issues.                                                24 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook Products Our products can be found in many areas of everyday life – at home or in the car, at work or at leisure. Our “Invented for life” ethos stands for quality, reliability, and safety – and for the fact that our products fascinate people and improve their quality of life. To ensure that it stays that way in the future, we conduct research and development work on innovative solutions and technologies that make life easier and safer, conserve resources, and create economic added value for our customers. 25 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society 30,000  software developers 6.1 billion euros invested in research and development 6,000 patent applications 1,000  in artificial intelligence experts 26 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook 2.1 Management approach Bosch has defined an ambition for its products: “Invented for life.” We draw on the unique knowlStrategy for edge and technical expertise of our associates sustainable products and partners to improve the quality of life of people the world over with innovative and inspiring products and services. We make homes more With our EHS strategy for sustainable products, comfortable and resource efficient, enable emiswe consider opportunities and risks throughout sion-free and safe mobility, and develop products our products’ life cycles. We are stepping up to that protect the environment and conserve the challenge of climate change with new building resources. technology concepts – for example, for more sustainable room cooling and alternative drive techOur four business sectors Mobility Solutions, nologies, including electric mobility. Known as Industrial Technology, Consumer Goods, and sector coupling, the deployment of renewable Energy and Building Technology are leading playsources of energy to reduce the use of fossil fuels ers in their respective fields. With them, Bosch in other sectors also presents opportunities for offers a unique product portfolio, although the the Bosch Group. After all, networked systems market and competitive conditions of individual will be indispensable in the future in order to business units differ substantially in some cases. respond flexibly when conditions change in the This diversity and complexity is both a challenge power supply system or on the electricity market. and a source of motivation for us. The basic ethical principles summarized in our Product DevelWe see risks in relation to our products’ sustainopment Code apply equally to all business secability above all as regards the complex supply tors (also see the “Company | Corporate goverchains and the materials used with respect to nance and compliance” section). substances of concern (SoC). This is an area in which we set high standards on the quality and We underline the importance of our products’ performance of our suppliers, and we factor in sustainability by anchoring corresponding aspects sustainability criteria. When it comes to the matein four thematic areas of our target vision for susrials used, we pursue a consistent application of tainability: In climate and urbanization, we aim to our MaCS (Material Data Management for Comreduce our ecological footprint and to contribute pliance and Sustainability) system. We also aim to environmental protection; health is all about to keep the ecological footprint of our products keeping people and the environment from harm; to a minimum at the end of their life cycle – true and while globalization deals with the ecological to the principle of a closed-loop or circular and social risks in the supply chain. This results economy. in a clear requirements profile for our products across the entire life cycle from production and Life cycle assessments use to disposal. Based on the idea of a closed-loop or circular economy, we have been systematically conducting life cycle assessments (LCAs) for all major product groups since 2017. Product-specific environmental aspects are evaluated in each individual life cycle phase – from purchasing to produc27 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Management approach | Product development | Sustainable products Use of substances of concern With respect to the use of materials, we are subagement for Compliance and Sustainability). ject to a large number of legal and industry-speThis allows us to check and track the legal and cific requirements, including from the European industry-specific framework as well as additional Regulation on Registration, Evaluation, Authorisainternal requirements and, if necessary, take tion and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) and suitable action. To this end, both the material the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) in the data of our suppliers, as made available to us via United States. systems such as the International Material Data System (IMDS), and the parts lists of our prodBosch is continuously working to identify subuct development are fed into MaCS. stances of concern (SoC) in its products and processes, use substitutes, and reduce or altoOur specifications to our suppliers regarding gether avoid hazardous substances in the long SoC are applicable throughout the company and term wherever possible. are based on European regulations, regulations outside Europe insofar as they impose stricter For example, we want to dispense with subrequirements, industry standards such as the stances on the REACH candidate list in new Global Automotive Declarable Substance List developments to the extent technically pos(GADSL), and customer specifications. These sible. Our Design for Environment (DfE) internal requirements are enshrined in the Bosch stanstandard, which among other things defines the requirements for handling SoC, supports product development in this respect. If SoC are unavoidable in the production process for techdard N2580 “Prohibition and declaration of substances.” In some cases, the standard goes far beyond what is required by law. We require our suppliers worldwide to apply the N2580  Bosch standard N2580 nical reasons, hazard assessments are carried standard and report back on this via a defined out to ensure suitable protective measures are process. The standard’s content is reviewed and taken when handling such substances. updated every six months by an expert group representing all operating units. Supplementary To efficiently manage materials prohibitions and to the N2580 standard, our Conflict Raw Materirestrictions, in particular for products, we use als Policy governs the handling of conflict minerour central system MaCS (Material Data Manals (also see the “Supply chain” section). tion and use through to disposal. This includes, prioritized. In a next step, a uniform evaluation for example, the use of materials, including raw scheme can be used to analyze performance for materials and SoC, the consumption of energy each aspect. For instance, we identify potential and resources in the use phase, recycling and the for reducing weight or volume or for minimizing use of recycled materials, and remanufacturing. greenhouse gases in the respective divisions. In some cases, such as for new technologies, we Step one of the multistage process requires that also perform these analyses in full compliance relevant aspects and phases are classified and with ISO 14040 and ISO 14044. 28 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook LCAs cover 50 percent of sales revenue volume LCAs now cover around 50 percent of our sales revenue volume. As a result, we have already Our quality policy been able to identify and capture concrete improvement potential. In the area of materials, Quality guides our actions and our brand promwe have since achieved considerable savings in ise. The products we deliver meet the highest terms of the weight and volume of the materials standards of quality and reliability. This applies used. An analysis as part of the LCAs of the recyto all our products – regardless of where they are clability of the materials we use revealed a range produced or where they are used. Our binding between 20 and almost 100 percent, depending quality principles apply to the entire Bosch on the composition of materials. Group. Quality management is coordinated and steered by the corporate department for quality. Local officers are responsible for operational 2 | 01 implementation at individual sites. The majority Life cycle assessments of our development and production sites have a quality management system certified according B2B | vehicle component (example) to ISO 9001. At sites that manufacture vehicle components, the system is certified according to Raw materials the IATF 16949 standard. Based on ISO 9001, the 4 standard was developed by the International 3 End of 2 Production Automotive Task Force (IATF). life 1 0 In view of our extensive product portfolio, a large number of different laws and regulations on qualUse Transport ity apply to us worldwide. We take these requirements on board already in the product evolution process, and we have defined various policies for Packaging that purpose. Applicable throughout the company, the Quality Policy and Quality Management B2C | boiler (example) guideline plays a central role. It provides a framework for setting quality objectives and commits Raw materials the organization to continuously working to 4 improve the quality management system. Our 3 End of 2 Production associates can access all guidelines, central life 1 directives, and requirements related to quality 0 on corresponding databases, among other media. Documents on the state of the art and productspecific implementation are to be increasingly Use Transport provided in the future as well. Packaging In order to ensure utmost quality, we are also involved in task groups for updating standards. In the reporting year, for example, in connection with the quality committee of the German Association of the Automotive Industry (VDA), we published a standard together with the Automotive 29 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Management approach | Product development | Sustainable products Industry Action Group that serves to avoid errors lines, by email, or in direct talks. In fact, we view and increase technical safety in the development our customers’ feedback as a reliable yardstick and production process. We also promote excelagainst which we can measure our actions. In the lence in quality within the company, an aspect markets where we generate the greatest sales revthat the board of management regularly recog­ enue, we ascertain Bosch’s corporate reputation nizes with the internal Bosch Quality Award. each year. At present, the survey covers 13 countries. The results are contrasted and validated Product safety against benchmark values of other companies The safety of our products is an important elewith global operations in order to derive meament of our value proposition and a key quality sures together with regional managers. seal. Consequently, we take care to ensure product safety in all phases of the product evolution process. Starting with the development phase, Communication and we attach great importance to safety tests and comply with ISO 26262, which concerns the funcinformation tional safety of systems, for example. Products are only released for large-scale production if all We also refer to our Bosch values for guidance aspects of safety have been clarified, the relevant as we market our products. Rules for advertising specifications are satisfied, and this is substanticommunication are enshrined in a manual that ated by appropriate tests. defines four central principles: value cultural diversity, make reliable and credible statements, Training ensures that all associates act in accorbe fair and respect national rules, and apply a dance with our quality standards. For example, standard to match our products’ quality stanexecutives regularly instruct their associates on dards. Our communication is fact-based. Adverthe basics of product liability with regard to tising can be humorous, creative, and competitive ISO 26262. For associates who can influence but never unprofessional or untrue. To ensure product quality, our compliance training also that our principles are applied and messages are includes Web-based modules on product safety consistent across the complete media mix worldand product liability, which must be renewed in wide, marketing communication is organized censet cycles. Advanced classroom modules enable trally and closely coordinated with the regional the acquisition of in-depth knowledge, for examorganizations and divisions. Product marketing is ple, for the product liability officers in the divimostly managed locally by the respective divisions. Once a year, they meet at a conference to sions. share information and their experiences. We consider it a matter of course to provide conCustomer satisfaction crete and up-to-date information on our wide For Bosch, quality and the trust of customers in range of products, and we ensure compliance our competence is a top priority. The diverse cuswith the corresponding information and docutomer services offered by our divisions range mentation obligations. For example, in the autofrom a knowledge database with interactive learnmotive and power tools business, safety data ing programs though to maintenance advice and a sheets are also available online. Where necesservice portal for energy-related refurbishment. sary, instruction manuals are provided together At the same time, we make use of all opportuniwith the products for our end customers. ties to engage in direct and indirect dialogue with customers – for example, through our service hot30 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook 2.2 Product development We take environmental aspects into account early year: 68,700) associates – roughly 18 percent on in the development stage and have therefore (previous year: 17 percent) of our workforce – anchored environmentally compatible product are active in the Bosch research and development development (design for environment, DfE) in the network, with 1,450 of them in the Research and product evolution process (also see the “EnvironAdvance Engineering corporate sector (previous ment” section). In the Bosch DfE standard, we year: some 1,400). Bosch research is active at have laid down the corresponding principles in 12 locations in eight countries. In addition, there concrete design and manufacturing guidelines for are 125 development sites around the globe. We developers and product managers on subjects promote the exchange of knowledge and methods such as materials efficiency or recyclability. between the business sectors in order to create Accordingly, environmental aspects must be and use synergies. Centers of competence for assessed using checklists and taken into account universal issues such as plastics and adhesive in every development process. technology are just one example. 6.1 billion euros Specially trained DfE coordinators support the In 2019, Bosch invested some 6.1 billion euros in invested in research divisions involved, helping them with requireresearch and development (previous year: 6.0 biland development ments and questions relating to sustainable prodlion euros), which corresponds to 7.8 percent uct design. Together with the divisions, the EHS of sales revenue (previous year: 7.6 percent). Of and Sustainability corporate sector works to conthis amount, 3.7 billion euros were channeled tinually refine the approach. All divisions are in into software development, to which more than contact with each other through the DfE network. 30,000 developers are assigned, while around 1,000 associates work on AI. The Bosch Center To sensitize our associates to the importance of for Artificial Intelligence (BCAI) has around sustainability in our products, we use training 300 million euros at its disposal until 2021. courses as well as targeted communication measures. These include presentations on our Our commitment to innovation is reflected in the LCAs, intranet articles, and incentives through large number of patent applications filed by competitions. In 2019, for example, an internal Bosch. Even if they are generally somewhat in EHS Award was presented for the first time in decline in times of digitization, we were able to the category “sustainable products.” file around 6,000 patents in 2019, thus reaffirming our claim to innovation leadership. Research Cooperation with several hundred start-ups is an and development important pillar of our innovation policy. In 2019, we presented the Open Bosch Award for the first time for projects that excel through outstanding Purpose-driven research has been the basis of cooperation between a start-up and Bosch. Also success at Bosch for more than 130 years. With in 2019, we launched the “grow” global network, 72,600 associates our innovations, we want to contribute to improva platform for start-ups. It offers start-ups and in research and ing quality of life and live up to our “Invented for their teams a framework that challenges and development life” ethos. At present, some 72,600 (previous encourages them. We have already seen a num31 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Management approach | Product development | Sustainable products ber of success stories with this approach, among funding programs. In this way, interdisciplinary them the QuakeNet earthquake monitoring and teams are created with diverse perspectives from alarm system in Japan. academia and business. Examples of our broad commitment are our membership on the board of trustees of the Fraunhofer Institute for Manufac2 | 02 turing Engineering and Automation (IPA) and our Patent applications collaboration with Carnegie Mellon University in Bosch Group 2017–2019 Pittsburgh, United States, on research into AI. Our fields of innovation 5,812 5,996 5,926 The sheer scale of our research and development activities demands a clear structure and consistent management of all stages – from idea to product. Ten areas of innovation, derived from Some 6,000 patent global megatrends and technology drivers, thereapplications fore set the priorities (also see Fig. 2 | 04). Owing to the size and diversity of our company, there is a multitude of potential applications for the results – producing innovations that fascinate. Many ideas that were developed to market maturity would not have been possible without the find2017 2018 2019 ings of our internal research. The range of products that originated here extends from automatic emergency braking and motorcycle stability conOur experts operate in a worldwide network and trol to software that networks machines with maintain dialogue with leading partners. We also each other and sheds transparency on machine support research in the areas of environment, and process data (also see the “Products | Susenergy, and mobility that are relevant to Bosch tainable products” section). through university partnerships and long-term 2 | 03 From megatrend to innovation Megatrends, such as: Digitization Globalization Urbanization Market demand Corporate research innovations Technology drivers Computers and Energy and environRobotics Scientific environment, including: communication mental technology and AI 32 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook 2 | 04 Ten fields of innovation Self-aware and Energy Future of self-developing conversion and healthcare systems infrastructure solutions Quantum Electric mobility technologies Connected Fully User-centric and intelligent autonomous computing systems systems Disruptive Clean air, materials and water, and sustainability food supplies Networked systems The Internet of things (IoT) is changing the world Connected manufacturing we live in. It creates new conditions for individual mobility of the future and makes homes smart Over the past four years, Bosch has generated and factories more productive. We want to enable sales revenue totaling more than 1.5 billion and play a role in shaping this change. We are euros with Industry 4.0 applications. By 2022, increasingly adding software development to our we aim to generate sales revenue of more than one billion euros annually in this field. existing hardware business. In this way, we are Our applications make work in manufacturing constantly exploring new connectivity opportuniand logistics easier, more efficient, and more ties that have a positive impact on the environflexible. For example, a new autonomous ment, conserve resources and energy, and make transport system from Bosch Rexroth links people’s lives easier. We thus see ourselves well warehouses and production and ensures relion the way to becoming one of the world’s leadability both in planning and during operation. ing IoT companies (also see the “Company” secOur Nexeed software simplifies processes by tion). Thanks to our broad portfolio and our comharmonizing production data, compiling inforpetence in sensor technology, software, and sermation, and systematically making it available. vices, Bosch produces groundbreaking solutions This allows an increase in productivity at indifor smart homes, smart cities, connected mobilividual Bosch locations of up to 25 percent. ty, agriculture, energy, and connected manufacturing. Our strategic objective is to create solutions for a connected world. Bosch.IO, our subsidiary for IoT, currently has have initiated more than 250 international projmore than 900 digital and IoT experts who work ects. With the Bosch IoT Suite, we are pursuing closely with our 30,000 developers. To date they our “We connect everyThing” vision. This suite 33 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Management approach | Product development | Sustainable products already allows us to link up more than ten million Together with partners such as the Max Planck sensors, devices, and machines with their users Institute for Intelligent Systems, the universities and corporate applications: from oyster farms of Tübingen and Stuttgart, and other companies, and welding robots to smart-home gateways, carBosch is a founding member of Cyber Valley go trains, and charging points for electric vehicles. Tübingen in the German state of Baden-WürttemIn partnership with the energy supplier EnBW, we berg, which was founded in 2016 and is one of are currently developing solutions for a networked the largest research cooperations in Europe in the urban infrastructure. Be it street lamps with chargfield of AI. Under the umbrella of Cyber Valley, ing points for electric vehicles or ground sensors new research groups and two professorships are to determine which parking spaces are occupied being created. The endowed professorship for – the Bosch IoT Suite provides a standardized machine learning will be financed by Bosch over technological foundation. Our “Battery in the ten years with a total of 5.5 million euros. Bosch Cloud” service also extends the life of batteries is also planning to build the new Bosch AI Camin electric cars with smart software functions. pus in Tübingen, where some 700 experts will be working on applied AI from the end of 2022. Artificial intelligence For Bosch, AI is a key technology that will enable Organized by the BCAI and Cyber Valley, the numerous other innovations in the future and annual AI CON symposium brings together improve people’s lives. By 2025, the goal is for all leading AI experts from industry and research. Bosch products to either be equipped with AI or In 2019, more than 300 experts exchanged views for AI to have played a part in their development. on the European strengths in AI in an industrial At the BCAI, with its approximately 250 associenvironment. ates, we are strengthening the company’s existing expertise in the field of AI. Founded in 2017, and with seven locations worldwide, the center conBosch AI Young Researcher Award ducts research to make AI safer, more robust, and more explainable to people. Fields of application With the Bosch AI Young Researcher Award, for AI can be found in all business sectors – from Bosch has been supporting promising young mobility to manufacturing and agriculture. AI scientists since 2019. Their outstanding achievements contribute to making AI safer, As part of an extensive training program, almost more robust, and more explainable to people. 20,000 associates will take part in AI training over the next two years. The program includes training formats for executives, engineers, and AI developThe jury also evaluates the entries submitted according to criteria such as relevance, scientific quality, and innovation. In 2019, the 50,000-euro prize money for foundational  Read more about AI and ers and also addresses guidelines for using AI the AI code of ethics in research into reinforcement learning was Spotlights magazine responsibly. In the reporting year, we drew up our awarded to a researcher from Pompeu Fabra own code of ethics for AI that addresses issues of University, Barcelona. Algorithms learn intuiAI safety and ethics. tively and by experimenting how their environment is designed and which rules apply. 34 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook IT security and data the group. All central directives on IT security are revised and updated annually. With our subsidprotection iary ESCRYPT, we further possess the expertise to develop solutions for secure communication and the secure operation of our products. Trust that systems and data are protected against manipulation is a decisive determinant of success There is no such thing as a foolproof security for IoT technology. Consequently, IT security is system. That is why we have established the a fundamental element of Bosch’s quality stanBosch Product Security Incident Response Team dards. Our data protection and data security (PSIRT). The team serves as a central point of  Bosch Product Security principles are documented in our IoT Principles. In this context, we take into consideration the requirements of our customers in particular: it contact for security researchers, partners, and customers who detect vulnerabilities in our products. Security gaps can also be notified through Incident Response Team is our duty to handle their data in a secure and our whistleblower system (also see the “Compa(PSIRT) transparent way and protect their privacy. Since ny | Corporate governance and compliance” secmid 2018, overall responsibility for IT security at tion). When a solution has been found, we make Bosch rests with the Chief Digital Officer. A sepait transparent online for all our customers. rate steering committee meeting is devoted to reporting twice a year to the board of manageTo strengthen trust in digital systems and prodment. ucts, we launched the Digital Trust Forum in 2019: at the initiative of Bosch, representatives We take a holistic approach to information secu­ of leading international associations and organirity and always look at the entire life cycle. This zations met in Berlin and discussed the question is true with regard to data protection and also the of how to create and ensure trust in digital syssecurity of computer networks and infrastructure tems. At a political level, we also advocate clear within our company, as well as with respect to the cybersecurity rules in the European Union (also IT security of our products, for which we have set see the “Society | Political lobbying” section). up a separate corporate office. Since 2014, a clearly documented process ensures that IT security has a broad foothold in development. Related guidelines and central directives cover all relevant areas of information security at Bosch. The “Information security and data protection” group guideline, which is binding for all associates, defines duties, processes, and responsibilities, and sets out specific rules on how to handle information. Technical rules on operating servers and other IT systems are contained in the “IT security” central directive, which also applies throughout 35 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Management approach | Product development | Sustainable products 2.3 Sustainable products We want to contribute to sustainable developIn 2018, we showed that with the latest Bosch ment with products that are consistently aligned diesel technology, nitrogen oxide emissions with our “Invented for life” ethos. Whether with can be reduced well below the current limits in innovative technologies for sustainable, safe, and real-life road traffic. A combination of advanced inspiring mobility, with solutions for smart energy fuel-injection technology, a newly developed air management, or offers for future-oriented energy management system, and smart temperature and building technology – some products directly management has made this advance possible. improve people’s quality of life, such as the Bosch Healthcare Solutions (BHCS) product Moreover, modifications to engines and a new portfolio. generation of particulate filters are significantly reducing untreated particulate emissions from gasoline engines. Greater use of renewable synContribution to the thetic fuels could open up additional potential for mobility transformation the combustion engine. Such fuels could reduce CO₂ emissions from existing vehicles as well, as they can be mixed with conventional fuel. Bosch has a clear picture of the future of mobility and of how to make a success of the move to Electric drive alternatives. The goal is to ensure that the mobilElectric mobility will shape the mobility of the ity of the future has no impact on global warming future. Having received electromobility orders and air quality and that it remains affordable for worth some 13 billion euros in the period from the general public. The key to achieving this is a the beginning of 2018 to mid 2019 alone, Bosch powertrain mix of highly efficient combustion is driving this development forward, including engines and state-of-the-art electric motors. As a large-scale production projects for the electric systems supplier for state-of-the-art injection and drive of passenger cars and light commercial vehidrive systems as well as mobility solutions, we cles. Bosch technology is already found in more More than 1.5 million help automakers improve energy efficiency and than 1.5 million electric vehicles and hybrids electric vehicles worldwide. In order to rapidly increase this numand hybrids with pursue an open technology strategy to further Bosch technology reduce emissions. ber and be the technology partner of choice for automobile manufacturers, our strategy rests on Diesel and gasoline powertrains three pillars: The latest technological innovations can make the internal combustion engine even more efficient, 1. Systems expertise: Customers benefit from so that it uses even fewer resources. This is parBosch’s expertise in intelligently linking all the ticularly important for aircraft, ships, and trucks, components in the powertrain. That is why we which cannot be easily converted to a batteryalso pursue broad systems expertise in the electric drive. We will therefore continue to field of electromobility: our portfolio encomexploit the potential of the diesel engine, which passes the key components electric motors, emits up to 15 percent less CO₂ than a gasoline power electronics, and battery systems. Bosch engine. also has extensive expertise in the entire electromobility ecosystem. 36 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook 2. Energy efficiency: Bosch is already one of In the reporting year, we laid the foundation stone the global market’s leading suppliers of elecfor a new fuel cell center in Wuxi, China, with the tric motors and electric axle drives. To expand aim of driving forward research and development this position, our engineers are working on in all aspects of fuel cells and testing of componew generations of electric motors, inverters, nents as well as complete systems. By the end of and battery systems. Next-generation thermal 2021, we plan to set up a pilot production line for management systems can increase the range stacks there, which will be ready to start producof electric cars by up to 20 percent. That is ing small series in 2022. because the lower the power consumed by the motor and powertrain, the longer the battery lasts. Energy efficiency and 3. Standardization: We see standardization as energy management the basic condition for making mass-market electromobility scalable and affordable. Take Climate action and energy efficiency are core eleour e-axle, for example: it integrates the motor, ments of our approach to sustainability. This is power electronics, and transmission in a comclearly attested to by our ambitious climate target pact unit. (see the “Environment” section). Since almost all our products require energy, however, there are Electric drive with fuel cells also numerous fields of action for us relating to In the market for electric vehicles, start-ups are energy efficiency, which opens up new business competing with established manufacturers. In opportunities with both industrial customers and that constellation, Bosch sees itself not just as end consumers. systems supplier but also as an incubator for electromobility across all vehicle classes. For New business models with innovative energy example, together with the U.S. start-up Nikola management are emerging, especially for the operMotor Company, we have developed a fuel cell ators of networks and metering points, although drive for the Nikola Two Alpha heavy-duty electric service providers and retailers likewise stand to truck. The truck is equipped with the world’s first benefit. In the private sector, our energy-efficient electrified dual-drive axle for heavy commercial household appliances also contribute to energy vehicles, combining the engine, drive electronics, savings. Since 2001, the electricity consumption and transmission in a single unit. of refrigerators has fallen by 55 percent, that of washing machines by as much as 68 percent, and We see great and lasting potential in fuel cell that of dishwashers by 36 percent. drive systems. According to our calculations, up to 20 percent of all electric vehicles worldwide Sustainable energy management will be powered by fuel cells by 2030. That is why Bosch.IO sets new standards for simple and we are starting large-scale production of fuel smart energy management. With products such cells for trucks and cars. For the production of as the Smart Meter Gateway Manager and softstacks – the heart of a fuel cell that converts ware for networking distributed energy systems, hydrogen into electrical power – we have been we create solutions for tomorrow’s energy marcooperating with the Swedish manufacturer ket, which has to manage the fluctuating output Powercell Sweden AB since 2019. This techno­ of renewable sources. By intelligently managing logy is slated for market launch in 2023. demand and supply, it is possible to cushion 37 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Management approach | Product development | Sustainable products peaks in output or demand and to make the entire Bosch Rexroth supports machine manufacturers energy system more efficient. The environmental and industrial users with their efforts to improve benefit is evident: the system can absorb more their energy efficiency. The “4EE – Rexroth for renewable energy, CO₂ emissions are reduced, Energy Efficiency” concept comprises four levers: and fewer power lines are needed. systematic comprehensive analysis of complete automation, energy-efficient products and systems with optimized efficiency, recovery and storage of excess energy such as heat recovery, and Bosch Intelligent Microgrid Asia consistent demand management. With our technologies, we contribute to a Energy and building technology stable power supply worldwide – even in Energy and building technology offers great remote areas – and thus improving people’s potential for Bosch. The biggest lever for achievquality of life. For example, in the small viling the climate targets for residential and induslage of Nimasi in eastern Indonesia, the viltrial real estate is thermotechnology. At present, lage has the region’s only hospital, which has only about 17 percent of all industrial plants in been plagued by power outages. In response, Germany are state of the art, and in residential Bosch’s Corporate Research team in Southeast Asia developed a smart, off-grid power buildings, only 19 percent of all installed heating solution – Bosch Intelligent Microgrid Asia, systems work efficiently or use renewable eneror BIMA for short. Since 2017, BIMA has gies. Using modern heating technology across the been combining electricity from a variety of board in Germany alone could save approximately sources, among them solar panels, batteries, 31 million metric tons of CO₂ annually – roughly and generators, while managing the flow of equivalent to the volume produced by Berlin each electricity using cloud systems and AI. The year. With our products, we want to make a con­ project now guarantees the hospital a stable tribution to leveraging this potential. Bosch conand inexpensive electricity grid, enabling the densing boilers are already operating at their permanent provision of healthcare for the physical limits, with a seasonal energy efficiency people in the region. ratio of 94 percent, and with the corresponding controls, they satisfy the requirements of energyefficiency class A+. On an industrial level, our energy management Bosch Thermotechnology focuses on the efficient dovetails the evaluation of energy and process data with connected manufacturing solutions. At the heart of the approach is the cloud-based and low-emission generation of steam, heat, electricity, cooling, and compressed air and their seamless integration into processes. The techno Read more about the software solution Energy Platform, which collects logical components are optimally matched to Energy Platform in and analyzes energy data. For this purpose, meaeach other so that they can be combined to form Spotlights magazine sured values from power meters and sensors, an efficient energy system. In addition, we offer a information from building management systems, holistic approach from planning support and projand production metrics such as unit volumes are ect planning to worldwide service. combined and key figures are calculated to evaluate energy and resource efficiency. The platform is already being used at over 80 of our plants. 38 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook The stationary fuel cell Conservation of resources and a Bosch is driving fuel cell technology forward – not only as a mobile solution in cars and circular economy trucks, but also for stationary use. Since 2018, we have been researching possible In many divisions, we have made great progress applications for what are known as solid-oxide in terms of resource and energy efficiency. We fuel cells together with Ceres Power from the are now turning our attention to the opportunities United Kingdom. The technology is steadily of a closed-loop or circular economy (also see gaining in importance as a micro power plant due to its flexible application options and Fig. 2 | 05). Here, too, we want to drive developscalability. It can be used for the distributed, ment forward and offer our customers products low-emissions supply of electricity to charging and services that are high quality, sustainable, points, factories, data centers, hospitals, and and environmentally friendly at the same time. entire cities. In 2019, we commissioned a first prototype at the Homburg site in order to test We have sent a clear signal underlining the imthe technology in our own environment and portance of the topic by incorporating our subsiddevelop it to production readiness. iary C-ECO (Circular Economy Solutions GmbH). It exploits the opportunities presented by a closed-loop or circular economy and offers related services. In 2019, 24 associates versed in Smart-home owners can realize further efficiency remanufacturing and reverse logistics generated gains if, for example, smart thermostats incorposales revenue of 15.5 million euros (previous rate regional weather data in temperature control year: 14.3 million euros). In the Netherlands and  Read more about BSH’s systems. Bosch Thermotechnology provides support here with its Energy Manager. The software ensures that energy consumption, power generaBelgium, BSH Hausgeräte is offering its customers a leasing concept for refrigerators, washing machines, and dryers as part of two pilot projects leasing projects for tion, and energy storage are managed efficiently and can thus also ensure that the appliances are household appliances in across different components such as heat pumps, recycled. Spotlights magazine photovoltaic arrays, and, in the future, electric vehicles. In this way, it intelligently combines the various components and enables both the use of self-generated electricity and efficient heat generation. 2 | 05 Changing perspectives: household appliances as an example Avoid risks  Use opportunities 1992 2006 2015 202X Avoid Improve energy Improve resource Circular economy hazardous efficiency efficiency substances (e.g. CFCs) 39 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Management approach | Product development | Sustainable products potential to further reduce the use of resources. A circular economy Time and again, new solutions are found in the and product longevity various divisions: A long product life is important to us, ▶▶ Bosch Power Tools is the first manufacturer although it can sometimes conflict with other in the industry to offer a toolbox that is made sustainability-related objectives. New houseof 90 percent recycled material. The high hold appliances are generally much more proportion of recycled material reduces CO₂ energy efficient than older ones. And in the emissions in production. In 2019, Power Tools automotive sector, new cars typically outperalready produced over 1,000,000 of these form predecessor models in terms of fuel environmentally friendly cases. consumption and safety. Where repair work is feasible and advisable, we stock suitable replacement parts. In the industrial business, ▶▶ The Jet Wiper windshield wiper dispenses and we keep replacement parts in stock, enabling places washing fluid so effectively that around repairs and maintenance work on production 50 percent of the amount previously used is systems over very long periods of time. sufficient. This enabled us to downsize the tank for the washing fluid and to reduce CO₂. As part of a dissertation in the field of thermotechnology, Bosch is also currently inves▶▶ As part of the eXchange program, we have tigating how value creation can be designed established a sustainable exchange of series to achieve a closed-loop or circular economy. components for vehicles: we take back worn or The study focuses on different approaches for defective replacement parts from repair shops a more efficient use of energy and resources and analyzes the relationship between lifetime and recondition them or replace them. and efficiency. In addition, it explores how recycling can be factored into product design ▶▶ Bosch Power Tools has been able to reduce the and the extent to which remanufacturing – use of steel, aluminum, and plastic in two drills that is, the overhaul of used equipment to and one grinder. The modifications save about meet newer standards – can have a positive 200 metric tons of raw materials annually and effect on the environment. won first place in the category “sustainable products” of the company’s internal EHS Award. ▶▶ Our modern washing machines have an intelliResource efficiency gent i-DOS dispensing system that recognizes One focus of the LCAs for our products is placed load, type of textile, and degree of soiling of on the efficient use of resources. This starts with laundry and then decides on the required how the products are made (also see the “Enviamount of detergent. This saves up to 38 perronment” section) and covers their packaging and cent of detergent and up to ten liters of water use right through to recycling. Along the entire per wash cycle. value chain, we are continuously looking for 40 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook Safety professional power tools, customers expect to work efficiently and without harm to their health. To give an example: when dismantling scaffoldSafety is an elementary component of our quality ing, several working steps usually have to be comstandards. Together with our partners from the pleted simultaneously. Our new cordless impact automotive industry, we work on solutions to wrench is programmed to stop the motor before a make the roads even safer. In buildings, our sennut is completely loosened. This prevents nuts sors ensure fire protection and safety. And anyone from falling off. working with tools from Bosch can feel sure to be on the safe side. The GSA 18V-32 Professional cordless reciprocating saw also offers long-term protection against Safe mobility health hazards by means of active vibration conWith its electronic vehicle safety systems, such as trol: with an opposite movement, a counterbalABS, ESP®, and the emergency braking assistant, ancing weight constantly reduces vibrations so Bosch is one of the pioneers in active and passive that virtually none are transmitted to the user’s driving safety. We also create extra safety through body. The same anti-vibration principle is also our expertise in digitization. For example, we offer used for hammer drills. a cloud-based solution that is designed to warn wrong-way drivers and other road users within ten Safety in building technology seconds via push messaging. Our “Pyrofuse” sysThe Bosch Twinguard system combines a smart Read more about tem ensures that the power in the electric vehicle is switched off within fractions of a second in the event of an accident. And our Virtual Visor transhome smoke detector and an air-quality sensor. This system not only serves fire prevention purposes but also measures room temperature, Pyrofuse in Spotlights parent digital sun visor is also set to make driving humidity, and air quality – and sends a notificamagazine safer: thanks to AI, the transparent LCD only darktion to the user’s smartphone when any of the ens windshield areas through which sunlight readings are outside the optimum range. The would shine into the driver’s eyes. The rest of the Bosch Smart Home Alarm system also provides display remains transparent without obscuring reliable protection against burglary by providing the driver’s view of the road. information in the event of an alarm via acoustic signals on-site and via notification to the smartIn addition, we are continuously further developphone. In order to quickly clear escape and resing our camera technology for driver assistance cue routes in the event of fire, all connected systems and will use AI in the future to deliver blinds are opened automatically. even more reliable results. For example, our new camera technology increases the reliability with which surroundings are perceived and makes road Health and nutrition traffic safer through intelligent object recognition. This new camera technology is used in vehicles In view of planet Earth’s limited resources, since 2019. population growth poses a challenge. The main concern in this regard is safeguarding healthy Occupational health and safety livelihoods. With our core competencies in sensor In the Power Tools division, solutions for greater technology as well as software and services, we health and safety are important criteria that set offer connected products and services in the Bosch apart from the competition. With Bosch fields of healthcare and medical technology and 41 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Management approach | Product development | Sustainable products develop new solutions for agriculture that doveSustainable agriculture tail economy and ecology in a meaningful way. Efficient agriculture that is mindful of the envi­ And we also contribute to improving health in our ronment can secure a balanced diet for people other business sectors. worldwide while reducing pressure on the environment and resources. Sustainable agriculture Innovative therapy management and high yields are not mutually exclusive. This is The subsidiary BHCS entered the market for meddemonstrated by our solutions in the field of susical technology in 2016 with the objective of maktainable agriculture, which range from drive sysing a contribution to people’s health. Its range of tems for tractors and hydraulic solutions for agriproducts and services is based on the Bosch cultural vehicles to connected solutions for smart Group’s core competencies: sensor-based data farming. New business models such as Deepfield harvesting, software for evaluation, and services Connect help farmers to optimize harvests or for analysis. Bosch’s research and development make operating processes more efficient. For corporate sector provides the scientific basis, instance, the Field Monitoring system relays temwhile the Robert Bosch Hospital in Stuttgart perature and humidity data directly from the field lends its support in development and testing. to the smartphone. Algorithms combine weather data with scientific knowledge so that users With the world’s first Vivatmo breath analysis always know the current growth phase of their device from BHCS, asthma patients can also meaplants and receive recommendations for the effisure the degree of airway inflammation at home cient use of water and fertilizer. and – similar to how diabetics monitor their blood sugar levels – monitor their condition closely and With our Plantec sensor system, it is possible to precisely and share the results with their physipredict with 92 percent accuracy whether a discian using an app. BHCS makes it possible to ease will befall tomato plants in a greenhouse: quickly obtain laboratory results with Vivalytic, a sensors installed in the greenhouse measure universal platform for molecular diagnosis that performs fully automated tests. temperature, sunlight, and carbon dioxide levels. AI is used to analyze the various factors and link them to weather forecasts. If there is any uncer Read more about smart Reduced noise emissions tainty, users are sent an app-based risk notificaagriculture in Spotlights Noise can negatively affect concentrated work tion. magazine and well-being. For this reason, we are constantly working to reduce the noise emissions of our prodWith NEVONEX, we offer a comprehensive ucts, especially our household appliances. Extracstrategy for digitization agriculture. The open tor hoods and dishwashers with EcoSilence Drive platform enables more efficient processes by and vacuum cleaners with the SilenceSound sysconnecting and automating devices and worktem keep noise emissions to a minimum. Thanks flows. The platform will initially be offered in to Bosch ProSilence technology, our high-perforselected European regions in 2020 and will later mance lawnmowers are also the quietest on the be launched in North and Latin America. Together market. In the Advanced Rotak models, for examwith eight partners from the agricultural sector, ple, we were able to lower the guaranteed sound we received the silver Agritechnica Innovation power level from 90 to 86 decibels – cutting mowAward 2019 for NEVONEX. ing noise by 60 percent. 42 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook Supply chain Our supplier base is as heterogeneous and international as our range of products is varied and diverse. Against the backdrop of global challenges, we recognize and assume our responsibility for the entire supply chain. It is important to us also to involve our suppliers in this respect. Together, we advocate climate action, environmental protection, and conservation of resources. Fair working conditions and competitive practices as well as respect for human rights are likewise at the center of our attention and in line with the maxim of our company founder Robert Bosch: “Be human and respect human dignity.” 43 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society 39.2  billion euros in purchasing volume from around 40,000 suppliers 1,600 CSR quick scans 4,500 suppliers surveyed on conflict minerals 44 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook 3.1 Management approach Business models, products, and materials finished products or finished components. requirements are changing across markets worldWe purchase only a small proportion directly wide and new supply chains are being estabas raw materials – around 1.8 billion euros of lished. At Bosch, we address these challenges our purchasing volume. together with all parties involved – through close and concerted collaboration beyond company As part of our total cost of ownership (TCO) boundaries and national borders. We believe that approach, which takes into account significant trust-based partnerships with our suppliers withcost components such as freight costs and cusin the framework permitted by law are a basic toms duties, we optimize transportation and keep prerequisite for supply chain excellence. CO₂ emissions to a minimum. By anchoring the aspect of sustainable supply chains in the issue of globalization within our tarReducing CO₂ emissions in the get vision of sustainability, we accord it strategic supply chain importance. As a company that acts responsibly, we look beyond the use of materials and resourcIn connection with joining the Science Based es at our locations. We support the German fedTargets initiative (SBTi), Bosch also analyzed eral government’s National Action Plan (NAP) for emissions in the upstream and downstream Human Rights. stages of its value chain. In our supply chain, we have set ourselves the target of cutting CO₂ emissions by 15 percent by 2030. We Based on a functional, overarching strategy, we will only be able to achieve this goal in close ensure opportunity and risk management in the cooperation with our suppliers. supply chain and structured sustainability activities. Worldwide, some 37,000 associates work in For more information about how we cut the Bosch purchasing and logistics organization. carbon emissions, see the “Environment” They are involved in the entire product evolution section. process – from the innovation phase to the start of production right through to the end of aftermarket supplies. Bosch has supply relationships in some 50 countries. We purchase direct and indirect materials Minimum standards in Some 40,000 suppliers from a total of around 40,000 suppliers. Each day, supplier selection more than 300 million parts – ranging from highprecision components to simple packaging materials – are delivered to the logistics bays of the We take into account sustainability aspects around 270 Bosch production facilities. already at the stage of selecting potential suppliers. In total, the Bosch Group’s global purchasing volPurchasing volume of ume is around 39.2 billion euros. Purchased comOur business partners are checked against curaround 39.2 billion euros ponents made of steel, aluminum, and plastic rent sanctions lists in the course of the Sanctioned account for a large part of the resources used in Party List Screening. In addition, an automated ITour supply chain: in most cases, these are semibased compliance check has been applied since 45 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Management approach | Social and environmental requirements for suppliers | Supplier assessments | Further development of sustainability performance 3 | 01 Responsible supply chain management at Bosch Requirements Assessment Further development ▶▶ Basic principles of social ▶▶ Sanctioned Party List ▶▶ Individual measures responsibility at Bosch ▶▶ Supplier classification ▶▶ Whistleblower system ▶▶ Purchasing terms and conditions ▶▶ Risk analysis ▶▶ Reassessments ▶▶ Code of Conduct for Business ▶▶ Supplier assessments ▶▶ Training Partners ▶▶ Supplier days ▶▶ Agreements on quality and corporate social responsibility 2017. It checks our potential business partners ▶▶ We communicate our requirements to our supagainst external compliance lists to identify any pliers via the basic principles of social responpotential violation of national and international sibility, the Code of Conduct for Business Partlegislation and other standards. In case of any ners, and appropriate contractual clauses. doubt on completion of the check, the compliance officer initiates suitable measures together ▶▶ To assess whether the requirements are comwith the purchasing officer. These can range from plied with, we use systematic processes. We talks with the business partners through to withregularly analyze the environmental and social drawal from the business relationship. risks in our supply chain and derive measures on that basis. The supplier selection process also comprises classification based on criteria such as quality, ▶▶ By developing our suppliers’ sustainability percost, and supply reliability. Suppliers must have formance, we aim to achieve effective, sustainthe requisite classification to be eligible for nomiable changes. nation for a given contract. At the same time, the classification is the starting point for continuous development. If an active supplier is found to be Cooperation with engaged in unlawful conduct or its sustainability performance is insufficient, it is excluded from organizations further contract awards. We are active in initiatives, associations, and orgaBosch relies on partners who share the companizations and also work directly with scientific ny’s long-term competitive objectives. Our topinstitutions to further promote sustainability in performing suppliers with whom we work togeththe supply chain. One focus of our commitment er particularly closely are awarded the status of is on designing universally valid and international preferred supplier. They are involved at an early standards. For example, in a working group of the stage in strategies and development projects, German Association of the Automotive Industry which gives them the opportunity to prepare for (VDA), we elaborated guidelines for social and the future. Both direct and indirect suppliers can labor standards to achieve broader coverage of become preferred suppliers for Bosch. suppliers in assessments. The findings made during on-site checks are to be shared and recogBosch’s sustainable supply chain management is nized in the supplier network in the future. Since made up of three elements (see Fig. 3 I 01): 2014, we have also contributed to the crossindustry Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI; formerly Conflict Free Sourcing Initiative, CFSI). 46 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook 3.2 S  ocial and environmental requirements for suppliers The basic principles of social responsibility at In addition to the standard contracts, we have Bosch and the ten basic principles of the United already concluded agreements on quality and Nations’ Global Compact are the foundation for corporate social responsibility with some 9,000 our understanding of sustainability. We describe suppliers today. They set out requirements for these requirements that apply for all Bosch supthe declaration of substances in accordance with pliers in our purchasing terms and conditions and Bosch standard N2580 “Prohibition and Declara Purchasing terms and in our Code of Conduct for Business Partners. In addition, the Code of Conduct for Business Partners stipulates that our suppliers pass these tion of Substances,” which must also be passed on to sub-suppliers (also see the “Products” section). conditions requirements on to their sub-suppliers. If there is any indication of a breach, the supplier is Code of Conduct for Business Partners required to resolve the matter – if necessary, by Handling of conflict minerals disclosing the supply chain. The code of conduct is handed out to all suppliers at the start of our Whereas Bosch itself purchases only a small business relationship. It is publicly available on number of resources from mineral-processing the Bosch website. companies, the electronics of Bosch products do, however, contain what are known as conflict minerals. That is why we issued the In detail, we demand that our suppliers comply Bosch Group Policy for Conflict Raw Materials with the Ten Principles of the Global Compact in 2019 that describes our approach to the and apply the universal labor standards – includconflict minerals cassiterite (for tin), coltan ing freedom of association, no forced labor or (for tantalum), wolframite, and gold. Bosch child labor, and zero tolerance of discrimination. voluntarily takes part in the conflict minerals In addition, they must undertake to pay minimum reporting system provided for by the Doddwages in accordance with the respective applica Frank Act in the United States. In this context, ble laws – a commitment to which they must also we ask our suppliers to make an annual dechold their business partners. laration regarding the origin of the conflict Conflict Raw Materials minerals. We surveyed 4,500 of our suppliers Policy in 2019 and achieved a six-percentage-point With respect to how they treat their employees, increase in the response rate with smelter environmental protection, and occupational health declarations to 88 percent. With respect to and safety, we refer to local law. In addition, we the conflict minerals for tin and tantalum, expect our suppliers to set up and further develas well as wolframite, more than 90 percent op, within reason, an environmental management of the smelters have obtained certification system certified according to ISO 14001 that goes under the cross-industry standard of the beyond what is required by law. In 2019, around Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI), which 5,500 of our suppliers already had such a certifiis accepted both by the U.S. Securities and cate. Non-manufacturing suppliers are not required Exchange Commission and by our customers to introduce an environmental management sys(OEMs). For gold, the rate is 71 percent. tem, but they do have to implement measures suitable for satisfying the objectives of ISO 14001. Where wastewater treatment and hazardous Bosch is currently developing a systematic prowaste are concerned, our business partners must cess for the regular identification of human rights comply with legal regulations and pursue the aim risks that covers all stages of the value chain, of conserving resources and reducing their enviincluding the supply chain. ronmental impact to a minimum. When working on Bosch premises, they must also follow Bosch’s safety and accident prevention regulations. 47 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Management approach | Social and environmental requirements for suppliers | Supplier assessments | Further development of sustainability performance 3.3 Supplier assessments Responsible supplier management is possible app available via econsense (Forum Nachhaltige only on the basis of transparency about compliEntwicklung der Deutschen Wirtschaft e. V.) for ance with social and environmental standards. By other companies to download free of charge. making such disclosures, our suppliers enable us to support them in a targeted manner and continCSR drill-deep assessments uously increase their sustainability performance. CSR drill-deep assessments are used mainly in One key component of the assessments is the onpotentially high-risk regions or when there are any site inspections at suppliers. specific indications of potential issues. To assess the regional risk propensity, we refer, among other things, to the United Nations Human DevelopSustainability-related ment Index and the Corruption Perceptions Index assessments of published by Transparency International. Any suppliers that are of strategic importance are existing suppliers also subject to such assessments. Irrespective of any other visits to suppliers, For the regular assessment of our suppliers in these are carried out by licensed assessors over terms of their sustainability performance, we a period of one to two days. Besides an in-depth have established two processes: the CSR quick assessment of the three areas covered by the scans and the more comprehensive CSR drillCSR quick scan – the environment, occupational deep assessments. health and safety, and human rights – they also include an analysis of sustainability management, CSR quick scans compliance management, and working conditions. CSR quick scans are based on a checklist containCategories with corresponding criteria reflect our ing criteria relating to the environment, occupaexpectations of suppliers. The assessment covers tional health and safety, and human rights. They the practical implementation on the basis of docare carried out by qualified Bosch associates uments – such as payroll slips – as well as systemfrom purchasing or quality functions as part of based requirements such as guidelines. These regular on-site visits to suppliers. These scans are a measure of the organization’s maturity level. mainly consist of a visual assessment by associThe findings of the CSR drill-deep assessments ates trained to identify potential issues. The are documented in our supplier database. If a around 1,600 CSR quick scans performed in 2019 development plan is needed, the assessor pro1,600 CSR revealed irregularities at some 50 suppliers, who vides assistance with its preparation and sub­ quick scans then had to take measures such as making safety sequently accompanies and monitors implemeninstallations in the workplace or improving evacutation of the measures. ation routes. It is our aim to scan all new suppliers this way, with a renewed scan every two to Since their introduction in 2011, Bosch has carthree years. ried out more than 1,000 CSR drill-deep assessments at some 900 suppliers. The number of supWe have developed a dedicated app for the perpliers covered by drill-deep assessments is to formance and documentation of the CSR quick increase to 1,000 in 2020. In a small number of scans, which contains up-to-date checklists and cases, the deviations were not remedied and background information. It facilitates the proceBosch consequently terminated the business reladure and makes it possible to add images and tions. This affects about five suppliers each year. comments directly. Since 2019, we have made this 48 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook Complaints ment of the purchasing function responsible, and we support and monitor their implementation – mechanism and also by rigorously requesting documentation or performing reassessments on-site. Appropriate incident response certificates can also be provided as evidence. If the development measures are unsuccessful Noncompliance and incidents can be reported and the supplier repeatedly breaches the code using our Compliance Hotline. In addition, there or legal requirements, Bosch has the right to is a system available for all associates, business terminate the business relationship. partners, and other third parties to submit such reports, with a link to it provided on the Bosch  Whistleblower system Internet pages for Purchasing and Logistics and for Sustainability (also see the “Company | Corporate governance and compliance” section). If a breach of the Code of Conduct for Business Partners occurs in an existing business relationship, we seek to remedy this in cooperation with the supplier and take appropriate precautions for the future. Measures are defined with the involve                                                                      49 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Management approach | Social and environmental requirements for suppliers | Supplier assessments | Further development of sustainability performance 3.4 F  urther development of sustainability performance Bosch endeavors to systematically further develop its suppliers. For example, when contaminaSustainability and quality tion was found in late 2018 at a lead-acid battery recycler in Nigeria that was part of the Bosch supQuality is an important criterion in purchasing at Bosch. It has meanwhile ply chain, we took immediate action, including been established by academic studies that there is a connection between blocking the sub-supplier. In addition, Bosch has quality and sustainability performance. Suppliers with a good sustainability established a long-term improvement process to performance ultimately also tend to have a high maturity level in terms of quality. Bosch purchasing officers are aware of this correlation. They are provide transparency about the supply chain. It sensitized to purchase goods and services from suppliers with positive provides for risk-based CSR drill-deep assesssustainability performance. Joint activities continuously improve the quality ments and expanded quick scans, among other produced by our suppliers. In 2019, the already very low level of complaints measures. was reduced by a further 14 percent. The insights we have obtained from all assessments, however, show that suppliers mostly meet our requirements. In a small yet important number of aspects, remedial action was necessary respect to environmental protection, occupationand is being tracked by Bosch. Priority areas in al health, and safety. The same applies for social 2019 concerned areas of occupational health and challenges within the supply chain, such as safety, such as preventing hazards in transport respecting rights at work and strict occupational and high-bay warehousing processes, and envihealth and safety. In 2019, for example, training ronmental protection aspects. on the topic of sustainability was held in China for suppliers of the Power Tools division. We held central purchasing events in 2019 to address and discuss the topic of sustainability – Some 300 in-house trainers regularly hold Webfor example, at the Mobility Solutions division’s based training and classroom-based events on Suppliers Day, which focused on sustainable topics including relevant sustainability aspects mobility, and the Bosch Supplier Quality Forum in purchasing and logistics. The target audience in Brazil. Every two years, we also confer on our includes suppliers, who can select and book best suppliers the Global Supplier Award, for training at Bosch themselves. Furthermore, we which a positive sustainability assessment is a offer supplier development projects that are carmandatory criterion. It was presented for the 16th ried out by qualified Bosch experts with many time in 2019. The next award will include a sepayears of experience at selected suppliers to rate category for sustainability. further their development. These development projects include an analysis of processes as well as discussing and highlighting potential for Training for further improvement. On this basis, the supplier pindevelopment points, together with the Bosch experts, specific technical and organizational changes. In addition to competitiveness, this approach also helps to Bosch works with its suppliers in partnerships, enhance sustainability performance – for example, some of which have been in existence for many as a result of lower energy consumption brought decades. In this context, we offer our suppliers in about by improved internal transport capacity all regions extensive training opportunities and utilization and the more efficient use of machinery. assist them in meeting our requirements with   50 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook Environment For Bosch, protecting the basis of our existence is an obligation to future generations and an act of common business sense. After all, an intact environment is essential to remain successful in business in the long term. We are making our contribution toward limiting the rise in temperature of the Earth’s atmosphere to a maximum of 2 degrees by 2100, or ideally to 1.5 degrees. In 2020, we will therefore be the first industrial company worldwide to make our locations around the globe carbon neutral. In regions where water is scarce, we aim to cut the volume used by our sites by 25 percent by 2025. 51 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society 1,500  projects to reduce energy consumption 210 by GWh 69 GWh own power generation from renewables 50  rojects p that can potentially cut water consumption 200,000 by m³ Cooling lubricants and washing water reduced 50 by almost % 52 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook 4.1 Management approach The key importance of environmental protection 4 | 01 for our future success is also reflected in our tarEnvironmental and energy management get vision for sustainability: five of the six issues – systems energy, climate, water, urbanization, and health – Bosch Group 2019 are directly related to the protection of our liveli296 262 56 242 48 hoods and the conservation of natural resources. We have been working to reduce our ecological footprint for many years. Our global environmental management ensures that we consistently pursue the goals we set ourselves. These efforts are coordinated by the EHS (Environment, Health, and Safety) and Sustainability corporate sector. A total of 89 percent of all manufacturing sites and development sites with more than 50 associ89 percent of sites ates have an environmental management system Manufacturing Implemented Certified certified according to based on the international standard ISO 14001 and development ISO 14001 sites (also see Fig. 4 | 01). The system is already certi nvironmental management system according to E fied at most sites. By the end of 2020, certificaISO 14001 tion will be mandatory for the Bosch Group’s Energy management system according to ISO 50001 entire consolidated group. We have also implemented our energy management systems at 19 percent of our manufacturing and development sites, some of which are certified according As a globally operating supplier of technology, to ISO 50001. Bosch complies with a large number of laws and requirements relating to environmental protecWe have introduced environmental criteria for tion, among them the Regulation on Registration, the design, planning, and acquisition of buildEvaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of ings, plant, and manufacturing equipment – Chemicals (REACH) adopted by the European including energy efficiency, use of renewable Union and the EU Directive on the Restriction of energy, and water use in regions with water scarHazardous Substances in Electrical and Electroncity. These also serve as a decision-making basis ic Equipment (RoHS), as well as national legislawhen selecting new locations. tion such as the Renewable Energies Act (EEG) in Germany. Add to this various regulations and directives governing energy efficiency, packaging, and waste treatment as well as the customer requirements that need to be observed. In addition, we have numerous internal environmental and quality specifications in place that apply     worldwide and are usually stricter than the rules formulated by legislators. The experts in the              competent Bosch departments ensure that all specifications, standards, and requirements are              observed and that our activities comply with          applicable law.                               53 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Management approach | Energy and climate action | Water and wastewater | Materials and waste management To this end, regular briefings, workshops, and audits on EHS topics are carried out at the sites. Stakeholder dialogue Sites are selected on a case-by-case basis or by reference to their size in terms of headcount or Since effective environmental protection is the site’s share in consumption of resources. dependent on the cooperation of various stakeAudit findings are documented in the Bosch EHS holders, Bosch is intensifying its continuing database. As a result, it is also possible to track exchange with key stakeholder groups – in particcorrective actions in the event of deviations. ular, the scientific community, policymakers, and nongovernmental organizations. Seeking to jointly discuss solutions, we have taken part in the UnitDevelopment of skills ed Nations World Climate Conferences in recent and training years. We are a member of the Alliance for Development and Climate, which was launched by the German Federal Ministry for Economic CooperaAs part of our competence management, we aim tion and Development in the autumn of 2018. to optimally qualify our associates in EHS and We are also involved in the executive board and sustainability. Web-based training and classroom steering committee of the econsense association courses promote their methodological and tech(Forum Nachhaltige Entwicklung der Deutschen nical competence, thereby creating the conditions Wirtschaft e.V.) and contribute to the Industrial for safe work processes. Resource Strategies think tank of the BadenWürttemberg state government. Equally imporOur globally standardized EHS training programs tant to us is dialogue with our suppliers and cusare supplemented by training modules that tomers, which we have intensified in recent years, address the specific requirements of individual particularly on the subject of climate action. operating units, sites, and regions. We use internal media such as the digital in-house newspaper, newsletters, wikis, blogs, and online forums to Awards for environregularly sensitize and inform the entire workforce about EHS issues. mental protection and climate action Since our executives play a central role in the implementation of EHS activities and should serve as role models, EHS is an integral part of Within the Bosch Group, the EHS Award highexecutive development. In addition, there is a lights and recognizes outstanding projects for Web-based EHS training module that more than environmental protection and climate action (also 28,000 executives have completed since it was see the “Company” section). Our commitment EHS training for 28,000 introduced in 2014. has also been recognized externally for years. executives Last year, the Power Tools division received the Workers of external companies and other visitors environmental award from the Brazilian Automoto our locations are trained and instructed in tive Engineering Association (AEA) in the “Techhealth, safety, and environmental protection at nology” category for the significant reduction Bosch. achieved in materials used as a result of modifying three tool types in production. In addition, the Bosch “Aterro Zero” project, which has significantly improved waste separation and recycling, took first place in the “Processes” category of the Brazilian ECO Award. 54 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook 4.2 Energy and climate action Bosch wants to shape climate action – an aim that is firmly anchored in our sustainability target Opportunities and challenges of vision through the issues of climate and energy. climate change Since the 1970s, we have viewed energy efficiency and emissions reduction primarily as opportuFor Bosch, climate action and energy effinities for innovation and have been driving these ciency are driving forces for innovation. That issues forward at the board level. The central is how we are tackling climate change, one body in this regard is the CO₂ steering committee, of the greatest challenges facing humanity. which meets every six months and makes deciWe see the main opportunities arising for sions with respect to the implementation of the Bosch from climate change in the need for CO₂ strategy. In addition to one member of the new building-related technologies – such as board of management, the committee includes electric heating systems, energy management, representatives from the specialist units for real and room cooling – and in electromobility. estate and facilities, manufacturing, and environWe are confident that we can make a decisive mental protection, and board members from the contribution toward a successful cross-secdivisions. Reports are also submitted to the toral approach spanning mobility, buildings, board of management at regular intervals. and industry, as we offer attractive products, which we connect and take to a new level. As part of our regular intracompany risk assessThe challenges for Bosch posed by climate ment, climate risks are assessed at least at sixchange include water scarcity and extreme month intervals with a horizon of six years or weather events, the frequency of which are more. This is based on the scenarios of the Interincreasing, as is the damage caused. They national Energy Agency and the energy scenarios can endanger production at our locations and of the Bosch corporate sector for Research and the stability of the supply chain. Other risks Advance Engineering. The internal climate change include the shortage of raw materials and report plays a central role in the assessment: prechanges in the regulatory framework, such as pared by the corporate sector for Research and a ban on internal-combustion engines or the Advance Engineering every two years with a high tightening of CO2-emission standards for vehilevel of scientific rigor, it highlights fundamental cles. Customer preferences can also change developments and their significance for Bosch rapidly as a result of climate change. and society. In 2019, the report addressed the tipping points in the climate system and set out how the end of fossil fuels is being heralded in all sectors. The report was presented to the board of management and can be accessed by all interested associates on the intranet. The risks identified as part of the climate change report and the energy scenarios of the corporate sector for Research and Advance Engineering serve as a basis for the divisions to derive concrete implications, to make market forecasts, and to plan. They are also the basis for working together with our business partners on the strategic and sustainable expansion of the supply chain and the further development of our suppliers (also see the “Supply chain” section). 55 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Management approach | Energy and climate action | Water and wastewater | Materials and waste management Our goal: changes, new approaches, and innovations are needed quickly. Yet we also see major opportuniclimate neutrality ties there. Our climate goal refers to the energy we generate Bosch plays a pioneering role in climate action – ourselves and the volume we purchase for manuout of conviction and out of a sense of responsi­ facturing and administration (scopes 1 and 2 of bility for society. The board of management made the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, GHG). This is a decision to this effect in 2018 and adopted an where we can directly influence the reduction of ambitious CO2 strategy: we aim to be climate greenhouse gases and make a big impact in a neutral worldwide as of 2020. In this way, we short time. We also set ourselves a target for the are already making a concrete contribution in the upstream and downstream stages of the value short term to the 2015 Paris Agreement of the chain (scope 3) in the reporting year (see page United Nations with the aim of limiting global 58). In addition to this specific goal, we want to warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius if possible – and make an active contribution to ensuring that the certainly well below two degrees. Because we stages of the value chain that we do not influence know that time is running out and that many alone will also be climate neutral by 2050. Bosch climate goals Purchased goods and logistics Scope 3 Own generation Climate neutrality as of 2020 and purchased energy Scopes 1 and 2 Energy efficiency New clean power – 15% by 2030 Green electricity Carbon offsets Use of products sold Scope 3 Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi)  56 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook Four levers for Green electricity  In order to implement carbon neutrality quickly, climate neutrality Bosch will initially focus on purchasing green electricity from existing plants. In 2019, we therefore began to significantly expand our purchase We have defined four levers for the implementavolume of electricity from renewable sources tion of our climate goal, which we are now consiswith corresponding guarantees of origin. In Gertently using: firstly, to increase energy efficiency; many, for example, we already exclusively pursecondly, to expand the supply of renewable chased green electricity in 2019 – 1,831 GWh in energy; thirdly, to purchase more green electricitotal. ty; and fourthly, to offset unavoidable CO₂ emissions with carbon credits. It is important for us to Carbon offsets  be climate neutral as early as 2020 and to continWe intend to reduce the use of carbon credits to uously optimize the use and mix of our four levers a minimum in the coming years. However, they by 2030 in order to make a significant contribuwill be necessary on a transitional basis to offset tion to climate action. unavoidable CO₂ emissions from combustion processes (heating, process heat) and to offset Energy efficiency electricity sourced in countries with only limited By 2030, we aim to save 1.7 terawatt-hours (TWh) availability of green electricity. In 2019, we used of energy by making energy-efficiency improvecarbon credits to offset emissions – totaling Over 1,500 energyments at our locations. In order to finance corre0.26 million metric tons of CO₂ – caused by comefficiency projects since sponding measures, the board of management has bustion processes and district heating at German 2018 approved an annual budget of 100 million euros sites. When selecting carbon-offsetting projects, through 2030. In 2018, we already launched we are guided by internationally recognized indearound 500 projects worldwide, followed by over pendent certifications such as the Gold Standard. 1,000 more in 2019. Together, they are saving It is important to us that the projects promote around 0.21 TWh. both social and ecological development. New clean power Implementation We intend to increase our own power generation In order to achieve the company-wide climate from renewable sources of energy such as photogoal, all Bosch divisions are pursuing specific voltaics and wind from 0.05 TWh in 2018 as basetargets, for example, for energy-efficiency mealine year to 0.4 TWh. This corresponds to the outsures. An internal global energy map indicating put of a photovoltaic system the size of around the corresponding potential provides the basis for 300 soccer fields. With 69 gigawatt-hours (GWh), detailed targets for renewable energy generation we were already able to install 17 percent of the at our sites. On the basis of the respective targets, target capacity by the end of 2019. At the same the divisions and sites decide independently on time, we encourage business partners with longthe measures to be implemented, taking into term sourcing contracts to install new renewable account geographical conditions and economic energy capacities. In Germany and Mexico, we are parameters. already making a substantial contribution to the energy transition in this way. 57 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Management approach | Energy and climate action | Water and wastewater | Materials and waste management As the availability and quality of green power and cent of total energy consumption at 5,431 GWh the legal conditions for the expansion of renew(previous year: 71 percent, 5,554 GWh), natural able energy differ between countries, the regional gas for 19 percent (previous year: 19 percent), organizations are responsible for green power and other energy sources such as heating oil, disand new clean power projects. Carbon offsets are trict heat, or coal/coke for 11 percent (previous regulated centrally to ensure the quality of projyear: ten percent). ects. The sites themselves order and transact the measures. Selected energy projects in 2019 In order to achieve our goal of climate neutrality, we are implementing a wide range of measures to Energy consumption increase energy efficiency and in-house renewand emissions able generation capacity. In the following we present some examples. A large share of CO₂ emissions stems from the ▶▶ Smart energy management with the Bosch energy we need: Bosch consumes energy primarEnergy Platform is enabling significant savings ily for the operation of manufacturing plants and at over 80 locations. In Campinas, Brazil, roughly Bosch Energy Platform machinery and in the form of thermal energy to 1,400 megawatt-hours (MWh) are now saved in operation at over heat and air-condition buildings and operate 80 locations every year, equivalent to the energy consumpfoundry furnaces. Electricity accounts for 70 pertion of a community with about 500 inhabitants. ▶▶ The site in Feuerbach, Germany, saves 4 | 02 3,100 MWh each year thanks to shutdown Energy consumption management of the cleaning system and the Bosch Group 2017–2019, in GWh salt evaporator as well as the optimization of 2017 2018 2019 the ventilation system. Bosch Group 7,803 7,844 7,762 Natural gas 1,517 1,512 1,511 ▶▶ The Reutlingen site in Germany has reduced its Heating oil 104 86 89 consumption by 5,500 MWh by using the waste LPG 44 40 34 heat from the cold-water production plant. Coal/coke 130 141 123 Renewable energies 51 54 69 ▶▶ Wuxi, China, reports a 6,700 MWh reduction in consumption per year having switched from a Other 252 258 313 gas-operated to an electrically operated cooling Direct energy (own combustion) 2,098 2,091 2,139 system and smart shutdown management for the air-conditioning system. Electricity 5,510 5,554 5,431 District heat, steam, ▶▶ A total of 50,000 solar panels on roofs, in parkcooling energy 195 199 193 ing lots, and in open areas generate around 20 Indirect energy (purchased) 5,705 5,753 5,623 percent of the energy needed annually at the Nashik site in India. Energy intensity in MWh/million euros of sales revenue     2017 2018 2019     Bosch Group 99.96 99.97 99.87            58 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook In 2019, the Bosch Group companies consumed a total of approximately 7,762 GWh of energy Upstream and (previous year: 7,844 GWh). This corresponds downstream emissions to emissions of 1.94 million metric tons of CO₂ (previous year: 3.26 million metric tons; also see Table 4 | 03). We were able to achieve a significant Upstream emissions in the Bosch value chain  Scope 3 emissions at reduction in our emissions by making our German sites carbon neutral. The calculation of emissions is based on the standards of the International concern categories such as purchased goods and services, logistics, associates’ commutes, and business trips. Our downstream emissions are a glance Energy Agency and the Intergovernmental Panel mainly caused by the use and disposal of our on Climate Change (IPCC). Currently, the presenproducts. To calculate our carbon footprint, we tation is still location-based, but we intend to have analyzed all scope 3 categories of the GHG switch to the market-based approach Protocol and then focused on those that account for 2020. for the largest share of CO₂ emissions. These are purchased goods, logistics, and the use of our products sold. In order to assume our responsibility in these areas in line with our self-imposed 4 | 03 standards, we want to reduce our CO₂ emissions Greenhouse gas emissions by at least 15 percent by 2030. Bosch Group 2017–2019, in 1,000 metric tons of CO₂e  2017 2018 2019 Bosch Group 3,225 3,259 1,9431 Production 396 394 182 Recognition by the Science Based Vehicle fleet 64 65 58 Targets initiative Volatile GHG 7 8 0 Bosch is the first automotive supplier in the Scope 1 467 466 240 world to join the Science Based Targets initiaElectricity 2,650 2,689 1,652 tive (SBTi), a group of partners committed District heat, steam, 107 104 51 to ambitious and scientifically sound climate cooling energy targets. In the autumn of 2019, it reviewed Scope 2 2,757 2,792 1,703 and approved our targets in accordance with its strict criteria: in addition to our target of Emission intensity carbon neutrality for 2020, which applies to in metric tons/million euros of sales revenue scopes 1 and 2, we have also set ourselves 2017 2018 2019 a target to reduce scope 3 emissions (i.e. in upstream and downstream stages of the value Bosch Group 41.30 41.53 25.00 chain). 1T he figure represents emissions after deducting offsets of 255,230 metric tons of CO₂.                           59 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Management approach | Energy and climate action | Water and wastewater | Materials and waste management This goal, to which we have also made a committo use this process in the future. In addition, we ment in connection with the Science Based Tarsensitize our associates to make greater use of gets initiative, is now being tackled strategically digital communication formats or – as far as posfor each of these three categories: sible – to make use of alternative mobility offers. ▶▶ Close cooperation with our suppliers is necessary to reduce the CO2 emissions of purchased Mobility campaign goods. To achieve this, we will identify the supplier groups causing the largest volume of CO2 Bosch employs more than 50,000 associates emissions in order to work with them on mitigain the greater Stuttgart area, Germany, many tion measures. For more information, see the of whom drive to and from work every day. “Supply chain” section. Our “Go for mobility” campaign aims to make it easier for associates to switch to alternative means of transport or to avoid commutes ▶▶ In the field of logistics, we will focus on transaltogether. They can lease a bicycle or e-bike port. A holistic supply chain network design is as a company bike or use an app to carpool. intended to strengthen the regional procureIn addition, on days with air-pollution alerts, ment and production of goods and avoid air they can take the bus or train free of charge. transport. In addition, by increasingly combinThe fact that 13,000 bicycles were leased in ing freight, we want to reduce transport, optithe first year already is a great success for our mize routes and capacity utilization, and thus multimodal concept. This is our contribution avoid CO2 emissions. For this purpose, we can to relieving traffic and improving air quality as record transport data on a data platform and one of the largest employers in the region. determine the carbon footprint according to DIN EN 16258. ▶▶ Product design geared to energy efficiency already contributes to the reduction of emissions with regard to how products sold are used. In 2020, we want to identify additional potential for further reducing the CO2 emisAir pollution sions of our products. For more information, see the “Products” section. Air pollutants can affect human health and should therefore be effectively reduced. In 2019, We have also already decided on a measure for Bosch launched a project to analyze which air polthe category of associates’ transport: starting in lutants are produced and at what levels in the rel2020, we will make the air travel of all associates evant business processes in manufacturing, such carbon neutral using carbon offsets. The cost of as surface treatment, foundry processes, and carbon offsets will be included directly in the airbuilding heating. The results show that there are fare. As we worked toward this solution with the no significant effects on people and the environtravel agencies, other companies will also be able ment from air pollutant emissions. 60 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook 4.3 Water and wastewater The conscientious use of water has been a Here again, Bosch is taking a proactive stance. declared goal of Bosch for many years – and one Back in 2018, we analyzed our sites using the we are emphasizing by anchoring the issue of WWF’s Water Risk Filter. The result shows that water in our sustainability target vision. Today, 61 sites, accounting for 14.4 percent of our total climate change scenarios predict that the risks annual water withdrawal in 2019, are located in that already exist today regarding the scarcity and areas with the severest or severe water scarcity. poor quality of water will become even more We have therefore decided – also after discusacute. The United Nations estimates that by 2050 sions with the WWF – to focus on combating more than 40 percent of the world’s population water scarcity. By systematically saving water, will live in regions exposed to high water risks. we can quickly achieve significant improvements in regions where water is a particularly valuable resource. 4 | 04 Sites with water scarcity 2 11 2 3 1 13 5 1 2 9 1 2 16 1 1 Withdrawal in Share in total Number millions of m3 water withdrawal Affected regions Sites with the severest 17 0.67 3.4% India, United States, water scarcity Mexico, China, Turkey, Thailand Sites with severe 44 2.17 11.0% India, China, Mexico, water scarcity United States, Italy, Thailand, Turkey, Peru, UAE, South Africa 61 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Management approach | Energy and climate action | Water and wastewater | Materials and waste management Our goal is to reduce absolute water withdrawal 4 | 05 at the 61 sites in regions with water scarcity by Water withdrawal 25 percent by 2025 compared to 2017. To supBosch Group 2019 by region, port the corresponding measures, an annual budin millions of cubic meters get of ten million euros is available until 2025. To this end, water coordinators in the Bosch diviTotal 19.77 sions identify local savings potential and implement suitable measures together with the perAsia Pacific Germany (including other 6.96 sons responsible at the locations. Best practice countries, also examples are available to all locations via a in Africa) group-wide “Water Wiki.” 5.71 Americas By the end of 2019, we had already achieved a 1.46 Europe (withreduction of 11.5 percent and launched some 50 out Germany) additional projects that will enable us to save up 5.64 to 200,000 cubic meters (m³) of water at our sites in the future: 4 | 06 ▶▶ In Mexicali, Mexico, improved circulation of Water withdrawal cooling water led to a 14 percent reduction in Bosch Group 2017–2019, water withdrawal. in millions of cubic meters 2017 2018 2019 ▶▶ In Wuxi, China, process optimizations lowered Bosch Group 19.30 19.80 19.77 water withdrawal by 20 percent while also Surface water3 3.23 3.91 reducing the use of chemicals. Groundwater3 2.55 2.21 Public/private water14.01 13.59 ▶▶ In Ahmedabad, India, an 18,000 m3 water reserworks3 voir with 23 infiltration shafts was built to chanFresh water1, 3 19.79 19.72 nel water to groundwater during monsoon rains Public/private water0.01 0.05 and prevent flooding. works3 Other sources2, 3 0.01 0.05 Water withdrawal Water intensity in cubic meters/million euros of sales revenue Bosch uses fresh water in many processes, espe2017 2018 2019 cially for cooling. In water-stressed regions, we Bosch Group 246.6 252.3 254.4 already use recycled water whenever possible. 1 <1,000 mg/l total dissolved solids Since 2015, the Bosch Group’s water withdrawal 2 >1,000 mg/l total dissolved solids has increased from 19.34 million m3 to currently 3 Detailed data collected for the first time in 2018 19.77 million m3. In relation to sales revenue, however, this constitutes a relative decrease of 6.3 percent (also see Table 4 | 06). 62 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook Wastewater ments of local authorities. At some sites, we carry out wastewater treatment ourselves, using processes such as ultrafiltration to separate solids Wastewater at our sites is mainly generated by the and liquids or physical-chemical treatment methuse of cooling water (34 percent). It also comes ods, such as precipitation or distillation, dependfrom sanitary facilities and canteens (40 percent) ing on local conditions. and is generated as part of manufacturing by, for example, electroplating, washing facilities, and processing centers (26 percent). In 2019, Bosch’s 4 | 07 wastewater volume decreased to 16.2 million m³ Wastewater (previous year: 16.3 million m3). Within the scope Bosch Group 2017–2019, of our strategically relevant topic of water, we are in millions of cubic meters working on further reducing wastewater flows and continuously improving quality. 14.9 16.3 16.2 In a first step, we have recorded centrally what quantities are involved where, how they are treated, and where they are discharged (also see Fig. 4 | 08). Negative impacts from wastewater are mainly caused by foreign substances or excessive temperatures. We have defined globally binding standards for wastewater quality and monitor them accordingly and pursuant to the require2017 2018 2019 4 | 08 Wastewater flows and discharge routes Wastewater flows Sewerage Direct Infiltration 65% discharge 2% 33% Cooling tower Cooling water 34% Water withdrawal Wastewater Untreated facility wastewater29% 19.8 mn m3 16.2 mn m3 Reuse Treated facility wastewater11% Untreated process wastewater 7% Treated process wastewater19% Irrigation Leaks Effluents 63 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Management approach | Energy and climate action | Water and wastewater | Materials and waste management 4.4 Materials and waste management In all its divisions, Bosch seeks to reduce the use 4 | 09 of resources and recycle materials wherever posKey materials used sible. In so doing, we are guided by the idea of a Bosch Group 2019, circular economy. in 1,000 metric tons In order to reduce the relative amount of raw Total 2,224 materials used as product sales increase, we began defining our requirements for environ­ Aluminum mentally friendly design in 2000. With the DfE 291 process as a component of the environmental Plastics management system, we start as early as the 273 product development stage. In this way, we want Steel to ensure the efficient use of materials or energy 1,660 and avoid or minimize the impact on people and the environment in all phases of a product’s life cycle to the greatest extent possible. A particular focus is placed on avoiding SoC The use of recycled plastics can make a valuable that are harmful to people and the environment, contribution to the conservation of resources. irrespective of whether they are used during proThey are obtained from, among other things, carduction or in products (also see the “Products” pet fibers, manufacturing rejects, start-up waste, section). waste fiber, or waste packaging. Bosch uses polyamides such as PA6 or PA66 with a recycled content. However, the use of recycled materials Use of materials is not always possible, as the qualities fluctuate, permanent availability is often not guaranteed, In 2019, Bosch purchased some 2.2 million metshelf life is reduced, and color options are limitric tons of key materials (steel, aluminum, and ed. That said, since 2013, we have been able to plastics) from suppliers, around three percent increase the proportion of materials made from less than in the previous year (2.3 million metric or containing recycled materials by around tons). Steel made up the largest share of materi50 percent. als, totaling 1.7 million metric tons, followed by 0.3 million metric tons of aluminum and 0.3 milBosch is either not active in the areas of applicalion metric tons of plastics. The above-mentioned tion in which nanotechnology is used in quantimaterial fractions purchased in 2019 represent ties of relevance or it uses alternative substances CO₂ emissions of 5.0 million tons. and technologies. The only exceptions are a small number of applications in our household appliance activities, although the nanoparticles are firmly bound in the product in those cases. Even though we do not need to take action in this respect at present, we continually follow the related discussions and analyses, for example, of the European Chemicals Agency (ECHA). 64 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook Measures for a Waste circular economy With respect to waste management, we apply In order to strengthen the circular the principle of “avoid, then reuse, then dispose.” economy, Bosch plans to launch a straA company-wide guideline ensures that the legal tegic project in 2020 that combines the regulations for the transport and disposal of operating units’ approaches and provides waste are complied with locally. All manufacturan overarching framework. Because the ing sites have established a waste management more materials we can reuse, the lower organization in charge of sorting, classifying, and the costs for procurement or disposal. handing over waste to disposal companies. Numerous examples from the Bosch world already show how this is possible: An analysis of waste at sites that together account ▶▶ The Bursa site in Turkey has developed for around 80 percent of our waste volume has a process for reconditioning cutting shown that around half our waste consists of mettools. Every year, 23,000 tools can be als. Packaging waste accounts for one quarter; reused this way, saving four metric tons foundry sand and hazardous waste each account of metal in addition to energy and oil. for around 13 percent. The analysis also showed that significant progress can still be made in the ▶▶ With the BlueMovement project, BSH area of hazardous waste, which would allow us to Hausgeräte GmbH is testing leasing in thus make an important contribution to protectthe Netherlands: customers receive a ing the environment and people – in addition to modern, resource-efficient appliance,  while BlueMovement remains the owner reducing disposal costs. and is therefore responsible for mainRead more about tenance, reconditioning, and recycling. BlueMovement in The BSH pilot project “Papillon” in 4 | 10 Spotlights magazine Belgium extends this offer and helps Waste volume and disposal socially disadvantaged households to Bosch Group 2017–2019, in 1,000 metric tons use efficient household appliances. 2017 2018 2019 Bosch Group 717.4 711.4 701.2 ▶▶ The Bosch eXchange program offers Recyclable waste 585.1 594.1 562.3 used, but valuable, car parts and accessories as remanufactured parts. They Waste for disposal 132.4 117.3 138.9 are subject to the same quality requireof which hazardous 93.0 89.5 80.6 ments as new products and have the waste same guarantee. As a result, we save around 90 percent of materials, halve Waste intensity energy consumption, and can reduce in metric tons/million euros of sales revenue CO2 emissions by around 25,000 metric 2017 2018 2019 tons a year compared with new producBosch Group 9.2 9.1 9.0 tion. 65 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Management approach | Energy and climate action | Water and wastewater | Materials and waste management We therefore set two priorities during the reportIn the 2019 reporting year, the relative volume ing period: reducing hazardous waste and miniof waste decreased by one percent (also see mizing the amount of waste going to landfills. We Table 4 | 10). The absolute volume of waste identified potential in both areas in the reporting decreased by 1.4 percent year on year to year and derived measures: 701,190 metric tons (previous year: 711,403 metric tons). Of that amount, it was possible to ▶▶ At Bosch, hazardous waste mainly consists recycle 80 percent. of cooling lubricants, washing water, oils, and fuels. In 2019, their volume decreased by almost ten percent to 80,562 metric tons. Specific reduction measures have been developed at sites with comparatively large quantities of hazardous waste. In particular, the use of vacuum distillation and ultrafiltration has allowed us to reduce cooling lubricants and washing water by almost 50 percent each, while the oil to be disposed of was reduced by almost ten percent through centrifugal treatment. ▶▶ In order to further reduce the amount of waste going to landfills, we want to increase the recycling rate. With this in mind, we implemented the Zero Waste to Landfill campaign in various Asian countries and in the United States in the  Read more about Zero reporting year. Our Koramangala Campus in Waste to Landfill in India, for example, operates a biogas plant that Spotlights magazine also uses food leftovers from the canteen, thus also saving energy.                                                                                                                    66 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook Associates Our world – and with it industry, business, and standard practice – is changing fundamentally. That is why Bosch has initiated a far-reaching transformation that is being actively accompanied by HR management. In the process, our values provide firm guidance for our actions in a challenging environment. With our people strategy, we are empowering our associates to shape the company’s digital transformation. 67 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society 398,200  associates attended 694,000 training days 267  million euros invested in training 7,000  trainees and apprentices Accident rate 1.9 lowered to  ccidents a per 1 million hours worked 68 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook 5.1 Management approach As an employer, we want to shape the future with Guidelines and standards a high pace of innovation, passion, and the courage In the “Basic principles of social responsibility at  Basic principles of social to embrace change. People are the key to success. That is why we have placed them at the center of the strategy we have designed to remain successBosch,” which have been made publicly available, the board of management and the employee representatives commit, among other things, to comresponsibility at Bosch ful in a business and market environment that is plying with human rights, equal opportunities, experiencing both fast and massive changes. fair working conditions, and global standards in occupational health and safety. The 11 principles Bosch is well on its way to becoming a leading are based on the core labor standards of the solutions provider for the internet of things and International Labour Organization (ILO) and they the mobility of the future. To be in a position to are likewise binding for our suppliers. Responsiactively shape change and adequately respond to bility for their implementation lies with the manvolatility, complexity, and disruption, it is essenagement of the divisions, regional subsidiaries, tial to develop the corporate culture further and and company locations. Every associate is familfor our associates to acquire new competencies. iar with the basic principles and can report violaAt the same time, we need to win new talent for tions. innovative growth areas, including on highly competitive international labor markets. The same applies to violations of the Code of  Code of Business Our foundation Business Conduct, which is applicable to associates and business partners worldwide. It builds on the “Basic principles of social responsibility,” Conduct sets out the requirements of associates and busiThe Bosch values, originated by our company ness partners for fair and responsible business founder, inform the actions of all associates. With practices, and contains additional, internal comrespect to new challenges as well as opportunipany rules on the topic of compliance in particuties – as a result of digitization and a focus on lar (see the “Company” section). sustainable mobility in particular – they are a cardinal point of reference. Our “We are Bosch” mission statement combines our strengths with Our people strategy our strategic approach (also see the “Company” section). The transformation at Bosch involves changing skills profiles and also taking measures to adapt skills and capacities accordingly (also see the “Company” section). At the same time, we want to support our associates so that they have the courage to make the right decisions themselves. To this end, we are aligning our HR management consistently to their needs and also preparing them for the transformation.                        69 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Management approach | Employer of choice | Leadership and collaboration | Learning and development | Occupational health and safety 5 | 01 ▶▶ Employer of choice: As an employer of choice, People strategy we want to win talented new staff and further our associates’ development. For further details, see the “Associates | Employer of Transformation choice” section. Transformation of business & Transformation of HR ▶▶ Leadership and collaboration: We encourage a strong culture of leadership and collaboration, thereby creating the conditions for our associates to enjoy job satisfaction and unfold their Learning Employer of Leadership & potential. For further details, see the “Associchoice collaboration ates | Leadership and collaboration” section. ▶▶ Learning: We provide the learning content for Digitization Excellence a successful transformation, strengthen the learning culture, and make learning more timeand cost-effective, flexible, and attractive. For further details, see the “Associates | Learning and development” section. Strategic core topics Our strategy revolves around six core topics that ▶▶ Excellence: We support associates in their guide our actions: responsibilities and the development at all levels as a professional partner, offering personal▶▶ Transformation: We are contributing to the ized advice and efficient services. transformation through the way we shape working and employment conditions, along with ▶▶ Digitization: We develop and establish state-ofappropriate HR processes, policies, and forthe-art methodologies and IT tools to automate mats in the context of leadership and cooperaprocesses, use data efficiently, and design systion. At the same time, we are adapting our tems and services that are intuitive and readily structures to the changed environment in the accessible for all our associates. short and medium term in as socially acceptable a manner as possible. 5 | 02 Management process CULTURE VISION MISSION ACTION ORGANIZAIMPLEMENSTRATEGY TRENDS, BUSINESS PLAN TION TATION PERSPECTIVE, SWOT 70 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook Organization and responsibilities The director of industrial relations of Robert How Bosch is shaping the Bosch GmbH is responsible for human resources mobility transformation in a management in the Bosch Group. He is respon­ socially responsible manner sible for human resources and social welfare, including senior executives. He is assisted by the The path toward sustainability involves a HR corporate sector, whose areas of responsibilseismic shift in the automotive industry that ity include diversity and equal opportunities. The brings with it considerable challenges, also digitization of processes in HR management in for Bosch. We need ten associates to manufacture a diesel injection system, three for the future will empower our HR consultants and a gasoline system, and one for an electric allow them to dedicate more time to value-added motor. Added to this are economic trends services for our people and concentrate on supthat leave Bosch with no choice but to adjust porting the transformation. its workforce. In the countries where Bosch operates, HR Our objective is to make this transition in management is the responsibility of the respecas socially acceptable a manner as possible. tive regional management, which reports to cenThis approach is also in line with the cornertral HR management. In the future, regional stones of our people strategy. As a responmanagement will be consulted more closely on sible employer, we want to work with the global projects. works councils and the unions in our associates’ interest and find constructive solutions to preserve as many jobs as possible. As the Employment at Bosch different business units and locations are affected in different ways by current developments, individual solutions are called for. As a global supplier of technology and services, Above all, we opt for natural attrition and volBosch has 398,150 associates worldwide – untary redundancy on the basis of severance pay, early retirement, and partial retirement. the majority of whom are directly involved in In order to keep as many people – and their manufacturing products and services (directly skills and expertise – on board as possible, employed: 97 percent). Around 11 percent of the we also make use of the possibility to reduce workforce have temporary contracts for reasons weekly working hours. In addition, we offer of deployment flexibility. The same qualification qualification programs and offer associates opportunities are open to them as to associates the opportunity to transfer to growth areas. with permanent contracts. This allows them to improve their skills at Bosch and, in turn, their At the Bamberg location, for example, plant prospects in the labor market. Less than one permanagement and employee representation cent of our associates are temporary workers, and have reached an agreement to secure the it goes without saying that we give due regard to future of the location. This provides for a reduction in working hours for the around compliance with legal frameworks and respecting 6,200 associates with collectively bargained any collective bargaining agreements. contracts for a period of six years. At the same time, we are setting up new operating units at the location, such as the development of stationary fuel cells. We will also maintain our high level of training in Bamberg in the future. Redundancies have been ruled out for the duration of the agreement. 71 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Management approach | Employer of choice | Leadership and collaboration | Learning and development | Occupational health and safety 5.2 Employer of choice We want to continue to be an attractive employer time. Owing to the low number of associates – an employer of choice. In a highly competitive handing in their notice, Bosch does not record labor market and above all in light of the digital this metric or the turnover rate in detail. transformation, it is vital for us to be able to win and retain the best talent. Besides acquiring new talent, we continuously further our associates’ Remuneration and qualifications, making adjustments on a needs basis, so that they can accompany us on our joursocial benefits ney into new business fields. We analyze changes in skills profiles and pursue the aim of positionBosch sees itself as a hands-on social partner ing Bosch as an employer of choice for digital talthat actively helps shape agreements, sets ent. The “moments that matter” project that we parameters, and offers its workforce pay that carried out at some pilot locations in the reportreflects performance and the market. Company ing period helps us to achieve this aim. It enables pension benefits are generally paid worldwide, associates to give us quick and direct feedback on but there are regional differences in their terms HR tools such as onboarding, for example. To and conditions. In addition, we offer our associaddress digital talent in particular, we have develates other social benefits, such as under the comoped a systematic approach based on market pany healthcare scheme (also see the “Associates analyses, benchmarks, and surveys. | Occupational health and safety” section). We create conditions for all associates that allow Basic principles of the remuneration system them to reach their full potential and unfold their The principles underlying the remuneration creativity. We accompany each individual in their system at Bosch are governed by a central direcdevelopment (for further details on development, tive that is applicable worldwide. It is intended see the “Associates | Learning and development” to ensure an attractive remuneration level in line section) and support them in reconciling their with market conditions for all associates and professional and personal commitments and strengthen our competitive position. It makes it mastering the various requirements of different possible for us to adjust our remuneration syslife stages. tems in light of the increasing volatility of markets. For this reason, there may be differences in The fact that our associates rarely terminate their the remuneration systems of individual operating employment relationship speaks for itself, and units, regions, countries, and locations. Worldthe number of associates who hand in their notice wide standards also apply to management remuis also very low compared with the industry as a neration at Bosch. With attention increasingly whole. However, there are regional differences. shifting to achievements at team level, individu­ While associates in India and China switch emalized bonus systems have become outdated. ployers more frequently, associates in Germany Individual bonuses were already discontinued remain loyal to their employer for a very long at Bosch back in 2016 and replaced with a collective profit participation model. 72 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook channels to provide orientation for executives and Collectively bargained innovation associates on how to achieve a successful work– agreement life balance. A shift is taking place toward creative work Our guidelines for a flexible and family-friendly in mixed teams with greater responsibilworking culture cover, among other aspects, a ity awarded to each individual. Accordingly, fast return to work or the topic of part-time leadassociates need a great deal of latitude. In ership. In the interim, they have been adopted in response to these conditions, Bosch entered many countries or adapted to country-specific into a new collective bargaining agreement requirements. In this context, various working with the German metalworkers’ union IG time models have also been introduced (espe­ Metall Baden-Württemberg applicable from 2019 for the associates of the Connected cially mobile working and part-time models), for Mobility Solutions division. Referred to as example, in China, India, Mexico, and the United the collectively bargained innovation agreeStates. ment, this structure transfers a high degree of responsibility and autonomy to associates – As part of its mobility initiative launched in for instance, by allowing them to choose the Stuttgart region in Germany in 2018, Bosch when they work, giving them a personal trainoffers shuttle buses for associates, allowing them ing budget they can appropriate themselves, to use the commute to the office productively. and offering numerous models for paid leave. Associates are also choosing to take advantage At the same time, it places a strong emphaof co-working spaces offered, for example, in the sis on performance that is anchored in fair vicinity of their home or on the way to business and transparent remuneration based on the collectively bargained salary. In mid 2019, appointments (also see the “Environment” we evaluated initial experience with the new section). regulations, and the outcome was very positive overall. Discussions and preparations are Working-time models underway at the moment to roll out the colBosch is a pioneer in rules on mobile and flexible lectively bargained innovation agreement to working. We want to empower our associates to another unit. structure their working time as individually as possible while optimally catering for business requirements. Accordingly, more than 100 different working time models are used in the Bosch Work–life balance Group across all hierarchy levels, including parttime work, telecommuting, and job sharing. Associates can arrange these models individually in More than 100 Bosch wants to support its associates in striking consultation with their line managers. Back in different working-time a balance between their individual career goals, early 2014, we already introduced in a combined models works agreement the right of associates to mobile personal lifestyle, and private objectives. To that end, we are continuously working to make when working to the extent that it is compatible with and where associates work flexible. One determitheir tasks. In 2018, these rules were adopted in nant of success is the continuous evolution of our the collectively bargained regional agreement for work culture. This is supported by sharing bestthe metal industry and are disseminated internapractice examples via internal communication tionally as a fundamental principle today. 73 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Management approach | Employer of choice | Leadership and collaboration | Learning and development | Occupational health and safety Other agreements and benefits By creating a work environment that is as flexible Diversity initiative as possible, we help our associates to strike a work–life balance. But we also offer other The diversity initiative, launched as a project arrangements and options such as parental leave, in 2011, brings the topic to life by highlighting leave of absence to care for family members, sabpositive examples. Its approach and message baticals, special leave, and paid leave in special that “diversity is our advantage” is communicated worldwide through a variety of chancircumstances. Especially with families in mind, nels. It illustrates the benefits for Bosch and Bosch offers a broad spectrum of measures in every individual and encourages participation. order to arrange care services in emergencies, We want to include all associates and are also for instance. For example, associates are active exploring unusual avenues in this context. For in “Elder Care,” a working group that offers a platexample, Bosch is paying greater attention form on the “family@bosch” forum dedicated to in its diversity management to unconscious the exchange of information on, and experience bias, which is one of the causes of stereowith, taking care of family members and that suptyping. Since 2015, we have held close to ports affected colleagues with advice and assis250 workshops with over 4,000 multipliers tance. at some 40 company sites in Germany. This is supplemented by numerous workshops in over 20 countries worldwide at which associDiversity ates have also been made aware of their own unconscious patterns of thought and action. Unconscious bias was also the focus of the Bosch values the diversity of its associates’ persixth Bosch Diversity Day held in 2019 in spectives, experience, and lifestyles. We are conwhich more than 200 company sites worldvinced that mixed teams often produce better wide took part. results and that appreciation of individuality is beneficial for the working atmosphere. That is why diversity is a fixed element of our corporate strategy and anchored in our mission statement “We are Bosch” as one of our values. Our Code Dimensions of diversity of Business Conduct also reflects that Bosch In order to do justice to the different dimensions respects and protects the personal dignity of each individual, tolerates neither discrimination nor harassment of associates, and promotes diversiof diversity, we have established a wide variety of measures. In the following we present some examples.  Diversity website ty. It is very important to us that – irrespective of gender, age, background, or any other aspects – Gender: Mixed gender teams can capture the all associates around the globe feel valued and potential inherent in having different vantage can devote their individual strengths, experience, points and solution strategies. That is why we and potential to the company. encourage mixed teams at all levels and act on the principle that is of elementary importance for equality that the same work deserves the same pay. Driven by these convictions, we want to further increase the proportion of women in our 74 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook total workforce, which is currently 27.4 percent Generations: We work with all generations, (previous year: 27.0 percent). Above all, we want taking account of their various needs and adjustto further increase the proportion of women in ing our leadership tools accordingly. To this end, leadership positions, which is currently 17.2 perwe use professional training and flexible working cent (previous year: 16.6 percent). In line with (time) models adapted to the associates’ life legal requirements in Germany, Bosch has also stages. Through Bosch Management Support, a set targets for the proportion of women members subsidiary founded in 1999, we also temporarily on the supervisory board and the board of manassign project and advisory tasks to former assoagement. The current deadline for reaching the ciates. Our former specialists and executives, who targets is December 31, 2021. For further details, have up to 40 years of experience at Bosch, are see the 2019 annual report (page 22 et seq.). deployed above all where professional advice is needed at short notice. Training on demographic To achieve our target, we support women in change and cross-generational cooperation leadership positions in their careers through rounds out our efforts. For example, together mentoring and seminar programs such as the with the Swiss association Generationentandem Business Women’s Program. Added to this, there (generation tandem), we encourage communicaare numerous internal diversity networks, includtion between younger and older generations ing the women’s network women@bosch and through a variety of activities. the “Frauen in Technik” (women in technology) forum. As of 2019, together with our strategic Internationality: People from around 150 partner PANDA, we offer female executives a nations work together for Bosch. This diversity cross-industry network and a professional and allows us to successfully collaborate with our personal development platform. international customers, partners, and suppliers. We have also organized international diversity networks such as afric@bosch, chinese@bosch, 5 | 03 “For Bosch abroad,” and the Bosch Turkish Forum. Proportion of women With over 3,000 international assignments each Bosch Group 2017–2019, in percent year, we also encourage international exchange within our workforce. Added to this, there are 27.4 numerous seminars on the subject of internation26.9 27.0 Bosch Group ality, global collaboration, and various cultures. Culture: Diversity can be achieved if we are the 16.1 16.6 17.2 Management employer of choice for people who think out of the box and come to us from nonconventional career paths. This calls for a courageous and open leadership culture that permits authenticity. We aim for a working culture based on mutual 0 0 0 Board of respect and trust where all associates cooperate management openly and respectfully with each other. We are 2017 2018 2019 working to continuously develop our culture fur75 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Management approach | Employer of choice | Leadership and collaboration | Learning and development | Occupational health and safety ther in order to prevent unconscious bias in decicouraged within the company, such as the global sion-making processes, such as when filling LGBT diversity network RBg (Robert Bosch gay), vacancies. which contributes to our open corporate culture. The network is also active outside the company. People with disabilities: We increase our innoIn 2017, it launched the LGBT Ally initiative. The vation power by focusing on the unique abilities allies are associates from all business sectors of our associates – and not on their limitations. who are called on to openly address possible That is why we create an inclusive working enviincidents of bias or discrimination to help shape ronment that takes into consideration and apprethe transition to an open working culture. ciates everybody’s special needs and skills. Representatives for disabled persons at the company sites give the interests of our associates with disAwards abilities a voice. In cooperation with workshops for people with disabilities, we offer additional Various awards that we received in the reporting work participation opportunities. With this in period are proof that our measures to attract and mind, we are also active in Germany in the asso­ retain associates are effective – and that Bosch is ciation Bundesarbeitsgemeinschaft Werkstätten the employer of choice for a wide range of target für behinderte Menschen e. V. (National Working groups. For instance, we came third in the 2020 Group Workshops for Disabled People). ranking of Germany’s best employers, which is regularly conducted by Glassdoor, and came secAt our Campinas site in Brazil, associates are ond in the Young Professionals Barometer 2019 Second place in the actively involved in inclusiveness work. In the published by Trendence. In the Diversity & IncluYoung Professionals project “Ambassadors of Inclusion,” more than Barometer 2019 sion Index 2019 compiled by Universum, which 300 specifically trained ambassadors work to measures the perception of students in STEM disaddress the needs of associates with disabilities. ciplines (science, technology, engineering, and They help increase visibility in the daily work of mathematics) in 31 countries, Bosch ranked 11th the roughly 200 colleagues with disabilities, they and is the first company in the automotive indusdrive projects to improve infrastructure designed try to make it on to the index. to be accessible for people with disabilities, and they motivate the workforce, for example, to remove mental barriers or attend sign language courses. LGBT: At Bosch, all associates are valued – irrespective of their sexual orientation or gender identity. We help associates network and encourage dialogue and mutual understanding between people of different sexual orientations and iden­ tities. We support the foundation PrOut@Work, which advocates equal opportunities in the workplace, and corresponding networks are also en76 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook 5.3 Leadership and collaboration Our understanding of good leadership and collaboration is defined in the “We LEAD Bosch” Feedback and leadership principles, which address both exe­ survey cutives and associates. These principles set out the form of leadership and collaboration that we want at Bosch. “We LEAD Bosch” is also the comThe 360° Leadership Feedback gives our execupany-wide template for leadership principles in tives feedback on their leadership skills from difthe divisions, regions, and plants. ferent perspectives. In general, participation is voluntary, although some divisions have mandaOur executives shape the conditions such that tory targets. The tool is available to all Bosch our associates can each develop and achieve their executives worldwide. The aim is the continuous potential (for further details on development, see improvement of leadership and collaboration as the “Associates | Learning and development” secwell as a feedback culture in the spirit of “We tion). This is a demanding task, in particular with LEAD Bosch.” regard to expectations on executives to be role models. One key job of executives is to support To measure employee satisfaction and identify associates in independently making progress on specific improvement potential in the company, their work and reaching decisions quickly and on we regularly survey our associates. The concept a sound basis. is currently being revised and in the future will involve the use of different survey elements for the individual entities depending on what insights they want to gain. The first survey based on the new overall concept will be carried out in 2020. Working Out Loud Leadership survey Complex tasks can frequently only be solved In the Executive Pulse Check once a year, Bosch by brainstorming and team effort. The Workasks executives around the world for their opining Out Loud methodology is intended to enable associates to collaborate in networks, ions and views on current strategic topics. This learn from others, and share knowledge. Assoallows us to systematically recognize sentiments ciates who wish to explore this opportunity in the company at an early stage and identify register with a community – and then circles where there is any need to change our strategic of five associates are created in which each alignment. The survey results are put together participant chooses a specific topic of study. with recommended actions for discussion on The circles meet every week over a certain the board of management, and key insights are period of time to work on these individual shared transparently with all participating executopics. This form of exchange helps particitives and communicated to all associates in the pants to assume different perspectives and Bosch Business Dialog. Some 60 percent of execgradually reach their objective. utives invited took part in the most recent Executive Pulse Check in May 2019. The content focus was placed on the business situation, technological and cultural change at Bosch, and corporate social responsibility. The responses show that 77 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Management approach | Employer of choice | Leadership and collaboration | Learning and development | Occupational health and safety our executives support the decision in favor of in the company receives preferential treatment or group-wide carbon neutrality (95 percent) and is disadvantaged on account of their membership are motivated to make a contribution with their in a trade union or employee representation. teams to energy efficiency (98 percent). At the same time, executives understand that the techCooperation with works councils and trade nological and social changes necessitate a farunions reaching transformation of the company. The vast With the exception of only a few, small units, majority of executives have a clear picture of the practically all Bosch locations in Germany have a current economic situation (96 percent) and works council. Collective bargaining agreements actively take opportunities to acquire new knowlare in effect for practically all units at Bosch in edge so that they can better integrate topics of Germany, covering some 100,000 associates. future importance in their own area of responsiCombined works agreements additionally govern bility (91 percent). cohesion and cooperation in the company. For institutionalized cross-border employee repre­ sentation in Europe, there are European works Employee rights councils. In addition, Bosch promotes dialogue between employee representatives worldwide. Bosch has always maintained open and construcIn accordance with the respective national regulative dialogue with employee representatives to tions, there are local employee representatives in make decisions based on consensus to the greatChina and India, for example. est extent possible. We are convinced that we can implement the change processes needed to Agreements with the International Trade secure our competitiveness only in cooperation Union Confederation with employee representatives – that is, if associBased on the ILO core labor standards, Bosch ates and the company equally share the responsialready entered into agreements with the Internability for the future of Bosch. tional Trade Union Confederation as early as 2004 on the “basic principles of social responsibility” The framework for cooperation with employee at Bosch. We rigorously pursue their implementarepresentatives as well as the corresponding tion in our regions. In this ambit, we face chalagreements is defined by a central directive lenges time and again on account of our highly applicable worldwide. This is based on the “Basic heterogeneous organization and broad footprint. principles of social responsibility,” which have Particularly the colleagues responsible in the been in effect since 2004 and govern the relationregions maintain dialogue with local employee ship between entities of the Bosch Group and representatives and the relevant organizations. employee representatives. In accordance with In this process, we relentlessly strive to improve ILO conventions 87 and 98, which guarantee conditions in the respective countries. If any workers’ freedom of association and the right problems arise locally in the process of impleto collective bargaining, the directive sets out, menting our standards, the HR corporate sector among other things, that workers can form indedeals with the issue and works toward finding a pendent trade unions and join them of their own solution that achieves the greatest possible confree will or participate in the election or formation sensus and is consistent with our principles. of employee representation. In addition, nobody 78 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook 5.4 Learning and development The rapid technological progress and new workual careers in line with their abilities and intering processes and methods make lifelong learnests. Our innovative and inspiring development ing crucial for all associates. For Bosch, a qualiformats aim to match the passion and skills of our fied workforce is a strategic success factor. We associates with the needs of the company. A wide see ourselves as a learning organization in which range of options are available to associates, execlearning is integrated into day-to-day work. This utives, and HR business partners to discuss indiincludes building up the competencies that will vidual development goals together and agree on be relevant in the future and strengthening the suitable measures to achieve these goals. ability of associates to acquire knowledge faster and more flexibly. As a result, our associates benThe competence model efit from increased employability and the compaCompetence management at Bosch is a systematny secures its competitive position. ic process for identifying professional and methodological competencies and helping associates Launched in 2016, the Bosch Learning Company to develop. The aim is to ensure that the right initiative seeks to prepare our associates for the abilities are available in the right place at the right digital transformation by 2022. We are shaping time. By “competencies” we mean our attributes, our future as a learning organization on the basis skills, and behavior that are key to successfully of three core elements: besides providing qualifidealing with current and future tasks. cation programs on subjects such as digital transformation, software development, and electrificaOur competence model sets the framework for tion, we offer a modern learning infrastructure recruitment, goal and performance dialogue, and promote a learning culture that strengthens assessment of potential, and support programs. self-managed learning. It comprises four competence areas, each of which has two competencies assigned: The board of management and combined works council at Bosch see it as their joint responsibility ▶▶ Entrepreneurial competence to support professional training: the combined (results orientation, forward-looking) works agreement on digital qualifications governs the use and areas of application of digital learn▶▶ Leadership competence ing tools throughout the group. (leading myself, leading others) ▶▶ Interpersonal competence Associate development (collaboration, communication) In response to ever-changing framework condi▶▶ Professional competence tions and requirements, we adapt and optimize (breadth of experience, depth of knowledge) all associate development formats on an ongoing basis. We create a framework and promote a culture to help our associates to shape their individ79 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Management approach | Employer of choice | Leadership and collaboration | Learning and development | Occupational health and safety The competence model is applied in different forBosch Learning Company initiative mats that support our associates in their individuLifelong learning is a key success factor for al development: Bosch. The Bosch Learning Company initiative aims to anchor this understanding within the Goal and performance dialogue: As part of company and support associates in their learning the annual goal and performance dialogue, exe­ activities. It is driven by numerous executives and cutives and associates look back over what was learning stakeholders. The program is available at achieved in the past year, discuss targets for the all company sites worldwide and provides learnyear ahead, and give each other feedback. ing opportunities for associates across all organizational levels. Developed by international teams Career and development dialogue: The career that combine various perspectives, the content and development dialogue takes place between offered is based on three pillars: associates and their line manager, the next higher executive, and their HR business partner and ▶▶ Training: We aim to give associates practical deals with the associate’s mediumand long-term support in meeting new challenges and have development goals and sets out the course for developed learning opportunities tailored to their achievement. Some 4,700 associates took their needs. Examples include training in the part in career and development dialogue sesfields of electrification and digitization. sions in 2019. ▶▶ Digital learning: A whole range of digital Career advancement discussion: The career formats is available to individual associates or advancement discussion is a tool for talent pool complete teams to quickly and flexibly take up members. It gives associates the opportunity to training opportunities tailored to their needs. discuss their next career and development steps To provide an overview of the diverse range and arrange appropriate measures with their line offered, the learning portal has been set up as manager, the next higher executive, and their HR a kind of “Google for learning” with a search business partner. Some 2,000 career advancealgorithm that finds all suitable courses. ment discussions were held in 2019. ▶▶ Self-managed learning and a culture of Talent and associate review: Once a year, learning: With the aim of creating an awaresupervisors and HR business partners discuss ness for the importance of lifelong learning, the potential of their staff so as to identify and in the reporting period we initiated the global advance talent at an early stage. campaign “There’s a Bosch inside each of us.” Information about the culture of learning is Talent pool: Associates in the talent pool take compiled on an internal website, and our assopart in training programs to prepare for the ciates can publish their own instructive videos requirements of the next-higher level. This memon an internal platform. bership gives them the opportunity to network across sectors. 80 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook 694,000 training days Support program for specialists These training measures are based on targetattended As part of our support program for specialists, group-specific curricula set for associates with we provide training for technical and commercial standardized roles. At present, there are about jobs in our company to associates without univer3,800 (previous year: 3,700) target-group-specific sity qualifications. The associates are empowered curricula, and roughly 149,000 (previous year: to assume some of the tasks of engineers, busi139,000) associates have at least one such learnness graduates, and IT specialists in their current ing curriculum assigned to them. unit or factory. The program increases the appeal of the vocational training courses for specialists 5 | 04 and makes a contribution toward covering the Training activities company’s need for specialists. Eligible for the Bosch Group 2017–2019 program are associates with high subject-matter qualifications and an interest in advancing their careers. Participation is premised on a willing680,000 Training 671,000 ness to attend some of the training measures out694,000 days side of official working hours. Participants are generally preselected in the talent and associate 611,000 560,000 review. Training 523,000 attendance Investment in training In 2019, we invested 267 million euros in training 283 256 Expenditure 267 million euros for our associates. Our associates attended rough267 on training invested in training ly 694,000 training days, including seminars and [EUR million] webinars. On top of that, they worked through 2017 2018 2019 about 803,000 online learning courses (previous year: 598,000). 5 | 05 Target-group-specific curricula Bosch Group 2017–2019 Self-managed learning At Bosch, we promote self-managed learn139,000 Associates with ing by offering our associates incentives to 125,000 149,000 a curriculum autonomously pursue informal training during assigned their working hours. In Germany, up to three workdays a year can be dedicated to learning. Associates can, for example, choose to test 3,700 their own digital skills using a self-assessment Number of 3,200 3,800 target-grouptool and then start learning by selecting relevant content from an extensive portfolio of specific curricula digital media and portal rooms. 2017 2018 2019 81 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Management approach | Employer of choice | Leadership and collaboration | Learning and development | Occupational health and safety Vocational training “All together” for refugees and university studies As part of the integration initiative of the German economy, Bosch prepares young refugees For over 100 years, Bosch has been using apprenfor living and working in Germany and supticeships and traineeships as a means of covering ports them in their new environment. Since 2016, we have reached roughly 1,000 refugees its needs for qualified young talent, while also with career-orientation and training measures assuming its corporate social responsibility. Back at about 30 company sites. Programs have in 1913, Robert Bosch founded the first apprenbeen developed as needed in cooperation tices’ workshop. Since then, more than 100,000 with local authorities and other institutions. young professionals worldwide have been trained The focus here is on education, language at Bosch’s facilities. acquisition, and work experience. Bosch generally assumes responsibility for the work Bosch’s vocational training measures are offered experience element. These offers are suppleMore than 7,000 trainees at about 50 sites and 100 branches in over 30 mented by local leisure activities in which our and apprentices at Bosch associates participate on a voluntary basis in around the world countries. A choice of over 30 career profiles is available to young talent. At present, more than many different ways. 7,000 Bosch apprentices and trainees around the world are preparing for their future careers, 4,500 of those in Germany. 5 | 06 Training and study at Bosch Global overview Europe: some 5,500 trainees and apprentices in 20 countries Americas: some 500 trainees and apprentices in 4 countries Asia-Pacific, Africa: some 1,500 trainees and apprentices Dual education in 7 countries programs similar to German concept in China, India, Vietnam, Brazil, Turkey Training locations 82 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook For years, Bosch has been training more can­ Our PreMaster program allows BA graduates of didates than it needs, offering roughly 1,400 technical or business programs to obtain practiapprenticeships and traineeships every year cal experience while they pursue an MA course. in Germany alone, with about 300 of those as In this way, we can identify suitable students who part of programs with universities of cooperative meet our requirements and advance their profeseducation. The over 18,000 applications on aversional and personal development. The program age for these training positions are testament to comprises a phase at the company and an MA just how appealing training at Bosch is for career course phase. Participants are assigned to a spestarters. For about 20 percent of a year’s trainee cialist department that individually structures the intake, we offer the opportunity to take part in our content of the phase served at the company and – international trainee exchange so that trainees together with a personal mentor – supports parcan obtain international experience, improve their ticipants during the complete duration of the ability to work in a team, take on responsibility, program. and become independent early on. Once their training is completed, we usually offer suitable Hiring rate of around young talent a permanent job. In recent years, 90 percent the hiring rate was around 90 percent. Southern Europe apprenticeship initiative As a globally operating supplier of technology, Bosch is a role model in the concept of dual With our “Prepare for the Future” project, education and training in cooperation with uni­ which we have been running in Italy since versities, including in Asia and Latin America. In 2015 and in Spain since 2018, we have to cooperation with the Chamber of Industry and date been able to reach more than 305,000 students at about 1,800 schools and universiCommerce (IHK) and the German chambers of ties. The program gives them initial insights commerce abroad, we are helping establish dual into the working world and possible career training programs based on the German system in profiles. In 2018, Bosch created 75 new traina number of countries, among them China, India, eeships for young talent from Italy and Spain, Vietnam, Brazil, and Turkey. For instance, since 50 of those in Germany, 15 in Spain, and 2013 Bosch Vietnam Co., Ltd. in cooperation with ten in Italy. Since the project’s start, Bosch the Delegate of German Industry and Commerce has provided support to a total of 175 trainin Vietnam (AHK Vietnam) and the vocational eduees with language courses, company mentors, cation center LILAMA2 International Technology and assistance from social counseling profesCollege (Dong Nai) has been offering a 3.5-year sionals. course to qualify as an industrial mechanic and has recently introduced another course as mechatronics engineer. Dual education and PreMaster program Back in 1972, Bosch together with other companies founded the model of the universities of cooperative education in the state of Baden-Württemberg (today Baden-Württemberg Cooperative State University), making it one of the pioneers of the dual university program in Germany. Today, it offers about 20 different programs in commercial, technical, and IT fields. 83 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Management approach | Employer of choice | Leadership and collaboration | Learning and development | Occupational health and safety 5.5 Occupational health and safety At Bosch, promoting the health of associates sites had already implemented occupational 64 percent of sites and a safe working environment is a high priority, health and safety management systems, of have certified OHS management systems which is why it is an integral element of our strawhich 64 percent had been certified (also see tegic sustainability target vision. The well-being Fig. 5 | 07). of our associates is also anchored in the principles of Bosch leadership culture. Our effective 5 | 07 occupational health and safety system supports Occupational health and safety our associates’ performance capabilities. management systems (OHSMS) Bosch Group 2019 Using a central core process for the entire Bosch 296 245 189 Group, the EHS corporate sector is in charge of occupational health and safety management. The EHS officers in the regions and at company sites are responsible for compliance with the centrally set requirements and goals. We report the status of goal achievement to the board of management as part of the semiannual sustainability reporting. In addition, as of 2018 we issue an EHS Cockpit Chart every quarter to all associates responsible for EHS issues that provides the key metrics and relevant information at a glance. In the event Manufacturing OHSMS OHSMS and developimplemented certified of any particularly serious incidents, we also ment sites issue ad hoc reports (also see the “Company | Sustainability strategy and organization” section). The central directive issued in 2019 and applicable throughout the group sets out our principles Award for greater safety relating to occupational health and safety for each target group and details the requirements of our Every year, our EHS Award is conferred on “Work safety, fire protection, environmental proinnovative projects (also see the “Company” tection, and emergency control” guidelines. section), and it has a separate category for occupational safety. In 2019, a total of 63 projects from 18 countries were submitAs early as 2007, Bosch introduced an occupated. The winner was a project from our site tional health and safety management system in Wuxi, China, that developed an app for based on the globally recognized standard reporting near accidents. The second and OHSAS 18001, which has since been developed third places went to associates in Brazil and further and today satisfies the new ISO standard Vietnam for an occupational safety video and 45001. We have defined a specific target in this an IT program for reporting accidents and ambit as well: by the end of 2020, all manufacturnear accidents. ing sites and all development sites with more than 50 associates are to introduce occupational health and safety management systems and have them certified externally. As of the end of 2019, 245 of the 296 manufacturing and development 84 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook Occupational safety Based on an internal Bosch standard applicable worldwide, workplace or activity-related hazard assessments are carried out regularly. Workplace Bosch takes responsibility for its associates and instructions and the use of protective equipment wants to promote and safeguard their health – round out our measures. and a safe working environment is essential in this respect. That is why we place a particular We have defined clear regulations governing focus on occupational safety. responsibilities and processes in order to ensure occupational safety also when using external Bosch has set itself a clear target in order to companies. These apply right from the outset strengthen occupational safety even more: by when we select the service provider. As of 2019, 2020, we want to reduce the accident rate within we have set down in our purchasing terms and the Bosch Group to 1.7 accidents per one million conditions significant EHS requirements for suphours worked. Key areas of action to achieve this pliers, such as sufficiently qualified employees target include minimizing hazards and how to and safe working equipment. In addition, our serhandle substances of concern. Compliance with vice providers agree to name a person in charge materials prohibitions and the reduced use of who ensures the supervisory and control duty. hazardous substances play an important role in This person must also consult our coordinators this respect. To ensure they are managed safely, on-site before the work is carried out. We check we use our central MaCS system (also see the on a sample basis whether the requirements and “Products” section). defined protective measures are being complied with. If any irregularities are identified, the work Every year, we identify and assess potential occucan be discontinued and the purchasing departpational safety risks and classify them by priority. ment considers the possible implications. For this purpose, we refer to accidents reported in the Incident Management System as well as Training and findings from internal audits under ISO 45001 or awareness-raising measures the audits of the internal audit department. On We believe that the awareness and conduct this basis, we develop specific risk mitigation proof individuals holds the greatest potential for grams and define key audit matters for subseanchoring occupational safety even more firmly. quent audits. Measures to raise awareness among associates therefore play an important role. In the event of any particularly serious accidents – involving Bosch associates or third-party With six memorable principles, our Safety Basics  Read more about employees – we perform an analysis and introduce appropriate measures. We have identified potential for improvements with regard to the initiative calls on all executives and associates to always consider occupational safety in their daily work. Communication measures such as newsletthe Safety Basics in following topics in particular and will therefore ters, posters, and videos help to reinforce our Spotlights magazine focus on these: hazard awareness and identifi­ safety culture and incorporate the principles in cation (in particular when coordinating external standard processes. Regular assessments anacompanies), making changes to plants and machinery, and preventive emergency control. 85 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Management approach | Employer of choice | Leadership and collaboration | Learning and development | Occupational health and safety lyze how safety basics are practiced and impleRelative to the baseline year 2007, the number mented at our company sites. To reinforce the of accidents per 1 million hours worked in the principles, we also develop campaigns with a reporting year is down 74 percent, at 1.9. This different focus each year. has brought us a big step closer to our target of 1.7 occupational accidents per 1 million hours As we were able to identify, based on audit findworked by 2020 (also see Fig. 5 | 08). There were ings, potential for improvement in recognizing no fatal occupational accidents in 2019. hazards, the 2020 campaign will focus on this area. Company locations will be issued with tool5 | 08 kits containing tried-and-tested procedures and Work accidents supporting materials. Bosch Group 2017–2019  As a large share of accidents are due to human 1,649 error, we want to raise awareness among our 1,567 associates for occupational health and safety matters as part of our EHS competence management and through occupational safety instrucWork accidents 1,306 tions and training. We are also using new technologies for this purpose: a virtual safety training 2.3 2.2 course using augmented reality was rolled out in 1.9 April 2019 and has since been available at several Work accidents [per 1 million company sites. hours worked] 2017 2018 2019 Road safety initiative Occupational health On September 26, 2019, the “European Day Without A Road Death” (EDWARD) was launched – a road safety initiative of the European Traffic Police Network (TISPOL). We took this occasion to call on our associates in Health is of vital importance both for a motivated our “Sicher unterwegs” road safety initiative and contented workforce and for a responsible, to reflect on how they behave on the road – high-performing company. We have therefore also outside company premises. Regions and anchored occupational health in our fundamental company sites were provided with related principles of work and made them a fixed element material for internal communication purposes. of our corporate culture. As a person’s health depends on many factors, associates and the company work together for a holistic approach to occupational health. As good leadership culture and team spirit among colleagues are key in this respect, protecting health is also defined as a leadership task at Bosch and firmly anchored in the “We LEAD Bosch” leadership principles. 86 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook Our occupational health management ranges services, canteens and cafeterias, HR, and our from preventative medical care and physical and cooperation partner – the Bosch health insurance mental fitness to mental health and right through fund – and are available to answer all healthto tips on a healthy diet and workplace design. related issues of our associates. In addition, we Moreover, our reintegration management as well cooperate closely with external specialists and as leadership, training, and competence developinstitutions. These are consulted where required – ment in relation to individuals’ health, and the for example, as part of the OncoCure program integration of people with reduced capacity to that in cooperation with Robert Bosch Hospital work and severe disabilities play an important in Stuttgart, Germany, enables associates with role. At many company sites, associates can concancer to get a second opinion and a genetic sult our in-house medical services, workplace diagnosis. In 2019, we rolled out OncoCure in designers, social services professionals, and Spain and are currently examining the possibilihealth managers. ties of including other countries. In order to meet the different needs and chal­ lenges in the regions and at company sites, in the reporting year we published a global recombefit health management mendation for health management as a holistic in Germany approach. The basic aim is for all health experts to work together as a network and to establish a We group all measures related to health and central point of contact for health issues at the well-being under the “befit” program. Within company sites. The recommendation includes this holistic, workforce-oriented health mansetting up a working group to develop site-spe­ agement program, health experts, executives, and associates work together as partners. Its cific and needs-based programs. main focus is preventive medical care, which includes measures such as medical screening, In order to reduce the number of absentees due ergonomic workplace inspections, sports and to sickness, occupational health management nutrition offers, and seminars on mental stress at Bosch sets specific priorities based on the management. An online portal that associates experience of the medical service and safety can refer to for information about the whole engineers as well as the health report issued range of services offered was revised in 2019. by the Bosch company health insurance fund. Company sites have the possibility to offer Insights from occupational reintegration managetheir associates further content on the platment, the global associate survey, and hazard form. In order to continuously further develop assessments are also considered. As a result, health management at our company sites, we measure quality in Germany using a capability conditions affecting the musculoskeletal and maturity model and agreed-upon targets. If respiratory systems as well as mental ill­nesses these are achieved, the Bosch health insurwere identified as focus areas. ance fund pays out a bonus. In 2019, an amount of roughly 680,000 euros was thus In Germany, the health working groups are channeled into occupational health at the responsible for on-site implementation. They company’s sites in Germany. There are similar comprise representatives from different internal initiatives in other countries. specialist departments – including the representatives for disabled persons, occupational health and safety, social services, works council, medical 87 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Management approach | Employer of choice | Leadership and collaboration | Learning and development | Occupational health and safety Occupational health measures Occupational health measures and projects at Occupational health in connected the individual company sites are tailored to their manufacturing size and respective needs. As the challenges differ from one country to the next, we manage the If we are to play a responsible role in digital activities locally – in particular in countries such change, we must always also consider the as Brazil, China, India, the United Kingdom, and impact on our associates’ health. That is what Romania. Our company sites also frequently motivated Bosch to inspect different company sites to see which repetitive or monotonous cooperate with each other so that they can use work could be left to robots working hand in synergies and offer associates the most appealing hand with associates. For instance, we introoptions possible. The health center opened at our duced an exoskeleton at the company site in Abstatt location in 2019 serves as a central port Lohr in the reporting year to support associof call for associates with respect to medical matates with overhead work in the paint shop. ters, including preventive medical care, as well as fitness and social services. Another center is to open in 2020 in Cluj, Romania. Our preventive medical care offers for associates services department through a portal at any time – include free screening for skin and colon cancer, and anonymously if they wish. Based on a works for instance. Sports groups help to keep our assoagreement in Germany, we also hold training ciates fit. In countries without full medical covercourses on mental health designed for execuage, associates at many Bosch locations have the tives. The Psyga portal provides associates and option of visiting clinics located directly on-site. executives with additional information and tests In addition, we offer a broad range of training on mental health and, when needed, indicates courses on topics such as work–life balance, who the best person to talk to is. metabolic disorders, exercise, and health. In order to further expand our mental health India is one example of extensive measures outmeasures, we are currently conducting three side of Europe: here, services offered on-site research projects together with the University range from vaccinations to blood donations and of Ulm, Germany. Besides psychological stress first-aid courses through to health checkups – an in the start-up culture and executives’ mental offer taken up by 9,062 associates in the reporthealth, these projects also analyze associates’ ing year. By promoting preventive medical care, heart rate variability. we were able to reduce stays in hospital and sick leave of our associates there. In 2019, we launched the Bosch Heart Power program at various locations in China. It offers Bosch knows just how important the mental professional psychological support for more health of its associates is, and the company was than 17,000 associates and their families through one of the first employers in Germany to intropersonal talks, training courses, and a hotline. duce in-house social services back in 1917. Since 2017, our associates can also take advantage of this offer online to get support for all personal and professional matters. Over 100,000 associates in Germany can contact our in-house social 88 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook Society As a company active worldwide, we also bear responsibility for local communities in the places where we operate. We want to promote social progress and make a continuous contribution to improving people’s quality of life through our social commitment. One of our priorities is the promotion of education and science – which we consider an investment in the future. 89 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society 22.7 million euros in donations by the Bosch Group 830,000 euros for the Bosch Research Foundation 5 regional charitable institutions 90 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook 6.1 Management approach As a corporate citizen, we get actively involved, Voluntary work even beyond the scope of our own business activWe support the social commitment of our asso­ ities. We distinguish between donations, political ciates because they embrace our values, demonlobbying, and sponsorship: strate team spirit, and develop creative solutions – qualities that also strengthen the innovative ▶▶ Our donation work focuses on the common power of our company. That is why our program good, and we do not expect anything from the for prospective executives in Germany involves recipients in return. The focus is on education supporting a project of a local social organization. and supporting young professionals. GuideWe encourage the extensive commitment of our lines ensure compliance with the law. associates, for example, by allowing them temporary leave and by setting up regular volunteer ▶▶ Through political lobbying work, we want to meetings. Such initiatives are always organized actively contribute with our arguments to the at individual companies rather than centrally. political decision-making process. Our guiding principle is fact-based and technology-oriented As part of the initiative Wissensfabrik – Unterneh­ policy advice aimed at making technological men für Deutschland e. V. (Knowledge Factory – progress available to benefit people. To this Companies for Germany), several hundred Bosch end, we want to engage in dialogue with deciassociates are involved in some 300 educational sion makers in order to contribute toward develcooperation arrangements with preschools, oping society and stand up for our values, while schools, and start-ups in their free time. Bosch leaving political interests aside. was one of the network’s founding members in 2005. Since then about 140 companies and foun▶▶ Sponsorship at Bosch mainly serves advertisdations affiliated to corporations have joined the ing objectives – that is, strengthening our brand network. The aim of the initiative is to spark the or the level of awareness among specific target interest of young people in technology and busigroups, such as prospective customers or ness and thereby strengthen Germany’s future associates. prospects. Bosch is represented on the steering committee, on the executive board, and on variRobert Bosch Stiftung demonstrates its com­ ous task groups of the initiative. mitment to society worldwide by supporting or implementing innovative and lighthouse projects (for more information on Robert Bosch Stiftung, Bosch Research Foundation see the “Company” section). At the same time, the company is also committed to communities at The Bosch Research Foundation was estabits locations around the world. In addition to their lished in 1986 to coincide with the company’s financial commitment in the form of donations, centenary. The foundation funds its support many of our associates actively serve as volunprogram from the income it generates with its assets and from Bosch donations. For teers in numerous projects. example, Bosch provided 830,000 euros to the research foundation in 2019. The Bosch Research Foundation supports outstanding young scientists who are working to obtain their doctorates at top research institutes in fields such as algorithms, big data, and machine learning, materials science, and medical technology. 91 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Management approach | Global commitment | Political lobbying | Sponsorship 6.2 Global commitment Donations Donations by associates Our social commitment in the form of donations In Germany, associates can voluntarily is carried out by the respective companies and, in take part in the Cents for help initiative and some countries, through dedicated institutions. donate the cent amounts from their monthly In the reporting year, the Bosch Group donated a take-home pay; Bosch then doubles the 22.7 million amount accumulated. A committee with equal euros in donations total of 22.7 million euros worldwide (previous representation from the combined works year: 24.5 million euros) for charitable purposes, council and the combined executives’ comincluding donations in kind. A group guideline sets mittee decides on the use of these funds. The out corresponding principles, assessment critecompany is represented as an employer by ria, and responsibilities. The guideline also govHR staff and staff from the donations departerns funding for political parties. Depending on ment. All associates in Germany can apply for the amount involved, either the managers of the funds for a charitable project that is close to operating units or the members of the board of their heart. management of Robert Bosch GmbH decide how the funds raised should be spent. All donation Associates in France can participate in a simitransactions must be documented in writing. In lar program, solidarité@bosch. Here, too, our French regional company generously rounds addition, the persons responsible keep an annual out the contributions of associates. ledger of donations that is accessible for audit purposes. At a minimum, this ledger must indicate the recipient of the donation, the amount of the donation, the reasons for the donation, and the date on which confirmation of receipt was received. The purposes of the donations are clearly defined with the focus on education and supporting Regional support young professionals. Bosch is convinced that good education is the key element in providing for Some Bosch regional companies have estabthe future and therefore a central concern for any lished their own charitable institutions for their company. As a technology group, we support unisocial commitment in accordance with the versities and research institutions in fields relerespective national regulations. They are usually vant to our company. In this way, we want to play active in the vicinity of company sites and have our part in advancing progress in the sciences country-specific focuses. Despite regional and and support the education of qualified future cultural differences, such charitable activities talent. In the regions surrounding our company must be recognizable as concerted actions by sites, we make donations to schools and childBosch. In addition, they must also document their care centers as well as social and cultural instituwork in order to make their actions transparent tions. There, we support nature conservation and and enable an evaluation of their activities. environmental protection as well as popular sport and other nonprofit organizations to which our associates volunteer their time. More than that, we also make donations to help survivors of natural disasters, particularly in the regions where Bosch operates. 92 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook ▶▶Instituto Robert Bosch ▶▶Bosch India Foundation Instituto Robert Bosch in Brazil mainly supports Since 2008, the Bosch India Foundation has social projects dedicated to the education of been using its education offers to help people children and adolescents from socially disadvanlead independent lives, whatever their backtaged families. In 2019, the institute spent a total ground. The offering spans computer training of around one million euros to this effect. Starting courses for unemployed young people from in 2018, Instituto Robert Bosch extended its fundrural areas through to language and self-defense ing priorities to include the development of social courses and bicycle repair workshops for street and emotional skills for young people. The numchildren. In cooperation with local organizations, ber of projects on this topic grew almost threethe institution also helps to finance medical care fold in 2019. As part of its volunteer program, for sick children and pregnant women. In addithe institute also supports the voluntary work tion, the Bosch India Foundation supports disadof Bosch associates who build personal relationvantaged women in more than 300 villages and ships with young people and thereby effectively promotes education and health among young motivate them to complete their school educapeople. The BRIDGE initiative was launched espetion. Vocational training projects contribute to the cially for young people with a low level of educaintegration of young people into the labor market. tion who have economically challenged backgrounds. The initiative is active in private and pub▶▶Bosch China Charity Center lic organizations with over 270 centers and has Founded in 2011, the Bosch China Charity Center helped some 26,000 young people to train in the coordinates the social initiatives of our sites in China and, true to its guiding principle “Charity for A Better Life,” primarily pursues educational programs for reducing poverty. Roughly 160 projPrimavera – ects have thus been promoted so far, from which Hilfe für Kinder in Not e. V. more than 300,000 people have benefited in total. Primavera was founded in 1990 by ten associIn 2019, the Bosch China Charity Center issued ates with the aim of offering disadvantaged grants totaling 1.98 million euros. For instance, children new prospects. These children live the Bosch University Freshman Bursary Program in the slums of developing and emerging now provides financial support for students at 12 countries where Bosch operates. Many of the universities, with Bosch associates also serving now almost 1,500 members are active or foras mentors. Since 2011, a total of around 3,500 mer Bosch associates, but Primavera is also young people have received direct support. In the increasingly gaining supporters outside the last two years, the Charity Center has also been company. At present, the association supports involved in the promotion of small rural schools. over 50 projects and roughly 19,000 children In 2019, basic language and art courses were also in 17 countries. The projects are supervised offered in seven schools throughout the country by associates of the Bosch locations or their relatives on a voluntary basis. Bosch supfor people who are blind and were attended by ports Primavera both with donations and with 142 visually impaired young students. administration work. This means that every euro donated goes directly to the projects. In addition to the basic care of the children, Primavera also supports school and vocational training activities that will enable them to lead independent lives in the long term. 93 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Management approach | Global commitment | Political lobbying | Sponsorship service sector since 2013. In 2019, the institution 6 | 01 opened a center that trains disadvantaged young Expenditure by regional institutions people as plumbers. In the wake of the floods in in millions of euros the states of Kerala and Maharashtra, the Bosch India Foundation also helped more than 2,200 Total project grants 9.87 affected families by supplying them with medicine Fundación and clothing. Robert Bosch México ▶▶Bosch Community Fund Bosch India (Mexico City, The Bosch Community Fund pools the charitFoundation Mexico)1 (Bengaluru, able commitment of 45 Bosch sites in the United Bosch ComIndia) States, Canada, and Costa Rica. The funded projmunity Fund Instituto ects are in the fields of natural sciences, technol(Farmington Robert Bosch Hills, United ogy, engineering, and mathematics, environmen(Campinas, States) tal protection, and disaster relief. In 2019, the Brazil) institution spent funds of roughly four million Bosch China euros in total. One project of central importance Charity Center (Shanghai, was the Girls at Work program in Londonderry, China) New Hampshire (United States). Some 500 girls from difficult backgrounds made items out of 1 Fundación Robert Bosch México also accepts wood in the course of the project, which lifted donations from third parties both their team spirit and self-confidence. The fund also supports the Autonomous Boat Program of Clemson University in South Carolina. The program allows some 100 students to learn Social responsibility at our locations about autonomous mobility coupled with environAt our locations in many countries, associates mental protection. They build self-propelled are committed to improving social conditions. In boats that collect plastic waste from the water. 2019, for example, around 100 associates at our site in Jihlava, Czech Republic, once again took ▶▶Fundación Robert Bosch México part in the Vysočina cleaning campaign and colFounded in 2016, Fundación Robert Bosch Méxilected waste in public places and green spaces. co supports the education of disadvantaged chilIn Romania, 200 associates renovated two local dren and adolescents in the vicinity of our compaschools as part of a team event, creating a pleasny sites in Mexico. In 2019, the institution underant learning environment for 180 children. For took more than 30 projects and Bosch associates seven years now, part of the workforce in Austravolunteered more than 1,500 hours of work. The lia has been committed to helping homeless peoproject and the volunteer work reached over ple by collecting donations or participating in 25,000 children and adolescents. In order to get the annual Bosch Community Sleepout in Melschoolgirls interested in science and technology, bourne. The participants spend the night outside, the institution held workshops on robotics in which is part of everyday life for most homeless 2019, reaching around 240 schoolchildren aged people. In 2019, we worked together with a cater13 to 18. In addition to donations from the Mexiing company on this project: for every meal that can regional subsidiary, Fundación Robert Bosch was served that evening, a local women’s shelter México also receives financial support from third also received a donated meal. parties. 94 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook 6.3 Political lobbying We believe it is our responsibility to put our techThe political activities of Bosch are split into technology expertise to work for the benefit of society nical areas of competence. The Policy and Govand to indicate concrete opportunities and soluernmental Affairs department is active in Berlin tions. With this in mind, we help shape opinions and Brussels, where it represents the political at a government policy level, in associations, and interests of the Bosch Group vis-à-vis EU instituin various social forums. This work is driven by tions, the German Federal Government, the Gerour ambition “Invented for life” and Bosch’s genman Bundestag, and wider society. eral stance on environmental and social issues. We are in favor of standards that are both ambiTransparency tious and as consistent as possible. For instance, carefully considered EU legislation is preferable to We want to make our lobbying activities having a large number of different requirements transparent. To this end, we strictly adhere at the national level, and it can frequently serve to the various requirements in the respective as a global benchmark. New business fields in regions. For instance, Bosch is entered with the realm of connecting things and services also its Brussels office in the Transparency Regiscreate a need for new regulations. In their efforts ter of the European Commission and publishto design the corresponding framework condies its responses in connection with EU contions, policymakers have valued Bosch as a relisultations. A total of 10.2 full-time equivalents (FTE) at Bosch are directly assigned to EU able partner for years and routinely ask the comlegislation activities, with five of them directly pany to share its knowledge. in Brussels. In the reporting year, we spent just over one million euros on our activities as Our aim is to lobby for technical and technology defined by the European Transparency Regissolutions in the fields relevant to us with a focus ter including personnel and lease expenses. on technical feasibility. We also want to do justice In the regions with relevant business activiin this regard to the complete spectrum of ties, Bosch additionally employs governance requirements of our stakeholders. For instance, coordinators (about 25 FTEs). In the United we take a differentiated view on the discussion States, we are also subject to an obligation regarding tomorrow’s mobility and pursue a broad to publish and document political activities. solution corridor. That includes a new – and, in There, only accredited lobbyists are permitted to engage in talks with political representaparticular, complete – view of CO₂ emissions in tives. road traffic that considers all sources of emissions from well to wheel and factors them into the assessment. Worldwide, we uphold a strict policy with regard to donations to political parties. The corresponding guidelines stipulate that only the shareholders in combination with the board of management are authorized to make political donations. Beyond that, Bosch has a central directive that is binding 95 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Management approach | Global commitment | Political lobbying | Sponsorship worldwide and governs donations in dealings conservation policy; transport policy; internationwith third parties. It is only permitted to offer, al trade policy; data protection laws; and labor grant, or accept donations in strict compliance and social policy. with numerous prerequisites. The rules relating to officials and elected representatives are espeAs a company with operations worldwide, we cially restrictive. Here, it must be ensured that any are often directly affected by policy decisions appearance of influence being exercised is ruled and are dependent on constructive dialogue with out and that the internal rules of public authorities policymakers. Although we generally only enter are adhered to. Should local law in some regions into business operations if they are viable without prescribe stricter or more specific requirements, subsidies, we believe temporary government these must be adopted and complied with. Anothassistance can be a suitable instrument to help er central directive specifically dealing with govnew technologies achieve a breakthrough or to ernment policy and affairs regulates interactions implement strategic decisions in the realm of with political officials – for instance, in the runindustrial policy. In this sense, we see the funding up to elections. We are committed to remaining approval by the EU and the German government politically neutral and seek to engage in dialogue for our semiconductor plant in Dresden within with all relevant political parties, particularly in the framework of the first Important Project of Germany. Common European Interest (IPCEI) to be a successful milestone for the project and for safeBosch regularly makes donations to political parguarding the location of operations in Europe. ties in Germany in order to make a contribution toward functional political discourse. The purAt the EU level, we are members of the high-level pose and amount of the donations are fixed. Robworking groups of the EU Commission on key ert Bosch GmbH supports the following parties: technologies and artificial intelligence (AI). To CDU, CSU, SPD, FDP, and Bündnis 90/Die achieve clear cybersecurity rules within the EU, Grünen. All donations are disclosed in the parwe played a major role in drafting the Horizontal ties’ statements of accounts. Product Regulation for Cybersecurity white paper issued by the German Electrical and Electronic Manufacturers’ Association (ZVEI). Among other Political lobbying activities in Germany, Bosch is a member of variactivities ous working groups of the National Platform Future of Mobility and the advisory committee of the sustainable mobility initiative Agora VerkehrOur political lobbying activities aim to identify swende. at an early stage debates and developments concerning political regulation and initiatives that can As part of a new series of stakeholder dialogue affect our products, our company sites, and our sessions, which we launched in the reporting business operations in general. After all, due to year, we want to promote exchange, transparency, our highly diversified product portfolio, we are and the joint search for solutions. In 2019, we affected by a large number of legislative projects, held a roundtable discussion with members of including in climate, energy, and environmental the European Parliament, the European Commis96 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook sion, and representatives of NGOs on the need Priority topics for a guidance on AI “made in the EU.” We also Aside from the priority agenda of political activitook part in the Citizens’ Dialogue at the 2019 ties set by the board of management, the regions International Motor Show and discussed the can set additional specific topics and formulate future of mobility with politicians and society. corresponding objectives. The feedback obtained Further dialogue sessions are planned for 2020 from the regions also gives Bosch an indication of on the topics of technology neutrality, technologithe extent to which priority topics are of relevance cal sovereignty, and climate-action technologies. worldwide. When selecting topics, we also consider regulation that might have a major influence Aside from direct dialogue with policymakers, on our business activities or future topics that Bosch engages in numerous associations and is concern our company. actively involved in establishing positions on topics. In Germany, at the EU level, and in a number The following topics were deemed particularly of other countries, we are members of the indusimportant for Bosch in 2019: CO₂ reduction, and try associations relevant to our business activielectric mobility, hydrogen and synthetic fuels, ties. In Germany, for example, we are members of air quality and driving restrictions in cities, IoT, the German Electrical and Electronic ManufacturAI, cybersecurity, and research and innovation ers’ Association (ZVEI), the German Association policy. A special focus is also placed on trade of the Automotive Industry (VDA), the German policy, especially in view of Brexit as well as negoFederal Association for Information Technology, tiations for various trade agreements. For 2020, Telecommunications, and New Media (BITKOM), we expect AI, especially at the European level, as and the German Mechanical Engineering Industry well as climate protection legislation, a new emisAssociation (VDMA). In Brussels, we are memsions standard (Euro 7), and the ecological tranbers of the European Association of Automotive sition of society in industrial nations to continue Suppliers (CLEPA) and Digital Europe. At the to gain in importance. international level, we are members of the Inter­ national Chamber of Commerce and the United Aligned policy papers define the Bosch Group’s Nations Global Compact. We also inform policyposition on relevant topics. They form the basis makers, NGOs, and the general public at events for political lobbying and, depending on their relon relevant topics. In the reporting year, we orgaevance, are released by the board of managenized what are known as “real driving” trips in ment. In what we refer to as Bosch policy points London and Rome for this purpose, in which poliof view, we summarize facts and arguments and ticians, NGOs, and journalists took part. The aim provide them systematically to external contacts. was to discuss air quality and to show how diesel Discussions are only held on topics for which polvehicles can achieve emissions standards. icy documents are available. Activities are clustered by topic in order to assess their impact. 97 | Company | Products | Supply chain | Environment | Associates | Society | Management approach | Global commitment | Political lobbying | Sponsorship 6.4 Sponsorship A central directive governs the Bosch Group’s One focus of our sponsorship activities is motor sponsorship activities. Individual measures have sports: since the end of 2018, Bosch has been an to be logically integrated in an overall communiofficial partner (initially for three years) of Formucation strategy or a corresponding concept. The la E, a racing series for formula cars with electric objective of measures also has to be clearly motors. As a technology partner, Bosch has spondefined and focused on increasing brand recognisored the DTM for many years, and from 2020 we tion and reputation, promoting sales, winning will be the official sponsor of the Japanese Super customers, and attracting associates. For any GT, initially for three years. sponsorship measures in excess of 30,000 euros, corporate headquarters must be consulted. When sponsorship measures exceed a certain amount, benchmark criteria have to be defined to allow an assessment of the measure’s success. Binding criteria apply to the selection of sponsorship commitments, such as the principle of customer neutrality: we do not engage in sponsorship with individual customers, unless we cooperate with them in the development of key technologies. Moreover, only sponsorship measures are pursued that directly communicate the strengths of the Bosch brand or other brands of the Bosch Group and in which these are clearly profiled.                                           98 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook Annex 99 | Annex | GRI content index | Independent auditor’s assurance report | About this report and publication details GRI content index GRI indicators Keyword Reference* General disclosures Organization profile GRI 102-1 Name of the organization 107 GRI 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Business sectors 8 – 10 GRI 102-3 Location of headquarters Stuttgart GRI 102-4 Location of operations 8 GRI 102-5 Ownership and legal form Shareholders of Robert Bosch GmbH 8 GRI 102-6 Markets served 8 – 10 GRI 102-7 Scale of the organization Number of associates 8 – 10 Subsidiaries and regional companies GRI 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Forms of employment 8, 70 Terminations GRI 102-9 Supply chain Purchasing volume 44, 63 Logistics and transportation GRI 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its 44 supply chain GRI 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach Design for Environment 19, 26 – 28, 30, Life cycle assessments 52/53 GRI 102-12 External initiatives 15/16, 45, 53, 58 GRI 102-13 Membership of associations 15/16, 95/96 Strategy GRI 102-14 Statement from senior decision maker 4 Ethics and integrity GRI 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Code of Business Conduct 12, 20 – 22, 26, Code of Conduct for Business Partners 45, 68, 72/73 Mission Product Development Code Basic principles of social responsibility Governance GRI 102-18 Governance structure Board of management and supervisory board 14/15, 19, 74 Stakeholder engagement GRI 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 16/17 GRI 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Works council 77 Trade unions GRI 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 16 –18 GRI 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Forms of dialogue 16 –18 Materiality analysis GRI 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 18 100 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook GRI indicators Keyword Reference* Reporting practice GRI 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial Consolidated group 107 statements GRI 102-46 Defining report content and Materiality analysis 18 topic boundaries GRI 102-47 List of material topics Materiality analysis 18 GRI 102-48 Restatements of information 107 GRI 102-49 Changes in reporting 107 GRI 102-50 Reporting period 107 GRI 102-51 Date of most recent report 107 GRI 102-52 Reporting cycle 107 GRI 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 107 GRI 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the 107 GRI standards GRI 102-55 GRI content index 99 GRI 102-56 External assurance 105/106 Economic performance indicators Economic performance GRI 201/103 Management approach disclosures Economic KPIs 11 Climate change adaptation GRI 201-1 Direct economic value generated 11; AR p. 45 Position on climate change and distributed GRI 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and 54/55 opportunities due to climate change Market presence GRI 202/103 Management approach disclosures Remuneration 71/72 Social benefits GRI 202-1 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender 71 compared to local minimum wage Anti-corruption GRI 205/103 Management approach disclosures Code of Business Conduct 20/21 Code of Conduct for Business Partners GRI 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 20/21 Compliance training GRI 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption Risk management 22 policies and procedures Anti-competitive behavior GRI 206/103 Management approach disclosures Code of Business Conduct 20/21 Code of Conduct for Business Partners GRI 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, 20/21, 23; Compliance training anti-trust, and monopoly practices AR p. 58 Risk management 101 | Annex | GRI content index | Independent auditor’s assurance report | About this report and publication details GRI indicators Keyword Reference* Environmental performance indicators Materials GRI 301/103 Management approach disclosures Key materials 26 – 28, 30, 63 Materials efficiency GRI 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 63 Hazardous substances GRI 301-2 Recycled input materials used Nanotechnology 39, 63/64 Energy GRI 302/103 Management approach disclosures Energy management system 52 – 55 Reduction targets GRI 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 57/58 Energy consumption GRI 302-3 Energy intensity Energy efficiency, own generation, green power, off57 GRI 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption sets 56/57 Sales-related energy consumption GRI 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and Energy efficiency of the products 36 – 38 services Water and effluents (2018) GRI 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Wastewater management 60/61 Water-stressed regions GRI 303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts 62 Reduction targets GRI 303-3 Water withdrawal Use of water 61 GRI 303-4 Water discharge Sales-related water consumption 62 Wastewater Products with positive water-related effects Emissions GRI 305/103 Management approach disclosures Reduction targets 52 – 55 GHG emissions GRI 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 58 Energy efficiency, own generation, green power, offGRI 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions sets 58 GRI 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Sales-related GHG emissions 58 Mobility concept GRI 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Logistics and transportation 58 GRI 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Other air pollutant emissions 56 – 59 GRI 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX), and 59 other significant air emissions Effluents and waste GRI 306/103 Management approach disclosures Waste management 52/53, 64 Waste disposal GRI 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 62 Sales-related waste GRI 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Hazardous waste 64/65 GRI 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste 64/65 Environmental compliance GRI 307/103 Management approach disclosures Compliance management 13 –15, 20 – 23, EHS management 52/53 Environmental management GRI 307-1 Noncompliance with environmental laws and 23 regulations 102 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook GRI indicators Keyword Reference* Supplier environmental assessment GRI 308/103 Management approach disclosures Supplier standards 44/45, 47 Code of Conduct for Business Partners GRI 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using 47 Supplier risk management environmental criteria Selection, assessment, and development of suppliers Social performance indicators Employment GRI 401/103 Management approach disclosures Work-life balance 68/69, 71 Remuneration and social benefits GRI 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not 71 – 73 Forms of employment provided to temporary or part-time employees Employee rights Labor/management relations GRI 402/103 Management approach disclosures Leadership and collaboration 68/69, 77 Associate survey GRI 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational 77 Works council and trade unions changes Terminations Occupational health and safety (2018) GRI 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system Occupational health and safety management system 83 Safety basics Occupational accidents and ill health GRI 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident 84/85 Preventive healthcare and occupational health investigation GRI 403-3 Occupational health services 86/87 GRI 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and 83 – 87 communication on occupational health and safety GRI 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 85, 87 GRI 403-6 Promotion of worker health GRI 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health 84 – 87 and safety impacts directly linked by business relationships GRI 403-9 Work-related injuries 85 Training and education GRI 404/103 Management approach disclosures Personal development process 68/69, 78/79 Education and training GRI 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 80 Support program for specialists GRI 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and 78 – 80 transition assistance programs GRI 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular 79 performance and career development reviews 103 | Annex | GRI content index | Independent auditor’s assurance report | About this report and publication details GRI indicators Keyword Reference* Diversity and equal opportunity GRI 405/103 Management approach disclosures Equal opportunities 68/69, 72/73 Nondiscrimination GRI 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 73/74 Dimensions of diversity GRI 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women 71, 73/74 to men Nondiscrimination GRI 406/103 Management approach disclosures Equal opportunities 73 – 75 Nondiscrimination GRI 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions 23 Dimensions of diversity taken Complaint mechanisms Freedom of association and collective bargaining GRI 407/103 Management approach disclosures Code of Business Conduct 19 – 21, 44 – 46, Works council and trade unions 77 Code of Conduct for Business Partners GRI 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to 19 – 21, 44 – 46 Selection, assessment, and development of suppliers freedom of association and collective bargaining Compliance management may be at risk Child labor GRI 408/103 Management approach disclosures Code of Business Conduct 19 – 21, 44 – 46, Code of Conduct for Business Partners 77 Selection, assessment, and development of suppliers GRI 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 19 – 21, 47/48 Compliance management incidents of child labor Forced or compulsory labor GRI 409/103 Management approach disclosures Code of Business Conduct 19 – 21, 44 – 46, Code of Conduct for Business Partners 77 Selection, assessment, and development of suppliers GRI 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 19 – 21, 47/48 Compliance management incidents of forced or compulsory labor Human rights assessment GRI 412/103 Management approach disclosures Code of Business Conduct 19 – 21, 44 – 46 Code of Conduct for Business Partners GRI 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights 19 – 21, 47/48 Selection, assessment, and development of suppliers reviews or impact assessments Compliance management GRI 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or 22 procedures Supplier social assessment GRI 414/103 Management approach disclosures Code of Conduct for Business Partners 44/45, 47 Selection, assessment, and development of suppliers GRI 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social 47 criteria Public policy GRI 415/103 Management approach disclosures Political lobbying 94 – 96 Contact with policymakers GRI 415-1 Political contributions 95 104 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook GRI indicators Keyword Reference* Customer health and safety GRI 416/103 Management approach disclosures Product quality 28/29 Product safety GRI 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of 28/29 Life cycle assessments product and service categories Marketing and labeling GRI 417/103 Management approach disclosures Responsible advertising 29 Product information GRI 417-1 Requirements for product and service information 29 and labeling Customer privacy GRI 418/103 Management approach disclosures IT security and data protection 34 Compliance management GRI 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of 23 customer privacy and losses of customer data Socioeconomic compliance GRI 419/103 Management approach disclosures Code of Business Conduct 19 – 21 Code of Conduct for Business Partners GRI 419-1 Noncompliance with laws and regulations in the 23; AR p. 58 Compliance management social and economic area * The references indicate the pages on which the respective GRI content is mentioned within this report. References marked “AR” refer to our 2019 annual report. 105 | Annex | GRI content index | Independent auditor’s assurance report | About this report and publication details Independent auditor’s assurance report1 on selected performance indicators and statements in the sustainability report To the Robert Bosch Gesellschaft mit beschränkter have considered necessary to enable the preparation of a Haftung, Stuttgart sustainability report that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. We have performed a limited assurance engagement on selected performance indicators of 2019, as well as BA  uditor’s declaration relating to independence on the statements regarding the CO₂-neutrality program and quality control of the Bosch Group within the sustainability report of the We are independent from the Company in accordance Robert Bosch Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung, with the provisions under German commercial law and Stuttgart, and its subsidiaries (hereafter: “Bosch Group”) professional requirements, and we have fulfilled our othfor the reporting period from January 1, 2019, to Decemer professional responsibilities in accordance with these ber 31, 2019 (hereafter: “sustainability report”). requirements. Our assurance refers exclusively to the performance indiOur audit firm applies the national statutory regulations cator “greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1 and Scope 2) and professional pronouncements for quality control, in in 1,000 tons CO₂ in the year 2019” (part of table “4 | 03 particular the bylaws regulating the rights and duties of Greenhouse gas emissions Bosch Group 2017–2019” of Wirtschaftsprüfer and vereidigte Buchprüfer in the exerthe sustainability report), the performance indicator cise of their profession (Berufssatzung für Wirtschafts“work accidents in the year 2019” (part of table “5 | 08 prüfer und vereidigte Buchprüfer) as well as the IDW Work accidents Bosch Group 2017–2019” of the sustainStandard on Quality Control 1: Requirements for Quality ability report), and the statements of the CO₂-neutrality Control in audit firms (IDW Qualitätssicherungsstandard program within the Bosch Group in the sections “Our 1: Anforderungen an die Qualitätssicherung in der goal: climate neutrality” and “Four levers for climate neuWirtschaftsprüferpraxis (IDW QS 1)). trality” in chapter “4.2 Energy and climate action” of the sustainability report (hereafter: “selected performance C Auditor’s responsibility indicators and statements in the sustainability report”). Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the selected performance indicators and The assured selected performance indicators and statestatements in the sustainability report based on the ments in the sustainability report are marked with the assurance engagement we have performed. symbol “  .” Our engagement did not include any disclosures for prior years. We conducted our assurance engagement in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance EngageA Management’s responsibility ments (ISAE) 3000 (Revised): Assurance Engagements The legal representatives of the Company are responsible other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Inforfor the preparation of the sustainability report in accormation, issued by the International Auditing and Assurdance with the “GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards,” ance Standards Board (IAASB). This standard requires option “Core” (hereafter: “reporting criteria”). that we plan and perform the assurance engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether the selected perThis responsibility includes the selection and application formance indicators and statements in the sustainability of appropriate methods to prepare the sustainability report of the Company have been prepared, in all materireport as well as making assumptions and estimates al respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria. In related to individual disclosures, which are reasonable in a limited assurance engagement, the assurance procethe circumstances. Furthermore, the legal representadures are less in extent than for a reasonable assurance tives are responsible for such internal controls that they engagement and therefore a substantially lower level of 1 Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft has performed a limited assurance engagement on selected performance indicators and statements in the German version of this sustainability report and issued an independent assurance report in German, which is authoritative. The text presented here is a translation of the independent assurance report. 106 Bosch sustainability report 2019 | factbook assurance is obtained. The assurance procedures selectfrom January 1, 2019, to December 31, 2019, have not ed depend on the auditor’s professional judgment. been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria. Within the scope of our assurance engagement, which has been conducted between October 2019 and April E Intended use of the assurance report 2020, we performed, among others, the following assuWe issue this report on the basis of the engagement rance and other procedures: agreed with the Robert Bosch Gesellschaft mit beschränkter Haftung, Stuttgart. The assurance engage▶▶ Inquiries of employees regarding the CO₂-neutrality ment has been performed for the purposes of the Comprogram within the Bosch Group, pany and the report is solely intended to inform the Company as to the results of the assurance engagement and ▶▶ Inquiries of employees responsible for data capture must not be used for purposes other than those intendand consolidation as well as the preparation of the sused. The report is not intended to provide third parties tainability report to evaluate the reporting processes, with support in making (financial) decisions. the data capture and compilation methods, and internal controls to the extent relevant for the assurance of the F Engagement terms and liability selected performance indicators and statements in the The “General Engagement Terms for Wirtschaftsprüfer sustainability report, and Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaften (German Public Auditors and Public Audit Firms)” dated January 1, 2017, ▶▶ Identification of likely risks of material misstatement, are applicable to this engagement and also govern our relations with third parties in the context of this engage▶▶ Inspection of relevant documentation of the systems ment (www.de.ey.com/general-engagement-terms). In and processes for compiling, aggregating, and validataddition, please refer to the liability provisions contained ing data in the relevant areas of energy/climate protecin no. 9 and to the exclusion of liability toward third partion and work safety/health protection in the reporting ties. We assume no responsibility, liability, or other obliperiod and testing such documentation on a sample gations toward third parties unless we have concluded a basis, written agreement to the contrary with the respective third party or liability cannot effectively be precluded. ▶▶ Analytical evaluation of the selected performance indicators in the sustainability report, We make express reference to the fact that we do not update the assurance report to reflect events or circum▶▶ Inquiries and inspection of documents on a sample stances arising after it was issued unless required to do basis relating to the collection and reporting of selectso by law. It is the sole responsibility of anyone taking ed performance indicators and statements in the susnote of the result of our assurance engagement summatainability report, rized in this assurance report to decide whether and in what way this result is useful or suitable for their pur­ ▶▶ Conducting site visits in Feuerbach and Lollar (both poses and to supplement, verify, or update it by means in Germany), Charleston (in the United States), and of their own review procedures. Cerkezköy and Bursa (both in Turkey) to evaluate the processes for collecting, aggregating, and validating Munich, April 3, 2020 the data as well as the reliability of the reported data at group level, Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft ▶▶ Evaluation of the presentation of selected performance indicators and statements in the sustainability report. D Assurance conclusion Based on our assurance procedures performed and assurance evidence obtained, nothing has come to our Nicole Richter Yvonne Meyer attention that causes us to believe that the selected perWirtschaftsprüferin Wirtschaftsprüferin formance indicators and statements marked with the (German Public Auditor) (German Public Auditor) symbol “  ” in the sustainability report for the period 107 | Annex | GRI content index | Independent auditor’s assurance report | About this report and publication details About this report Publication details The Bosch Group’s sustainability report has been published annually Published by: since 2011. The present report describes the progress made in terms of Robert Bosch GmbH sustainable business practices in the 2019 fiscal year (January 1, 2019, Corporate Communications to December 31, 2019). and Governmental Affairs As in previous years, the report observes the internationally recognized Postfach 10 60 50 guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). To the best of our 70049 Stuttgart knowledge, the report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Germany Standards: Core option. Ernst & Young Wirt­schaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Phone +49 711 811-0 performed a limited assurance engagement on selected performance indicators and statements on climate action and occupational safety. Corporate Communications and Assured content in this sustainability report is marked “  .” Governmental Affairs (C/CG) Executive Vice President: Prof. Christof Ehrhart Unless otherwise stated, all information in this report refers to the full consolidated group. Besides Robert Bosch GmbH, the consolidated Health, Safety, Environmental and group comprises a further 438 (previous year: 462) fully consolidated Fire Protection as well as Sustainability companies. Details of the scope of consolidation and the developments (C/HSE) in the fiscal year relating to it can be found in the annual report (see Head: Torsten Kallweit 2019 annual report, page 71 et seq.). Key environmental and occupational health and safety indicators cover 428 (previous year: 414) reportable Sustainability and Ideas Lab (C/HSE2) locations. Head: Annette Wagner annette.wagner@de.bosch.com The information was requested electronically and the data was mainly compiled using software specific to each division. A three-year trend is Concept, text, and layout not yet feasible in individual cases, but it is our aim to render such a preakzente kommunikation und beratung GmbH, sentation in the future. In individual cases, facts relating to previous periMunich ods were corrected. Discrepancies in the totals are possible due to rounding differences. Print Elanders GmbH, Waiblingen All forward-looking statements in this report are based on the assumptions valid as of the copy deadline. Due to unknown risks, uncertainties, and other factors, the actual results, developments, and performance of the company may differ from our forecasts, assessments, and announcements. German and English PDF versions of the sustainability report 2019 are available online. Further information can be found at sustainability.bosch.com and in the 2019 annual report. The next sustainability report is scheduled to be published in spring 2021. Robert Bosch GmbH Postfach 10 60 50 70049 Stuttgart Germany www.bosch.com
