Sustainability Report 2019 Layout and production: Chimney Group Photo: Getty Images page 3 iStockphoto page 14, 16, 21 Shutterstock page 21 Contents 3 Contents 4 CEO statement 6 This is Nordea 14 Taking climate action 18 Embedding human rights 20 Responsible supply chain 22 People performance 24 Diversity and inclusion 26 Embracing new technology 30 Sustainability notes 41 Principles for Responsible Banking Reporting Index 43 TCFD Disclosure Index 44 GRI Content Index 49 Glossary 50 Assurance Report Nordea Sustainability Report 2019 CEO statement 4 Intensifying Nordea´s sustainability efforts as well as participation in and exit from commitments to sustainability, and approves external position statements and sector guidelines. We published several new sector guidelines in 2019, including for instance guidelines for the fossil fuels industry, setting forth our expectations of customers and investee companies. We are taking actions to embrace our employees’ capabilities to grow and develop. We are also fostering an inclusive culture and are committed to making sure everyone can bring their whole self to work. To ensure great customer experiences and sustainable growth, we are constantly monitoring and identifying the range of barriers to diversity and inclusion. We are delighted to see balanced gender representation across Nordea, with a breakdown in 2019 of Nordea´s ambition is to be a leader in many dimensions, 51% women and 49% men. It also clear including in sustainable banking. We have taken a strong that we still have work to do; the gender balance currently varies in the position in this area and we will intensify our efforts even organisation, and our target is to reach further. the same result in all levels across all business areas and group functions. I am truly passionate about banking within our Sustainable Selection, and We have also decided to measure and the important role of banks in sociwere delighted to see an increase of concrete numbers and steps in our own ety. At Nordea, we are led by our puralmost 87% in Assets under Manageactions. To give just a couple of exampose – together, we lead the way, ment (AuM) in Sustainable Selection enabling dreams and everyday aspiraduring the year. Since December, we tions for a greater good. We want to have also been helping our customers “We commit to using our make a real difference for our customers to keep track of their individual carbon and the communities in which we footprint with the launch of a CO2 trackexpertise, products, services operate. er embedded in our digital banking serand relationships to support Nordea is fully committed to making vices. This is a good example of how and accelerate the the financial sector more sustainable we, alongside our 9 million or so perand actively contributes to a sustainable sonal customers, can make a difference fundamental changes in our society. We became a signatory to the in combating global warming and clieconomies and lifestyles UN Global Compact at Group level mate change together. already in 2004 and will continue to necessary to achieve shared support the principles. Sustainability is not only about new prosperity for both today’s We take actions for a greater good by products and services; it goes beyond and tomorrow’s embedding sustainability throughout that, into the fundamentals of how the bank. Our business areas are continNordea is run. It is an integral part of generations.” uously developing our services and our governance and way of working. offerings to enable our customers to We evaluate our business decisions ples, we reduced travel for internal make conscious sustainable choices. In from an ethical and sustainable angle. meetings by more than 7% in 2019, conour business, this means a broad susOur Code of Conduct defines the tributing to lower carbon emissions tainable products offering and also intehigh-level principles that guide our from our business travel activities with grating sustainability into our advisory business, how we treat our customers 11%. We run our internal operations on sessions. and the conduct expected from our 100% renewable electricity. We are also I would like give a few examples of employees. All our employees are reducing water consumption and aimtangible results from 2019. We extended required to complete annual training in ing to completely phase out single-use green corporate loans to now be availthe Code of Conduct as part of their plastics, plates and cutlery at our able to customers in all our four Nordic Licence to Work to ensure proper offices. home markets. Our green mortgages awareness and knowledge of our ethiare now also available to our household cal principles. To take the next steps in sustainability, customers in Finland and Norway Nordea´s Business Ethics & Values stronger efforts are needed from indibesides Sweden, where the product Committee goes through our internal viduals, banks and the financial industry was launched already in 2018. We policies and decisions granularly and as a whole. We need a clear framework launched 11 new sustainability funds reviews relevant Group Internal Rules and measurable and tangible actions. Nordea Sustainability Report 2019 CEO statement 5 That way, we take the next steps in “The financial industry as a strengthening our internal risk manageimplementing guidelines and principles ment governance and processes. to achieve even stronger commitments collective, and Nordea as a For us, sustainability is a way of and tangible results. company, need to be better working, and we want our actions to benefit both our customers and our Nordea, as the only Nordic bank, is one at determining financial risks communities. We create a positive of 30 founding banks of the Principles associated with financing impact and engage with our communifor Responsible Banking (PRB) develand investing in carbonties through our core competencies in oped together with the United Nations financial skills and entrepreneurship. Environment Programme Finance Initiaintensive industries, and We help young people across the Nortive (UNEP FI). The Principles were offiwork together with dics to improve their knowledge in cially launched and signed at the Clifinancial skills, and assist senior citizens mate Week in New York in September customers and investee with learning how to use mobile bank2019. By creating them, Nordea and the companies to assist them in ing services. I am truly proud of our other founding banks have accomtheir transition to a lowskilled and enthusiastic employees who plished the comprehensive framework have spent their time on teaching finanneeded by banks to collectively address carbon economy.” cial skills, use of mobile banking serthe global sustainability challenges and vices and accelerating work towards the objectives of the Paris future, our next step is to perform an entrepreneurship. Agreement and the Sustainable Develimpact analysis, taking various dimenopment Goals (SDGs). sions into account in our actions. With To me, the only way of staying relevant I am proud that Nordea has been the escalating climate crisis, we need to to our customers is by creating great able to play such an active part in creatramp up our efforts in reducing the customer experiences. In today’s world, ing the Principles and opportunities for impacts of climate change. The financial that means doing things sustainably, a better and sustainable society. Our industry as a collective, and Nordea as a serving as a safe and trusted financial work does not stop with signing the company, need to be better at deterpartner, and doing things right. It means PRBs, though – this actually only mining financial risks associated with not merely doing the bare minimum, marked the start of the real journey. We financing and investing in carbon-intenbut going above and beyond to meet commit to using our expertise, products, sive industries, and work together with the expectations of customers, employservices and relationships to support customers and investee companies to ees and society. That way, our actions and accelerate the fundamental changassist them in their transition to a are good for customers, good for es in our economies and lifestyles neclow-carbon economy. Nordea and good for society at large. essary to achieve shared prosperity for We will therefore intensify our efforts both today’s and tomorrow’s in 2020, both in terms of performing a generations. climate-related scenario analysis of our Frank Vang-Jensen Taking aim at our clear targets for the financing and investment portfolios, and President and Group CEO Nordea, as a leading financial instituinitiatives in 2019 to develop and tion in the Nordics, needs to develop improve offerings to customers in the its business and services responsibly area of sustainable finance. and sustainably. This is in the interest Another highly significant area for of all shareholders. The Board supfinancial institutions today is climate ported management in the initiative change, as it can pose financial risk to be one of the founding signatories and needs to be properly managed. In to the PRB. 2018, the Board approved an updated To stay relevant to our customers, Group Board Directive on Risk in we must meet their expectations in which ESG (environmental, social and terms of our responsibility in today's governance) was included as a risk in constantly changing world where its own right. In 2019, climate risk was social and environmental issues are included in the risk taxonomy. Climate Sustainability on the becoming increasingly relevant for change is thus now embedded in our Board’s Agenda both Nordea as a financial institution formal risk management process, and Nordea has entered a new phase with and for our customers. Already in we will continue to develop goverthree key priorities focusing on opera2017, the Board Operations Commitnance and risk management of clitional efficiency, income growth and tee was established with a remit to mate-related financial risks in 2020, in customer experiences. Our four busioversee the Group’s sustainability line with the recommendations of the ness areas will raise their already high strategy. In 2020 the committee’s Task Force on Climate-related Finanambitions to provide our customers name was changed to the Board cial Disclosures (TCFD). with the best personal and digital serOperations and Sustainability Comvices and solutions. mittee to better reflect its charter. The Torbjörn Magnusson The Board acknowledges that Board has encouraged the numerous Chairman of the Board of Directors Nordea Sustainability Report 2019 This is Nordea 6 This is Nordea As a bank, Nordea has three main tasks – to convert savings into financing, to manage credit and other financial risks, and to enable payments and other financial transactions efficiently and securely. Nordea Bank Abp is a full-service unicustomers with even more value for each society. We manage tax costs and versal bank domiciled in Finland. We their money and continuously spending risks prudently and, by paying taxes and serve approximately 9.8 million personmore time with them. In Large Corporeporting them in a timely manner, we al and corporate customers through rates & Institutions, we retain our leadaim to maintain a good local tax reputafour business areas and our presence in ing position as the core bank for large tion. For details on our tax payments by 20 countries, including our four home corporate customers across the Nordics country, see page 36 in sustainability note markets – Denmark, Finland, Norway and customer segments. S6. and Sweden – together representing For details about our engagement The ethical standards outlined in the world’s tenth largest economy. with customers and other stakeholders, Nordea´s Code of Conduct, Tax Policy Nordea shares are traded on the Helsinsee sustainability note S2. on page 32. on Customer Advice and Sustainability ki, Stockholm and Copenhagen stock Policy guide us when advising customexchanges. Knowing our customers ers about the tax implications of differKnow Your Customer (KYC) is Nordea´s ent products. We also take care to comEnhancing the customer experience practice to identify and know the cusply with external regulations regarding In the relationship with customers, our tomer, the nature of the customer’s the provision of proper information, and approach is to listen, learn and act. We business and use of services or prodto not mislead customers in their learn from surveys and customer comucts, volumes and origins of funds, decisions. plaints, and through our structured wealth and transactions. The KYC prosetup we define improvements to cess is used to provide a proper customDoing the right thing ensure a smoother experience. This er advisory service and minimise the Trust in the financial sector and in the approach has resulted in a 17% reducrisk of terrorist financing and money financial system is crucial to financial tion in customer complaints, from over laundering. Ideally, ESG issues should stability. Our success relies on the confi113,000 complaints in 2018 to around be integrated into the KYC process to dence that our stakeholders have in us 94,000 in 2019. ensure that customers are evaluated – trust that is ultimately safeguarded by Despite a challenging environment from a holistic perspective. We initiated laws and regulations. for the banking sector, we see positive a project to investigate how this could Ensuring financial stability is part of developments in customer satisfaction be done for our corporate customers a Nordea´s social responsibility. Our Code in both internal and external surveys. couple of years ago, and are continuing of Conduct defines the high-level princiWe have improved our availability with to explore appropriate solutions. ples that guide our business, how we extended opening hours at branches treat our customers and the conduct and significant reduced average waiting Meeting expectations on expected from our employees. Doing the time in our contact centres. For our tax transparency right thing is the essence of our Code of small and medium-sized corporate cusNordea´s Tax Policy is the Group CEO Conduct and we provide the Board with tomers, it is important that we are proInstruction on Tax that ensures we manan annual report on how well we live active, available and provide relevant age tax efficiently and compliantly, thereaccording to our ethical principles. and competent advice in the customer by protecting Nordea´s shareholder value. All our employees are required to dialogue. For our private banking cusNordea´s policy is to pay taxes in accorcomplete annual training in the Code of tomers, we aim to increase customer dance with local regulations in all counConduct as part of their Licence to Work satisfaction further by meeting needs tries in which we operate and, in so doing, to ensure proper awareness and knowland expectations, providing affluent to make an appropriate contribution to edge of the ethical principles. Besides Nordea Sustainability Report 2019 This is Nordea 7 Key data 2019 Market presence Representation in ~9.8 m Four business areas designed to 20 countries customers of which 9.3 million are household customers, support the relationship strategy for each specific customer segment: Personal Banking, Business Banking, 530,000 small and medium sized companies Large Corporates & Institutions and and 2,650 are large corporates and institutions. Asset & Wealth Management. Financials EUR 8.635bn EUR 523bn Total operating income Total liabilities EUR 555bn EUR 32bn Total assets Total equity Our People Number of employees: Women Men Our values: 31,648 51% 49% Collaboration, Ownership Passion, Courage Sustainability action Net inflow of Included in Bloomberg’s Total carbon emissions from EUR 4.6bn Gender-Equality Index for the our internal operations: to Sustainable Selection 4th 39,406 consecutive year tonnes CO2e Nordea Sustainability Report 2019 This is Nordea 8 the Code of Conduct, in 2019 Licence to analysis was revisited in 2019 and was tomers to make sustainable choices Work also included training on handling decided to still be valid. through our offering. conflicts of interest, phishing, incident In the materiality analysis, we identiIn 2020, we will ramp up our sustainhandling and financial crime. 98.5% of fied climate as the lead area for our ability efforts and conduct not a new all employees (excluding those on longefforts. A testimony to our strong commateriality analysis but rather an term leave) completed their Licence to mitment to climate action is that impact analysis as part of our commitWork during the year. Nordea and 33 other signatories to the ment to the PRB. We know that our PRB announced a Collective Commitpositive and negative impact mainly Encouraging people to speak up ment to Climate Action during Climate derives from financing and investments, Nordea´s whistleblowing function Raise Week in New York in September 2019. but our internal operations also have an Your Concern (RYC) ensures that all of The Collective Commitment to Climate impact that cannot be overlooked. We Nordea´s stakeholders, including cusAction sets out concrete and timewill therefore take both an indirect and tomers, partners, affected communities bound actions the banks will take for direct perspective when conducting the as well as our own employees have the scaling up their contribution to, and impact analysis identifying our negative right to speak up and always feel safe in aligning their lending with, the objecand positive impact taking both the doing so if they have concerns about tives of the Paris Agreement to limit SDGs and the Paris Agreement into suspected misconduct such as breaches global warming to well below 2ºC, strivaccount. Although being directed at of human rights, or irregularities such as ing for 1.5ºC. Through this commitment, governments, both the SDGs and the fraudulent, inappropriate, dishonest, we will collaborate with other banks on Paris Agreement are underpinned by a illegal or negligent activity or behaviour methodology and scenario developseries of specific targets and proin our operations, products or services. ment, stakeholder engagement and gramme areas where Nordea can make This includes any action that constitutes other relevant actions that can ease the substantial contributions as a bank, and a violation of laws or regulations, or of transition to a green economy. we have the ambition to identify these Nordea´s internal policies, instructions The materiality analysis also identias part or our impact analysis. or guidelines. In 2017, RYC was strengthfied four focus areas: human rights, a Elements of SDG impact analysis are ened by implementing an electronic responsible supply chain, being an already in place at Nordea. For instance, reporting channel called WhistleB that inclusive employer with satisfied we have mapped asset categories in our enables anonymous two-way employees and community engagegreen bond asset portfolio to the SDGs communication. ment. Areas that are essential to trust in using the high-level guideline provided the banking industry that must be manby the International Capital Markets Focusing on material aged well to ensure going concern – Association (ICMA). The mapping shows sustainability issues business ethics, governance, digitalisathat, through our green bond asset portIn 2018, we conducted a materiality tion and living our purpose and values folio, we have a positive impact on and analysis to identify the sustainability – constitute our foundation. address some SDGs more directly than areas that are material to Nordea. The For detailed information about our others, as disclosed in our Green Bond materiality analysis process, see susReport 2019. We also address two of the tainability note S3. on page 33–34. SDGs through our ambition to create equal opportunities for our employees: Working in a strategic direction SDG 5 Gender Equality and SDG 10 and setting targets Reduced Inequalities. Based on our materiality analysis, we set targets for 2019. Almost all targets Integrating sustainability were fulfilled during the year, see oppothroughout the bank site page for details. Nordea´s Code of Conduct includes We have experienced some chalaspects such as care for the environlenges in developing a strategy for how ment, labour rights, how we treat our to work towards the Paris Agreement customers, human rights, the right to in terms of both investments and lendprivacy, fair competition, anti-bribery ing, partly because the frameworks, and anti-corruption. It is a central steermodels and methodologies to support ing document, together with our princia transition strategy are still in their ples on ESG issues in financing, investinfancy in the financial industry. Our ing and advice in Nordea´s SustainabiliStronger Sustainable targets for 2020 are therefore a continty Policy. Selection offering with uation of the targets for 2019, focusing Integrating sustainability throughout balanced funds on aligning both investments and the bank requires an understanding of In November, Nordea launched financing with the Paris Agreement in what sustainability is and Nordea´s role balanced funds, mixing 2020 but with an even clearer focus on in the transition to a sustainable future sustainable equities and fixedgranularity and measurability. The tarin our capacity of a major bank and income investments. The gets for 2020 were approved by the through the choices we make. In 2019, Sustainable Balanced Funds are Group Leadership Team (GLT) in Febwe therefore launched a Group-wide one-fund solutions offering easy ruary 2020. e-learning module on sustainability that access with just one investment As a member of the core group of takes a broad view on global sustainto a ready-made, well-diversified founding banks and a signatory to the ability challenges and how Nordea can sustainable portfolio. The PRB, Nordea is committed to the objeccontribute. In addition to this general weight between equities and tives of the Paris Agreement and the training on sustainability, we provide fixed-income instruments varies SDGs. We play an active part in the specific training when launching new between the three risk/return banking industry’s role and responsibilisustainable products to ensure all adviprofiles available for the funds. ty in shaping a sustainable future. We sors are sufficiently trained and see Nordea being a positive contributor equipped to provide advice to our in society in the future, enabling cuscustomers. Nordea Sustainability Report 2019 This is Nordea 9 Sustainability targets As part of our future direction, the Principles for Responsible Banking will be our main guiding framework. Sustainable finance will enable Nordea to be a strong bank and a positive contributor in society. A selection of our targets for 2020 and follow-up on our targets for 2019 are presented below. Targets 2020 Develop and launch Perform an impact Significantly increase Decide on a climate targeted sustainability training analysis in accordance with AuM in Sustainable strategy for the fund to establish stronger local the Principles for Selection. offering. expertise amongst advisors. Responsible Banking. Develop ESG risk data in the Analyse climate risk in Launch a Position Group, taking account of the large corporate Identify and assess Statement on Tax and industry data availability and lending portfolio as part of climate risk exposure in the sector guidelines for the the materiality of lending the UNEP FUC TCFD Phase 2 mortgage portfolio. Extractive Industries and for portfolios. Banking Pilot. Agriculture. For each recruitment to leadership positions, there Introduce diversity Decrease air travel for Revise the company should be at least one and inclusion unconscious internal meetings with 30% car policy to reduce our female and one male bias trainings for people compared to 2019. carbon footprint. candidate shortlisted. leaders. Follow-up on targets for 2019 Fulfilled Partly fulfilled Target Comment Status Develop and launch green corporate loans in Green corporate loans were launched in all our four Nordic countries during the all our four Nordic countries. year. Complete sustainable savings offering which The Sustainable Selection offering has been launched in all our four Nordic will be part of model portfolios. countries. Increase assets under management in our Our sustainable savings offering is the Sustainable Selection, for which AuM sustainable savings offering. increased by 87% in 2019. Evaluate to expand green mortgages in the The green mortgages that were made available to our Swedish household Nordics. customers in 2018 were extended to Finland and Norway in 2019. Develop scenario analysis for climate risk for Nordea piloted a climate scenario analysis methodology and studied the climate our large corporate lending portfolio. profile of our high climate risk lending portfolio in 2019. Integrate sustainability into our savings adviIntegration into the central savings advisory tool was completed in 2019. In 2020 sory process. we will further develop the integration of sustainability in the advisory process. Measure investment portfolio alignment and Nordea piloted climate scenario analysis methodology and studied the climate set a strategy to work towards the Paris profile of investment portfolios in 2019. Agreement. 7% reduction in air travel for internal meetAir travel for internal meetings decreased by 7.15% in 2019. ings. New vendor agreements aligned with the 77.5% of all supplier agreements in 2019 were aligned with the Supplier Code Supplier Code of Conduct. of Conduct. For remaining agreements, the procurement process was not followed. Launch Position Statement on Human Rights We launched Sector Guidelines for Gambling, Fossil Fuels Industry (i.e. Oil and Sector Guidelines on Gambling, Oil & Gas, & Gas), Real Estate and Forestry in Real Estate and Forestry. 2019. The Position Statement on Human Rights has been postponed. 80% completion rate Group-wide of SustainWe did not reach an 80% completion rate in 2019 due to some technical difficulable Finance e-learning for all staff. ties. The e-learning will be assigned to relevant employees in 2020. Nordea Sustainability Report 2019 This is Nordea 10 Being a responsible investor ings. We might even put forward shareinstance, our Stars Funds, our Global As a major investor, it is important that holder resolutions at the meetings. In Climate and Environment Fund and the Nordea is also a responsible one. We 2019, we voted at around 515 general Sustainable Balanced Funds. We have have developed policies, procedures meetings of companies in which seen an 87% increase in AuM to Susand investment products to ensure that Nordea´s funds are among the largest tainable Selection in 2019, which is a all the companies in which we invest owners or have invested substantial result of the launch of 11 new sustainfulfil various criteria. We have signed capital. We strive for transparency and ability funds included in Sustainable the UN Principles for Responsible show how we have voted in our voting Selection and also the integration of Investment (UNPRI) and are thus comportal at nordea.com. sustainability into our savings advisory mitted to integrating ESG factors into When we want to improve a compatool. Furthermore, we have seen that our investment analysis, decision-makny’s management of its ESG risks, we our customers are becoming increasinging processes and active ownership start an engagement process with the ly interested in making sustainable practices. company. The timeframe of the engagechoices and, at the end of the year, 29% In accordance with our Responsible ment process can vary depending on of our Nordic household and private Investment Policy, all Nordea funds are the complexity of the engagement goal. banking customers said they were willsubject to annual norm-based screenIn 2019, we engaged in almost 600 diaing to do so, compared to 22% at the ing which identifies companies that are logues with companies in the investbeginning of the year. allegedly involved in breaches of interment portfolio to ensure that material On the financing side, sustainability is national law and norms on environmenESG risks were being adequately manbecoming an increasing part of discustal protection, human rights, labour aged, or ESG opportunities were being sions about future financing opportunistandards and anti-corruption. The fully harnessed. These companies ties with both corporate and institutionscreening also identifies companies that include some of our largest holdings as al customers as well as with our houseare subject to exclusion based on our well as companies identified for our hold customers. In 2019, we have been exclusion criteria. This means that 100% sustainability-enhanced funds. working to expand our different offers. of AuM1 is subject to negative ESG We now offer both green bonds and screening. Our exclusion list is updated Managing ESG risks in sustainability bonds. We issued our own on a regular basis and can be found at relation to our customers second green bond in 2019 and we also nordea.com. Nordea regularly performs ESG risk serve as an intermediary between our Active ownership is our main way of analysis on large corporate customers customers (the issuers) and investors, communicating with the companies we to manage ESG-related risks and by helping them to issue, or invest in, invest in. We exercise our right to influopportunities. For these customers we green or sustainability bonds through ence companies through attending or have a dedicated team of ESG analysts the capital markets. We have extended voting at shareholders' general meetwho use a specific ESG tool and meththe availability of green loans to corpoodology to analyse the corporations. rate customers in all our four Nordic Large customers with high ESG risk are countries and we now also offer susescalated to our Executive Credit Comtainability-linked loans. The green mortmittee, which is chaired by the Head of gages that were made available to our Group Credit Risk Management. DeciSwedish household customers in 2018 sions taken in the Executive Credit were extended to Finland and Norway Committee are reported to the Board. in 2019. To satisfy growing demand for We are currently looking into how we sustainable car financing options, can enhance the integration of ESG in Nordea launched green car loans and relation to our small and medium-sized green car leasing on the Swedish and corporate customers. For these clients, Danish markets in 2019. The green environmental and in some cases also option is offered to both private and social and political aspects are currently corporate customers. considered in credit decisions, where Data regarding our sustainable prodrelevant. ESG questions are integrated ucts is presented in detail on page 37 in into the standard escalation process, as sustainability note S6. Bringing climate into our set forth in our credit risk framework. customers' wallets Credit decisions are handled on a case Sustainability governance In December, Nordea launched a by case basis by local management but facilitating decision-making CO2 tracker, embedded in our digcan, according to our escalation proAt Board level, the Board Operations ital banking service Nordea Walcess, be elevated to the Business Bankand Sustainability Committee assist the let. The CO2 tracker, which is ing Business Risk Forum, Business Board in fulfilling its oversight responsideveloped in collaboration with Banking Business Ethics and Values bilities concerning sustainability, operaÅland Index Solutions, enables Committee and finally also to the Busitions/systems and operational resilience our customers to see the approxiness Ethics and Values Committee at including cyber resilience, as well as mate CO2 impact from their daily Group level for a recommendation on related frameworks and processes. Our purchases and consumption how to handle a potential ESG risk. governance structure encompasses a behaviour when using payment monitoring function chaired by the CEO cards. The calculation is based on Sustainable products and offering – the Business Ethics and Values Comcard usage divided into a number As a leading bank, we want to direct mittee – that reviews relevant Group of merchant categories such as: capital at companies with a sustainable Internal Rules as well as participation in car/transport, holiday/travel, business model and the ability to conand exit from commitments to sustainrestaurants, shopping and duct their business responsibly. ability and/or approves external posigroceries. On the investment side, we offer our tion statements and sector guidelines. Sustainable Selection including, for This governance structure allows the 1) AuM for Asset Management in Asset & Wealth Management. Nordea Sustainability Report 2019 This is Nordea 11 Sustainable products USD 3.9bn in 2019 in apportioned deal value for green bonds In 2019, the number of green mortgages increased by 328% AuM for Sustainable Selection +87% in 2019 Loans and mortgages Green corporate loans are used to finance specific investments with environmental benefits and give our corporate customers the opportunity to Sustainable Selection address climate change in their f­inancing. In our green loans the entire chain of the financing is green, i.e. Nordea uses Sustainable Selection is a label for sustainable market funding, where Nordea´s most sustainable investment proceeds are earmarked for green lending. products, for example the Stars Funds and the Global Climate and Environment Sustainability-linked loans can be Fund in which customers obtain wellany type of loan instrument and the diversified portfolios with an extra layer of main characteristic is that sustainability sustainability on top of the sustainability performance is included in the loan threshold applied to all our funds. documentation with clear annual targets Our Stars Funds are a set of funds with Sustainable bonds that the borrower must meet. proactively selected companies with Green car loans for household customers well-managed ESG profiles. The selection Sustainability bonds combine both green and green car leasing for corporate is made through a combination of ESG and social commitments to society. Net customers are offered for financing cars analysis, company dialogues, thematic proceeds are used for both environmental that run 100% on electricity. research, engagement and field trips. and social projects and considerations in accordance with the Social Bond Green mortgages is a product for The Global Climate and Environment Principles and Green Bond Principles as customers who reside in climate-smart Fund invests in companies which, through issued by ICMA. homes that fulfil criteria relating to energy their climate solutions, are changing classification of buildings in the countries the world for the better. It focuses In a green bond, the money is earmarked in which these mortgages are available. on businesses operating in resource for green purposes such as renewable The green mortgages are aligned with the efficiency, environmental protection and energy, green buildings and clean European initiative’s definition for Energy alternative energy. transportation. Efficient Mortgages (EEM). Nordea Sustainability Report 2019 This is Nordea 12 Board, relevant management commitsible for creating a common internal tion Office (GDPO), a new department, tees and senior management to intecontrol framework that ensures complithe Data Privacy Centre of Excellence, grate climate-related risks and opportuance with applicable laws, regulations, was established in early 2019 with the nities and other sustainability issues standards, supervisory requirements purpose of providing operational firstinto decision-making and business proand related internal rules, as well as line support in all matters related to the cesses. Each business area and group providing training, advice, monitoring General Data Protection Regulation function is represented in the Sustainand ensuring compliance matters are (GDPR). This has enabled the GDPO to ability Committee. The committee preadequately communicated and adhered increase focus on a number of strategic pares sustainability issues related to to by management. In addition, Group and policy-related issues and to work policies, guidelines and strategy, which Compliance is responsible for promotcontinuously on strengthening the the business areas and group functions ing a solid risk and compliance culture. framework that ensures data privacy are then responsible for implementing We believe that compliance concerns besides the existing mandatory tasks. in the business. everyone at Nordea and it is viewed as Incidents that may include a personal an integral part of Nordea´s business data breach are reported to the GDPO Managing risks to keep Nordea activities. for individual assessment. If a personal and our customers safe data breach is identified and considered Nordea´s risk management framework Preventing financial crime likely to cause a risk to the affected indifocuses on managing risks in line with to protect society vidual, the breach will be reported to our risk appetite and has defined clear Nordea is committed to complying with Nordea´s supervisory authority, the risk, liquidity and capital management applicable laws and regulations conoffice of the Finnish Data Protection frameworks. In the current dynamic cerning anti-money laundering, counter Ombudsman as well as to the local data environment with increasing regulatory terrorist financing, sanctions and bribprotection authority in order to ensure requirements, changing customer ery and corruption in the jurisdictions in transparency, and to the data subjects behaviour, new competitors and new which we operate, and to prevent in accordance with GDPR. technologies, Nordea continuously Nordea from being used for any illegal develops its risk management frameactivity. Financial authorities across our Responding to an evolving work, ensuring that material risks are jurisdictions are naturally interested in landscape of cyber threats captured. Nordea´s efforts to combat financial Nordea, like any other bank, is introducIn 2019, we continued our efforts initicrime and Nordea has an open and ing new technologies and exploring new ated in 2018 to embed sustainability risk active dialogue with its regulators. ways of doing business and connecting assessment into Nordea´s regular risk Each year, approximately two billion with customers. This enlarges the bank’s management. This includes refining the transactions pass through Nordea. To attack surface. At the same time, entities definitions of ESG risk within Nordea´s handle this volume, we have strengththat pose cyber threats are becoming Risk Taxonomy which forms the basis of ened our transaction monitoring capabetter organised, resourced and experirisk management activities as well as bilities over the last few years through enced. Adding to this is the asymmetry defining clear ESG risk-controlling activiinvestment in technology, more sophisof banks having to protect all assets ties. Several Industry Credit Policies were ticated assessment techniques and appropriately, while entities engaged in developed in 2019 with dedicated secadditional employees. In total, we now cyber threats merely need to find one tions on ESG risks and mitigation, as part have more than 1,500 employees workweak spot. This poses an unprecedented of the credit risk framework. The Board ing with financial crime prevention, and risk to the banking industry. also approved an ESG Risk Appetite 12,000 employees in direct contact with Nordea is not just focusing on the Statement during the year. our customers are trained to identify adequacy of the basics of information In 2020, we will continue to enhance signs of financial crime. Our established security controls, but also enhancing our risk assessment principles and monipolicies are updated each year, and all cyber capabilities with security detectoring activities for sustainability risk in our employees must undergo mandatotion and response defences. We are line with developments in the regulatory ry financial crime risk training on a reginvesting in our cyber defence with new landscape. ular basis. The latest training was tools and functions, and we continue to assigned to all employees in December focus on ensuring that our basic conIntegrating compliance into 2019, with the completion date in March trols are operating effectively. Innovaour business activities 2020. tive security practices are developed to We strive to ensure that Nordea is seen Money laundering is a serious issue encompass new business demands as a safe and trusted bank that operates for society, and increased cooperation such as robust mobile banking applicawith the highest ethical standards. between banks and authorities is needtions and proactive customer support Group Compliance is a guardian of ed to combat it. In 2019, Nordea was for fraud detection and prevention. Nordea´s licence, reputation and trust one of the founding banks of an autonand helps Nordea to be a good citizen omous joint venture company, KYC Utiliby making sure compliance risks are ty, that will initially offer KYC services to addressed as a natural element of our the market concerning large and mediWeb links business. um-sized companies based in the NorBeing compliant means conducting dic region. The commercial launch of Tax Policy business in accordance with applicable the company is expected to take place Code of Conduct laws, regulations, standards, supervisoin 2020. ry requirements and related internal Voting Portal rules and respecting the principles of Strengthening frameworks Sustainability Policy integrity and fair dealing at all times. to ensure data privacy Tax Policy on Customer Advice Compliance starts at the top and must Data Privacy remains a natural part of be embedded in the culture of an Nordea´s business and operations and Responsible Investment Policy organisation. an important part of Nordea´s digital Green Bond Report 2019 Group Compliance is the indepenstrategy. Following the 2017 establishExclusion List dent function at Nordea that is responment of Nordea´s Group Data ProtecNordea Sustainability Report 2019 This is Nordea 13 Nordea´s Sustainability Governance Board of Directors Decides on Code of Conduct and Sustainability Policy and approves Non-Financial Statement Board Operations and Sustainability Committee Assists the Board in its oversight concerning sustainability Group Leadership Team (GLT) CEO decides on strategic sustainability direction and focus areas including plans, targets and performance indicators Business Ethics and Values Committee (BEVC) Monitoring function that reviews relevant Group Internal Rules and participation in/exit from external sustainability commitments and/or approves external position statements and sector guidelines Sustainability Committee Business Areas and Group Functions Operational sub-committee to the BEVC which prepares Responsible for implementing sustainability policies, sustainability issues related to policies and strategy products and related risk management processes Group Sustainable Finance Sets strategic sustainability direction and focus areas and supports business areas and group functions in implementation Nordea Sustainability Report 2019 Taking climate action 14 Taking climate action Nordea recognises that the climate emergency will pose risks as well as present opportunities for our customers and our business – both indirectly through our stakeholders’ activities, and directly through our operations. In order to align our business with the Lending to more carbon-intensive necessary energy transition. We also Paris Agreement and finance a low-carindustries’ such as Paper, forest and published sector guidelines for the real bon, climate-resilient economy, we must mining, Oil, gas and offshore and Mariestate and forestry industries. Our ambiimplement climate action in our busitime (shipping) account for 9% of tion is to develop sector guidelines for ness and consider the risks associated Nordea´s total corporate loans1. Furtherother relevant industries in 2020. Furwith climate change. Nordea´s Position more, approximately half of our lending thermore, we have started working on Statement on Climate Change sets out portfolio is in real estate assets, an how to measure physical risks in relathe scope and principles of Nordea´s industry associated with high energy tion to our real estate portfolio in Norwork on climate change. consumption and physical risks such as way, looking into data providers and flooding and rising sea levels. For the methodologies to assess climate risks Climate matters to Nordea investment portfolio, we have calculatand their impact. This work was initiatAs a large financial institution, Nordea is ed our exposure to three carbon-intened in 2019 and will continue in 2020. expected by stakeholders to act on our sive industries – Utilities, Energy and In the coming years, we will continue exposure to companies and sectors Materials – for equities and corporate to enhance our climate risk managebeing affected by physical risks and/or bonds. The exposure for our equities ment efforts, such as further embedding transition risks from existing and ranges from 2.7% to 3.3%, which is climate considerations into credit proupcoming regulations. lower than the benchmark2 for all three cesses, developing further scenarios to sectors and especially for Energy, where assess the vulnerability of Nordea´s our exposure is 2.8% compared to 5.3% loan portfolio to both transition and for the benchmark. The exposure for physical risk and assessing how investcorporate bonds is 3.1% for Utilities, ments and products can be developed 2.2% for Energy and 1.8% for Materials. to align with the Paris Agreement. Our strategic response Committed to addressing to climate risks climate risk At Nordea, we take several measures to In addition to joining the Collective identify, manage and mitigate climate Commitment to Climate Action in 2019, risks. We support the recommendations we also became a signatory to the from the TCFD, which gives us a framePoseidon Principles with the purpose of work to use when implementing climate playing an active role in promoting a Quarantining Brazilian risk in governance, strategy and risk responsible and cleaner shipping indusgovernment bonds in management and when developing reltry and raising awareness. response to Amazon fires evant targets and metrics. In 2019, Nordea Life & Pension (NLP) In August, Nordea Asset ManageIn 2019, climate risk was added to became a founding member of the ment's Emerging Market Debt Nordea´s Risk Taxonomy as a sub-risk UN-convened Net-Zero Asset Owner (EMD) team put Brazilian governcate­gory to ESG risk. Climate risk is Alliance, committing to transitioning ment bonds in quarantine in mainly managed through policies/strattheir investment portfolios to net-zero response to the Amazon fire crisis. egies, frameworks, processes and emissions by 2050 at the latest. Focus All investments of Nordea´s EMD through focus area deep-dives and scewill be on continuing with the work team undergo both a quantitative nario analysis as well as through already initiated to develop tools and a and qualitative ESG assessment engagement and shifting assets to framework for measuring 1.5°C alignwhich, even before the fire crisis, greener products. We are currently ment, developing investment strategies identified several environmental focusing our climate-related work on to meet the commitment and driving risks, flagging drivers of significarbon-intensive industries as well as joint engagement efforts at company, cant deforestation and expected on energy-consuming sectors. sector and policy level. weakening of environmental proIn 2019, we published sector guideJoint engagement efforts are also a tection. As a result, no purchases lines for the fossil fuels industry, setting priority for Nordea Asset Management have been made since August. out that we expect customers and (NAM) and conducted through for Since progress has only been very investee companies in the fossil fuels instance Climate Action 100+. The inveslimited, the quarantine decision industry to commit to fulfilling the tor engagement initiative has led to a still stands. objectives in the Paris Agreement and range of breakthrough net zero emisinvest in, as well as work towards, the sion commitments now in place and 1) With reference to total corporate loans in note G2. Risk and Liquidity management on page 104 in Nordea Annual Report 2019.. 2) MSCI All Country World Index. Nordea Sustainability Report 2019 Taking climate action 15 Climate impact Less air travel by Nordea employees to internal meetings in 2019 helped reduce CO2e emissions from air travel by In 2019 11% Nordea Global Climate and Environment Fund was awarded as one of the year’s best funds by the Swedish magazine Privata Affärer In 2019, NLP reallocated SEK 25bn to more sustainable investments, reducing carbon emissions from those investments by 46% 1,273,795 tonnes CO2e in annual emissions avoided through our green lending portfolio The transition from paper to digital in our client communication saved 4,028 trees and reduced CO2e emissions by 1,000 tonnes in 2019 Nordea Sustainability Report 2019 Taking climate action 16 significant progress across a range of therefore, through NLP, Nordea has change that we address with various industries, many of which are among been a part of a pilot to develop tools measures. Although Nordea is not a the most challenging to decarbonise. and frameworks for financial institutions large water user, we nevertheless meaFor more information about our parto set science-based targets aligned sure our water consumption and take ticipation in commitments and initiawith the 1.5°C target. A model for NLP’s actions to avoid overuse, such as coltives, see sustainability note S4. on page real estate portfolio was finalised with lecting rainwater for flushing our toilets 35–36. support from the International Energy at our Copenhagen headoffice. In 2019, Agency’s data, and similar models for our total water consumption was Participating in pilots with peers other asset classes and sectors will be 155,150 cubic metres. Together with 2° Investing Initiative, developed in 2020. For details about our carbon emisNordea piloted climate scenario analysions and a description of the boundary, sis methodology, focusing on the Climate impact from our scope and calculation methods, see upstream oil and gas, power generation internal operations page 38 in sustainability note S6. and shipping sectors in 2019. The pilot Even though our materiality analysis allowed us to study the climate profile shows that our greatest sustainability A more sustainable workplace of our lending portfolio and compare impact is indirect, we also have to work with #thinkgreen that to 2°C benchmarks as set by the with reducing the impact from our We aim to increase awareness among International Energy Agency’s Sustaininternal operations in which we apply our employees on how to tackle climate able Development Scenario. These the precautionary principle. A shortchange. We hope and believe that, by efforts are continuing in 2020 in the term sustainability goal for 2018 was to taking visible measures internally at UNEP FI TCFD Phase 2 Banking Pilot. identify a baseline for climate change Nordea, we can inspire our employees Already in 2018, NAM joined the and a carbon footprint for our internal to reduce their own carbon footprint UNEP FI pilot to address the need for operations was finalised in early 2019. It and pass on their knowledge to customanalytical tools and indicators to better will be regularly reviewed with regards ers, family and friends – creating a chain understand climate risks and opportunito scope to ensure that we account for of change for a sustainable future. ties in investments. In 2019, NAM develthe material carbon emissions we cause We focus on attainable steps towards oped a Climate Change Strategy for the in our internal operations. a more sustainable workplace using investment portfolio. Implementation of Because we are a Nordic bank with #thinkgreen as an umbrella. #thinkthe strategy has led to a reduced coal colleagues spread out across different green brings together sustainability inithreshold and exclusion of oil sand and locations, business travel is our greatest tiatives linked to the workplace that the initiation of several engagements to direct climate impact, with a share of employees can do in their daily working call for climate ambition and reporting 63% of our total carbon emissions in life. To turn focus towards carbon emisin accordance with the TCFD recom2019. We had the ambition in 2019 to sions from different types of food, we mendations. investigate the possibility of introducing have introduced a couple of different As a financial institution, Nordea has an internal carbon fee on business travmeat-free initiatives in the canteens at not yet been able to set ­scienceel as a means to reduce corresponding our headoffices. Other initiatives in 2019 based targets to lower our emissions emissions, but will take other measures include reducing use of single-use plasdue to absence of established market to reduce business travel going forward. tic, plates and cutlery, aimed at comnorms on how to include investments In 2019 we set a target to reduce air pletely phasing it out, and we replaced and financing in such targets. In 2019 travel for internal meetings with 7%. We bottled water dispensers with tapped managed to achieve a 7.15% reduction water filters and also campaigned for during the year. In 2020 we will continre-using coffee cups. In 2015 we started ue to reduce air travel for internal meetThe Paperless Banking Programme with ings and aim for a 30% reduction comthe aim of replacing physical communipared to 2019. cation with digital solutions to electroniAnother contributor to our carbon cally sign and archive documents. Fewer emissions is our energy consumption. trees are needed for producing paper The majority of our large Nordic offices and envelopes, and transporting letters are LEED or BREAM certified and in by road and air is significantly reduced. 2019 we closed down a few more that In 2019, the transition from paper to digGenerating our own solar are not state of the art which led to a ital saved 4,028 trees, reduced carbon energy decrease in our total energy consumpemissions by 1,000 tonnes and saved We are continuously on the looktion with 13% compared to 2018. How176 million litres of water. out for alternative and more enviever, due to our strategy to become ronmentally friendly ways to more digital, we see energy consumpcover our energy need. Nordea´s tion increasing in the data centres. We headoffice in Copenhagen was are therefore taking various energy effiWeb links therefore, from the beginning, ciency measures such as ensuring our designed to have the roof and servers are up to date and energy-effiseveral skylight windows fitted cient to manage this. Position Statement with solar panels. Furthermore, To reduce carbon emissions generaton Climate Change this year we have fitted 368 solar ed by our internal operations, we purSector guideline for the panels on the roof of one of our chase 100% renewable electricity Fossil Fuels Industry buildings at our Finnish headthrough Guarantees of Origin equal to Sector guideline for the quarter in Helsinki. This particular our electricity consumption in Denmark, Real Estate Industry section of the premises was choFinland, Norway, Sweden, Poland and Sector guideline for the sen due to its optimal exposure to Estonia. For the remaining unavoidable Forestry Industry the sun. emissions, we buy carbon offsets. Water is another aspect of climate Nordea Sustainability Report 2019 Taking climate action 17 Carbon emissions from our internal operations Total CO2e emissions: 39,406 tonnes CO2e emission intensity: 4.56 tonnes/EURm of total operating income Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 (Direct) (Indirect) (Other indirect) Emissions from diesel generators Emissions from electricity, district Emissions from business travel, and leasing cars: heating and district cooling: fuel-and energy-related activities, 1,638 5,394 postal services, paper and water: tonnes CO2e tonnes CO2e 32,374 tonnes CO2e Nordea Sustainability Report 2019 Embedding human rights 18 Embedding human rights At Nordea, we work systematically to embed human rights throughout our value chain, covering suppliers, our internal operations, customers and investee companies, and to strengthen our due diligence processes. Human rights are included in our Code identified adverse human rights violaChildren’s rights of Conduct, Sustainability Policy, tions, it might affect a company's risk Addressing children’s rights is part of Responsible Investment Policy, Supplier score in credit memorandums. our focus on human rights. To fortify our Code of Conduct and in our Sector human rights approach, in 2019 we Guidelines as relevant for specific Assessing our internal operations asked Save the Children to perform an industries. In 2019, we conducted an independent assessment on how Nordea could human rights assessment, based on the address the Children’s Rights Business Human rights due diligence in Corporate Human Rights Benchmark Principles in our operations. The assessinvestments and financing (CHRB) methodology. The assessment ment result will be looked into in 2020 Our investment and financing decicovered our internal operations and to identify any actions needed. sion-making processes include assessvalue chain and included our goverIn 2019, Nordea was also involved in ing companies’ risk exposure, risk mannance and policy commitments, human the Financial Coalition against Commeragement and performance related to rights risk and impact management, cial Sexual Exploitation of Children – a environmental, social and governance and remedies and grievance mechacollaboration between Swedish banks, issues, including human and labour nisms. The assessment also included other financial companies in Sweden, rights. We also investigate whether country risk profiles of all the countries the Swedish Bankers’ Association, companies have been involved in conin which Nordea is established. For ECPAT Sweden and other relevant troversies, and the actions they have details about our human rights assessparticipants. taken to mitigate and rectify the potenment, see page 39 in sustainability note tial impacts of such controversies. S6. Raising internal and external Human rights form a focus area for The assessment identified the need awareness about human rights our active ownership and engagement to further develop our due diligence To ensure adequate awareness and activities, and we have a number of processes for all parts of our value chain knowledge of our ethical principles engagements that address human rights and also the need for alignment of our including human rights, all Nordea issues. All Nordea funds are subject to policies and statements covering employees are required to complete norm-based screening, which identifies human rights. We already work to annual Code of Conduct training as part companies that are allegedly involved in embed human rights into the organisaof their Licence to Work. breaches of international law and norms tion and to strengthen our due diligence For both internal and external stakeon environmental protection, human processes, and the assessment hence holders, Nordea´s whistleblowing funcrights, labour standards and anti-corrupconfirms that we are focusing on the tion RYC can be used to report suspecttion. The screening also identifies comright things. ed breaches of human rights in our panies that are subject to exclusion operations, products or services. In based on our exclusion criteria. As per Addressing human rights 2019, no cases concerning human rights September 2019, we have 11 companies in our supply chain issues were reported through WhistleB. on our exclusion list due to violation of Nordea´s Supplier Code of Conduct outhuman rights-related norms including lines the expectations we have on our norms violation of the rights of indigesuppliers and is aligned with the nous people. The complete exclusion list Nordea Code of Conduct and the UN Web links can be found at nordea.com. Global Compact (UNGC). To be able to ESG is one parameter in our risk evaltake proper action, we plan to conduct Code of Conduct uation in the credit decision-making a targeted human rights risk assessSustainability Policy process for a customer. As part of these ment of our supply chain in 2020 drawevaluations, we analyse and assess ing on conclusions from the overall Responsible Investment Policy companies’ risk exposure, risk managehuman rights assessment of the Nordea Supplier Code of Conduct ment and performance related to Group conducted in 2019 (for more Exclusion List human and labour rights. If we have details, see page 20). Nordea Sustainability Report 2019 Embedding human rights 19 Investors coming together to improve human rights Since 2016, Nordea has helped fund nies after the first benchmark in 2017. During the proxy season 2019, a the CHRB and has a seat on the AdviThe coalition is now following up on number of shareholder resolutions on sory Council which governs the the 2018 and 2019 assessment human rights issues referred to organisation. In the last four years, results. The CHRB results are inteCHRB’s scoring. In 2020, the Automothe CHRB has established itself as an grated into Nordea´s ESG analysis bile manufacturing sector will be internationally recognised standard and ownership activities where releadded to the benchmark and in the on business and human rights by vant, and annual CHRB assessments same year CHRB will work with the companies, investors, governments enable tracking progress on investee World Benchmarking Alliance (WBA) and other stakeholders. companies’ performance in terms of to scope an approach to assessing In 2019, the benchmark measured human rights. the finance sector. 200 of the world’s largest listed companies from the Agricultural Products, “In the last two years, a majority of companies have engaged Apparel, Extractives industries and Information Communication and Techwith CHRB and its investor coalition, including Nordea. nology (ICT) manufacturing sectors. In 2018 and 2019, CHRB has observed steady improvements Investors are increasingly demandin scores. This is a positive movement and should filter down ing a greater focus on human rights. At Nordea, we work with peers to into improved company actions in operations and supply drive change based on the CHRB chains. We also see that CHRB’s findings are supported by assessment results. An investor coalithird parties, which are using CHRB methodologies tion with CHRB investors Nordea, APG Asset Management and Aviva, to conduct national-level company human rights together with 85 other asset managassessments that feed into the narrative of improving ers with more than USD 5.3tn in AuM, national action plans in EU countries.” communicated their expectations on human rights to all assessed compaDan Neale, ­Programme Director, CHRB Nordea Sustainability Report 2019 Responsible supply chain 20 Responsible supply chain It is becoming increasingly important to manage sustainability risks, harness opportunities and mutually engage with stakeholders across the business to strengthen a company’s position on sustainability. In 2019, Nordea spent EUR 2.529bn on focusing on our merchandise supplier sustainability. In 2019, climate action external suppliers. We have 1,535 conas well as on our IT service suppliers in together with human and labour rights, tracted suppliers, primarily in the areas India. The outcome of the reviews were were selected as two strategic focus of IT, HR, Premises and Real Estate, that none of the suppliers were in areas for sustainable procurement. In Cards, Market Data, Travel, Marketing breach of our Supplier Code of Conduct. both areas, we have introduced explicit and Representation, Printing, ATM and However, all suppliers were given reccommitments and we will focus our Cash Handling, Telecom, and Debt colommended actions for improvements. efforts where they have the greatest lection. Details about our supply chain impact. and supplier-related data are provided Integrating sustainability We acknowledge that modern slavon page 39 in sustainability note S6. into the tendering process ery and conflict minerals may pose the In 2019 we worked on how to formalise largest risks in our supply chain. These Supplier engagement is the integration of sustainability into the are risks we intend to dig deeper into in essential to advancing tendering process, seeking to reward 2020. Nordea will under no circumsustainability performance sustainable suppliers, and enabling stances accept such violations in any We apply a risk-based approach to our informed decision-making. This work tiers of our business, and we continusupply chain. We focus our efforts will continue in 2020. Examples on the ously work to improve our processes for where they have the greatest impact, practical implementation of this was the investigating potential violations. Drawrecognising that supplier segmentation TCO-certified1 requirement, which was ing on conclusions from the overall is an ongoing process and continuing included in a laptop tender in 2019. In human rights assessment of Nordea the work we initiated in 2018. All potenan IT accessory tender, suppliers were Group that was performed in 2019, in tial suppliers are pre-screened before evaluated on the extent to which circu2020 we will conduct a human rights contracting on a number of parameters lar economy principles (durability, impact assessment of high-risk areas, such as country risk, sector risk, reputarepairability and reusability) had been understanding them from the angle of tional risk as well as for compliance considered in the design and producimpacted rights-holders such as workwith sanctions. Based on the tion of the products supplied, as well as ers in the supply chain. We want to pre-screening, all high-risk suppliers are the suppliers’ recycling capability. In determine measures to address any assessed using a sustainability quesmany cases, these questions are new to adverse human rights impacts identitionnaire, which then determines the suppliers, so we recognise that this fied, and facilitate dialogue between whether additional engagement is is a journey that requires efforts on both relevant parties. Finally, we also intend required. This engagement can result in sides. Most procurement categories to establish partnerships between mitigating actions, on which follow-up now also have a sustainability assessNordea and other stakeholders to is performed, or even disqualification. ment of the area concerned, addressing address human rights impacts. In 2019, we matured our approach to opportunities and risks for the industry engaging with suppliers when we have in question. identified potential risks, or when a supWeb links plier objects to signing the Nordea SupStrategic sustainability focus areas plier Code of Conduct. In addition to the Procurement is about balancing someSupplier Code of Conduct engagements, we conducted three times contradictory objectives within in-depth sustainability reviews in 2019, topical areas like quality, risk, price and 1) TCO is the world’s most comprehensive sustainability certification for IT products. Nordea Sustainability Report 2019 Responsible supply chain 21 Multi-stakeholder engagement to drive change IT is one of the core areas of the ASF initiative, we seek to accelerfor actions from the industry to stanNordea´s supply chain, with a 32% ate sustainability efforts in the IT dardise components and materials, share of total spend. It represents industry. increase transparency through prodboth significant opportunities, but On an annual basis, the ASF Adviuct labelling on climate footprint, level also poses great challenges in areas sory Board provides recommendaof repairability, lifetime expectancy like potential human rights and tions to the Responsible Business and finally for RBA labour rights violations, as well as Alliance (RBA), the world’s largest to lobby for political action supporting prevalent environmental issues industry coalition dedicated to supply the transition to a circular economy. throughout the product lifecycle, chain sustainability. The coalition From Nordea´s perspective, the from extraction of finite resources to consists of more than 145 member engagement in the initiative has led waste handling. These are challenges companies related to the IT and electo many discussions of principle faced by Nordea, and we have a tronics industry with collective annuinternally as well as externally. It is responsibility in terms of helping to al revenue of around USD 5.5tn, and evident that the IT industry needs to address them. representing over six million workers transition to a circular model to There are however limits to how in the supply chain. achieve climate neutrality by 2050. much a single company can influence In 2019, the ASF Advisory Board As a responsible buyer, however, the an industry. Nordea believes that, recommendation to the RBA was to next task for us is to formalise how through collective engagement with develop and implement a 2050 cliwe can support this transition and other visionary companies, we can mate-neutral and competitive busidrive real impact already in the tenestablish a shared understanding of ness roadmap for the transition to a dering process and through our conthe magnitude of the challenges and circular economy. To support this trantinuing engagement in the ASF thus help attain systemic change. It is sition, the recommendation also calls initiative. a case of transitioning from a linear to a circular business model, which is “The really interesting aspect in European sustainability essential for future-proofing the IT industry. efforts is that it’s customers who are behind this – Atea Sustainability Focus (ASF) is progressive banks, committed retailers and public buyers. an initiative with the purpose of proThey are positioned in a way that enables them to drive viding a multi-stakeholder platform for Nordic procurement organisations immediate change – especially buyers from the Nordic and the global IT industry to engage market, as they are willing to push the envelope much on how to achieve more sustainable further. As they take the lead, it’s easier for others to follow.” operations. Through Nordea´s representation on the Advisory Board of Deborah Albers, Vice President, RBA Nordea Sustainability Report 2019 People performance 22 People performance Our business is a people business and, in our changing industry, we encourage our people to take ownership, grow and develop. Nordea has built a cultural foundation pared to 68% in 2018. We experienced customer-facing skills, agile project with defined purposes and values, and improved satisfaction in many areas management, design thinking, marketthe organisation has been delayered and 82% of our people feel valued as ing, leadership, finance and accounting, and integrated agile ways of working. employees. One of the main shared pain to artificial intelligence (AI), data modThis has led to faster communication points identified is processes and tools elling and sales. and decision-making, more collaborato support daily work. We continue to tion and common solutions. However, to take concrete actions to improve these Resource planning to take Nordea to the next level, we need conditions by for instance improving the meet future needs to make changes with a focus on perstability of our IT systems and lowering To meet future needs we need to plan formance, execution and accountability IT service desk waiting time. our resources carefully. We will become providing additional opportunities for Working actively to facilitate a positive more efficient, adapting to the current employees to take ownership, grow and work environment, we encourage our and future environment to continue to develop. people to be physically active and take offer exceptional customer experiences. care of their health. Absence due to illThis includes developing simpler and Engaged employees lead ness is monitored quarterly at group faster digital channels, prioritising activto satisfied customers level. The sick leave ratio (3.49%) shows ities to meet our business requirements In 2019, we focused on reinforcing the an overall decreasing trend during the or transferring certain activities to relationship between engaged people past three years. The People Pulse survey Poland or Estonia. This could lead to and satisfied customers. We recognise shows that 91% of our people feel they certain jobs changing, relocating or that engagement enables performance are always or often in good shape to becoming redundant. and drives the business momentum carry out their work. Through constructive discussions and needed to achieve our strategic vision. We recognise that leaders have the collaboration with our unions, we will We want to build winning and largest impact on employees’ perforplay a key role in securing the right strahigh-competence teams, who are pasmance, well-being and day-to-day tegic approach for engaging our people sionate about customer experiences engagement. Therefore, we encourage during times of change while respecting and aware of and understand local leaders to be accessible and visible to labour market conditions. We are comneeds, but also fully benefit from our their employees and to engage in diamitted to treating our people with cross-border knowledge. logues within and across teams. Leaders respect and care and we aim to help We encourage both personal and manage their employees in a differentiatthem develop skills to find new job team dialogues to help us improve the ed way to ensure everyone has the opportunities inside and outside engagement and well-being of our peoopportunity to perform and grow. Nordea. ple. In the performance and learning diaWe continuously monitor the People In 2019, we started to build upon logue that all employees have with their Pulse survey for signs of changing trends existing initiatives aimed at the people leader, our purpose and values – collaboto be able to take swift action. whose jobs might be affected by ration, ownership, passion and courage change in the years to come. We are for – form the starting point for discussions Developing competencies instance improving internal job matchon how our employees can contribute, We are committed to ensuring longing processes with a clear focus on grow and enjoy. The employee survey, term and sustainable employability of rehiring internally and expanding learnPeople Pulse, helps us to measure our people. We give our employees the ing offerings to support competence engagement and well-being systematiopportunity to grow and become great development. cally, while at the same time providing at what they do. To achieve this, Nordea For data on employee turnover, colinsights into pain points in need of has partnered with Udemy for Business, lective bargaining agreements, employaddress. a world-renowned education provider, ment contracts and total workforce, see to ensure our people can acquire the page 40 in sustainability note S6. Measuring our people’s skills and capabilities they need to be engagement and well-being successful today and in the future. We The response rate to the People Pulse have access to more than 3,000 top-ratsurvey increased to 78% in 2019 comed online courses ranging from training Nordea Sustainability Report 2019 People performance 23 86% 82% 82% feel we often or feel valued as had a performance and always act according an employee. learning dialogue during to our values. Q31. 1) Included as a question only in the People Pulse survey in Q3 2019, compared to in both Q3 and Q4 2018. Nordea Sustainability Report 2019 Diversity and inclusion 24 Diversity and inclusion We recognise the ever-growing importance of diversity of backgrounds, experiences and personal qualities. By fostering an inclusive culture, we are committed to ensuring that everyone can bring their whole self to work. We aspire to mirror our diverse customraise awareness and counter potential our employees to be responsible for er base to deliver the best services and biases that might undermine a fair and treating others with dignity and respect innovative solutions. To ensure great equal hiring process. and to report all incidents of harasscustomer experiences and sustainable In 2019, we took part in Pride celement immediately so that they can be growth, we are constantly monitoring bration seminars, events and parades quickly and fairly resolved. and identifying the range of barriers to across the Nordics and Poland. Our Throughout 2019, we continued diversity and inclusion. Employee Resource Group (ERG) in working with team dialogues, which Poland created a “buddy programme” encourage all employees to have resoAccommodating a genderto support new employees with internalute conversations about how we treat balanced workforce tional backgrounds, and the Swedish each other at work. In 2019, 2% of the We are proud to have a balanced genERG partnered with Gör plats.se, to suprespondents to our People Pulse survey der representation across Nordea, conport internships and employment for stated that they have been subjected to sisting in 2019 of 51% women and 49% people with various ability variations. some sort of harassment or other malmen. Regrettably, we have not been All these activities show Nordea´s comtreatment. In 2019, we handled 28 able to achieve the same result across mitment to equality, human rights and harassment cases reported through all levels and business functions. Thereinclusion, and are a result of cross-funcRYC. This is a 15% decrease in the numfore, in 2020 we are developing gender tional collaboration. ber of reported harassment cases comequality targets and will create meapared to last year. surement processes that will allow us to Diversity and inclusion at the track progress in achieving a balanced heart of our daily operations Equal pay gender distribution per level and Nordea´s Diversity & Inclusion CommitNordea is committed to ensuring that function. tee aligns and defines the overall strateall employees are treated equally, The gender composition of managegic direction and key deliverables for including fair and un-biased remunerament did not change markedly in 2019; diversity and inclusion. In 2019, the tion decisions. 40% of all our leaders were women and Diversity & Inclusion Committee started In 2019, we worked closely with peo60% were men. To strive for greater to build an even stronger executive comple leaders who oversee delivering fair gender balance and to show our commitment to the diversity and inclusion and equal pay, for example by introducmitment, in 2019 we participated in the agenda, supported by internal activities ing clear guidelines for people leaders SHE Conference and partnered up with within local ERGs. Furthermore, a new focused on fair and equal pay and on the external network Female Invest, to chairperson was introduced. In 2020, the related legal requirements. This comemphasise the importance of closing Diversity & Inclusion Committee will munication to people leaders serves not the gender gap by promoting financial focus on creating a business case which only to create awareness of fair and gender equality. will be the foundation of our overall equal pay, but also of the risks of biased For details on gender balance at difdiversity and inclusion strategy. This will pay decisions. ferent levels in the organisation, page ensure that we translate our priorities An annual analysis is performed of 40 in sustainability note S6. into practice and embed diversity and all countries to facilitate discussions inclusion into Nordea´s culture. with people leaders and our unions on Diversity beyond gender potential equal pay gaps. Furthermore, Our ability to grow sustainably depends Treating each other with we are continuing the work initiated in on the people we employ, and we aim dignity and respect 2018 to develop a job framework to to attract talent regardless of gender, At Nordea we wish to provide a worksupport both the identification of comage, ethnicity, sexual orientation, reliplace that is free from discrimination, parable roles and our ongoing work on gion or any other aspects that are irreleand we have zero tolerance of any form market-informed fair and equal pay. vant to the job description. Therefore, in of harassment, victimisation or similar 2020, we will have recruitment policies violations in the workplace. By introducand training programmes in place that ing guidelines and policies, we expect Nordea Sustainability Report 2019 Diversity and inclusion 25 People highlights ERG´s focus areas Cross cultural LGBT+ Gender equality Ability variation Diversity Together, our 21% Total workforce employees speak 27% below 30 years old 49 different languages Total workforce 30–50 years old Total workforce 52% above 50 years old Gender balance 50% 50% 22% 78% 40% 60% 51% 49% Board of Directors GLT People leaders Total workforce (excl. employee representatives) Nordea Sustainability Report 2019 Community engagement 26 Community engagement Community engagement at Nordea is about creating positive change through employee volunteering. In around 20 volunteering programmes and partnerships, we focus on building financial skills and fostering entrepreneurship. This enables us to have a tangible impact in society through our core expertise. In the age of digitalisation, financial In Denmark several community other measures. The initiative is supexclusion is an increasing problem for engagement activities were piloted in ported by the Danish ministry of social many people. Building financial skills 2019. From small-scale initiatives helpaffairs and the Interior. and understanding available digital ing the most vulnerable groups in sociIn Poland, Nordea has a long-term tools increase financial literacy and ety like partnering with the organisation partnership with the Specialist Support inclusion and contribute to financial Stop Youth Unemployment, Now to Centre for Victims of Domestic Violence well-being in life and business. Improvlarge scale initiatives such as Money (SOWOP) in Lodz. Nordea employees ing financial skills in society is one of the Week targeting public schools all over volunteer to teach financial skills and pillars of our community engagement the country. banking knowledge with SOWOP’s resistrategy. Supporting entrepreneurship is In Norway focus has been on finandents. In the spring and autumn, special the second pillar, as entrepreneurs play cial education in schools in cooperation events were organised for the youngest an important role in society in terms of with Young Entrepreneurship. More residents of the centre, including leccreating growth, innovation and jobs. than 100 employees volunteered in the tures on how to save money. The centre The community engagement strategy activity Nordea i skolen. is financially supported by Nordea has a specific focus on social entrepreAll in all, more than 5,400 Nordea Branch Poland and the project unites all neurs whose primary purpose is to have employees spent almost 22,000 hours Nordea employees, regardless of age, an impact on society. on volunteering in 2019, compared to gender or position. 3,000 employees spending 18,900 hours Volunteering is a cornerstone in our in 2018. Entrepreneurship community engagement strategy We encourage entrepreneurship and Our community engagement strategy is Financial skills support start-ups, growth companies, built on volunteering, with all employIn all our four Nordic countries, we act scale-ups and organisations with a ees being encouraged to spend two in co-operation with partners and focus on young entrepreneurs and work days per year doing voluntary through our own programmes to help social innovation companies. work. Focusing our efforts in areas young people build a successful finanIn Norway, Nordea is main partner to where our employees have unique cial life for themselves. the TheFactory, which is a leading Norexpertise allows us to have greater The most established programme is dic Accelerator & Incubator for fintech impact. in Finland, where we are a partner to start-ups. Nordea employees can volunIn 2019, we increased our community the education initiative Me & MyCity. teer for mentoring the startups associatengagement efforts further. In Finland, Aimed at sixth-graders, it is a learning ed with TheFactory, and in 2019 we an ambitious target of a 50% participapackage consisting of ten teacher-led co-hosted an Oslo Innovation Week tion rate was set which we managed to lessons and a visit to a learning facility. event “Exploring the Digital Future” with exceed. In the first two weeks of OctoMe & MyCity is a miniature society of the participation of political leaders, ber we arranged ­Volunteer Super children and youths, in which Nordea is some of Norway’s foremost entrepreWeeks during which 1,000 employees the banking partner at three different neurs and world-class corporate leaders. did volunteering work. We also ran our locations and volunteers act as assistant In Sweden, Nordea is partner to first ever community engagement marinstructors to promote learning financial Norrsken Foundation, an organisation keting campaign with the theme “Don’t skills among children and youths. Me & with the purpose of finding and investlet money break you”. MyCity for ninth-graders is a world with ing in “impact companies” and, in the In Sweden, a long-term ambition of young people in charge. The skills learnt long run, creating impact unicorns. To delivering 10,000 hours of volunteering in the sixth grade are put into an envireach its goal, Norrsken launched per year was formulated to increase ronment in which the students are Impact Week during 16–19 September internal awareness and engagement. engaged in a two-hour game simulating 2019, a week focusing on start-ups We also launched a digital coaching the global economy. doing something good for the world. programme for seniors in cooperation In Denmark, Nordea partners with Nordea was one of the main partners with the Stockholm ­libraries, inspired by Finance Denmark to advice heavily for Demo Day during Impact Week and a programme we already run in Finland indebted citizens on structuring their announced two winners of the Nordea (see case on opposite page). debts through instalment plans and Ideas Award. Nordea Sustainability Report 2019 Community engagement 27 Digital guidance improves social inclusion Services provided in society are land over half of the volunteering activated the mobile bank and code becoming increasingly digitalised days were spent on digital guidance. app for the customer, who was also and the banking business is at the It is noteworthy that the participating interested in learning how to scan bar centre of this process. At Nordea, we volunteers came from nearly 40 difcodes to avoid keying in digits. He felt want to do our share to ensure that ferent business units, and many of he had received the help he needed, as many citizens as possible possess the volunteers were not directly and that the guidance went well. the skills to be digitally active. involved in customer contacts. Each Afterwards, Jaakko thought that he In 2019, Nordea provided over digital advisor underwent training had coped well with mobile services, 10,000 customers who are senior citibefore the digital guidance event. although the most convenient way for zens with guidance in the use of digiThe training content was compiled him to pay bills will still be on his PC, tal services. The number remained at by Nordea´s digital experts together with authentication using the code the same level as in 2018. Guidance with several different senior citizens’ app. The customer commented that in digital services was focused on organisations. “the code app was very handy,” and authentication for banking services Jaakko Ojala is one of our customthat he had recommended the app to and other public services. Digital ers who has received digital guidance his friends as well. guidance was provided at more than from Nordea. On this occasion, we 500 different locations, such as libraries, sheltered accommodation, local schools, as well as municipal and city “This year, thousands of Nordea employees, myself included, service points. have participated in events where digital guidance was In addition to the digital guidance provided. It’s great to see that a person who you have guided events organised by Nordea, the bank trains peer instructors of peneasily learned how to use our services and realised that the sioners’ associations across Finland. new solutions will make their life much easier. This is what These instructors are senior citizens who advice other seniors in the use Nordea´s digital guidance is all about.” of digital services. This year, in FinAri Kaperi, Country Senior Executive for Nordea in Finland Nordea Sustainability Report 2019 Embracing new technology 28 Embracing new technology Nordea has been a pioneer in exploring the use of new technology such as chatbots and software robotics, embracing new ways of thinking and applying technology to resolve business issues and reduce sustainability impact. Although still in the early stages, we are seeing results in terms of faster customer response times, reduced manual work and improved cost efficiency. With the emergence of new technolohowever, important considerations chains, virtual reality, quantum computgies like AI, machine learning, chatbots, come into play when data and algoing, etc.) will have unforeseeable implisoftware robotics and other cognitive rithms are used to make predictions and cations for most industries, including tools, we can solve problems in new decisions, for example. These considerfinancial institutions. ways and address sustainability issues ations need to be managed carefully For now, however, Nordea will consuch as financial crime. These digital and transformation will therefore take tinue on the road to becoming a more and data-driven tools have a positive some time before having any major data-driven and AI-powered bank in impact on customer experience and impact. order to add more value for our customofferings, as well as on internal cost effiers. We will continue to build solutions ciency. Also, at Nordea, we believe that, Increasing usage of AI and to strengthen areas such as customer in the current technology-focused era, it software robotics engagement, pricing, credit managehas never been more about the people In 2019, Nordea continued to explore ment, financial crime detection and – who can solve problems and use the new ways of solving problems and automation, and to lay the foundation tools where they add most value, and developing solutions to add value. One for technology infrastructure and tools who can envisage anew how a bank area where we have seen results is the as well as execute on our data strategy. can operate, and design accordingly. introduction of new powerful tools for We will also continue to ensure that we our employees. Examples of greater have strong governance and robust proApplying new technologies at productivity for employees include cuscesses for data management as well as scale does not happen overnight tomer feedback analysis and the invesfor sourcing, developing and maintainTremendous hype surrounds new techtigation of potential financial crime. We ing new applications. nology in general, including in the are also witnessing greater productivity The most important factor is that we banking sector. Expectations regarding in the area of underwriting or claims invest in our people by building awaremajor transformative changes in the handling, where we are about to ness and knowledge in the new techshort term are probably overestimated. improve on certain industry standards nology and understanding its implicaFor example, uncertainties regarding and shorten the lead time. We believe tions. Our employees will continue how AI and machine learning will be that, by empowering our employees make the change happen by working viewed in the light of GDPR and other and assisting them with the right techtogether internally and with the exteremerging regulations such as data prinology, they can spend more time on nal ecosystem. vacy and protection laws, as well as quality, high-value activities, like talking As the largest financial institution in access to talent and cultural transforto customers. In total, our robotic soluthe Nordics, it is important that we, as a mation, all come into play when buildtions handled 4.9 million cases in 2019, changemaker, collaborate with the reging an AI-powered bank. which is equal to work of 357 full-time ulators in matters related to ethics, Also, although building data-driven employees. compliance, interpretability, explainabilsolutions will clearly bring significant ity, transparency and data integrity. value, it needs to be done in a highly Continuing to build solutions Unlocking the value of new technology responsible and trustworthy manner. In that strengthen our business requires trust. some areas, change will happen faster In the long run, it is possible that AI (in because the risk is lower. In other areas, combination with cloud services, blockNordea Sustainability Report 2019 Embracing new technology 29 New technological solutions At Nordea, digital ­payment solutions – Apple Pay, GooIn 2019, our savings gle Pay and ­Samsung Pay robot Nora helped almost – support whichever choices 225,000 customers to start customers make. savings plans quickly and easily. Our fully digital trade finance solution, We Trade, was launched in mid-2019 and is available to all our small and medium-sized corporate customers, offering a secure venue for companies Chatbot Nova gives quick ­answers to quick in Europe to trade with other questions. In 2019, Nova held more than 1.8 European companies. million conversations with customers and resolved 650,000 of these without having to escalate to human agents. This gave shorter waiting times for customers and freed up time for our agents at customer contact centres. Nordea Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability notes 30 Sustainability notes 31 S1. About this report 32 S2. Stakeholder engagements 33 S3. Materiality analysis 35 S4. Participation in commitments and initiatives 36 S5. Association memberships 36 S6. Fact book 41 Principles for Responsible Banking Reporting Index 43 TCFD Disclosure Index 44 GRI Content Index 49 Glossary 50 Assurance Report Nordea Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability notes 31 S1. About this report Nordea reports on sustainability performance on an annual den. The acquisition is subject to customary regulatory approvbasis. Nordea´s Sustainability Report 2019 refers to the period als and is expected to close during the second half of 2020. 1 January to 31 December 2019, i.e. Nordea´s financial year. Neither of these three transactions will influence data presentThe previous report covered our 2018 financial year and was ed in this sustainability report as Gjensidige Bank, Luminor or published in February 2019. An independent third party, SG Finans AS will not be included in the 2019 report. PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy, has provided assurance on the sustainability information provided in this report. The scope Disclosure in relation to commitments and initiatives of the assured information is indicated in the Independent This sustainability report is our disclosure in relation to severPractitioner´s Assurance Report on page 50. al of the commitments and initiatives we participate in. • It is our Communication on Progress (COP) submission to Scope of the report the UNGC. See references to the UNGC Principles in the Similar to the financial statements, this report covers Nordea GRI Content Index on page 44–48 for references. Bank Abp. Data in the report has been gathered from all busi• The report partly covers the disclosures recommended by ness areas and group functions in our four Nordic countries, TCFD. See the TCFD Disclosure Index on page 43 for Poland and Estonia, unless otherwise stated. This is indicated references. in conjunction with presented data where we also present • This report is where we report on the implementation of restatements. the Principles for Responsible Banking. See the Principles In July 2018, Nordea entered into an agreement to acquire for Responsible Banking Reporting Index on page 41–42 all shares in Gjensidige Bank. The acquisition was completed for references. on 1 March 2019. Integration of Gjensidige Bank and Nordea is • The report serves as a description of our actions to mitistill ongoing. In September 2018, Nordea, together with DNB, gate climate change in accordance with the commitment entered into an agreement to jointly sell 60% of Luminor to a made by Finance Finland to promote actions aimed at limconsortium led by private equity funds managed by Blackiting global warming to below 2ºC in our work. For a list of stone. The transaction was completed on 30 September 2019. our association memberships, see sustainability note S5. on In December 2019, Nordea entered into an agreement with page 36. Société Générale to aquire all shares in SG Finans AS, a Nor• It partly fulfils the reporting requirements of the Equator weigan domiciled subsidiary of Société Générale that provides Principles (EP). For full EP reporting, see Nordea Equator equipment finance and factoring solutions. SG Finans AS has Principles Reporting at nordea. com. 360 employees and operates in Norway, Denmark and SweReasons for omissions from the GRI Standards We claim to report in accordance with GRI Standards: Core option but have a few omissions as specified in the table below. GRI Standard Reason for omission Explanation 102–8 Not applicable We do not report total number of employees by employment contract (permanent or temporary) by region as we do not collect that information for any purpose. We do not therefore expect to align our reporting by contract by region in the future. 205–2 Not applicable Data regarding the mandatory training Licence to Work, provided on page 6, is our disclosure for GRI 205-2 regarding training about anti-corruption. Anti-corruption policies and procedures are included in our Code of Conduct which is part of the Licence to Work training. The Licence to Work training is mandatory for all employees and consultants working for Nordea. Our suppliers are covered by the Nordea Supplier Code of Conduct in which adherence to anti-corruption as stated in the UN Global Compact is a requirement. We report only the number of employees who have completed their Licence to Work training as a percentage of the total workforce, which includes all employees (excluding those on long-term leave) regardless of region and employee category. The completion rate is excluding consultants. The Code of Conduct is published on Nordea´s Intra and at nordea.com, i.e. communicated to all, both employees and external parties. 302–1 Not applicable Fuel consumption and total energy consumption is not reported in joules as we receive it in liters respectively MWh from our suppliers of data. 303–5 Not applicable We don't have any water consumption in water stress areas or any own water storage. We only use water in our kitchens and for sanitary purposes, hence the only relevant measure for us is our water consumption in cubic meters and not megaliters. We therefore only report on GRI 303-5 a). 401–1 Information We do not report new employee hires but only employee turnover rate. Employee turnover rate is reported accordunavailable ing to the following definition: Number of permanent FTEs who have left Nordea at their own request divided by average number of FTEs within a chosen period. We can only obtain data on Group level, which is sufficient for our purpose of tracking this measure and we do not plan to report it by age group, gender or region. 404–1 Not applicable Reporting training hours as a total and per employee is sufficient for our purposes of tracking this measure and we do not plan to report this indicator by gender or employee category in the future. 404–3 Not applicable Reporting employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews is sufficient for our purposes of tracking this measure and we do not plan to report this indicator by gender or employee category in the future. 406–1 Confidentiality conWe report general actions taken as a result of reported cases, however in order to protect the integrity of the straints reporters we don't disclose status of specific incidents or actions taken. 418–1 Confidentiality conWe describe our process for ensuring compliance with GDPR but cannot disclose number of complaints concernstraints ing breaches of customer privacy due to confidentiality constraints. Nordea Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability notes 32 S2. Stakeholder engagements We performed a thorough stakeholder analysis in 2016 that collecting valuable input for our sustainability agenda. In was revised in 2018, and validated in 2019. It identifies nine 2019, we engaged in dialogues in different ways with all our key stakeholder groups – employees, management, Board of key stakeholders. Issues raised in the different dialogues, as Directors, customers, owners, suppliers, regulators, NGOs and shown in the table below, have been taken into consideration media. We believe stakeholder dialogues are a good way of when preparing this report. Summary of outcome from stakeholder dialogues Stakeholder Type of dialogue/channel Main aspects Employees People Pulse Well-being Team dialogues Gender equality Coffee corners Harassment Management GLT TCFD Business Area Management Sector guidelines for the fossil fuels, forestry and real estate industries Business Ethics and Values Committee Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement Sustainability Committee Sustainability Report Gender equality Principles for Responsible Banking Collective Commitment on Climate Action Board of Directors Meetings Non-Financial Statement Sustainability updates Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement ESG Risk Appetite Statement Customers Customer satisfaction surveys Customer satisfaction Individual customer meetings Sustainability agenda Customer contact center Climate-related risks Sustainable business solutions, expansion of e.g. development of ­Sustainability-linked loans EU Action Plan on Sustainable Finance Gender equality Owners Annual General Meeting Climate-related risks Individual investor meetings Sustainability performance Investor questionnaire Suppliers Qualifying questionnaires Human rights In-depth reviews Labour rights Individual meetings Climate impact Adherence to Nordea Supplier Code of Conduct Regulators European Central Bank Climate-risk management EU Commission TCFD Financial Supervisor Authority EU Action Plan on Sustainable Finance NGOs Fair Finance Guide Sustainable Finance Save the Children Children’s rights ShareAction Climate change BankTrack Human rights Media Interviews AML Press releases Gender equality Sustainable Finance Community engagement Diversity and inclusion Climate action Nordea Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability notes 33 S3. Materiality analysis To effectively identify and prioritise key sustainability topics, enabling the transition to a sustainable future, and which we regularly conduct a materiality analysis based on internal potentially have a material impact on our business and/or and external dialogues. In 2018, we conducted our latest brand perception. The top of the pyramid is our lead area materiality analysis, replacing the analysis conducted in 2016. – climate action. It is a prioritised area that will have a longThe purpose of the materiality analysis was to identify the term financial impact on our business, and that forms part of sustainability topics that are material to Nordea. Not only did society’s goals as described in the SDGs and the Paris Agreeit provide a basis for the 2018 Sustainability Report, but also ment. Society’s focus on climate change has not declined in for our sustainability targets in 2019. 2019 – rather the opposite, and the financial sector’s importance to the transition to a low-carbon economy is more obviIn 2019, we revisited the materiality analysis to ensure the ous than ever. Therefore, climate action remains our lead topics we identified as most relevant in the previous year are area. still valid. We concluded that they are and have therefore based also our sustainability targets for 2020 on its results. The materiality analysis was conducted as a combination of a desktop study to identify potentially relevant sustainability Our materiality pyramid areas, and workshops and interviews with internal and exterIn our materiality pyramid we have clustered topics into nal stakeholders to prioritise the areas and validate the findareas. The materiality pyramid stands on a foundation conings. All business areas and relevant group functions particisisting of the sustainability areas that are fundamental to pated, as well as board members, owners, investors, customtrust in the banking industry, and that must be managed well ers and suppliers. Our stakeholders shared their views on the to ensure going concern. Our focus areas in the middle are sustainability areas they consider important for Nordea to those that are important to us and/or our stakeholders in work with and report on, and what they expect of Nordea. Results from materiality analysis Prioritised area that will have a long-term financial impact on our business and that forms part of society’s goals as described Lead in the SDGs and the Paris Climate Agreement. action Focus Areas important for us and/or our stakeholders in order to enable Human rights the transition to a sustainable Responsible supply chain future and that have a potential Well-being at work material impact on our business Diversity and inclusion or brand perception. Community engagement Foundation Areas that are fundamental to Business ethics trust in the banking industry and Governance must be managed well to ensure Digitalisation going concern. Purpose and values Nordea Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability notes 34 S3. Materiality analysis, cont. Sustainability impact in the value chain magnitude of the impact is greater outside of Nordea given In the materiality analysis we also determined whether an that we are a large financial institution investing in compaimpact occurs inside the organisation (i.e. relevant for our nies, granting credits and providing advice to our customers. internal operations) or outside the organisation (i.e. relevant Like last year, this year we report on all the areas below apart for suppliers, customers and/or investee companies). The from data for waste, for which we still lack consistent data results are shown in the table below. Most of the relevant between the countries (we are actively working on a way to sustainability topics impact Nordea directly. However, the establish credible reporting on it). Impact in the value chain Suppliers Internal Customers Investee operations companies Climate action ● ● ● ● Energy ● ● ● ● Water ● ● ● ● Emissions ● ● ● ● Waste ● ● ● ● Human rights ● ● ● ● Responsible supply chain ● Well-being at work ● ● Health and safety ● ● Non-discrimination ● ● Employee turnover ● ● Qualified and competent workforce ● ● Diversity and inclusion ● ● Equal opportunities ● ● Community engagement ● ● Business ethics ● ● ● ● Anti-corruption and bribery ● ● ● ● Anti-competitive behaviour ● ● ● ● Data privacy ● ● ● ● Financial crime ● ● ● Tax ● ● ● ● Compliance ● ● Financial inclusion ● Treating customers fairly ● Governance ● ● Governance structure ● Active ownership ● ● Digitalisation ● ● Purpose and values ● Nordea Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability notes 35 S4. Participation in commitments and initiatives As the largest financial services group in the Nordic region, we Net-Zero Asset Owner Alliance: Nordea Life & Pensions has seek to encourage best practice through active participation in joined the UN-convened initiative Net-Zero Asset Owner Allicommitments and initiatives. Below are some examples. ance, committing to transitioning the investment portfolio to net-zero emissions by 2050. The alliance develops models The Access to Medicine Index analyses the top 20 researchand frameworks to use as industry standards for measuring based pharmaceutical companies on how they make medialignment with the target of keeping global warming below cines, vaccines and diagnostics more accessible in lowand the maximum 1.5°C increase. middle-income countries. It highlights best and innovative practices, and areas where progress has been made and The Poseidon Principles provide a framework for integrating where action is still required. climate considerations into lending decisions to promote international shipping’s decarbonisation. Nordea, together The Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR) Benchmark: The AMR with 11 other leading banks, jointly representing approximateBenchmark tracks how pharmaceutical companies are ly USD 100bn in shipping finance, have come together to responding to heightened drug resistance. Nordea is a memcommit to the Poseidon Principles. ber of the Expert Committee. The Principles for Responsible Banking (PRB) have been CDP: Nordea is a signatory to the CDP, a project that aims to designed by a core group of 30 founding banks, of which collect and share information on greenhouse gas emissions Nordea is one, together with the UN Environment Proand climate change strategies. The CDP is a cooperation gramme’s Finance Initiative. The principles create a better arrangement between more than 525 investors with USD and easier way for banks and financial institutions to align 96tn in assets. Nordea responds to CDP as a company but we with society’s goals. This, in turn, helps the industry to demonalso use the database information in our ESG analysis. We are strate how it can be a change-maker that can be counted on also represented on the CDP Water Advisory Council. in society. Climate Action 100+: Nordea Asset Management has joined The Responsible Ship Recycling Standards (RSRS): Nordea Climate Action 100+, a collaborative five-year global initiative joined the RSRS initiative in 2017. The RSRS are voluntary led by investors to engage with the world’s largest corporate principles for financial institutions active in ship financing. greenhouse gas emitters to improve governance on climate The RSRS aim to promote responsible ship recycling and to change, curb emissions and strengthen climate-related finanminimise the dangers associated with hazardous materials on cial disclosures. board. The standards form guiding principles in the dialogue about responsible ship recycling between the financial sector Collective Commitment to Climate Action: Nordea has, and stakeholders in the shipping industry. together with the 30 other signatories with over USD 13tn in assets, announced a Collective Commitment to Climate Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Action. The commitment sets out concrete and time-bound (TCFD): Both Nordea Bank Abp and Nordea Asset Manageactions the banks will take to scale up their contribution to ment support TCFD. The recommendations provide a foundaand align their lending with the objectives of the Paris Agreetion for climate-related financial disclosures for all companies, ment on Climate. aimed at encouraging companies to report on the climate-related risks and opportunities that are most relevant to their The Corporate Human Rights Benchmark (CHRB) is the first business activities. ever ranking of the world’s largest publicly listed companies on their human rights performance. The Corporate Human UN Environmental Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP Rights Benchmark ranks the top 200 globally listed companies FI): Nordea signed the UNEP FI in 1994. It is a partnership on their human rights policy, process and performance, harbetween UNEP and the global financial sector to mobilise prinessing the competitive nature of the markets to drive better vate sector finance for sustainable development. UNEP FI human rights performance. Nordea has been a founding works with more than 300 members – banks, insurers, and member since 2016 and on the CHRB Advisory Board. investors – and over 100 supporting institutions to help create a financial sector that serves people and planet while deliverThe Equator Principles: Nordea was the first Nordic bank to ing positive impacts. Since 2017, Nordea is a member of the adopt the Equator Principles, endorsing them in 2007. It is a UNEP FI Banking Committee. set of guidelines on how to prevent, manage and mitigate environmental and social risks in project financing. The EquaUN Global Compact (UNGC) was initiated by the UN to tor Principles apply globally to projects across all sectors that encourage businesses to align their strategies and operations have total project capital costs in excess of USD 10m and with ten universal principles building on UN conventions in when the project is assessed to have a potential adverse the fields of human rights, labour standards, environment and social or environmental impact. anti-corruption. Nordea became a signatory to the UN Global Compact in 2002, first through Nordea Bank Finland. From Institutional Investors Group on Climate Change (IIGCC) December 2004 the coverage was extended to the whole provides investors with a collaborative platform to encourage Group. public policies, investment practices and corporate conduct that address long-term risks and opportunities associated UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights with climate change. (UNGP) from 2011 is the first global standard for preventing and addressing the risk of adverse impacts on human rights The Montreal Carbon Pledge: Nordea signed the Montreal linked to business activity. The standard continues to provide Pledge in 2014 as one of the first signatories. By signing this the internationally accepted framework for enhancing stanpledge, we commit to measuring and publicly disclosing the cardards and practice in terms of business and human rights. bon footprint of our investment portfolios on an annual basis. Nordea Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability notes 36 S4. Participation in commitments and initiatives, cont. UN Principles for Responsible Investment (UNPRI): As one The World Benchmarking Alliance (WBA): Nordea is an ally of the first major banks in the Nordic countries, Nordea Asset to the WBA which seeks to generate a movement around Management signed the PRI in 2007. The PRI is the world’s increasing the private sector’s impact towards a sustainable leading proponent of responsible investment. It works to future for all. The WBA brings together a broad, balanced understand the investment implications of ESG factors and to group of stakeholders with SDG 17 (Partnership for the support its international network of investor signatories in Goals) at its core. Allies represent a large mix of voices incorporating these factors into their investment and owneraligned with the universality of the SDGs. These span everyship decisions. thing from civil society and business networks to financial institutions and multilateral organisations. S5. Association memberships Nordea is a member of a number of associations, see examples in the table below. Besides holding a position on the board, we also often participate in working groups and committees. Association/Forum Type of engagement Swedish Bankers’ Association Board member Finance Denmark Board member Finance Finland Board member Finance Norway Board member European Banking Federation Nordea is represented via the local bankers’ associations which are members GFMA – Global Financial Markets Association Board member AFME – Association for Financial Markets in Europe Member Swedish Securities Dealers Association Board member FEAM – Forum of European Asset Managers Member EFAMA – European Fund and Asset Management Association Board member ICMA – International Capital Markets Association Member ISDA – International Swaps and Derivatives Association Member S6. Fact book Tax We are a substantial corporate income tax payer in our main butions and levies vary in our countries of operation, as does countries of operation – Denmark, Finland, Norway and Swethe size of Nordea´s business operations in each country. The den – and we also pay social security contributions and bank total amount of tax paid in each country is determined by a levies in our countries of operation. Statutory tax rates, contricombination of these variables. Tax payments (EURm) 2019 2018 Total 1,226 1,481 By country Denmark 205 333 Finland 283 137 Norway 260 290 Sweden 359 600 Others 119 121 By tax type Corporate income tax1 571 890 Social security fees 443 424 Bank levy 211 167 1) Includes all expensed taxes during the year, both current and deferred tax. Nordea Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability notes 37 Sustainable products We have a variety of sustainable products to offer our cusShare of assets that have been subject to positive ESG tomers and the range is growing to meet increasing demand. screening equals the Stars Funds and the Global Climate and Some of the products are targeted at our household customEnvironment Fund, i.e. 4.3%. ers and others at our corporate and institutional customers. Sustainable products 1 2019 2018 Sustainable Selection Total AuM in EURm 9,945 5,332 Share of AuM in relation to total portfolio (%) 2 4.9 3.1 Stars Funds AuM in EURm 6,051 4,0803 Share of AuM in relation to total portfolio (%) 2 3.0 2.43 The Global Climate and Environment Fund AuM in EURm 2,567 1,0123 Share of AuM in relation to total portfolio (%) 2 1.3 0.63 Sustainable bonds Green bonds Number of green bonds we arranged 66 23 4 Total apportioned deal value green bonds (USDbn) 3.945 1.399 4 Share in relation to total market value (%) 1.97 1.03 4 Sustainability bonds Number of sustainability bonds we arranged 3 5 Total apportioned deal value sustainability bonds (USDbn) 0.25 5 Share in relation to total market value (%) 0.43 5 Loans and mortgages Sustainability-linked loans Number of sustainability-linked loans 10 6 Total amount of debt raised in EURm 6,467 6 Share in relation to total corporate loans (%) 4.9 6 Green loans Number of customers granted green loans 178 15 Volume of green loans in EURm 1,083 7 Green car loans Number of green car loan transactions 20 6 Volume of green car loans in EURm 0.85 6 Green car financing Number of green car leasing agreements 8 36 6 Volume of green car leasing agreements 8 in EURm 1.44 6 Green mortgages Number of green mortgages 1,455 340 Volume of green mortgages in EURm 142 7 Other Share of AuM in sustainability-enhanced funds9 in relation to total portfolio (%) 2 18.1 14.9 Share of equity funds with carbon footprint (%) 100 100 Number of companies we have engaged with on environmental and social issues 387 126 Share of companies in the investment portfolio with which we have engaged on environmental and social issues (%) 6.3 5 1) Excluding NLP. 2) Total AuM for Asset Management in Asset & Wealth Management is EUR 201.7bn for 2019 and EUR 170.7bn for 2018. AuM for 2018 has been restated to exclude AuM for NLP. 3) Data for 2018 has been restated due to minor calculation error. 4) Data for 2018 has been restated to include a deal that was closed late in 2018. 5) Not reported for 2018. 6) Product launched in 2019. 7) Product only available in Sweden 2018. Volume of green loans was SEKm 1,505 and volume of green mortgages was SEKm 304. 8) Includes single contracts, frame agreements, etc. 9) Includes Sustainable Selection and institutional mandates with additional sustainability criteria. Nordea Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability notes 38 Carbon emissions Nordea's carbon footprint includes carbon emissions from our services, IT equipment, etc. Carbon emissions from electricity operations in Denmark, Finland, Norway, Sweden, Poland and in the table below are disclosed as market-based, i.e. after Estonia because this is where we have our main operations. buying Guarantees of Origin. The greenhouse gas (GHG) accounting is performed All emissions are stated in tonnes of CO2-equivalent (CO2e). according to the GHG Protocol, including scope 1–3 and the The calculations cover the relevant GHGs, namely CO2, CH4 following sources: Scope 1 is mobile combustion of leased and N2O. In the table we disclose the emissions factors that cars and stationary combustion from diesel generators. Scope we have used as a basis for our calculations as footnotes in 2 is purchased electricity, heating and cooling. Scope 3 is prorelation to each source of emission. Applied Global Warming duction of energy carriers and business travel. In 2019, scope Potentials (GWP) based on IPCC Fourth Assessment Report 3 has been extended to include postal service, paper and (AR4) (2007) are; CO2 – 1, CH4 – 25 and water consumption. Still excluded from the scope are train, N2O – 298. ferry travel and rental cars as well as purchased goods and Climate impact 2019 2018 Fuel and energy consumption -fuel consumption for diesel generators (litres) 1, 2 25,855 24,835 -fuel consumption for leased cars (litres)3 653,103 662,469 -electricity (MWh)2 68,658 71,716 -district heating (MWh)2 32,362 42,256 -district cooling (MWh)2 6,269 9,750 Energy intensity (MWh/EURm of total operating income) 4 12.42 13.74 CO2e emissions from fuel and energy consumption (tonnes) -diesel generators (scope 1) 2, 5 66 67 -leased cars (scope 1) 3, 6, 7 1,572 1,724 -electricity (scope 2) 2, 8 0 0 -district heating (scope 2) 2 9 , 4,512 5,509 -district cooling (scope 2) 2, 10 882 1,030 -fueland energy-related activities not included in scope 1 and 2 (scope 3) 2, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10 3,930 3,357 CO2e emissions from business travel (tonnes) 3, 11 -air travel (scope 3)12 20,864 23,424 -own car (scope 3)13 2,047 2,759 -taxi (scope 3)12 485 534 -hotel (scope 3)14 1,618 1,890 Other CO2e emissions (tonnes) -postal service (scope 3) 15 2,599 16 -paper (scope 3) 17 668 16 -water (scope 3) 17 163 16 Total CO2e emissions (tonnes) 39,406 40,294 CO2e emission intensity (tonnes/EURm of total operating income) 18 4.56 4.47 1) Includes 1,440 litres EcoPar A for 2018 and 1,800 litres for 2019. 2) Includes headquarters, head offices and data centres. Branch offices are not included because we have some challenges in retrieving correct data for those. Our ambition is to include them as soon as we have reliable data. 3) Covers all employees in the six countries regardless of location/office corresponding to approximately 99% of the total number of employees. 4) Calculated based on reported consumption of electricity, district heating and district cooling. 5) 2018: Department for Business, Energy and Industrial Strategy (DBEIS), 2018. 2019: Swedish EPA, 2018. 6) Biogenic emissions from E85 corresponds to 0.03 tonnes CO2e for 2018 and 0.04 tonnes for 2019. 7) 2018: DBEIS, 2018; Värmeforsk, 2011. 2019: Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, 2018; Swedish Petroleum and Biofuels Institute, 2018; DEFRA, 2019. 8) 2018: IPCC, 2014; “European Residual Mixes 2017” by Association of Issuing Bodies; The Swedish Energy Markets Inspectorate, 2018; DBEIS, 2018. 2019: Vattenfall, 2015; IPCC, Technology-specific Cost and Performance Parameters; IEA, 2019. 9) 2018: Swedenergy, 2018; Danish Energy Agency, 2017; Finsk Energiindustri, 2018; Statistics Norway, 2015; Euroheat & Power, 2017. 2019: Dansk Fjernvarme, 2017; IEA, 2017; Euroheat & Power, 2013 deducted from fuel mix; Finsk Energiindustri, 2017; IEA, 2017; Average of collected Norwegian Efs; IEA, 2017; Euroheat & Power, 2015; Energiföretagen, 2019; Energiföretagen 2020; Energiföretagen, 2021. 10) 2018: Helen AB, 2018; Stockholm Exergi, 2018; Göteborgs Energi, 2018; “2017 Country by Country” by Euroheat & Power. 2019: Euroheat & Power, 2013 deducted from fuel mix; Finsk Energiindustri, 2017; IEA, 2017; Euroheat & Power, 2015; Multiple, Swedish average. 11) For Estonia, no travel data was available, and the emissions were therefore extrapolated. The Estonian offices only account for approximately 1% of the employees covered. 12) 2018: DBEIS, 2018. 2019: DEFRA, 2019. 13) 2018: DBEIS, 2018. 2019: Trafikverket, 2019; DEFRA, 2019. 14) 2018: DBEIS, 2018. 2019: CHSB Index 2019, Cornell Hotel Sustainability Benchmarking 2019 (M3 Hotel Carbon Footprint Per Occupied Room, Mean values). 15) Emission factor based on Post Nord's environmental calculator https://www.postnord.se/om-oss/hallbarhet/miljokalkylator. 16) Not reported for 2018. 17) DEFRA, 2019. 18) Calculated based on reported scope 1–3 emissions. Nordea Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability notes 39 Human rights The independent human rights assessment performed in 2019 Nordea´s internal operations, all employees, financing and was a desktop study performed by an independent service investments and supply chain management. The assessment provider based on the CHRB methodology. The assessment covered 100% of Nordea´s own operations in all operating covered public information and documentation of governance countries, but did not evaluate risks and impacts for individual procedures, policies, human rights risk and impact managesuppliers, customers and investee ­companies as such. ment and remedies grievance mechanisms relating to Suppliers In 2019, Nordea initiated different cost savings initiatives, that, we have not had any significant changes in our supply increased the transparency of spend managed by Group Prochain during 2019. Supply chain data includes Denmark, Fincurement and established an outsourcing agreement within land, Norway and Sweden for 2018 and 2019. Estonia is the IT area covering approximately 120 employees. Besides included from September 2019. Supply chain 2019 2018 Total spend (EURm) 2,529 2,386 Total number of suppliers 15,164 15,537 Estimated number of active contracted suppliers 1,535 1,322 One-time suppliers 7,176 7,455 Suppliers with multiple interaction 7,988 8,082 Number of new contracted suppliers 127 68 Spend by supplier category (%) IT 32 1 Out of scope 2 15.9 1 HR 14.2 1 Premises and Real Estate 11.4 1 Other 3 10.3 1 Cards 5.3 1 Market data 4.6 1 Travel 2.1 1 Marketing and Representation 1.9 1 Printing 1.5 1 ATM and Cash Handling 0.6 1 Telecom 0.5 1 Debt collection 0.2 1 Environmental assessments New suppliers screened for environmental issues (%) 95 91 Number of suppliers assessed for environmental impacts 42 20 Number of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative environmental impact 0 0 Suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts with which improvements were agreed upon as a result of assessment (%) n/a n/a Suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment (%) n/a n/a Social assessments New suppliers screened for social issues (%) 95 91 Number of suppliers assessed for social impacts 42 20 Number of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative social impact 0 14 Suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative social impacts with which improvements were agreed upon as a result of assessment (%) n/a 100 Suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative social impacts with which relationships were terminated as a result of assessment (%) n/a 0 1) Not reported in 2018. 2) Non-negotiable spend such as government fees or regulatory expenses. 3) Non-categorised spend such as commission and administrative expenses. 4) Supplier convicted for bribery. The evidence on mitigating actions taken resulted in a decision to continue the relationship with the supplier. Nordea Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability notes 40 People All employee-related data in this Sustainability Report, except Our employee turnover rate for 2019 was 9.9 %, which is in for employee turnover rate, is disclosed as headcounts. This is line with 2018. In 2019, 88.7% of all our employees were covdifferent from Nordea's Annual Report in which employee-reered by collective bargaining agreements. lated data is disclosed as FTE (full-time equivalents). The majority of our people are employed by Nordea. 2019 2018 Number of employees Men Women Total Men Women Total Nordea Group 15,434 16,214 31,648 15,190 16,338 31,528 Permanent contract 14,632 15,346 29,978 14,764 15,939 30,703 -full-time 14,083 13,725 27,808 14,293 14,494 28,787 -part-time 549 1,621 2,170 471 1,445 1,916 Temporary contract 802 868 1,670 426 399 825 Employee training Number of hours 409,218 424,465 Average number of hours/employee 12.3 13.5 Number of employees by country of ope­ration Nordea Group 15,434 16,214 31,648 15,190 16,338 31,528 Denmark 4,797 3,776 8,573 4,888 3,953 8,841 Finland 2,536 4,269 6,805 2,552 4,531 7,083 Norway 1,644 1,465 3,109 1,617 1,459 3,076 Sweden 3,402 3,787 7,189 3,560 3,925 7,485 Poland 2,495 2,079 4,574 1,953 1,644 3,597 Estonia 183 362 545 120 248 368 Russia 100 219 319 142 240 382 International offices 277 257 534 358 338 696 2019 2018 Composition of governance bodies Men Wo­men Age <30 Age 30–50 Age >50 Men Wo­men Age <30 Age 30–50 Age >50 Board of Directors 5 5 0 1 9 5 5 0 2 8 Group Executive Managers 7 2 0 5 2 9 2 0 6 5 People leaders 2,037 1,329 109 2,251 1,008 2,118 1,354 125 2,304 1,043 Employees 13,390 14,883 6,537 14,139 7,597 13,063 14,982 6,243 13,813 7,989 Fines and legal actions Compliance with applicable laws and regulations, market unani­mously decided on 27 February 2019 not to uphold the standards and business ethics is a fundamental aspect of our ESMA decision. The BoA found that Nordea had infringed the corporate culture. We strive for transparency, take accountCRAR, but that there was no negligence. The case has been ability and learn from past mistakes. remitted to the ESMA’s Board of Supervisors to adopt an The legal action pending from 2016 regarding alleged amended decision based on the findings of the BoA. anti-competitive behaviour or violations of antitrust and On 11 July 2019, following the decision of the BoA, ESMA monopoly legislation was closed by the European Supervisorepealed the decision from July 2018 and adopted an amendry Authority (ESA) in April 2019 with no repercussions for ed decision. ESMA found that Nordea had infringed the CRAR Nordea. but confirmed that there was no negligence. In accordance On 23 July 2018, the European Securities and Market with the relevant provisions in the CRAR, ESMA decided that Authority (ESMA) fined five Nordic banks EUR 495,000 each, no fine is to be imposed, but that the infringement warranted including Nordea Bank AB, for violating the Credit Rating a supervisory measure in the form of a public notice. Agency Regulation (CRAR) in relation to shadow ratings Please note that the fines and legal actions disclosed practice in June 2011 and August 2016. The fines were made above are the material sustainability-related fines and legal public. actions we are aware of and do not claim to represent all Nordea appealed the decision to the Board of Appeal of fines and legal actions to which Nordea may be subject. the European Supervisory Authorities (“BoA”). The BoA Nordea Sustainability Report 2019 Principles for Responsible Banking Reporting Index 41 Principles for Responsible Banking Reporting Index The below table sets out the reporting and self-assessment requirements for Signatories of the Principles for Responsible Banking. It is where we provide our response and self-assessment in relation to the principles and provide references and links to where in our existing reporting and at public domains the required information can be found. Requirements Bank's response and self-assessment Reporting reference Principle 1 – Alignment We will align our business strategy to be consistent with and contribute to individuals’ needs and society’s goals, as expressed in the Sustainable Development Goals, the Paris Climate Agreement and relevant national and regional frameworks. 1.1 Business model Nordea is a full-service bank domiciled in Finland, serving personal Sustainability Report 2019: This is Nordea (p. 6–7) description and corporate customers through our customer segments: Personal Annual Report 2019: Who we are (p. 6–7) Banking, Business Banking, Large Corporate & Institutions and Asset Website: Who we are (https://www.nordea.com/en/ & Wealth Management. We are present in 20 countries, including our about-nordea/who-we-are) home markets Finland, Norway, Sweden and Denmark. 1.2 Business strategy Our Sustainability Policy is based on several national and regional Sustainability Report 2019: This is Nordea (p. 8–10), alignment frameworks. Further, we have elements of SDG impact analysis and Taking climate action (p. 14), Materiality analysis work to align with the Paris Agreement in place. How to enhance (p. 33–34) our efforts will be identified in the impact analysis that we will perform Website: Sustainability Policy, Position Statement on in 2020. Climate Change Principle 2: Impact and Target Setting We will continuously increase our positive impacts while reducing the negative impacts on, and managing the risks to, people and environment resulting from our activities, products and services. To this end, we will set and publish targets where we can have the most significant impacts. 2.1 Impact analysis We conducted a materiality analysis in 2018 fulfilling some of the reSustainability Report 2019: This is Nordea (p. 8), quirements set out in this principle. In 2020, we will conduct an impact Materiality analysis (p. 33–34) assessment in line with the PRB requirements. 2.2 Target setting Current targets are based on our materiality analysis. We will review our Sustainability Report 2019: This is Nordea (p. 8–9) targets based on the impact analysis we plan to conduct in 2020 in line with the PRB requirements. 2.3 Plan or Target ImpleCurrent targets are monitored on a regular basis and KPI's have been Sustainability Report 2019: This is Nordea (p. 8–9) mentation & Monitoring set. 2.4 Progress on ImpleProgress on the implementation of current targets are monitored on Sustainability Report 2019: This is Nordea (p. 9) menting Targets a regular basis and status disclosed in the report. Principle 3 – Clients and customers We will work responsibly with our clients and our customers to encourage sustainable practices and enable economic activities that create shared prosperity for current and future generations. 3.1 Policies and practices Our Code of Conduct defines the high-level principles that guide how Sustainability Report 2019: This is Nordea (p. 6, 8) we treat our customers, together with several policies and principles on Website: Code of Conduct, Sustainability Policy, Tax ESG issues in financing, investing and advice. Policy, Position Statement on Climate Change 3.2 Sustainable practices We have expanded our sustainable product offerings during 2019, Sustainability Report 2019: This is Nordea (p. 10–11), with clients and custoenabling our customers to make sustainable choices, and we have Sustainable Products (p. 37) mers also embedded sustainability into our savings adivce tool. Website: Green Bond Report 2019 Principle 4 – Stakeholders We will proactively and responsibly consult, engage and partner with relevant stakeholders to achieve society’s goals. 4.1 Stakeholder consulWe have identified key stakeholder groups with which we engage in Sustainability Report 2019: S3. Stakeholder engagetation, egagements and dialogue regularly. ments (p. 32) parterings Nordea Sustainability Report 2019 Principles for Responsible Banking Reporting Index 42 Requirements Bank's response and self-assessment Reporting reference Principle 5 – Governance and target setting We will implement our commitment to these Principles through effective governance and a culture of responsible banking 5.1 Governance structure We have a sustainability governance structure providing a solid foundaSustainability Report 2019: This is Nordea (p. 10, tion that enables developing and anchoring our strategic sustainability 12–13) direction. 5.2 Initiatives and We have launched an e-learning on sustainability to all our employees Sustainability Report 2019: This is Nordea (p. 8–9), measures to facilitate implementation of our strategic sustainability direction and Taking climate action (p. 16) targets. In addition to this general sustainability training, we provide specific training to advisors when launching new sustainable products. We have also introduced several sustainability initiatives in the workplace to increase awareness of sustainability and climate change. among our employees. 5.3 Governance structuOur sustainability governance structure will support the implementaSustainability Report 2019: This is Nordea (p. 10–13) re for Implementation of tion of the PRB principles. the Principles Principle 6 – Transparency and accountability We will periodically review our individual and collective implementation of these Principles and be transparent about and accountable for our positive and negative impacts and our contribution to society’s goals. 6.1 Progress on ImpleWe began reporting on our progress on the implementation the PrincipSustainability Report 2019: CEO statement (p. 4–5) menting the Principles les in 2018 and became signatories when they were officially launched This is Nordea (p. 8) for Responsible Banking in 2019. We have now set out a plan for our continued efforts, including an impact analysis and target setting where we will consider the SDG's, the Paris Agreement and national and regional frameworks and good practices. Nordea Sustainability Report 2019 TCDF Disclosure Index 43 TCFD Disclosure Index This year we have further progressed climate-related financial disclosures in line with TCFD. Below is a cross-reference to where the recommended disclosures can be found in this Sustainability Report. Disclosure Page Governance a) Describe the board’s oversight of climate-related risks and opportunities. 5, 8, 10, 12–13 b) Describe management’s role in assessing and managing climate-related risks and opportunities. 10, 12–13 Strategy a) Describe the climate-related risks and opportunities the organisation has identified over the short, medium and 14, 16, 32–33 long term. b) Describe the impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the organisation’s business, strategy, and 14, 16 financial planning. c) Describe the resilience of the organisation’s strategy, taking into consideration different climate-related scenarios, 14, 16 including a 2oC or lower scenario. Risk Management a) Describe the organisation’s processes for identifying and assessing climate-related risks. 10, 12, 14, 32–34 b) Describe the organisation’s processes for managing climate-related risks. 10, 12, 14, 16, 35 c) Describe how processes for identifying, assessing, and managing climate-related risks are integrated into the 10, 12, 14 organisation’s overall risk management Metrics and Targets a) Disclose the metrics used by the organisation to assess climate-related risks and opportunities in line with its 10–11, 14 strategy and risk management process. b) Disclose Scope 1, Scope 2, and, if appropriate, Scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and the related risks. 16–17, 38 c) Describe the targets used by the organisation to manage climate-related risks and opportunities and performance 11, 16, 38 against targets. Nordea Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Content Index 44 GRI Content Index Nordea´s Sustainability Report 2019 has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option, and with relevant parts of GRI G4 Financial Services Sector Disclosures. Reason for GRI UNGC omission on Standard Disclosure Page principle page 29 GRI 101: Foundation 2016 General disclosures GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-1 Name of the organisation 6, 31, Back cover 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 6–8, 10–11, 28–29, 37 102-3 Location of headquarters 6, Back cover 102-4 Location of operations 6–7 102-5 Ownership and legal form 6 102-6 Markets served 6–7 102-7 Scale of the organisation 7 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 40 6 X 102-9 Supply chain 39 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain 39 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 16 7 102-12 External initiatives 35–36 102-13 Memberships of associations 36 102-14 Statement from most senior decision-maker 4–5 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 6–8, 13, 18, 20–21 10 102-17*) Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 6, 10, 18 102-18 Governance structure 13 102-20*) Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics 10, 12–13 102-26*) Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 8, 10, 12–13 102-30*) Effectiveness of risk management processes 6, 8, 10, 12–14 102-32*) Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting 13 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 32 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 40 3 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 32 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 32 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 32 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 31 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundries 31–34 102-47 List of material topics 33–34 102-48 Restatements of information 31, 37 102-49 Changes in reporting 31 102-50 Reporting period 31 102-51 Date of most recent report 31 102-52 Reporting cycle 31 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Inside front cover 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 44 102-55 GRI content index 44–48 102-56 External assurance 50 *) Not required for Core option. Nordea Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Content Index 45 Reason for GRI UNGC omission on Standard Disclosure Page principle page 29 Material topics ANTI–CORRUPTION GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 6, 12, 33–34 10 103–2 The management approach and its components 6, 8, 12 10 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 8, 12 10 GRI 205: Anti–corruption 2016 205–2 Communication and traning about anti–corruption policies and procedures 6, 12 10 X ANTI COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOUR GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 6, 8, 12, 33–34, 40 103–2 The management approach and its components 6, 8, 12 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 8, 12 GRI 206: Anti–competitive behaviour 2016 206–1 Legal actions for anti–competitive behavior, anti–trust, and monopoly practices 40 ENERGY GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 14, 16, 33–34 7, 8 103–2 The management approach and its components 8, 10–11, 14–16, 37–38 7, 8 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 8–11, 14–16, 37–38 7, 8 GRI 302: Energy 2016 302–1 Energy consumption within the organisation 17, 38 7, 8 X 302–3 Energy intensity 17, 38 8 WATER AND EFFLUENTS GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 16, 33–34 103–2 The management approach and its components 16 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 16 GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018 303–5 Water consumption 16 X EMISSIONS GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 14, 16–17, 33–34 7, 8 103–2 The management approach and its components 11, 14–16, 38 7, 8 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 14–16, 32, 38 7, 8 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305–1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 17, 38 7, 8 305–2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 17, 38 7, 8 305–3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 17, 38 7, 8 305–4 GHG emissions intensity 38 8 Nordea Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Content Index 46 Reason for GRI UNGC omission on Standard Disclosure Page principle page 29 SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 20, 33–34 8 103–2 The management approach and its components 6, 12, 18, 20, 39 8 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 9–12, 20–21, 32, 39 8 GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 308–1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 39 8 308–2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 39 8 EMPLOYMENT GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 22, 33–34 6 103–2 The management approach and its components 6–8, 22 6 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 22, 32 6 GRI 401: Employment 2016 401–1 New employee hires and employee turnover 40 6 X TRAINING AND EDUCATION GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 6, 8–9, 22, 33–34 6 103–2 The management approach and its components 8–9, 22 6 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 8–10, 22–23, 40 6 GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 404–1 Average hours of training per year per employee 40 6 X 404–2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 22 404–3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development 23 X reviews DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 8, 24–25, 33–34 6 103–2 The management approach and its components 8, 24–25 6 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 24–25, 32, 40 6 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 405–1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 25, 40 6 Nordea Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Content Index 47 Reason for GRI UNGC omission on Standard Disclosure Page principle page 29 NON–DISCRIMINATION GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 8, 24, 33–34 6 103–2 The management approach and its components 8, 24 6 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 24 6 GRI 406: Non–discrimination 2016 406–1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 24 6 x HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 18–19, 24, 33–34 1, 2 103–2 The management approach and its components 6, 8, 9, 18–19 1, 2 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 9, 18–19, 34 1, 2 GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016 412–1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments 18, 38 1, 2 SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 20–21, 33–34 1, 2, 4, 5 103–2 The management approach and its components 6, 9, 12, 18, 20–21, 32, 39 1, 2, 4, 5 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 9, 12, 20–21, 32, 39 1, 2, 4, 5 GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 414–1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 39 2, 4, 5 414–2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 39 2, 4, 5 CUSTOMER PRIVACY GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 6, 8, 12, 33–34 103–2 The management approach and its components 6, 8, 12 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 12 GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 418–1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of 12 X customer data PRODUCT PORTFOLIO GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 8, 9, 14, 33–34 1, 4, 5, 6 103–2 The management approach and its components 5, 8–11, 14–16 1, 4, 5, 6 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 5, 8–11, 32, 37 1, 4, 5, 6 GRI G4: Financial Services Sector Disclosures FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specifict environmental benefit for each business line broken down by purpose 11, 37 9 Nordea Sustainability Report 2019 GRI Content Index 48 Reason for GRI UNGC omission on Standard Disclosure Page principle page 29 ACTIVE OWNERSHIP GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 8, 18, 34 103–2 The management approach and its components 8–11, 14, 18 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 8–11, 14, 18–19 GRI G4: Financial Services Sector Disclosures FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in the institution’s portfolia with which the 37 reporting organisation has interacted on social and environmental issues FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental or social screening 37 CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 6–7, 33–34 103–2 The management approach and its components 28 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 28–29, 32 Own indicator Customer satisfaction surveys 6 TAX PAYMENTS GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 6, 33–34, 36 103–2 The management approach and its components 6, 36 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 6, 36 Own indicator Tax payments by country and by tax type 36 FINANCIAL CRIME GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 6, 8, 12, 28, 33–34 103–2 The management approach and its components 12, 28 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 12, 28, 32 Own indicator Financial crime training 8, 12 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103–1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 26, 33–34 103–2 The management approach and its components 26–27 103–3 Evaluation of the management approach 26–27 Own indicator Engagement in volunteering activities 26 Own indicator Volunteering hours 26 Nordea Sustainability Report 2019 Glossary 49 Glossary A AML – Nordea´s Anti-Money LaunGDPR – The General Data ProtecP The Paris Agreement – At COP 21 dering (AML) work is based on tion Regulation (GDPR) is a reguain Paris, on 12 December 2015, parinternational regulations with the tion in EU law on data protection ties to the United Nations Frameultimate goal of ensuring that funds and privacy for all individual citizens work Convention on Climate from illegal sources cannot be launof the EU and the European EcoChange (UNFCCC) reached a landdered through the banking system nomic Area (EEA). The GDPR aims mark agreement to combat climate or used to finance terrorism or illeprimarily to provide individuals with change and to accelerate and intengal operations of any kind. The purcontrol over their personal data and sify the actions and investments pose of AML is to protect not only to simplify the regulatory environneeded for a sustainable low-carthe financial system and our cusment for international business by bon future. The Paris Agreement tomers, but also society at large. unifying regulation within the EU. brings all nations into a common The GDPR was adopted on 14 April cause to undertake ambitious C CHRB – Corporate Human Rights 2016, and came into force on 25 May efforts to combat climate change Benchmark (CHRB) is a ranking of 2018. and adapt to its effects, with the world’s largest publicly listed enhanced support to assist developcompanies on their human rights I ICMA – The International Capital ing countries to do so. performance. Markets Association (ICMA) is a not-for-profit membership associaS SDGs – The Sustainable DevelopCOP – Communication on Progress tion that serves the needs of its ment Goals (SDGs) are a collection (COP) is the report that all signatowide range of member firms in of 17 global goals set by the United ries to the UNGC have to submit global capital markets. It has Nations General Assembly in 2015. every year. around 580 members in 62 counThe SDGs are part of Resolution tries. Among its members are pri70/1 of the United Nations General E ESG – This term refers to how envivate and public sector issuers, “Transforming our World: the 2030 ronmental, social, and governance banks and securities houses, asset Agenda for Sustainable Developissues can affect the performance of managers and other investors, capiment” that has been shortened to investment portfolios (to varying tal market infrastructure providers, “2030 Agenda”. The goals are an degrees across companies, sectors, central banks, law firms and others. urgent call for action by all counregions, asset classes and over ICMA prioritises four core fixed-intries – developed and developing time). ESG screenings are used in come market areas – primary; sec– in a global partnership. They recevaluations of partners and ondary; repo and collateral; and ognise that ending poverty and suppliers. green, social and sustainable. other deprivations must go hand-inhand with strategies that improve G GHG Protocol – The Greenhouse IPCC – The Intergovernmental health and education, reduce Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol) estabPanel on Climate Change (IPCC) is inequality, and spur economic lishes global standardised framethe United Nations body for assessgrowth – all the while tackling cliworks to measure and manage ing the science related to climate mate change and working to pregreenhouse gas (GHG) emissions change. In October IPCC released a serve our oceans and forests. from private and public sector operspecial report on the impacts of ations, value chains and mitigation global warming of 1.5°C above actions. It is the most widely used pre-industrial levels and related greenhouse gas accounting stanglobal greenhouse gas emission dard in the world. It builds on a pathways, in the context of 20-year partnership between World strengthening the global response Resources Institute (WRI) and the to the threat of climate change, susWorld Business Council for Sustaintainable development, and efforts able Development (WBCSD). GHG to eradicate poverty. Protocol works with governments, industry associations, NGOs, businesses and other organisations. Nordea Sustainability Report 2019 Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Report 50 Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Report To the Management of Nordea Bank Abp We have been engaged by the Managecal requirements, professional standards A limited assurance engagement conment of Nordea Bank Abp (hereinafter and applicable legal and regulatory sists of making inquiries, primarily of also the Company) to perform a limited requirements. persons responsible for the preparation assurance engagement on sustainability of the Sustainability Information, and disclosures for the year ended 31 DecemPractitioner’s responsibility other limited assurance procedures. Our ber 2019, disclosed in Nordea SustainOur responsibility is to express a limited work consisted of, amongst others, the ability Report 2019 (hereinafter Sustainassurance conclusion on the Sustainabilfollowing procedures: ability Information). ity Information based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we • Interviewing senior management of Management’s responsibility have obtained. Our assurance report has the Company. The Management of Nordea Bank Abp is been prepared in accordance with the • Interviewing employees responsible responsible for preparing the Sustainterms of our engagement. We do not for collecting and reporting the Susability Information in accordance with accept, or assume responsibility to anytainability Information at the Group the Reporting criteria as set out in the one else, except to Nordea Bank Abp for level. Company’s reporting instructions and our work, for this report, or for the con• Assessing how Group employees the GRI Sustainability Reporting Stanclusions that we have reached. apply the Company’s reporting dards of the Global Reporting Initiative. instructions and procedures. The Management of Nordea Bank Abp is We conducted our limited assurance • Testing the accuracy and completealso responsible for such internal control engagement in accordance with the ness of the information from original as the management determines is necesInternational Standard on Assurance documents and systems on a sample sary to enable the preparation of the Engagements (ISAE) 3000 “Assurance basis. Sustainability Information that is free Engagements Other than Audits or • Testing the consolidation of informafrom material misstatement, whether Reviews of Historical Financial Information and performing recalculations on due to fraud or error. tion”. That standard requires that we a sample basis. plan and perform the engagement to Practitioner’s independence obtain limited assurance about whether Limited assurance conclusion and quality control the Sustainability Information is free Based on the procedures we have perWe have complied with the indepenfrom material misstatement. formed and the evidence we have dence and other ethical requirements of obtained, nothing has come to our attenthe Code of Ethics for Professional In a limited assurance engagement the tion that causes us to believe that Accountants issued by the International evidence-gathering procedures are more Nordea Bank Abp’s Sustainability InforEthics Standards Board for Accountants, limited than for a reasonable assurance mation for the reporting period that which is founded on fundamental princiengagement, and therefore less assurended 31 December 2019 is not properly ples of integrity, objectivity, professional ance is obtained than in a reasonable prepared, in all material respects, in competence and due care, confidentiality assurance engagement. An assurance accordance with the Reporting criteria. and professional behaviour. engagement involves performing procedures to obtain evidence about the When reading our assurance report, the PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy applies amounts and other disclosures in the inherent limitations to the accuracy and International Standard on Quality ConSustainability Information. The procecompleteness of sustainability informatrol 1 and accordingly maintains a comdures selected depend on the practition should be taken into consideration. prehensive system of quality control tioner’s judgement, including an assessincluding documented policies and proment of the risks of material misstatecedures regarding compliance with ethiment of the Sustainability Information. Helsinki, 26 February 2020 PricewaterhouseCoopers Oy Juha Wahlroos Sirpa Juutinen Authorised Public Accountant Partner Sustainability & Climate Change Nordea Sustainability Report 2019 The report in brief Nordea´s Sustainability Report 2019 has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. The report is divided into two sections. In the front section, pages 4–29, we tell our sustainability story focusing on how Nordea enables the transition to a sustainable future by working with material topics and providing sustainable solutions, products and services to our customers. In the back section, pages 30–49, we provide supplementary information to disclosures in the front section as well as information about our materiality analysis, stakeholder engagement and participation in commitments and initiatives. The back section also includes a fact book with sustainability data, our report on limitations in scope and omission statements according to GRI (where relevant), our presentation of the GRI Content Index with application level according to the GRI Standards as well as a Principles for Responsible Banking Reporting Index and a TCFD Disclosure Index. An independent third party, Pricewaterhouse­Coopers Oy, has provided assurance on the sustainability information provided in this report. The scope of the assured information is indicated in the Independent Practitioner’s Assurance Report on page 50. More details about the report itself are presented in sustainability note S1. on page 31. The report is available for downloading at nordea.com/sustainability. If you have any questions about the Sustainability Report, you are welcome to address them to sustainability@nordea.com Nordea Sustainability Report 2019 Nordea Bank Abp Corporate registration no. 2858394-9 For more information about sustainability at Nordea Hamnbanegatan 5 | FI-00020 Helsinki please visit our website, nordea.com/sustainability. Tel +358 200 70000 | www.nordea.com For feedback, contact us at sustainability@nordea.com
