Sustainability Report Non-financial Information Statement 2019 2 This report is available in its PDF version at tendam’s website: https://www.tendam.es/en/corporateresponsibility/#sustantibility-report CONTACT US Your opinion of this report or any aspect of Sustainability at Tendam is very important to us. Please contact us at: Corporate Communication and CSR Avda. Llano Castellano, 51 28034 Madrid (Spain) www.tendam.es For more information about Tendam. prensa@tendam.es Visit our website: www.tendam.es/en/home/ 3 Contents Message from the Chairman 5. Our people and CEO / 4 Committed to people / 70 Work-life balance and social benefits / 74 Subsequent events: Health and safety / 76 COVID -19 / 7 Equality, diversity and inclusion / 78 Talent management / 80 Training opportunities and professional 1. Tendam development / 82 Our company / 32 Tendam around the world / 32 Our brands / 32 6. Responsible supply chain This year’s milestones / 32 Our suppliers / 86 139 years of history / 32 External Code of Conduct / 87 Responsible supply chain / 88 Logistics management / 91 2. SustainableCommitment Our corporate identity / 32 Sustainable business approach / 33 7. Environmental management Materiality analysis / 34 Committed to environmental sustainability / 98 Our commitments / 36 Eco-friendly garments / 98 Relation with stakeholders / 38 Commitments to climate change / 102 Committed to the 2030 Agenda / 40 Energy efficiency / 104 Respect for Human Rights / 42 Emissions / 106 3. Corporate Governance 8. Committed to society Ownership structure / 46 Strategic alliances / 110 Governance / 46 Social impact projects / 112 Corporate ethics and regulatory compliance / 50 Corporate Volunteering / 117 Information security and data protection / 53 Risk management / 54 9. About this report The report’s scope and coverage / 120 4. Our customers Economic contribution / 121 The customer / 58 Main KPIs 2018-2019 / 122 More efficient and eco-friendly stores / 60 Principles of the Global Compact / 124 Sustainability of our garments / 62 Information requested under the Law 11/2018 / Permanent dialogue with our customers / 64 125 Communication with values / 67 External Verification / 129 4 Message from the Chairman and CEO Dear stakeholders, 2019 has been an excellent year for Tendam as we have achieved many of the goals we set in the strategic plan launched in 2016. The group closed the year with the strongest financial position in the last 15 years, achieving the highest turnover in its history, with well-positioned brands and a profitable omnichannel ecosystem thanks to linking our customer clubs with an advanced CRM, data analysis, and an efficient e-commerce operation integrated with our far-reaching network of stores. Our Annual Sustainability Report for 2019 reflects nonfinancial information and diversity as a separate document from the Management Report. It contains the information needed to assess performance and progress made not only in economic and commercial terms but also regarding social and environmental aspects with significant progress concerning matters such as integration, social action, and the fight against climate change. Starting the new financial year on 1 March 2020 with a healthy company and a clear strategy has been key in the face of the health, economic, and social crisis caused by the declaration of the COVID-19 pandemic. Although these are events that have occurred after the Tendam made its global logistics and supply resources reporting period, I feel that I must briefly mention this available to health authorities and other important period in which I am currently addressing you. Tendam companies such as Openbank and CLH, managing the has faced the challenge by establishing a plan with two acquisition and donation of over 2 tonnes of protective key objectives: protecting the company’s health–which material worth nearly one million euros to hospitals and means protecting the health of employees, customers, and nursing homes. Our brands have also donated a million business partners as well as financial protection in terms euros’ worth of garments and accessories through direct of cash–and actively helping to minimise the social impact donations. These donations have been managed thanks of the COVID-19 crisis. to the commitment of our employees at our headquarters and our e-commerce and logistics platforms along with the This plan included active inventory management, reducing brands’ effort and their social networks to fulfil more than operating expenses, and non-strategic investments. In 600 orders. 50,000 garments have covered healthcare the financial sphere, the company increased its financial professionals’, patients’, and residents’ urgent need for capacity through its revolving line and an additional credit clothing and footwear at major health centres throughout of 132.5 million euros with guarantees from the Spanish Spain during the most critical point of the pandemic with government managed by the Official Credit Institute (ICO, the “El hilo que nos une” #TodosSumamos (The thread that for its acronym in Spanish). connects us #AllTogether) initiative. Thanks to our cash position at the end of 2019, we have But the impact of the crisis that occurred at the beginning of also been able to support our employees and society in our 2020 financial year must not take the spotlight away from facing this historic challenge. The company topped up the year we are now presenting. In 2019, Tendam’s revenues the salaries of all furloughed employees to 100% while increased by 3.2% after totalling 1,187.3 million euros versus operations were stopped as well as offered them interest1,150.8 million the previous year. All Tendam brands grew in free microloans, which were taken up by over 2,000 like-for-like sales, while traffic also increased progressively employees. 5 over the twelve months. All Tendam brands grew in like-forHierro, Honest at Women’secret, and, recently, Lifeway at like sales while foot traffic also increased progressively over Fifty, working with new sustainable fibres and fabrics, organic the twelve months. Sales in the fourth quarter increased by and recycled materials, and less water-intensive processes. 6.4% in total and by 5% on a like-for-like basis. In 2019, we have managed for over 50% of our denim to be Online sales increased by 28% (+30.5% during the fourth produced with low water consumption through processes quarter), representing nearly 10% of total sales in Spain in called H2Ø (H to Zero) that minimise consumption in 2019. manufacturing processes up to 90%. Gross margin climbed 0.2 p.p. to 62%, driven by the Our commitment is to increase the weight of sustainable positioning of the brands and management of gross stock products, reaching 50% in 2030. To do so, a group has before depreciation, which stood at 164.4 million euros at the been set up across the organisation called WE CARE which end of February (almost 5 million less than in February 2019). is coordinated by Sourcing and Quality. It brings together Recurring EBITDA pre-IFRS totalled 162 million euros (versus members of the Design and Purchasing Departments from all 161.7 million euros in 2018). Taking into account IFRS16, it our chains as well as other corporate departments to promote stands at 297 million euros. and coordinate procedures, initiatives, and proposals related to textile sustainability and innovation. Its main aim is to At year-end, free cash flow generation after interest had make the team aware of areas for improvement and market improved amounting to a total of 83.1 million euros (+14.2 trends for their implementation and thus contribute to the million euros representing growth of 20.6% versus February transformation towards a more sustainable model. 2019). Net debt was 430.6 million euros, representing a debt-to-EBITDA ratio of 2.7x (down from 2.8x the previous In plastics reduction, Springfield has launched the 3R project year). Pre-IFRS16 profit before tax amounted to 81.2 million to minimise the use of non-commercial packaging, leading the euros (+0.5%). process for the rest of the group. As part of its business model, Tendam has continued to The aim of the processes in the value chain is also to improve recruit customers to its loyalty clubs, which currently have the company’s social impact so we continuously undergo over 26 million members, up 9% versus last year. Our reviews both through Tendam’s third-party social audit differential advantage is these customers’ connection with system and amfori’s BSCI common system as a member of Cortefiel and Pedro del Hierro, Springfield, Women’secret, the organisation. This year audits have increased by 10% and now also Fifty, which has launched its new Club. with the inspection of 478 factories. Tendam has also continued to improve its impact on society Tendam is a company that is 84% women and 56% of them and the environment and has made significant progress on hold management positions. To seek more balance and most of the Sustainable Development Goals during 2019, encourage participation in the company’s management in strengthening the commitment it made within the framework 2019, we launched the Tendam Women Sponsoring Program of the United Nations Global Compact and joining the United initiative with the aim of 60% of management positions and Nations’ new global initiatives such as the Fashion Industry 50% of Management Committee seats being held by women Charter for Climate Action and the Business Ambition for by 2030. 1.5ºC. The company also signed up to the Fashion Pact that emerged from the G7 summit in the fight against Volunteer activities that were beginning to emerge in recent climate change and protecting the oceans and biodiversity, years have been strengthened and fully activated with the becoming involved in its operational management boards. In formal launch of Somos Voluntarios Corporate Volunteer my case, I have assumed the responsibility of being part of Program this year. 167 volunteers have done 872 hours of its Management Committee along with other Chairman and social and environmental volunteering. CEOs to promote achieving its science-based targets or SBTs. Regarding strategic alliances that have an impact on the In line with these initiatives, the company has reduced its CO2 Sustainable Development Goals, the company has continued emissions during the year by 30%, which is equivalent to to support universities and business schools dedicated to 16,222 fewer tonnes, and has signed an agreement in 2020 developing new talent for the fashion world in terms of to supply energy with a guarantee of origin from renewable design as well as management. This is in addition to the energy sources throughout its sales network, buildings and aforementioned alliances within the scope of the United facilities in Spain, its headquarters and main market. Nations and the Fashion Pact and its participation in multistakeholder initiatives such as the Fashion Social Forum in The group has continued to work towards a more Spain, among other sectoral alliances. The Tendam Chair sustainable product line led by Springfield with its at ISEM and supporting its seedbed for start-ups, Atelier, R[ECO]NSIDER collections, which have become established and the Sustainability and Ecodesign Classroom at the as environmentally friendly collections accounting for 15% of Universidad Politécnica de Madrid’s CSDMM stand out. This the brand’s products. All of the brands now have sustainable year, a special end-of-degree award in sustainable design collections such as Eco-friendly at Cortefiel and Pedro del has been launched. 6 This year, Tendam’s Involucrados initiative reached a record I would especially like to highlight the award given to of 152,170 euros with the charitable sale of pieces from our Women’secret by the prestigious SERES Foundation. The brands and the participation of volunteers from Tendam and foundation has awarded the #SIMEIMPORTA project for NGOs selected by the jury. These funds will be used to fund its innovative nature and for creating value for women. social projects in Spain, Cambodia, and Cameroon. On its The campaign is the result of a long-standing collaboration fifteenth anniversary, it has already accumulated 1.6 million between our leading intimate apparel brand and the Dexeus euros in donations that have funded 53 projects and directly Foundation in its fight against breast cancer that began with benefited 500,000 people around the world. the launch of the Post Surgery Bras collection. In the area of social action, the brands also signed collaboration As a result of the improvement process set by the agreements and carried out awareness campaigns such as strategic plan over the last three years, consolidated by a “Perfectos Imperfectos” (a campaign focused on disabilities) good financial year in 2019, and taking into account the by Cortefiel and the Cadete Foundation, “Fashion 2nd Life” uncertainties but also the opportunities for change and by Pedro del Hierro and Universidad de Navarra’s CIMA (its improvement presented by the COVID-19 crisis, Tendam biomedical research centre) for research into Alzheimer’s, is in an excellent position to lead the sector into the future “Let’s save our Mediterranean” by Springfield with National where there will be five key elements: exponential growth Geographic for conserving Posidonia oceanica, and the in online business, more responsible consumers, fashion #GirlsGetEqual campaign supported by Women’secret and which is more timeless but offers greater added value, the launched by Plan International. Fifty has strengthened its need to integrate sustainability into every facet of our lives, volunteer collaboration with the Daughters of Charity of and companies taking a more active role in contributing to a Madrid’s meal programme. better society. Jaume Miquel Chairman and CEO of Tendam 7 Subsequent events: COVID -19 The SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus (COVID-19) outbreak They have responded to more than 600 requests from in China at the end of 2019 and its subsequent hospitals, health centres, nursing homes, and field categorisation as a pandemic by the World Health hospitals and donated over 50,000 garments worth more Organization (WHO) in March 2020 has caused an than 1 million euros. unprecedented global health, economic, and social crisis. The following groups, among others, have received free The company, whose activity in the first quarter of garments from Tendam’s brands: financial year 2020/21 has been significantly affected for Healthcare professionals who have relocated from their this crisis, has developed actions on different fronts: usual place of residence to fight the pandemic, Actions to protect the health and safety of employees, Sick people in isolation customers and suppliers. Residents and staff at nursing homes. Measures to protect its business and own financial health. Social, solidarity, and active collaboration initiatives. Tendam believes that being an active and responsible part Protecting our employees of society is an unswerving commitment and, to this end, has launched several initiatives to collaborate and fight The company’s management has aimed to preserve jobs against the spread of the virus. and protect employees at all times. The company has taken steps to protect its workers such as: A cash benefit as part of the Temporary Redundancy Providing medical supplies Plan (ERTE) in Spain: the company has complemented the public benefit of each employee affected by the Since the beginning of the crisis, Tendam has made ERTE to make up the shortfall up to 100% for its entire its international supply network available to Spanish duration. It has also made micro-credits at zero interest authorities and other companies in its environment for available to them to deal with any incident or delay in purchasing medical supplies. receipt of government social benefits. Tendam has managed to purchase and ship more than Promoting teleworking and putting safety, health and 1 million euros worth of medical supplies to Spain. Part hygiene measures and protocols into place at stores of this has been fully funded by Tendam and part has and offices. been funded in collaboration with other companies such as Openbank and CLH. This operation has resulted in delivering some 2.5 tonnes of medical supplies to Spanish Protection programme at stores health authorities. The reopening of the Group’s network of stores has been progressive, following the standards and guidelines #TodosSumamos (#AllTogether) required and/or recommended by the competent Initiative El hilo que nos une authorities in each country. Strict safety, health and (The thread that connects us) hygiene protocols have been developed and implemented to protect customers and workers. In solidarity with those who have been most affected, The measures that have been put into place include using Tendam Group’s brands Cortefiel, Pedro del Hierro, masks, gloves and hydroalcoholic gels; store capacity Springfield, Women’secret and Fifty have joined forces limits; practising physical distancing; sanitising clothing; and made their garments available to healthcare disinfecting changing rooms after each use; changing professionals, institutions, and nursing homes for free store layout to improve traffic flows; and encouraging through the ‘El hilo que nos une’ campaign. payment by mobile phone or card. 8 1. Tendam Our company Tendam around the world Our brands This year’s milestones 139 years of history 9 10 Sustantibility Report 2019 Our company Tendam is one of the European leading groups in the specialised fashion segment, recognised for its history, experience and growth over its nearly 140 years of history. We are specialised in the management of brands in the premium mass market segment that bridges the gap between fast fashion and accessible luxury. The sum of our brands: Cortefiel, Pedro del Hierro, Springfield, Women’secret, Hoss Intropia and Fifty exponentially multiplies the scope and expansion of an innovative company with an international vision. We distribute our collections through almost 2,000 points of sale spread across four continents. Our brands have special advantages that ensure that they are complementary brands, with no overlap, offering flexibility in retail formats and adapted to different sized markets. Each targets a specific audience and has its own creative, design and sales teams, sharing management centres and common services. We are taking on the challenge of managing our operations in an efficient and environmentally friendly manner, setting ourselves specific goals that allow us to tackle the industry’s challenges in the fight against climate change and the protection of the environment. We assess the greatest risks in these matters and identify the best opportunities to minimise their effects. The company’s headquarters are located in Madrid, and in Spain we have another office in Barcelona. We also have other commercial offices in the countries with business under our own management. To manage the global supply chain, we have international offices in Hong Kong, India and Bangladesh. The parent company’s central offices encompass the administrative, financial, technological, legal, expansion, procurement, operations and human resources functions that support each of the brands. This structure allows us to efficiently manage a multi-format business model. The logistics centre in Madrid acts as a consolidation centre and sole distributor for Europe. The company has another distribution centre in Spain (Cuenca) from where it manages online operations and three other logistics centres in Hong Kong, Mexico and Russia. 1. Tendam 11 2019 in figures 1,990 86 385,879 points of sale countries in which Sqm sales area we operate MARKETS 1,187 26 91 € million in turnover million members million garments CUSTOMERS 10,735 84% 33 employees women average age of the workforce EMPLOYEES 800 50% 30% stores using renewable of denim made with reduction in CO2 energy less water emissions within ENVIRONMENT the last year 12 Sustantibility Report 2019 Tendam around the world 86 almost 2,000 Online markets: Countries points of sale 47 Own stores Franchises Own stores and franchises EUROPE 1,473 Points of sale AMERICA AFRICA 239 Points of sale 38 Points of sale 1. Tendam 13 Own stores Belgium Luxembourg Bosnia Mexico 1,367 623 Bulgaria Croatia Montenegro Portugal Own stores Franchises France Russia Germany Serbia Hungary Spain Italy Franchises Albania Italy Andorra Jordan Angola Kazakhstan Armenia Kenya Austria Kuwait Azerbaijan Latvia Bahrain Lebanon Belarus Libya Bermuda Macedonia Bolivia Malta Bosnia Mauritius Chile Mexico Cyprus Montenegro Colombia Morocco Costa rica Myanmar ASIA Croatia Norway 43 Points of sale Cuba Curaçao Czech Republic Oman Pakistan Paraguay Dominican Peru Republic Philippines Ecuador Qatar Egypt Reunion island Estonia Russia Georgia Saudi Arabia Ghana MIDDLE EAST AND Serbia Gibraltar NORTH AFRICA Greece Slovenia 197 Tunisia Point of Guatemala Ukraine sale India  nited Arab U Indonesia Emirates Iran Uzbekistan Iraq Venezuela Ireland 14 Sustantibility Report 2019 Own stores EUROPE CTF PDH SPF WS FF Total Germany 9 9 Belgium 17 12 29 Bosnia 1 7 6 1 15 Bulgaria 1 1 1 3 Croatia 9 10 1 20 Spain 141 6 312 305 57 821 France 57 5 62 Hungary 14 12 1 27 Italy 46 46 Luxembourg 5 1 6 Montenegro 1 1 1 3 Portugal 23 64 55 11 153 Russia 26 64 90 Serbia 1 18 20 1 40 AMERICA CTF PDH SPF WS FF Total Mexico 24 18 1 43 CORTEFIEL PEDRO DEL HIERRO SPRINGFIELD WOMEN’SECRET FIFTY 1. Tendam 15 1. Tendam 15 Franchises EUROPE CTF PDH SPF WS Total AMERICA CTF PDH SPF WS Total Albania 1 1 1 3 Bermuda 1 1 Andorra 2 4 2 8 Bolivia 2 1 2 2 7 Armenia 1 2 3 Chile 3 17 20 Austria 2 2 4 Colombia 9 9 Belarus 1 6 7 Costa Rica 1 1 6 6 14 Bosnia 1 1 Cuba 1 1 2 Cyprus 12 14 6 32 Curaçao 1 1 1 3 Croatia 1 1 Ecuador 24 12 36 Slovenia 1 3 2 6 Guatemala 1 1 1 3 Estonia 2 3 5 10 Mexico 11 23 23 57 Georgia 1 2 3 Paraguay 1 2 3 Gibraltar 1 1 2 Peru 10 13 1 24 Greece 1 6 7 Dominican Rep. 1 2 3 Ireland 12 1 13 Venezuela 3 5 6 14 Italy 1 1 Latvia 1 1 2 4 Macedonia 4 2 6 MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH Malta 1 3 3 7 OF AFRICA CTF PDH SPF WS Total Montenegro 1 1 Saudi Arabia 9 13 38 60 Norway 1 1 Bahrain 1 1 Czech Republic 2 2 Egypt 3 7 6 16 Russia 4 4 Arab Emirates 14 15 29 Serbia 2 2 4 Iran 5 15 7 27 Ukraine 8 11 19 Iraq 1 1 1 3 Jordan 4 3 7 Kuwait 8 8 Lebanon 9 13 3 25 AFRICA CTF PDH SPF WS Total Libya 1 1 2 Angola 7 7 7 21 Morocco 3 3 Ghana 1 1 2 Oman 2 2 Reunion Island 2 2 4 Qatar 1 5 6 Kenia 6 1 7 Tunisia 4 3 7 Mauritius 1 1 2 4 Uzbekistan 1 1 ASIA CTF PDH SPF WS Total Azerbaijan 2 2 Myanmar 3 1 4 Philippines 3 8 6 4 21 India 1 1 Indonesia 3 3 Kazakhstan 5 1 6 Pakistan 2 2 2 6 16 Sustantibility Report 2019 Cortefiel was the first brand created by the group. From its beginnings in 1945 it has operated on the basis of values such as the elegance, quality, comfort and functionality of its garments. It is proud of its textile heritage, its experience in clothing and its commitment to society through its charitable actions. This year, Cortefiel has become a benchmark brand and a leader in fashion. Maintaining its “timeless” focus, it has created collections for every moment in life, prioritising innovation and sustainability. Its experience and customer service have allowed it to gain the trust and loyalty of its shoppers. Today, they are part of a club that has been running for 40 years and that has more than six million members. The natural elegance that its garments transmit and its wide variety of products have led it to become a model of fashion that has been growing to such an extent that it now has more than 272 points of sale in 34 countries, both own stores and franchises. In 2019 Cortefiel has strengthened its commitment to society through the campaign Perfectos Imperfectos (Perfectly Imperfect), an initiative carried out together with the Cadete Foundation, with the aim of demonstrating to the world the beauty of the imperfect,giving visibility to children born with a disability. 1. Tendam 17 1945 2,380 Established 315.93 Employees Million turnover (Includes PdH turnover) 272 26.6% Points of Turnover on the sale total of Tendam 34 Countries Albania Andorra Angola Bolivia Bosnia Bulgaria Chile Costa Rica Curaçao Cyprus Dominican Republic Egypt Estonia Georgia Guatemala Iran Iraq Jordan Kenya Latvia Lebanon Libya Malta Mauritius Mexico Montenegro Pakistan Peru Philippines Portugal Saudi Arabia Serbia Spain Venezuela 18 Sustantibility Report 2019 Pedro del Hierro is a Spanish fashion brand that has a long tradition in haute couture in the country. Created in Madrid in 1974 by the designer whos name is devoted to, it exclusively joined Cortefiel in 1989 and has been owned by the Group since 1992. True to its values of style, elegance and quality, it carefully combines the colour and delicacy of fabrics with exclusive and unique designs, offering customers affordable luxury. The brand’s concept and personality are based on values such as tradition, culture, architecture and art, but, above all, the designer’s legacy can still be found in the brand’s DNA, adapting it to the latest trends, from everyday clothing to Red Carpet collections. Being a symbol of Spanish artisan heritage, Pedro del Hierro is an exclusive brand for beauty lovers. “My designs will always be a form of expression that helps to find one’s best qualities” Pedro del Hierro 1. Tendam 19 42 1974 Employees Established in Spain 292 20 Points of sale Independent stores 35 Countries Albania Andorra Angola Bolivia Bosnia Bulgaria Chile Costa Rica Curaçao Cyprus Dominican Republic Egypt Estonia Georgia Guatemala Iran Iraq Jordan Kenia Latvia Lebanon Libya Malta Mauritius Mexico Montenegro Pakistan Peru Philippines Portugal Saudi Arabia Serbia Slovenia Spain Venezuela 20 Sustantibility Report 2019 A brand for real people with attitude in their daily lives, which is strongly committed to a new generation of demanding consumers. It offers them an attractive vision based on principles such as sustainability and innovation. In keeping with this, since 2018 Springfield has been promoting its R[ECO]NSIDER label, which in 2019 has beaten its growth targets to account for 15% of the brand’s products. The garments offer sustainable features with initiatives such as the use of natural and recycled fibres, as well as its H2Ø programme focused on the use of laser and ozone technologies in denim finishing processes. Innovation in the fabric has also led the brand to create its ZERO GRAVITY line of jeans and its KEEP IT WARM! coats, both with the aim of making the lives of Springfield’s shoppers easier. The “easy to wear” collections, competitive prices and very affordable fashion are the key concepts driving the rapid growth and expansion of the brand. In 1993 Springfield went international by opening its first store in Portugal. In 2002, the Springfield Club was born and is currently present in Spain, Portugal, Belgium and France with more than eleven million members and in 2006, the brand’s women’s line was launched. All of this has turned Springfield into a global, authentic, inclusive, active and natural brand, values that define it and that have shown themselves capable of adapting to events. Currently, Springfield is present in around 60 countries with a retail network of 853 points of sale around the world through own stores and franchises and, since 2012, through its online sales channel. 1. Tendam 21 1988 Established 4,064 446.02 Employees Million turnover 853 37.57% Points of sale Turnover on the total of Tendam 58 Countries Albania Andorra Angola Armenia Austria Belarus Belgium Bolivia Bosnia Bulgaria Costa Rica Croatia Cuba Curaçao Cyprus Czech Republic Ecuador Egypt Estonia France Germany Ghana Gibraltar Greece Guatemala Hungary Iran Iraq Ireland Italy Jordan Kazakhstan Latvia Lebanon Libya Luxembourg Macedonia Malta Mauritius Mexico Montenegro Myanmar Norway Paraguay Peru Philippines Portugal Qatar Reunion Island Russia Saudi Arabia Serbia Slovenia Spain Tunisia United Arab Emirates Ukraine Venezuela 22 Sustantibility Report 2019 Women’secret was established in 1993 as a specialist in the female intimate segment. The brand was created by women for women and specialised in lingerie, nightwear and swimwear, managing to combine elegance, femininity, comfort and quality. In 2001, it embarked upon international expansion. Today, it is present in 67 countries and at 772 points of sale. The brand is focussing on an environmentally-friendly future and working to improve processes and select more sustainable raw materials. This year it has launched Honest by Women’secret, a new clothing line made with organic cotton and recycled materials, taking another step in caring for and respecting the ecosystem of our planet. For 25 years, Women’secret has maintained a strong commitment to society and to causes related to issues that are especially important or concerning for women. This is why, seven years ago, the joint project with Dexeus Mujer was born. This helps to normalise the daily lives of women who have had breast cancer. “We work to make the daily lives of all women easier. We believe that it is very important for women to feel comfortable with their style and their bodies, which is why each season we create a versatile range that meets the needs of all our customers.” 1. Tendam 23 1993 Established 2,829 336.31 Employees Million turnover 772 28.33% Points of sale Turnover on the total of Tendam 67 Countries Albania Andorra Angola Armenia Austria Azerbaijan Bahrain Belarus Belgium Bermuda Bolivia Bosnia Bulgaria Chile Colombia Costa Rica Croatia Cuba Curaçao Cyprus Dominican Republic Ecuador Egypt Estonia France Georgia Ghana Gibraltar Greece Hungary India Indonesia Iran Iraq Ireland Italy Kazakhstan Kenia Kuwait Latvia Lebanon Luxembourg Macedonia Malta Mauritius Mexico Montenegro Morocco Myanmar Oman Pakistan Paraguay Peru Philippines Portugal Qatar Reunion Island Russia Saudi Arabia Serbia Slovenia Spain Tunisia Ukraine United Arab Emirate Uzbekistan Venezuela 24 Sustantibility Report 2019 FIFTY is Tendam’s multibrand chain operating in 7 countries with 73 points of sale. It offers products from its own brand Milano and outlet products from Cortefiel, Pedro del Hierro, Springfield and Women’secret. Since 1997, reinvention, innovation and effectiveness have led the chain to undertake international expansion with a high level of recognition, thus encouraging “Smart shopping”, an essential pillar of our successful business system, offering a unique omnichannel buying experience in the outlet sector. It has its own brand, MILANO, which is brimming with its own DNA with urban fit, trendy and modern garments. FIFTY offers great discounts without compromising on providing the best design and quality. The chain has embarked on a production process adapted to the new policies and in keeping with the company’s strategy, focussing on a new concept based on an eco-friendly line. As part of the brand’s expansion process, in 2019 it opened its first stores in Croatia and Mexico, expanding its presence to seven countries. 1. Tendam 25 1997 Established 799 87.44 Employees Million turnover 73 7.36% Points of sale Turnover on the total of Tendam 7 Countries Bosnia Croatia Hungary Mexico Portugal Serbia Spain 26 Sustantibility Report 2019 This year’s milestones MORE SUSTAINABLE WE CONTINUE GROWING Tendam joined the Fashion Pact Tendam has expanded its portfolio This coalition involve the leading global fashion companies and continues growing committed to common environmental goals focussed on The company acquired the Hoss/Intropia protecting the climate, biodiversity and the oceans. brand that has been added to its portfolio. This new adquisition reflects the Group’s Our brands are focussing on sustainable strategy of evolution and growth, having collections reached 1,990 points of sale with Springfield has expanded its R[ECO]NSIDER large-scale openings nationally and collection, Women’secret has launched internationally. Honest by Women’secret and Cortefiel has strengthened its Eco-friendly collection. In addition, 50% of the denim in our brands is H2Ø, meaning that it uses up to 90% less water in its production processes. Growth online in the last year Digital sales grew by 28% as a result of the progress and ongoing evolution of Tendam’s omnichannel strategy. Women’secret and Springfield now offer online sales in Hungary. Renewable energy in our stores In 2020 our electricity supply contract guarantees that 100% of the energy acquired is from renewable energy. This covers the Tendam brands’ almost 800 retail premises in Spain, as well as the group’s operating facilities in the country. Recognised by Business Ambition for 1.5ºC The company continues to make progress with its sustainability strategy and has received recognition from the United Nations Global Compact for signing up to the Business Ambition for 1.5ºC initiative, the largest climate action movement. Omnichannel approach at our points of sale We provided volunteers to help out with COP25 Multibrand collection has been launched in different stores in Spain and has been rolled Our volunteers helped out in the Green Zone of COP25, out to Portugal. This gives our customers encouraging visitors to find out more about the Sustainable the option to collect their online order in Development Goals (SDG) and the 2030 Agenda. another of the group’s stores. 1. Tendam 27 OUR TEAM We have received the Top Employer 2019 certification The company has been recognised once again as one of the companies offering the best working conditions in our country, as a result of the great dedication and joint effort of everyone working at Tendam to make the company an excellent place to work. Culture of well-being New initiatives have been developed to COMMITTED promote a culture of well-being: yoga classes, TO SOCIETY mindfulness, laughter therapy workshop and physiotherapy sessions. Social Innovation Award Committed to equality for Women’secret Cortefiel has launched The company has received the Diploma from Women’secret continues to its Perfectos Imperfectos the Diversity Charter and recognition from the focus on the health of women collection to support Directory of Companies Committed to Equality, suffering from breast cancer charity rewarding it for the work carried out to promote through the #Simeimporta project, run in collaboration Through the charity project diversity and its commitment to the principles of Perfectos Imperfectos from non-discrimination. with the Dexeus Mujer Foundation. The initiative has the Cadete Foundation, the received an award from the brand has designed a capsule Business recognition from the Spanish Seres Foundation for being collection to support the Red Cross an innovative project that rehabilitation treatments that generates value for women, allow disabled children to have Each year we welcome hundreds of students and it has received the National a better future. from different education institutions, improving their education and allowing them to develop Marketing award in the Social their full potential. As a result, the Spanish Red Marketing Category. Tendam sponsors Cross has recognised the company for its work the Business Women in helping vulnerable people play a more active Pedro del Hierro auction Empowerment initiative role in society and the labour market. against Alzheimer’s Once again this year, the Working with the Clinic at company has joined the the University of Navarra, the Cinnamon News initiative with brand organised the “Fashion the aim of contributing to the 2nd Life. Let nobody forget empowerment of women in the their memories” auction financial and business world. that raised €15,500 to fund research projects run by the Clinic’s research centre to fight Women’secret joins Alzheimer’s disease. the #GirlsGetEqual movement The social initiative Thanks to the Women Involucrados has raised Power campaign that more than €152,000 involved the sale of The raising have been bracelets to celebrate We have launched the SOMOS divided among the Gil International Women’s Day, Gayarre Foundation, the brand has donated VOLUNTARIOS programme the Spanish Association more than €50,000 to More than 167 employees have taken of Amyotrophic Lateral Plan International for part in the company’s volunteering Sclerosis (ADELA), the NGO its education project in activities this year, mainly focussed Sauce and the Recover Bangladesh. on the environment and supporting Foundation. groups at risk of social exclusion. 28 Sustantibility Report 2019 139 YEARS OF HISTORY From Grupo Cortefiel to Tendam 1880 1960 The García-Quirós brothers 1933 open a small haberdashery The company exports to the USA The La Palma shirt store in Madrid, on with the Cortefiel brand factory opens Romanones st. in Madrid that is sold in Macy’s and Saks 1945 The first men’s suits with the Cortefiel label leave the tailoring factory 1985 Launch of 1988 Milano, Launch of Springfield, the brand specialising the hallmark of young in tailoring casual fashion 1991 International expansion 1993 begins with the opening of stores in Portugal 1992 Launch of and France Acquisition Women’secret, of Pedro del with a focus on lingerie Hierro and swimwear 1. Tendam 29 2018 2018 Launch of the new corporate brand Tendam, as head of the company, managing all the different brands. Pedro del Hierro returns to MBFWMadrid 2019  Tendam acquires the HOSS INTROPIA brand to strengthen its growth strategy 2017 CVC and PAI Partners acquire 100% of the company 2013 Pedro del Hierro presents its first collection at New York Fashion Week 2014 2012 The company wins the All the company’s National Large Fashion brands operate Enterprise Award 100% online 2005 2000 Change in the 2006 shareholding that results Launch of Women’secret in the entry of Springfield starts to operate CVC, PAI Partners online Woman and Permira 30 Sustantibility Report 2019 2. Sustainable Commitment Our corporate identity Sustainable business approach Materiality analysis Our commitments Relation with stakeholders Committed to the 2030 Agenda Respect for Human Rights 2. Sustainable Commitment 31 32 Sustantibility Report 2019 Our corporate identity The company’s identity encompasses our mission, vision and way of working. It is essential to aspiring to create a more sustainable company, with a value proposal adapted to each segment of the population to which our commercial offer is directed, adopting innovation as a strategic challenge and distinguishing feature in our culture. What To be a leading group worldwide in the lifestyle fashion Our sector, focused on meeting the needs of our customers, we work mission for every day helping our employees to grow and contributing to the development of society. Our The goal To offer our customers the best fashion; global fashion that is vision we want to achieve consistent with and committed to their lifestyle, different and diverse, represented by leading international brands. Our The behaviour values that identifies us They reflect the beliefs that guide our behaviour. Customer first Honesty Integrity Excellence The most important thing for us We believe in a culture of Integrity plays a key role in We are passionate about is the customer. We work for truth, trust, transparency, our values, and our success fashion, our brands and and on behalf of them. Those of respect and responsibility. is thanks to the people who our products. But we us who work at Tendam always We act honestly with comprise our teams. Acting can improve and we are put the customer at the centre each other and with third in keeping with what we constantly working to do of our decisions and we do our parties, respecting society, think and say helps with our so. The passion for our best to meet their current needs the environment and our personal and professional business and our attitude and anticipate their future ones. surroundings. development and reinforces of constant improvement Our goal is for our products our objectivity, credibility is reflected in what and services to surpass the and leadership. This, in turn, those of us who work at expectations of our customers. contributes to the sustainable Tendam do each day. growth of our business. Innovation Collaboration Ambition We are all part of and contribute to a common The diversity of our teams reflects We want to be leaders, the best project. Promoting the generation of innovative the diversity of our markets at what we do. The ambition of all and effective ideas and launching revolutionary and customers. This plurality of us at Tendam is to surpass our initiatives contributes to generating value for our and teamwork help us to better goals, to challenge ourselves and to customers, employees, suppliers, subcontractors understand the business and exceed expectations every day, to and franchisees and, in general, for society. consolidate our long-term growth. offer our customers the best fashion. 2. Sustainable Commitment 33 Sustainable business model To maximise our positive impact and integrate responsible behaviour into the management of the business and our income statement, we work to keep responsibly managing our business activity. The company is committed to promoting best practices in sustainability and is aware of its role to help improve the social and economic environment where it operates. Our business model is centred around a way of Human Rights working that allows us to improve quality of life and contribute to a healthier future for our employees, Tendam is permanently committed to respecting and consumers, suppliers and society. promoting Human Rights which is reflected since 2020 in its corporate policies. This commitment is shown through joining the United Nations Global Compact with the integration of the Ten Principles in the company’s Our Team strategic vision to design and run projects that promote a responsible environment and the dissemination of best Tendam is committed to integrity, ethics and practices in the industry. responsibility regarding our behaviour and decision making. Our team is a key element in value creation, which is why we work on developing initiatives that Investment in society encourage their professional growth, as well as on promoting diversity and equality, work-life balance, Social commitment is a key part of Tendam’s sense of well-being and the safety of all. responsibility and fits firmly within the company’s corporate values. The group works closely with the communities Economic growth where it operates to promote sustainable development. The company maintains a sound financial position that allows us to retain the confidence of our Sustainable garments shareholders, customers and suppliers, as well as the financial institutions. This , at the same time, allows We are committed to sustainable development that meets us to generate opportunities for growth. our needs today without compromising the needs of future generations in a way that respects the environment, Environmental sustainability social well-being and economic growth. Our brands support the search for new processes and raw materials Our commitment to sustainability is part of our that help us to be more sustainable every day. day-to-day work. With the challenge of minimising the environmental impact of its activity, the company focuses its efforts on promoting the circular economy, the fight against climate change, commercialization of sustainable clothing and energy efficiency in both stores and offices. 34 Sustantibility Report 2019 Materiality analysis Seeking what is important In 2019, the materiality matrix presented in the company’s latest sustainability report was updated. The materiality matrix update has been done through a two-step analysis and consultative process. The perceptions of stakeholders and the capacities and strengths of the business model have been assessed to define opportunities for improvement. This materiality study makes it possible to focus on the priorities of the company’s sustainability plans and programmes. The following methodology has been carried out: INTERNAL PERSPECTIVE EXTERNAL PERSPECTIVE Analyst and Analysis of Senior Work groups Priorities of the investor Tendam’s management’s with 57 Industry forums and initiatives trends in differential internal view of participants from analysis Tendam participated in terms of strengths sustainability the company (stakeholders) ESG OPPORTUNITIES FOR IMPROVEMENT RELEVANT ISSUES Methodology Materiality matrix 1. A  nalysis of industry trends regarding sustainability with a + special focus on innovation and processes. 5 2. Analysis of stakeholders’ priorities through the forums and initiatives Tendam participates in. 4 1 7 13 2 External Perspective 3. T  rend analysis of analysts’ and investors’ priorities on sustainability 6 3 issues. 9 4. A  nalysis of the business model 8 and the company’s differential 10 strengths. 12 5. F  ocus group with employees key for management, with the participation of different business areas not necessarily linked to specific 11 sustainability issues. 6. In-depth interviews with senior management. Internal Perspective + Environment Products Social and people Good Governance 2. Sustainable Commitment 35 From the analysis that has been carried out, it can be seen how aspects related to the minimisation of environmental impacts are more of a priority than in previous years, such as using renewable energies and measures to reduce the environmental impact of products and replacing plastics. Issues relating to the working conditions of both the company’s employees and protecting Human Rights in the supply chain remain key elements of how the business is managed. Important matters Working Ensuring fundamental Human Rights throughout the entire manufacturing 1 conditions in 1 process, having safe working conditions, guaranteeing fair wages and ensuring the supply there is no forced or child labour in the supply chain. chain Attraction and Acquisition of profiles that can adapt, are resilient, and have business acumen. 2 2 retention To be a brand that is an employer offering attractive jobs with long-term Social dimension of talent opportunities for development, training and remuneration. Promoting diversity at the company through inclusive measures and contexts to 3 Diversity 3 create and maintain a pluralistic workplace focused on gender, generational, and and inclusion cultural diversity and different skills. 4 Impact Commitment to society through social action and solidarity initiatives carried out on society by the company. Mitigation and 5 Policies, measures and targets to prevent and reduce greenhouse gas emissions, 5 adaptation to use of renewable energy and commitments to combat climate change. climate change Efficient use 6 Optimisation and promotion of efficient use of raw materials (mainly cotton) and 6 of natural consumption of natural resources (e.g. water) during manufacturing processes. resources Environmental dimension Minimisation of the environmental impact throughout the entire production 7 Environmental process including extracting raw materials while seeking a minimum impact on impact biodiversity, reducing the use of chemicals, optimising transport processes and reducing packaging. Recycling and Development of garment collection and recycling initiatives involving consumers 8 8 circular economy in environmental commitments to turn textile waste into new garments. Product and Creation of new products and materials through eco-design and innovation as 9 material drivers to improve competitiveness by designing garments that do not conform to innovation the temporary nature of the industry. Traceability 10 and transparency Monitoring controls at factories and production centres to optimise the supply 10 in the supply chain together with improvements in computerised data processing systems. Product dimension chain Replacing Creating alternatives to plastic both in products (polyester) and in packaging 11 plastic processes and store fixtures. Product Guarantees in production processes to prevent defective final products by 12 12 quality and working with quality standards and competing in the market with products that safety ensure customer safety. Good Ethics and Conduct based on a set of ethical principles such as honesty and integrity, good governance 13 dimension good governance governance and transparency applicable to the company’s governing bodies. 36 Sustantibility Report 2019 Our commitments Social responsibility is naturally integrated into our activities, viewing this responsibility as an inherent part of the organisation, promoting a commitment to sustainable development. Our commitment is based on the five areas that cover the most relevant issues related sustainability, which the company has used to make its public commitments and create its short and long term strategy in order to achieve its goals while contributing to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) at the same time. Our commitment to sustainability Our team To be an attractive company that creates opportunities for development and fosters talent, and diversity as a driver of change in society. To achieve exemplary performance in our commitment to employees, in creating a healthy environment free of discrimination, where we can attract and promote talent with a longterm outlook. Governance Sustainability To promote the implementation of a To be a leader in high-quality responsible and sustainable business sustainable fashion products at the management model based on integrity, forefront of the industry with initiatives transparency and direct participation, that increase the fashion industry and creating value for the stakeholders. capacity using new technologies in Five strategic manufacturing processes to minimise the environmental impact. areas Social Supply chain Contribution To properly monitor suppliers in the To collaborate in improving people’s supply chain. To raise awareness about quality of life as an organisation that social responsibility among the people generates a positive social impact and involved in the group’s procurement to share these values with all of the process. To guarantee consistency of the employees. To search for partners procurement policy with other existing we can work with to respond to policies and promote collaboration social challenges and promote with suppliers to continue improving communication on social environmental aspects with the various and social criteria. stakeholders. 2. Sustainable Commitment 37 Strategic Plan ESG 2019-2021 We have established specific, measurable, achievable, realistic and time-bound objectives, which reflect our commitment to being a company that generates value with its activity for all its stakeholders. Topic SDG Action plan Implementation Steps Status Carbon SDG  ew GHG emissions report. N Carbon Emission Reduction Footprint 13 New commitments to reduce CO2 emissions. Energy SDG Energy Efficiency Plan Establish a new Energy Efficiency Plan at stores and headquarters. efficiency 7 (Net reduction 9%) Implement selective collection systems at headquarters: packaging; electrical and Circular electronic devices; textile waste. SDG economy: Waste Management Put in place additional measures to the current ones donating items that were on 13 Environment Waste display, returned or defective through clothing recirculation programs in the market and recycling when appropriate. Ecofriendly product inclusion Circular SDG in the group brands offer Define a Group common commitment with ecofriendly products and materials. economy 12 (>15% group collections in Creation a technical Committee (WE CARE). 2020-2021) Sustainable SDG Buying & Procedures Specific trainings for Designers and Buyers in environmental matters. Buying 12 Policies Sustainable & innovation Suppliers Map. Implementation of a new digital document signing system. Consumption SDG Reduce 30% Paper Reduction 13 consumption Replacement of individual printers with collective ones with efficient printing characteristics. Promote the direct hiring of people with disabilities in HR teams and chains. 90% SDG Dissability Integration Plan Internal Communication and Sensibilization Plan. 10 Agreement with Inserta-ONCE Foundation. Diversity Approval of the second Equality Plan. Social SDG Gender Parity 5 Carry out a detailed study of the Gender Wage Gap. SDG Gender parity in Women talent retention. Talent 5 management bodies Tendam Women Sponsoring Program for the promotion of women in the company. Atraction & Retention SDG Establish a Wellbeing activities & sport activities Plan for employees. Work-life balance 3 Negotiate benefits for employees in external activities. Good SDG Supervision of ESG matters Regular Reporting ESG topics to the Board. Governance 16 by the Board SDG Adapt non-financial Governance Inclusion of the non-financial reporting in the annual accounts management report. 16 reporting to new scenarios Social dialogue: Improve the Engage in sectorial initiatives with Trade Unions and NGOs. Transparency SDG communication channels STK 17 Improve engagement at International Level. with stakeholders SDG Supply Chain Transparency Reach sector best practices on supply chain transparency. 16 policies (country risk map) Create a suppliers social risk map. Extend BSCI scheme in our supply chain and (65% suppliers at 2021) homogenize Reduction Improve the Standardization social certifications. External Stakeholders SDG Social supplier Risk Tool (75% factories integrated in 2020). Supply chain Plan for Supply Chain 12 risks Audits H&S Standards: Implemented new Reach Standards in 2020. Environmental audits for the supply chain. Agreements with Foundations aligned with brands profile and interest aligned with Aligned SDG contributions SDG. Social SDG Contribution 17 Develop new corporate Creation of new Corporate Volunteering Plan. volunteering Plan Promote individual volunteering for employees. In progress Advanced Done 38 Sustantibility Report 2019 Relation with stakeholders Trust is key for creating long-term value. This is why the company works to ensure a close relationship with stakeholders, these being understood as the individuals and organisations that directly or indirectly affect the company’s activity and/or are affected by it. We are committed to a business model where listening We actively participate in learning circles as discussion to the stakeholders allows it to take advantage of the forums that are very useful tools. We are a member of opportunities available in the market. The company is many leading national and international organisations committed to transparent, two-way dialogue that allows in the industry, actively taking part through their it to deal with the challenges and opportunities that arise management committees and working groups to share while carrying out the activity. The company provides experiences and analyse trends. its main stakeholders with several communication channels that encourage participation and involvement and that promote a framework of relationships based on transparency, continuous improvement and fluent and ACME (Asociación de Creadores de Moda de ongoing dialogue. España) These communication channels are managed by the ACOTEX (Asociación Empresarial del comercio relevant areas of the company according to each Textil, Complementos y piel) stakeholder. Through a consultative process, different actions, work groups (customers, employees, unions, AEC (Asociación Española de la Calidad) suppliers, social entities, etc.), and individual actions with different organisations about relevant issues are AMFORI (Trade whith Porpouse) managed. ANGED (Asociación Nacional Grandes de Empresas de Distribución) ASECOM (Federación Moda España) ASEPAM (Asociación Española del Pacto Mundial de Naciones Unidas) EBCA (European Branded Clothing Alliance) FMRE (Foro de Marcas Renombradas Españolas) Foro Inserta-Once Foro Social Industria de la Moda Lealtad Foundation Mesa Nacional de la Moda Seres Foundation The Fashion Pact UN Fashion Industry Charter For Climate Action United Nations Global Compact 2. Sustainable Commitment 39 Our stakeholders GROUP TOOLS RELEVANT ISSUES CUSTOMERS Corporate website Satisfactory shopping experience Brand websites Quality of the products and services provided Sales channels Customer service and loyalty Loyalty clubs Protection of health through toxic-free garments Customer service Protection of security and privacy of data Social networks EMPLOYEES Protection of Human Rights Corporate intranet Quality of employment Whistleblower Channel Social benefits and work-life balance Work councils Safety, health and prevention of occupational risks Social networks Training and professional development SUPPLIERS Relationship based on trust and working together Supplier portal Fulfilment of Human Rights Whistleblower Channel Commitment to sustainability and innovation Corporate website Stability in business relationships Meetings and periodic visits Fair hiring and payment agreements FRANCHISEES Comprehensive management service Communication platforms Fluid and ongoing communication Product conventions Training and guidance Training and guidance Transparent relationship INSTITUTIONS Corporate website Innovation AND SOCIETY Whistleblower Channel Promoting employment Social networks Diversity and equality Agreements and collaborations Responsible use of resources Participation in forums and Energy efficiency associations Commitment to ecodesign and the use of sustainable raw materials INVESTORS Corporate website Financial and economic stability Relationship with investors Corporate governance Reporting results Sustainability and corporate social responsibility Press releases Transparency and ethics 40 Sustantibility Report 2019 Committed to the 2030 Agenda  The commitment to this goal is reflected in the At Tendam, we take a step further in our commitment different social actions, such as the Involucrados to sustainable development and we make these project. In 2019, €152,170 were raised by commitments adapting them to the context in which supporting entities such as the Gil Gayarre we operate. Foundation, the Asociación Española de Esclerosis Lateral Amiotrófica (ADELA), the NGO Sauce and The company has incorporated the Sustainable the Recover Foundation. Development Goals approved by the UN into its business strategy, taking into account that our efforts must be directed especially at the goals we can have the most influence over This year, specialised training in the Sustainable Development Goals has been provided as part of the Be Talent & Mentors iniciative.. The employees have been able to learn first-hand about these goals, understanding sustainable development and our contribution as a company..  As part of the Health Plan, new initiatives have been launched to promote a culture of well-being: yoga classes, mindfulness, laughter therapy workshops, and physical therapy sessions.  Women ‘secret has promoted the #Simeimporta movement, through which it sells bras adapted for women affected by breast cancer.  A safe and healthy working environment for employees is promoted through the Occupational Risk Prevention and Medical Service at the head offices.  The company ensures compliance with appropriate labour requirements in the supply chain through the process of social auditing of suppliers and factories.  Thanks to our commitment to learning and the professional development of our teams, we continue to encourage the growth of people at the company thanks to our training programmes: in-person training, gamification, Talent&Mentors mentoring programme, and e-learning. A  s part of the Volunteer Programme, employees give training sessions to students from the Fundación Síndrome de Down de Madrid, specialising in job interviews and personal styling. W  omen‘secret collaborates with Plan International on International Women’s Day by supporting their #Girlsgetequal project which will help ensure the right to education of Rohingya girls in Bangladesh. 2. Sustainable Commitment 41  T  he company is a staunch defender of the O  ur brands continue to invest in sustainable role of women in its activity, which is why collections: Honest by Women ‘secret, R[ECO] it takes on, through its equality plan, the NSIDER by Springfield, and Cortefiel with its ecocommitment to implement labour relations friendly seal. based on equal opportunities and non5  0% of our brands’ denim is H2Ø, which reduces up discrimination. to 90 per cent water in manufacturing processes.  O  ur volunteers collaborate with the Quiero W  e promote training for responsible design through Trabajo Foundation to accompany women at the Aula de Sostenibilidad y Ecodiseño (Sustainability risk of social exclusion for their integration into and Ecodesign Workshop) at the Universidad the labour market. Politécnica de Madrid.  F  or a second year, we sponsored the Business Women Empowerment initiative with the aim of contributing to the empowerment of women in the economic and business world.  T  hrough the Women Sponsoring Program, the company commits to promoting the recruitment of women in management positions.  he company has joined Fashion Pact, the coalition T of leading global fashion companies committed to shared environmental goals that are key to protecting the climate, biodiversity and the oceans.  e continue to make progress regarding our W sustainability strategy by promoting solutions to combat climate change and its effects through joining in the Business Ambition for 1.5ºC initiative.   ince January 2020, 100% of the energy S To implement the principles of the Fashion Industry acquired in Spain is from renewable sources, Charter for Climate Action, Tendam has joined the covering 800 stores as well as operating Fashion Industry Charter for Climate Action, overseen facilities. by the United Nations climate change Office, to define action steps. It has also set an initial target to reduce GHG emissions by 30% by 2030. T  endam is signed up to the INSERTA employment programme of the ONCE Foundation to promote the social and  ur contribution to the SDGs is materialized O employment integration of people with through collaboration with other entities to promote disabilities. networking, innovation and talent management, contributing to the improvement of society. In T  he company is committed to guaranteeing 2019 we have strengthened our commitment to decent work in its entire supply chain, sustainability through partnerships with the Fashion ensuring, effective measures, through its Pact, the Business Ambition for 1.5º and the UN External Code of Conduct to eradicate forced Fashion Charter for Climate Action. Our contribution labour, slavery and human trafficking. to society is made in collaboration with different Once  again, we received the TOP EMPLOYER entities such as ONCE, the Dexeus Mujer Foundation, 2019 certification as recognition for being Atelier by ISEM, the Aula de Sostenibilidad one of the companies with the best working (Sustainability Workshop) of the UPM and the conditions in our country. Business Women Empowerment, among others. 42 Sustantibility Report 2019 Respect for Human Rights Respect and effective guarantee of Human Rights are fundamental and indispensable elements for the sustainable development of the company and the environment in which it operates. We are committed to respecting the Human Our commitments are included in these policies/procedures: and Labour Rights recognised in national and Internal Code of Conduct international legislation, aligning our internal policies and guidelines with the rights recognized in: This Code is a key element of our business culture and reflects the principles that inspire it, through the exemplary T  he International Bill of Human Rights behaviour, integrity and honesty of all the people who are T  he Declaration of the International Labour part of Tendam. Organization and the fundamental conventions C ode of Conduct for suppliers they develop This code sets out the fundamental principles that must T  he United Nations Guiding Principles on be respected by all suppliers and other entities within the Business and Human Rights framework of their relationship with the company. The OECD Guidelines for Multinational R esponsible Purchasing Policy Enterprises This policy sets out the principles for incorporating social and United Nations Global Compact environmental aspects into the entire procurement process, All these commitments inspire us to work to defining the procedures for acquiring or ordering indirect promote Human Rights and manage possible goods or services. violations both within our organisation as well P olicy on Due Diligence and Auditing of relations with as in our supply chain as part of our Corporate third parties Responsibility strategy. This document establishes a series of Due Diligence measures We have been signatories of the United Nations (review and control processes) applicable to certain markets, Global Compact since 2002 when we formalised our customers and suppliers based on Risk criteria. commitment to respecting Human Rights in all our activities. These functions are entrusted to the Third Party Due Diligence Group (TDDG), made up of the Suppliers, Internal Audit, Franchising, Sourcing and Legal Departments. Relevant issues regarding the company’s impact on Human Rights* Management Employees Suppliers Customers Policies and Code of Recruitment and Managing the supply Product liability and Conduct remuneration chain quality Due diligence Freedom of association Decent work Health and Safety Multi-stakeholder Health and Safety Freedom of association Consumer information initiatives Transparency Diversity and Inclusion Fair conditions Data privacy * Self-Assessment done based on the methodology of the SERES Foundation’s Human Rights LABs 2. Sustainable Commitment 43 We protect the fulfilment of Human Rights regarding Our customers stakeholders, making specific commitments for each of them. Respecting customers’ Human Rights is an essential part of our commitment, rejecting any kind of Our team discrimination against them, respecting their right to privacy at all times and protecting their health and The company has appropriate internal policies and procedures safety. aimed at ensuring respect for Human Rights in the relationship We collect, store and manage a significant amount with our employees, Tendam’s most important asset. of personal data belonging to our employees and We want to create a workplace that promotes integrity, teamwork, suppliers but especially to our customers and members excellence, diversity and trust. Thus, Human Rights are deemed a of our loyalty clubs too. They all express their trust in fundamental pillar, aligned with the ones in the Code of Conduct us by allowing us access to their personal data and, in and Human Resources policies. return, we provide them with our commitment to the security, confidentiality and integrity of the data and These commitments are primarily fulfilled through: to ensuring it is used under the terms permitted by Compliance with current applicable legislation. applicable regulations. The company participates in the Artificial Intelligence Respecting and promoting diversity and equality opportunities. (IA)and Human Rights Laboratory managed by the N  ot allowing any form of harassment or abuse or any type of Seres Foundation as a tool for knowing the risks, better discrimination based on sex, ideology, race and/or religion. understanding the challenges and opportunities of AI, staying ahead, and including all groups of society. Guaranteeing freedom of expression and opinion. The Data Science and Legal departments work to ensure responsible and inclusive AI that improves Implementing corruption prevention measures. the connection with our customers and satisfies their needs, preventing the development of biases related Ensuring there is no child labour or forced labour. to technological advances or unauthorized use of your personal data. Respecting freedom of association and collective bargaining. Promoting measures that facilitate work-life balance. L  ooking after professionals’ health by providing safe workspaces and preventing occupational risks.  otivating and contributing to boosting growth and M professional development through talent management and Complaint mechanisms training. We have established communication, query, complaint and reparation processes that are Our suppliers available to the people affected by our activity. The company has not received any complaints Suppliers are a key piece in the supply chain and carrying out about Human Rights violations this year. our activity. Accordingly, the company promotes practices and behaviours aligned with its values through its strategic policies We have a Whistleblower Channel that can and alliances, taking part in initiatives aimed at eradicating Human be accessed both from the intranet and from Rights violations and guiding our customers, suppliers, partners the company’s website. It allows any employee and franchisees to work towards the same goal. or third party to report possible irregular or unethical behaviour or behaviour that goes Tendam joined AMFORI in 2017, to strengthen its capability of against the principles set out in the Code of assessing and monitoring suppliers throughout the value chain. Conduct or violations of Human Rights. The initiatives BSCI (Business Social Compliance Initiative) and BEPI (Business Environmental Performance Initiative), they provide To preserve the independence, transparency an international framework to support actions aimed at reducing and security of the process, the Whistleblower risks associated with the supply chain. Channel is managed externally, guaranteeing confidentiality and security throughout the process. 44 Sustantibility Report 2019 3. Corporate Governance Ownership structure Governance Corporate ethics and regulatory compliance Information security Risk management 3. Corporate Governance 45 45 46 Sustantibility Report 2019 The company incorporates practices and recommendations, both national and international, in its management in the area of good governance, ethical behaviour and regulatory compliance. Ownership structure The share capital of Tendam Brands, S.A. amounts to 5,000,000 euros, represented by 5,000,000 shares of 1 euro par value each, belonging to a single class and series. The company is wholly owned by the Luxembourg company Castellano Investments, S.a.r.l. Tendam Brands, S.A. is the owner of 100% of the share capital of Tendam Fashion, S.L.U. (formerly known as MEP Retail España, S.L.U.) and, through this, of 94.26%1 of the share capital of Tendam Retail, S.A. (formerly known as Cortefiel, S.A.). The controlling shareholders of the Tendam Group are the private capital firms CVC Capital Partners and PAI Partners. Governance The General Shareholders The Board of Directors has two advisory committees: the Audit and Risk Committee and the Appointments and Meeting Remuneration Committee. The Audit Committee oversees the preparation and The General Shareholders Meeting is the sovereign body presentation of the financial information, monitors compliance of the company, where the shareholders come together to with legal requirements and supervises and evaluates the discuss and decide on matters and affairs in their domain, in company’s risk management and corporate governance accordance with the law and Articles of Association. systems. It also supervises compliance with policies on The General Shareholders Meeting meets once in the first sustainability and corporate social responsibility. six months of the financial year, to evaluate the company’s Meanwhile, the Appointments and Remuneration Committee management and approve the annual accounts for the establishes and reviews the criteria that must be followed for previous financial year. Extraordinary meetings take place the remuneration of the company’s directors and the members whenever they are necessary to make other decisions. of its management team. The General Shareholders Meeting that approved the annual The company’s Board of Directors comprises seven members: accounts for the 2018 financial year was held on Friday, 30 a chair, who also holds the position of CEO, and six members, August 2019. three representing each of the controlling shareholders. The Board’s secretary is not a director. One of the Board’s members is a woman, representing The Board of Directors 14.28% of the total (and 25% including the Board’s secretary). Its size, structure as well as the qualifications of its members The Board of Directors is responsible for the representation, are in line with the structure, complexity and needs of the administration, direction, management and control of the group, and allow for the diligent and streamlined management company, and it is responsible for establishing its general of any issues that may arise. guidelines, policies and strategies. It also protects the interests of shareholders, employees, customers and other stakeholders. 1. F  ormally, the holding of Tendam Fashion, S.L.U. in the share capital of Tendam Retail, S.A. is 92.29%. Leaving aside the company’s treasury stock, the effective holding and the associated voting rights represent 94.26%. The remaining shares are owned by a small group of minority shareholders. 3. Corporate Governance 47 Jaume Miquel Naudí Theatre Directorship Services Beta, S.A.R.L. represented by: CEO since August 2016 and Chairman since José Antonio Torre de Silva y López de Letona June 2019. He was the managing director for the brands Cortefiel and Pedro del Hierro (2015) and He is a partner at CVC, joining the company in the year Women’secret (2006). He previously held leadership 2000. Before joining CVC, he worked at Paribas. He roles at Timberland, Dockers and Levi Strauss, among has a degree in Industrial Engineering from the ICAI others. He has a degree in Economic Sciences from Technical Engineering School and an MBA from the IESE the University of Barcelona and has taken a Business (Barcelona). Management Development programme at the IESE. Commissions: Chairman of the Appointments and Commissions: N/A Remuneration Committee and member of the Audit Committee Federico Conchillo Armendariz Fabrice Andre Paul Fouletier He is a partner at Abac Capital and from 2007 to January 2019, he was a partner at PAI Partners. He He is a partner at PAI partners, joining the company in began his professional career at Boston Consulting 2001 as a member of the retail and distribution team. Group and later worked at Merrill Lynch. He studied He began his professional journey at Bankers Trust/ Applied Economics at the Katholieke Universiteit Deutsche Bank and then moved to the bank’s European Leuven in Belgium and has an MBA from the acquisition funding group in Paris and London. He University of Chicago GSB. graduated from HEC Paris in 1998. Commissions: Member of the Audit Committee and Commissions: N/A the Appointments and Remuneration Committee Theatre Directorship Services Alpha, S.A.R.L., Theatre Directorship Services Delta, S.A.R.L., represented by: represented by: Javier de Jaime Guijarro Álvaro Sendagorta Cudos Managing Partner at CVC. Before joining CVC in 1997, Investment Manager for CVC. Before joining the Javier worked at 3i PLC in Madrid for five years and in company in 2015, he worked at McKinsey & Co. for the United Kingdom for two years. He has a law degree four years. He has a degree in Aeronautic and Space from the ICADE University of Madrid and has an MBA Engineering from the Polytechnic University of Madrid from Houston University (US A). and has an MBA from Harvard Business School. Commissions: N/A Commissions: Member of the Audit Committe and the Appointments and Remuneration Committee Mar Oña Laura Muries Fenoll Non-director secretary of the company since December 2018, she was previously the general secretary and She is a partner at PAI Partners, joining the company secretary for the Board of Directors of Prosegur Cash. in 2007. She began her professional career in the She previously worked with the British law firm Clifford Investment Banking Department of Merrill Lynch in Chance. She has a degree in law from the Autonomous Madrid. She has a degree in Business Administration University of Madrid and a postgraduate degree in and Law from the Carlos III University of Madrid. international law from the Bucerius Law School in Commissions: Chairwoman of the Audit Hamburg (Germany). Committee and member of the Appointments and Commissions: Secretary of the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee of the Appointments and Remuneration Committee *Miguel Ibarrola, Chairman of the company since May 2016, stepped down in May 2019 Chairman CEO Director Non-director secretary 48 Sustantibility Report 2019 The Management Committee The Management Committee is responsible for ensuring the implementation of the guidelines determined by the Board of Directors, doing so by establishing operating strategies for the different chains and corporate units. It is a body strongly focused on achieving goals. Each of the commercial chains also has its own committee for the operational and commercial management of the group’s different brands. The Management Committee comprises 11 members, 3 of whom are women (i.e. 27.3%). Chairman and CEO Jaume Miquel Chief Financial Supply Chain General Officer Manager Manuel Serrano Manel Jiménez HR General Manager Chief Customer Officer Ramón Amorós Pedro Esquivias Franchise General Chief Legal Officer Manager Mar Oña Antonis Kyprianou Cortefiel and Pedro del Hierro Springfield General Women´secret Fifty General Manager Manager General Manager General Manager Marie Castellví Marc Calabia Eva Romeo Raúl Ramírez 3. Corporate Governance 49 Remuneration of directors During the 2019 financial year, the remuneration for the chair and CEO and the directors of the company, for all concepts, and senior management amounted to a total of 4,712,587 euros (gross). By gender, it is a total of 419,869 euros gross per year on average for men and 405,026 euros for women. Pursuant to the Articles of Association, Board members will not receive, in their capacity as such, any remuneration. The chair and the directors who have executive duties will have Conflicts of interest the right to receive the remuneration that, within the limits set by the General Shareholders Meeting, is established by the Board of Directors. Their remuneration may consist of a fixed The directors have the obligation to notify the Board of Diamount, a variable amount related to targets, remuneration rectors of any direct or indirect situation of conflict, that they in kind or contributions to long-term savings plans. They may or people related to them may have with the company’s intealso receive redundancy payments and compensation for any rests, and have, in this case, the obligation to refrain from tapost-contractual non-compete obligations. king part in the corresponding decision making. Likewise, they are banned from conducting activities, on their own behalf or Pursuant to this, the chair and CEO is the only Board on behalf of a third party, which entail effective competition member that receives remuneration for his executive duties. with the company This payment includes a fixed amount plus a variable amount related to targets, while also having the right to redundancy payments and compensation for his postcontractual non-compete obligations. For its part, remuneration of the senior management also includes a fixed amount, plus a variable component linked to the achievement of targets. The senior management of the company are understood to be those people who perform managerial functions directly reporting to its CEO. 50 Sustantibility Report 2019 Corporate ethics and regulatory compliance Ethical behaviour and compliance with the current legislation are essential elements in the company’s culture and strategy. Tendam requires its managers, executives and personnel to commit to behaving ethically and in strict compliance with the law when conducting their activities. Internal and External Code of Conduct The Internal Code of Conduct is the fundamental set of rules It also promulgates TENDAM’s mission, vision and at Tendam. It is regularly updated, and the current version was values and develops the standards of conduct required approved by the Board of Directors on 26 July 2019. regarding: It establishes the values, principles and behaviour that the Health and safety of people company requires from all its professionals, based on the Using and protecting corporate resources principles of transparency, integrity, ethics and responsibility. Corporate image and reputation Conflicts of interest The Code of Conduct details the general Political neutrality principles on which it is based: Confidentiality, market behaviour and respect for Compliance with the law free competition  ommitment to Human and Labour C Money laundering and payment irregularities Rights Counterfeiting of means of payment Respect for people Transparency and record keeping Honesty, integrity and excellence Privacy of personal information Respect for the environment Corruption and bribery Intellectual and industrial property The commitment to these principles and conduct guidelines is possible thanks to an extensive training programme which different groups of the company participate in periodically including the Management Committee itself, other executives and middle managers. Tendam extends the commitment to its values and principles to its supply chain and other third parties it relates within its business activity. It does so through the External Code of Conduct, which requires suppliers and franchisees to follow the same principles of transparency, integrity, ethics and responsibility that it requires for itself. The mandatory formal acceptance of the External Code of Conduct by all suppliers improves the traceability of the control process. Internal Code of Conduct External Code of Conduct 3. Corporate Governance 51 Compliance Programme Procedures Tendam also has a Regulatory Compliance Programme that establishes control measures, policies and procedures To monitor compliance with regulatory or applicable to the company’s different areas of activity, all voluntary obligations of an ethical, organisational, designed to prevent and manage different types of risks environmental or social nature, a set of procedures and, specifically, the risk of non-compliance with current and protocols is available to help prevent and regulations. This programme includes conduct guidelines in mitigate associated risks. the areas of crime prevention, anti-corruption, the defence Internal Code of Conduct of competition and unfair competition, intellectual property, data protection and money laundering, among others. External Code of Conduct for suppliers In addition, to ensure respect not only for regulatory Social Audit Protocol for suppliers obligations but also for ethical, organisational, environmental Product Quality and Safety Protocol and social ones, Tendam has a set of procedures and protocols affecting areas such as procurement, supply chain, Information Security Policy information security and product quality that help to prevent Policy on donations to social service agencies and/or mitigate risks associated with the company’s activity. Policy on the procurement of goods and services The management of the Internal and External Code of Conduct and the Compliance Programme, as well as their Recruitment Policy dissemination and the promotion of best practices in Travel and Expense Policy this area, are the responsibility of the Ethics Committee, comprised of the Human Resources, Legal and Internal Audit Occupational risk prevention plan departments, which, in turn, reports to the Audit and Risk Committee. Protocol for the prevention of sexual harassment Pregnancy and breastfeeding protocol Internal Management Regulations at stores Whistleblower Channel The company has a Whistleblower Channel that can be accessed both from the intranet and from its website. It allows any employee or third party to report possible irregular or unethical behaviour or behaviour that goes against the principles set out in the Code of Conduct. It is managed by an external company, which ensures the anonymity, confidentiality and security of the entire reporting process. Complaints that are received are filtered by the Internal Audit department, investigated and managed by the corresponding corporate unit, and ultimately reported to the Ethics Committee. It is up to the latter, as circumstances warrant, to make the final decision. During 2019, the Whistleblower Channel received 1,089 visits and 44 incidents were reported (24% fewer and 51% more than the previous year, respectively), all related to labour and fraud issues. Of these, 88.63% were resolved with confirmation of the reported incident and the application of the corresponding disciplinary measures. 52 Sustantibility Report 2019 Training Programme Training on the Code of Conduct The company has had a specific ongoing training 1,592 employees / 3,184 h. programme on the Code of Conduct since 2016. It also has other training programmes on Regulatory Compliance such Training on crime prevention as online training on crime prevention and training activities on data protection. These initiatives are geared towards different groups within the company, depending on their 38 employees / 38 h. areas of activity and levels of responsibility. Training on data protection In addition, as a promotional and awareness-raising measure, periodic awareness and informative actions are carried out on these matters through various internal 84 employees / 126 h. communication channels such as publishing newsletters, sending out informative e-mails and sharing messages through the corporate intranet. Contributions to non-profit foundations and organisations Tendam is a company committed to social issues and Measures against fraud, regularly collaborates with foundations, associations and other non-profit organisations, as detailed in chapter 8. corruption, bribery and money However, Tendam has control protocols in place to ensure laundering transparency and integrity in the financing of philanthropic activities and contributions to non-profit foundations and organisations. Tendam is a company committed to the fight against fraud, There is a procedure for the management and control of any corruption, bribery, money laundering and the financing of contributions and/or donations made by the company. In any terrorism. case, the prior signing of collaboration agreements that set the terms and commitments adopted is required. Control To guarantee transparency and fight against practices and mechanisms are also established for financial transactions behaviours that are unethical and lacking integrity, the and the issuing of the corresponding donation certificates is company has different procedures, measures and controls, always required. including: A  ban on accepting in-store payments, in cash, for sums of more than €2,500 in a single payment or in several instalment payments. The transparency analyses proposed by  eans of payment verification procedures to combat M the Lealtad Foundation are used when the entry into circulation of counterfeit money or the choosing third sector organisations. fraudulent use of credit or debit cards. The goal of the Lealtad Foundation is to evaluate the  he establishment of control measures in the cash T suitability of the organisations with which partnerships register systems (POS in store). are established, opting in a majority of cases for C  ontrol measures for payments in cash, through bearer certified entities. cheques in foreign currencies, or to people, entities or accounts domiciled in tax havens.  ue diligence procedures and the mandatory prior D approval of suppliers and franchisees, based on RBA Financing political (risk-based approach) principles. activities A  ban on giving or accepting gifts or other benefits that, due to their value, characteristics or circumstances, may influence or alter professional relationships and/or create Tendam does not take part in or finance political activities in conflicts of interest. any country or community in which it operates. In all cases, it R  eimbursement of expenses linked to and conditional on recognises and respects the rights of freedom of expression, the prior presentation of the corresponding bill or receipt. of political thought and, in general, of participation in public life for its employees, of whom it only requires that they keep their exercising of these rights to their private life. 3. Corporate Governance 53 Information security and data protection We live in a world that is more and more connected, where the Internet and information technologies are part of our daily lives. Tendam has been working for years to improve its infrastructures and business processes to better adapt to the needs of its customers in an increasingly virtual world and with a clear commitment to protecting one of its main assets: its customers’ data and data related to the business. Tendam’s commitments regarding information security The company has put the following policies in place regarding and data protection are reflected in the development information security and privacy, among others: and constant adaptation of policies, guidelines and procedures, not only in a strictly technological sense General privacy policies (both internal ones, including the but also as part of its corporate culture. Tendam Code of Conduct, and external ones, aimed at customers) involves each member of the organisation in defending Data protection policy in the workplace this business culture and has training and awareness plans suitable for each profile. Security breach management procedure The group’s various privacy policies are in line with Business Continuity Plan (BCP), including ITv continuity current data protection regulations in each of the measures, among others countries where it operates. Tendam has a data protection officer (DPO) who is in regular contact with all the relevant members of the company. It has also security protocols designed to prevent, identify, and remedy possible information security breaches. These protocols regulate the actions of the company’s different areas and departments such as IT, Security and Systems and Legal, etc. as well as other departments whose job it is to communicate with stakeholders such as Marketing, Sales, Sourcing, and Corporate Communication. 54 Sustantibility Report 2019 Risk management Appropriately monitoring and managing risks is one of the basic pillars for value creation by the company, especially with regard to achieving its strategic, commercial and operational goals. The company has a risk map that groups risks into different categories depending on their nature which is supervised by the Audit and Risk Committee. It has the task of assessing The company’s risk management and classifying them based on their potential impact, their likelihood and the level of preparation of the group to deal system is managed by a specific Risk with them, as well as establishing the measures to mitigate Committee and is structured around or remedy their impact. This year a Risk Committee was also a set of basic principles: set up and comprises several members of the Management Committee. The Risk Committee meets quarterly or holds extraordinary meetings as circumstances warrant. T  he identification, assessment, control and During the year, the Risk Committee’s priority objectivities reporting of risks were to carry out an in-depth review of the risk map and The definition of tolerable risk levels to update it and develop a new monitoring and control tool adapted to the new risk map based on risk indicators. T  he assessment of risks using methodologies and indicators that allow them to be measured Tendam also has a set of specific risk control rules, protocols, objectively and procedures and response plans. Examples of these are the controls for the approval of investments, for the use of The establishment of corporate policies and information and/or the controls on the access to accounting procedures to minimise risks and their possible systems or the controlling of expenses. Other examples are impact and to maximise opportunities the continuity plan for the business, designed to deal with T  he monitoring and reporting of the results of situations of a catastrophic nature or those that put the the assessment and the effectiveness of the operating capacity of the company at risk, the measures measures applied for monitoring compliance with the Code of Conduct and the measures for physical and technological security and T  he supervision of the system by the Audit occupational health and safety. and Risk Committee. 1. Strategic risks Sustainable organic growth, the integration of new The geopolitical risk of the countries where Tendam technologies, new sales channels and international operates or plans to operate is analysed based on expansion are key factors for Tendam’s business. the specific country risk profile prior to establishing operations, or regularly once these are active. The continuous analysis of the risks in each country or region is essential when defining the growth strategy of the group Tendam continuously monitors various performance in the countries where it operates, the expansion into new indicators and the evolution of its digital business. markets and the exposure to a certain country or region as The company has established procedures for due regards procurement. diligence, prior mandatory approval and supplier and The commitment to integrating sales channels (omnichannel franchisee auditing based on RBA (risk-based approach) presence) and to new technologies represents, on the one principles. hand, a way to diversify the risk associated with the more On the issue of breaches of logistics security, the traditional business model and, on the other, a new focus on company has control and review mechanisms, technical its specific risks. contingency systems and third-party applications to anticipate and/or mitigate the consequences of these risks taking place. 3. Corporate Governance 55 2. Operational and business development risks Risks such as the increase in the cost of procurement due to a rise in the price of raw materials or higher The constant analysis of the specific issues that, from an labour costs are monitored at the source so they can be operational, logistics and human resources management appropriately managed. point of view, affect the company’s activity sector, as well as The company has contingency plans and preventive the constant monitoring of the geographic areas in which the maintenance measures to manage the risks associated company operates and sources its supplies, make it possible with the logistics of the merchandise that could result in to reasonably predict possible changes, minimise their a breakdown of supply, whether due to incidents during impact, and even generate new opportunities. transport or in the logistics centres. The company also faces risks related to the improvement The company has continuous review mechanisms and investment and the security and integrity of its and internal and external measures for the prevention, technological infrastructure and its databases. detection, resolution and coverage of breaches of security and cyberattacks. 3. Compliance and reputation risks The group is vulnerable to regulatory risks derived from The company has a Compliance Programme to prevent the various legislations in effect in the countries where it and manage the risk of non-compliance with the current operates and in those from where it obtains its supplies. The legislation and to mitigate the risks derived from the company assesses and manages the different regulatory growing complexity of the international regulations in the risks, including risks of a tax, customs, employment, criminal, countries where it operates. consumption, personal data, privacy and intellectual property The company ensures the security of its products by nature. implementing control mechanisms at the source. The inadequate management of aspects relating to ethics The group establishes procedures and mechanisms to or corporate reputation can directly influence stakeholder mitigate reputation risk, including the active management perceptions of the group, and, particularly, customer of relationships with the media and the monitoring of the perceptions. company’s corporate image on social media. 4. Financial and reporting risks The company has mechanisms for financial control, Tendam is vulnerable, in the normal running of its business, debt management, rules and criteria for the approval to risks of a financial nature, such as exchange rates, interest of investments and efficient management principles for rates, counterparty and credit risks, along with those related working capital. to the funding of working capital. The company is also vulnerable to risks related to the preparation of its financial With the gradual implementation of an internal financial information. information control model (SCIIF), the company is making progress with raising awareness about the control, quality, traceability and integrity of its financial information. 5. Risks associated with climate change and Sustainability  he issue of natural resources and biodiversity involves T Tendam is vulnerable, as part of its normal operations, monitoring source materials and the company is moving to risks associated with the current climate crisis and the towards incorporating more sustainable materials as well impact on the environment and population that may affect its as more efficiently managing resources and energy. business model. 56 Sustantibility Report 2019 4. Our customers The customer More efficient and eco-friendly stores Sustainability of our garments Permanent dialogue with our customers Communication with values 4. Our customers 57 58 Sustantibility Report 2019 The customer The customer is at the core of Tendam’s activity, which is why we want to guarantee a good multichannel service. The company searches for new solutions to improve the omnichannel shopping experience, both in physical stores and online, benefiting from the complementarity of these channels. A culture of innovation is promoted that allows us to adapt to All of the company’s brands have had an e-commerce channel the ever-changing market and provide our customers added and they currently operate in 47 online markets. Online sales value, ensuring a high level of quality of both our offline and have shown steady growth that has increased considerably online sales services. for all of the brands in recent years. In 2019, the company’s online sales grew by 28.7% and now represent 9.6% of the Customers are more and more connected and wish to be able total turnover. to make their purchases quickly and efficiently, seeking greater flexibility. All the details that create an excellent shopping experience for the customer are taken into account. Omnichannel presence and shopping experience Thanks to the process of continuous transformation that we are undergoing, we have continued to adapt to our customers needs through a model called Easy Shopping. This concept includes all the services we offer our customers to make their shopping experience easier, faster, and more comfortable. Online shopping with in-store pickup Reserving a product at the store from the web APPs for all of our brands with discounts and digital receipts available Click Shopping: Online shopping at the store if the product is not available Multi-brand in-store pickup: deliveries of Cortefiel and Pedro del Hierro orders in Springfield stores In-store returns for customers adding 20% of the value of their return if it is done with a prepaid card 4. Our customers 59 Thanks to a new application, shop In order to make shopping easier assistants have access to all the for our customers, multi-brand product information they need using pickup has been made available at their device, in real time and with a more than 140 Springfield points single click, and without having to of sale. leave the customer at any time. The in Spain and Portugal for online application provides information order pickup from Cortefiel and on the level of inventory and its Pedro del Hierro. Springfield is availability, offers suggestions for the group’s brand with the largest cross-selling, including looks created number of points of sale and that by shop assistants at all stores, and is why we wanted to use this alternatives for when a product is not brand to increase the delivery available using image recognition. points for Cortefiel and Pedro del It also helps with online sales at the Hierro customers. store if the product is not available at that time. This allows us to improve the accessibility of the service for more dispersed populations that do not have points of sale for all brands. This year, more than 22,000 orders have been placed delivered this method. This end-to-end omnichannel experience allows us to offer new online services and we have developed new APPs for all brands. We have done away with paper Through the new features, the receipts that were included in experience in brick and mortar stores all online orders. These receipts is enhanced by offering consumers the have been replaced by digital option to scan the product’s label and receipts that are attached to obtain all the information available on the the order confirmation emails. website for that garment or accessory Additionally, on the brand apps, and see its availability in the store, make you can see all of your receipts a reservation or buy it online. for your purchases. Also, this year we have included Since it has been rolled out the function of being able to look for in May 2019, over 1 million products similar to any product the user paperless orders have been has seen in a photo at all Tendam’s placed, consequently resulting in brands. lesser environmental impact. Furthermore, it allows the over 26 million Tendam club members to include their club cards and receipts in the application in order to access their promotion points through their mobile phone. 60 Sustantibility Report 2019 More efficient and eco-friendly stores Stores are a way to connect with customers and transmit the brands’ values through their design and the creation of unique spaces. Each store has its own personality, consistent with the brand, which adapts to the commercial offer and is constantly updated so that it can offer the customer unique shopping moments. The omnichannel experience has meant the adaptation and integration of the physical points of sale and online channels, making it possible to have the latest technologies in the store itself, offering the customer a more complete shopping experience. There you will find every facility to be able to complete the shopping process like mobile payment or the availability of pickup points for online orders at some stores. Through the physical points of sale, the customer connects with the most tangible reality of the brand, which is why the company must ensure that this point of contact is excellent. Furthermore, the staff in our stores are specially trained to provide a tailored and personalised service every day. The points of sale are located in areas close to our customers, occupying spaces in the main streets and commercial areas specially designed to provide convenience and ease of access. That is why nearly 40% of the pickups and returns from online orders are done at our stores, minimising the financial and environmental impacts of the last mile transport. As part of Tendam’s commitment to the environment, environmental principles are followed that make it possible to minimise consumption. 4. Our customers 61 Since January 2020, all the electricity at our stores in Spain, logistics centres and headquarters is renewable with a Guarantee of Origin Certificate (GoO), reducing our carbon footprint and preventing the emission of an estimated 30,000 tonnes of CO2 into the atmosphere. The paper bags have a PEFC or FSC sustainable forest management certificate and the plastic bags contain 70% recycled material. We have saved millions of plastic bags at the source thanks to our collaboration with suppliers. All the new store openings and renovations are planned and implemented to ensure accessibility for people with reduced mobility. The adaptation of spaces, entrances and exits, fitting rooms and elements in stores comply with current legal regulations and are a result of our commitment to our customers. 62 Sustantibility Report 2019 Sustainability of our garments Our organisation and model are centred around customers who are looking for the latest fashion trends but also timeless quality design. We share the same awareness for protecting the environment. That is why we work every day to offer more sustainable garments and services. Committed to working in a more sustainable way, our brands are expanding their collections with eco-friendly materials and processes. To make our garments more environmentally friendly, we are focusing on three key stages within our value chain. 1 2 3 Design Raw materials Production processes The design is the first chance in our value During the design stage when Creating more sustainable chain to incorporate sustainable goals from the the collections are taking garments is also achieved through beginning of the process. shape, selecting the fabrics and more environmentally friendly Our employees have received specific training materials to be used is a key part processes which involve reducing sessions aimed at raising awareness and of the process. We are using chemicals in our garments as well approaching these issues with our product and more natural raw materials to as using water appropriately. purchasing departments. manufacture our garments to make them more environmentally Within the scope of ecodesign, research is being friendly. carried out on new materials and the use of more sustainable techniques in the design process and finishes of garments with lower water and energy consumption, such as ozone and laser More about our fibres More about water use techniques. All our brands have evolved significantly in manufacturing more sustainable garments under their different collections. Currently, 7% of the group’s total production is carried out under more sustainable terms and the goal for 2020-2021 is to reach 15% on a global level. With R[ECO]NSIDER, Springfield’s Honest by Women’secret, aims to Cortefiel with its Eco-friendly commercial offer already reaches 15% improve processes and select raw line, opts for a selection of garments on an individual level with garments materials that are more environmentally made with sustainable or recycled with sustainable characteristics friendly. Its line of bras and panties fibres. They are manufactured with and initiatives like using natural and is made with organic cotton grown processes that use fewer chemicals recycled fibres as well as its H2Ø on land certified to be free of toxic and reduce water consumption. programme focused on using laser and substances, pesticides and artificial ozone techniques in denim finishing fertilizers.​ processes. 4. Our customers 63 Garment safety etc. and to make sure the supplier complies with the technical specifications and Tendam’s quality standards of each one of the ordered products. One of the pillars that the quality of Tendam brands’ garments are based on is strict product control which ensures Each model that goes on the market is subjected to physicocompliance with required quality standards and levels. chemical testing that must be carried out at accredited external laboratories (Aitex, Bureau Veritas or SGS) in order From the careful selection of raw materials and the to guarantee the customer’s health and safety and the approval of suppliers it will work with to the controls prior absence of substances harmful to the environment. Testing to launching the finished garment, the manufacturing for pilling, colour fastness, shrinkage, seam resistance and process is rigorously monitored until each garment reaches the absence of toxic substances, among others, is carried the customer. This manufacturing process is subject to out for each of the items. exhaustive quality controls that guarantee customers’ safety and compliance with the specific legal requirements of each The results of the tests are received by the Quality country where the garments are sold. Department before the orders leave the suppliers’ factories so that it allows them to monitor the condition of the At the beginning of the chain, periodic audits are carried garment at all times and to correct possible deviations out at the suppliers’ factories to ensure compliance with and non-compliant garments that have been detected in a regulations and manufacturing standards, product safety, timely manner. Chemical testing of garments Natural Synthetic Metal Plastisol Sustancias Leather Plastics Coatings fibres fibres components prints Formaldehyde pH Arylamines (azo dyes) Phenol Lead Cadmium Nickel Chromium VI Carcinogenic dyes (EG) SCCPs (chlorinated paraffins) Phthalates PAH (polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons) PFOS Dimethyl fumarate Only Silica Gel Chemical Incidents pH 60.31% / 76 Arylamines 2.38% / 3 11,242 Formaldehyde Patterns analysed 8.73% / 11 126 Phthalates Incidents 14.28% / 18 PHAs 98.9% 7.14% / 9 Favourable chemical tests Others 7.14% / 9 64 Sustantibility Report 2019 Permanent dialogue with the customer Direct contact and multichannel communication are a key piece of the company’s customer service model, with the main objective being to ensure customer satisfaction. Improving the shopping experience is only possible through transparent communication based on ethical and responsible behaviour, which is key to offer a service that meets the needs of the customers. The company has put measures in place to communicate with its customers respectfully and clearly, ensuring that it complies with current laws regarding consumer and data protection, with the international and national requirements and standards of the countries where it operates. We are working on an omnichannel tool that is integrated with the company’s systems, which makes it possible to immediately answer customer queries in a streamlined and dynamic way and through the channel they prefer, from a single interface and in an integral way. Our members The loyalty clubs of each of the brands are very important assets for the company. Tendam currently has more than 26 million members in the Cortefiel, Springfield and Women’secret loyalty clubs. Their mission is to create a solid and long-lasting relationship with their members, based on providing exclusive content and benefits. Through two-way communication that is reinforced with messages, emails, websites and social networks, Tendam receives feedback on its products and customers’ needs, improving the customisation of what it provides customers. New Cortefiel & Pedro del Hierro club card The Cortefiel & Pedro del Hierro Club has launched a new MasterCard payment card that is completely free. In addition to all the club’s advantages, offers its users other additional advantages such as the accumulation of discounts worth 1% of the purchases they have made in other establishments. This card provides new instalment payment options (6 months without interest or commissions) and the chance to enjoy exclusive promotions, gifts and other benefits. 4. Our customers 65 Social networks Social networks play a key role in the communication strategy of Tendam’s brands. They allow our brands to communicate directly with their customers and to build a relationship between them based on listening and proactiveness. They are an excellent means of communication that brings us closer, creates emotional relationships with brands and strengthens trust. We are committed to communication on social networks and we create content that strengthens the commitments we have with society: S  pringfield focused its Salvemos nuestro Mediterráneo (Let’s Save Our Mediterranean) campaign together with National Geographic by contributing €1 for each #SalvemosNuestroMediterraneo hashtag that was shared on their Instagram. With this communication, users were made aware of the environmental problems the oceans are facing and were also able to participate in the cause directly through the digital platform. Cortefiel promoted its Perfectos Imperfectos (Perfectly Imperfect) initiative with the Cadete Foundation through the #SoyPerfect (I’m Perfect) campaign on the Instagram of celebrities such as Eva González, Nuria Roca and Saúl Craviotto. Through this campaign, messages were spread promoting the inclusion of all people, regardless of their abilities. W  omen’secret activated its Women Power project by celebrating International Women’s Day together with Plan International by focusing its message on influencer’s posts and stories in Social Media. Like this, they created emotional messages focused on recognising the strength of all women, who are the essence of the brand. 66 Sustantibility Report 2019 Customer service We are close to our customers with an impeccable and personalised service and we keep different channels open 722,853 Cases handled by the CSD to establish ongoing two-way communication. To guarantee top-quality service and to adapt to customers’ needs, we have a Customer Service Department (CSD) that is fully accessible and multichannel via telephone, 94% level of customer service social networks, email, post and the company’s website. The Customer Service Department is structured to provide a comprehensive and customised response to all its users, providing timely and effective solutions. Consider the service 88% they have received to be excellent or very good In 2019, a total of 1,362,505 operations have been carried out through the different channels provided to customers, with a 94% level of service in Customer Service. The company takes the customers’ opinions strongly into consideration and it strives to handle all their comments satisfactorily, achieving that only 0.63% were complaints or claims during this year. In 2019, 1,155 complaints forms have been collected from stores in Spain. The complaints forms that are received in stores are sent to the CSD to be processed. To manage these, experts gather all the necessary information from the store and the departments involved and request more details from the customer if necessary. The decision is sent to the customer within the legally established periods, which range from 10 to 30 days, with 85.3% of the tasks being resolved in less than 14 days. The company analyses all the opinions and suggestions it receives. This leads to continuous improvement which allows it to provide top-quality products and services adapted to its customers’ preferences. Customer information Tendam maintains an ongoing dialogue with its customers through our relationship with the members who have joined our brands’ loyalty programmes. Our conversation brings us closer to them to engage them, personalise their shopping experience and offer solutions for their tastes and needs. In short, we want to get to know them better. We are responsible for ensuring that this communication is secure so we follow the current data protection and privacy regulations in each of the markets where we operate. In addition, our data management teams have knowledge and training to use the data appropriately. We want our customers to feel safe at all times. Regarding garment labels, users can find all the necessary information adapted to the demands of international standards and the demands of various countries in which they are sold. This includes, in all languages necessary, relevant information such as origin, composition and care instructions. 4. Our customers 67 Communication with values Tendam believes it is essential to establish communication based on respect and equality towards its stakeholders. This must be responsible and sustainable communication that is committed to the new needs of society, taking into account that this diverse and global world requires confidence to be generated among its employees and customers. The company focuses its responsible communication on equality, respect and diversity: Equality A key objective is the development of labour relations based on equal opportunities and non-discrimination, fostering an open and inclusive working environment. We have developed a protocol on inclusive language in our internal communication channels as a key instrument to work for equality through the language used in all company communications. Respect We have an internal policy on using images of women, which is the result of our commitment to disseminating appropriate images of women in advertising campaigns, promoting using models with body types showing healthy beauty standards and respecting people’s dignity in all senses. Diversity Women’secret, our brand created by and for women, has launched the communication campaign ‘De nosotras para vosotras’ (From us to you) which is a tribute to all women, no matter what they are like. From this viewpoint, Women’secret is committed to real women, listening to their needs, creating intimate apparel collections made for them and designed with the diversity of their bodies in mind. Inclusion We believe in the beauty of imperfection and in the fact that being different does not limit your opportunities for a better future. Based on this essential value, Perfectos Imperfectos (Perfectly Imperfect) project was born, the Cadete Foundation’ solidarity initiative which Cortefiel has joined. Thanks to this collaboration, our most special models were the foundation’s children with disabilities, who have received funding for rehabilitation treatments thanks to the profits earned on sales of the solidarity capsule collection. 68 5. Our people Committed to people Work-life balance and social benefits Health and safety Diversion, inclusion, and equality Talent management Training opportunities and professional development 69 70 Sustantibility Report 2019 Committed to people Our team is a key piece for creating value, perfectly representing our company’s values such as respect, transparency, equal opportunities, ongoing communication, and diversity. Over 10,700 professionals make up a diverse and talented team that carries out its daily work with passion and commitment. Our team is located in our corporate headquarters in Madrid and Barcelona; our international offices in Hong Kong, Bangladesh and India; our logistics centres; and our entire commercial Top Employer 2019 network of stores. One more year, Tendam has been The company provides quality working conditions, offering certified as a Top Employer in Spain, opportunities to all groups equally, promoting professional recognised for more than 10 years as development and ensuring the health and safety of our one of the companies with the best employees. conditions for its employees. It also makes sure that salary ranges are established based on the levels set in the corresponding agreements or countries, according to the employee’s occupational group and seniority, regardless of their gender or any other factor. Our commitments Having the best team of people, ensuring their health and well-being. Promoting a work environment that is motivating and personally satisfying. Implementing a remuneration system that helps to attract and motivate people. Promoting inclusive recruitment, which allows us to select top talent. H  aving a team that allows the company to grow, making the most of their innovation capacity. Valuing all people based on equality and non-discrimination.  roviding new challenges and fostering professional development so employees P reach their highest professional potential. 5. Nuestras personas 71 Labour relations and social dialogue The company encourages communication with trade unions, ensuring freedom of affiliation and the right of workers to be represented to defend and protect their labour rights. The workforce in Spain, Belgium, France, Mexico, and Portugal is 100% covered by the corresponding collective agreements. In the rest of the countries, the corresponding labour law is applied in each country. In Spain, the best-represented trade unions are CCOO and UGT. At the regional level, CIGA in Galicia, ELA in the Basque Country and Intersindical Canaria in the Canary Islands also stand out. Tendam applies the 52 provincial collective agreements of the textile trade. 100% They have available effective and confidential channels to manifest any kind Workforce covered by a of non-compliance or violation in this respect. These two-way channels collective agreement and ensure that employees are listened to and that there is a permanent dialogue the corresponding with them, and they facilitate the relationship between management and labour law staff, enabling the different needs to be met and the employee to be kept permanently informed. There are currently 28 company committees across Spain, and a total of 292 staff delegates and committee members. In 2019, 43 meetings were held with the employees representatives, facilitating fluid and constant communication, through effective and confidential channels, in order to be able to express any type of noncompliance or breach in this regard, ensuring workers are heard and that there is an ongoing dialogue. In Spain, Portugal and Mexico, Whistleblower Channel acts as a regulatory channel for the processing of reports of non-compliance with our code of ethics. 72 Sustantibility Report 2019 Our team in numbers 78% Store Staff 10,735 1,711 9,024 men women employees 22% Corporate Services Staff 16 % 84 % No. of employees per country Country Men Women Total Germany 2 11 13 Bangladesh 3 2 5 Belgium 20 119 139 Bosnia 3 90 93 Bulgaria 0 18 18 Croatia 3 99 102 Spain 1,257 6,124 7,381 France 35 118 153 No. of employees by age Hong Kong 20 33 53 Hungary 26 159 185 Age range Total % India 5 7 12 Under 25 2,205 21.9% Luxembourg 1 25 26 Between 25 and 35 4,627 46% Mexico 84 192 276 Between 35 and 50 2,689 26.7% Montenegro 0 21 21 Portugal 175 1,142 1,317 Over 50 532 5.3% Russia 61 621 682 Total 10,053 Serbia 16 243 259 Reach 93.6% of the workforce 5. Nuestras personas 73 No. of employees by gender and professional category Executives and Middle Shop assistants, senior 115 management 451 administrative 1,145 management 43.9% 21.8% and other 13,6% 2,070 men men men 262 147 19,3% 1.619 8,403 7.258 2.4% 56.1% 78.2% 78.3% 86.4% women women women Type of contract by gender and professional category Type of contract Gender Professional category Shop assistants and Men Women Senior management Middle management other Permanent contract 1,286 6,041 253 2,025 5,049 Fixed-term contract 425 2,983 9 45 3,354 Total 1,711 9,024 262 2,070 8,403 Type of contract by age Age range Permanent Fixed-term Total Under 25 1,121 1,084 2,205 Between 25 and 35 2,969 1,658 4,627 Between 35 and 50 2,074 615 2,689 Over 50 481 51 532 Total 6,645 3,408 10,053 Reach 93.6% of the workforce 74 Sustantibility Report 2019 Work-life balance and social benefits Work-life balance and organising working time are key, achieving a balance between our personal and professional lives. That is why the Human Resources policy includes specific measures for contributing to a flexible, open, and tolerant environment for the benefit of employees, which is key for attracting and retaining talent, especially for younger generations. The company has measures regarding flexible hours, depending on the position, within the scope of its health policy. These measures regarding flexible hours include:  Flexible hours and reduced workdays that adapt to individual needs. P  ersonal maternity and paternity support programmes with continuous working days to avoid interruptions during working hours as well as overlapping the employee’s timetable with his/ her partner’s in order to care for minors. Number of days of absence due to the birth of a child Spain International Men Women Men Women Nº of days 953 28,723 0 47,345 Permissions and leaves of absence (data for Spain) Number of employees Men Women Total MATERNITY/PATERNITY LEAVE Maternity and paternity leave 28 328 356 Risk during pregnancy 0 287 287 REDUCTION IN WORKING HOURS / LEAVES Reduction for guardianship of a child 16 816 832 under 12 Reduction for caring for family 0 5 5 members Reduction for personal reasons 1 22 23 Reduction for caring for sick children 0 10 10 (minors) Leave 24 111 135 5. Nuestras personas 75 Employees are offered social benefits that adapt The company is committed to providing its employees differently to the requirements of the sales network and with a Flexible Remuneration Program that allows the corporate services. remuneration policy to be adapted to the employee’s particular needs including products and services with Canteen and medical service at the headquarters advantageous conditions such as childcare assistance, Full medical examinations health insurance, education grants, and purchasing. W  ell-being programme: physiotherapy, yoga, and mindfulness Childcare assistance Medical insurance R  eduction in working hours for taking care of minors under 12 E  ducation grants for all children of the employees under 16 A discount card for all the Group’s brands Discounts at other companies Meal tickets Public transport card Training benefits Type of workday by gender, age, and professional category Gender Full-time Part-time Women 3,883 5,141 Men 1,026 685 Professional category Executives and senior 242 20 management Middle management 1,766 304 Shop assistants, 2,901 5,502 administrative and other Age* Under 25 621 1,584 Between 25 and 35 1,866 2,761 Between 35 and 50 1,521 1,168 Over 50 376 156 * Reach 93.6% of the workforce 76 Sustantibility Report 2019 Health and safety We look after the health and well-being of our employees by providing a safe work environment that fosters greater commitment and results in our people The medical service and being more satisfied. prevention activities focus on providing a safe work environment and a healthy life Through our health protection plan, we contribute for employees. to safety and wellbeing through: Cardiac-Protected Spaces We have committed to creating cardiac-protected spaces that have automated defibrillators at the headquarters in Madrid, the logistics centre of Aranjuez, and some stores. In addition, we have established a comprehensive cardiac protection plan for any cardiac emergency. Last year, 17 employees renewed their cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) training to be able to act quickly until emergency services arrive. A Culture of Well-being Medical Service At our headquarters, we have a health programme that The Medical Service at our headquarters, made up of its own aims to make a positive impact on our employees’ wellstaff, carries out preventive and care activities that ensure being and motivation. Be!Healthy was created with the the safety of the different jobs. It supervises temporary premise that professional performance depends heavily disability leave and meets with an external medical team on a on physical and emotional well-being. monthly basis to establish aid procedures to move up medical appointments and tests. M  indfullness and Yoga: Initiatives with sessions done The following tasks are carried out at our headquarters: individually or in a group, which help employees take care of their psychological health by providing the General practice consultation that dispenses medicine support and tools they need to manage their emotions and prescriptions. and stress. Nursing care: monitoring blood pressure, blood sugar, P  hysiotherapy service at our headquarters thanks to dressings, injections, etc. our agreement with Ilunion-Grupo ONCE. We offer Initial care for work emergencies and accidents in order to a personalised service with the aim of each patient be referred to a health centre. recovering, applying manual therapy treatments. Coordination of periodic medical examinations for .  ealth campaigns: We have created an internal H employees at headquarters and warehouses. communication space to post about various topics related to health to promote a healthy lifestyle. Flu vaccine campaigns. L  aughter therapy workshops: In-person sessions to Visual and oral health campaign. promote a deep sense of well-being and to learn to value Stress management workshops are available. the importance of optimism for our health. Information about preventive vaccinations for trips abroad  ympass APP: An online platform accessible anywhere G and subsequent vaccination if necessary. in Spain that gives employees access to a wide network of sports centres and exercise programmes. Optician and dental service arrangements. Collaboration with the Madrid Transfusion Centre. 5. Nuestras personas 77 Healthcare (data for Spain) Medical examinations performed 1,464 General medical consultations 9,537 Nursing services 4,020 Medication dispensed 8,900 Employees receiving flu vaccination 99 Employees receiving other vaccinations 70 Employees participating in blood 85 donation campaign Absenteeism hours Men Women Total Number of hours* 108,455 817,258 925,713 *Hours not worked due to occupational accident and common illness. Occupational Risk Prevention Service Our Occupational Risk Prevention Service includes the specialities of safety, ergonomics and hygiene and an There is no significant incidence rate or risk of suffering occuexternal Health Monitoring Service. In Spain, the company pational diseases as regards professional activities carried out has 44 prevention officers across 22 provinces and quarterly at the company, not having detected any in this year. meetings are held with the 16 Health and Safety Committees. These local committees allow us to implement and consolidate the objectives that have been set regarding health and safety by continuously analysing and following up on planned Accidents at work (data for Spain) preventive actions. Men Women During the 2019 financial year, the following actions have been carried out: Accidents with Minor 14 88 leave  Studying, detecting and preventing possible problems in at the workplace SeriousFatal 0 0 the work environment at the work centres with 65 assessments of psycho-social factors, both in stores and at the Minor 9 46 Accidents at other headquarters. workplace SeriousFatal 0 0 C  arrying out or reviewing the Risk Assessments and the Evacuation and Emergency Plans in 292 stores. Total Accidents 23 134 H  ealth and safety training has been strengthened by training 1,119 employees through the online tool. Health and Safety Training (data for Spain) On an international level, it is worth noting that during 2018, Employees who have received Mexico has established and updated its Health and Safety Men Women ORP training Teams. It has also implemented quarterly inspections to identify critical safety points and took relevant actions to Managers 28 168 prevent and mitigate them. In addition, a study was conducted in each city to identify occupational risks (fires) prevention Shop assistants 110 813 training courses that train these teams on how to act in the event of an emergency. ORP training hours 1,087.5 7,430 78 Sustantibility Report 2019 Equality, diversity and inclusion We promote equal opportunities for people who want to grow in the company, regardless of their gender identity, age, culture,religion, or values. The equality, diversity and inclusiveness of the teams reflect the diversity of our We are a global company that embraces diversity and customers, our different brands and the countries where promotes a high-quality we operate. work environment based on respect and personal and professional growth. Gender equality The people who are part of an organisation are its greatest asset, and we are confident that guaranteeing equal opportunities allows us to achieve sustainable growth, greater wealth of human capital and to be more competitive. We have made great strides in our equality strategy: As part of our commitment to more respectful R  aising awareness. We have conducted several training communication for women, we have developed a actions in relation to the equality plan such as information protocol on inclusive language in our communication pills on equality for staff in key positions and specific channels. In addition, we have an internal policy on using training to learn how to deal with situations of domestic images of women, which is the result of our commitment violence. to spreading appropriate images of women in advertising campaigns, promoting using models with body types  hrough our Internal and External Code of Conduct, we T showing healthy beauty standards and respecting guarantee equal opportunities and non-discriminatory, people’s dignity in all senses. fair, and impartial treatment of people in all areas of our company, including both employees and our suppliers. We have an Equality Officer who designs, directs, coordinates, streamlines, implements, manages and  he company has a protocol for preventing sexual T evaluates plans, programmes, projects and positive harassment in its efforts to protect the dignity of all action campaigns regarding equal opportunities and workers at work, stating that sexual harassment will not gender equality in different areas of the company. be tolerated. A  s a reflection of our commitment to the values of equality  he Equality Plan, approved in 2012 and drawn up in T and diversity, we have once again signed the Diversity collaboration with the CCOO and UGT trade unions, Charter, a European initiative that promotes companies includes policies and actions aimed at promoting diversity and institutions voluntarily fostering diversity and respect and equality among all groups in the company. The in the work environment. This way, Tendam promotes a company is working on the second edition of the plan that society that shares the same principles and that improves will include its objectives and strategies regarding gender people’s quality of life and work. equality for the coming years. We have joined the Directory of Companies Committed  he Women Sponsoring Program Program has been T to Equality by strengthening the values of our work and launched as a new internal mentoring project to promote ensuring we incorporate gender equality in all areas of our female leadership in middle management and in senior activity. management and look for proportionality. Women 84% 56% at the company female executives 5. Nuestras personas 79 Diversity and inclusion In an industry like fashion, having different skills, visions and experiences brings value to the company as it fosters learning, enriches people, and allows us to develop the best ideas to meet customers’ needs. Our objective is the development of labour relations based on equal opportunities and nondiscrimination, fostering an open and inclusive working Selection processes environment. We guarantee best practices when searching We seek diversity in all areas and encourage the recruitment for, selecting and retaining talent, ensuring of people with different skills in our job offers. The company the principles of equal opportunities and has an integration action plan focused on growing our nondiscrimination. The company chooses workforce with people with disabilities as well as incorporating professional profiles that not only have the other inclusion elements that promote offering adapted required technical skills but that also fit in with our products and services. corporate culture and values. When establishing recruitment and remuneration conditions, it In 2018, the company signed a collaboration agreement with studies the employees’ worth, regardless of their the ONCE Foundation, under which it joined the INSERTA gender, country of origin, religion, disabilities or Programme, to continue promoting employing people with sexual orientation. disabilities in its workforce and implementing accessibility measures that contribute to improving the living conditions of people with disabilities. At the end of the year, it had 88 employees with disabilities in Spain: 76 women and 12 men. In 2019, we carried out different actions regarding disabilities: Awareness: Awareness Sessions for employees to encourage hiring people with disabilities.  o celebrate INSERTA Agreement’s signing anniversary, T we have carried out an internal awareness-raising campaign by sharing some of our colleagues’ stories.  e actively participate in volunteer activities for people W with disabilities. W  e have created a specialised training module for store management on hiring people with disabilities.  Commitment to integration into the labour market: A  nalysing jobs and new recruitment sources to promote the integration of people with disabilities Creating a more inclusive selection and hiring process Personalised support for employees with disabilities Adaptation of our facilities both at headquarters and in stores C  arrying out an internship programme with collaborating entities to encourage subsequent recruitment 80 Sustantibility Report 2019 Talent management We firmly believe that our employees are our most important asset. That is why we work Commitment to internal every day to attract, develop, and retain talent, promotion as we are aware that this is a key issue for the Internal mobility is one of the key elements for profitability and sustainability of our business. employees’ development. It fosters learning and professional development. A vast majority of the managers and team leaders come from internal Talent management is based on shared objectives defined in promotion, the result of a firm policy in this our HR strategy, following the principles of ethics, collaboration, regard and of a motivated workforce, which is equal opportunities and respecting differences. flexible and able to take on new responsibilities. Through internal promotion, the company seeks The tools for talent management are combined into three pillars: to recognise talent and retain it within the assessment, development, and attraction. The aim is to get company, offering staff the possibility of to know the professionals, promote their development, and professional growth suited to their objectives. optimise mobility and promotion. 145 Promotions Attracting talent During 2019, we have made progress when it comes to One of our objectives as an employer brand is to recruitment, using new channels to ensure we hired suitable raise awareness about the professional development profiles in a comprehensive, digital, and efficient way. New opportunities that Tendam offers in its different areas. digital tools have become strategic channels for attracting Thanks to our Human Resources teams work in the various and integrating this new talent that is needed for the employment forums and programmes, more and more company’s future. These include the Be!Tendam employment groups know about us and are becoming interested in our site, located on our corporate website, and Tendam’s page business and in joining our company. on Linkedin. During 2019, more than 500 job offers were posted on different job portals for selection processes and our number of Linkedin followers increased by more than 5,700. 5. Nuestras personas 81 Some of the initiatives we have launched to attract talent are: Supporting young talent We continue to support young talent, working to create which it seeks to promote the inclusion of young people and opportunities through our professional internship plan. To do groups at risk of exclusion in the labour market. so, we seek out people who are passionate about learning In these past years, at Tendam we have trained hundreds our trade, with an attitude reflecting the company’s values of young people, offering them guarantees of success and and motivated by excellent advice regarding what is most a high rate of subsequent recruitment, which this year important to us, our customers. was 22%. All this positions us as a benchmark for leading Our task: to provide them with the tools and work with them, associations on a national level, with which we share mentoring them on site; to do so, the company also has resounding successes each season thanks to the training, other collaborations through training agreements with 300 recruitment and employability of their members. regulated educational training institutions for employment, public institutions and social entities with Commitment to integration in the labour market We are committed to continuing to make progress 300 training schools regarding integration in the labour market, promoting integrating people with disabilities and employing people 1,278 internship students 22% subsequently employed at risk of social exclusion so that they live and work in a society where equal opportunities are guaranteed for all. The company supports programmes for different groups: Sumando oportunidades Incorpora Programme Fórmate con Garantía Our Sumando Oportunidades (Adding Through La Caixa’s Incorpora This year, we have signed up to the Opportunities) programme, aimed Programme, 68 people at risk of Fórmate con Garantía programme run at young people at risk of social and exclusion have been added to the by the Secretariado Gitano Foundation workplace exclusion, is based on workforce this year following a training to give training on employment and detecting talent, developing the talent period in our stores. This programme personal development skills, as well pool and creating new opportunities seeks to boost the recruitment of as theoretical and practical training through the training and subsequent women who have suffered domestic for young people under the age of possible recruitment of these students. violence, people over the age of 45, 30 in order to fight against exclusion With this programme, 215 young as well as people with disabilities and and discrimination in the training and people aged from 16 to 30 have young people at risk of social exclusion. employment of the Romani population. received training at our points of sale 114 young people have benefited from 68 in 23 centres as sales staff and fashion this programme over the past year. advisers throughout 2019. 215 young people people hired 114 young people 52% subsequently employed 82 Sustantibility Report 2019 Training opportunities and professional development Our commitment to learning and the teams’ professional development is based on the belief that we must all be part of an individuals’ growth in the company. The training plan has the objective of making available to the employees the necessary resources to boost their skills and competences for their professional development, and offers a catalogue of courses adapted to the profile of each employee. Professional development The professional development of employees This year 1,000 assessments have been done for our store teams (managers and assistant managers). In addition, is key to achieving objectives and providing the same process has been launched for the firstand customers with an efficient and appropriate secondline teams of our Corporate Services (approximately 250 employees), resulting in talent mapping as a strategic response. management and planning tool for the company. The objective is to provide employees with the necessary resources to enhance their skills and competencies for their professional development. The strengths and professional development needs of each employee are identified each year through a performance assessment. The aim is to identify and manage the Performance assessment by gender and company’s talent, allowing the strong points and areas to professional category improve that have been detected to be reflected on, thus establishing individual action plans to continue growing. Corporate Services Senior Middle Specialist management management 15.23% 33.59% 51.17% Men Women 36.71% 63.28% Stores Managers Shop assistants 52.68% 47.32% Men Women 18.44% 81.56% 5. Nuestras personas 83 Training programme Our commitment to learning is based on the belief that each person is responsible for their own development. The professional development of employees is key to achieving objectives and providing customers with an efficient and appropriate response. The main goal is to provide adequate resources and means so they can develop professional skills, aiming to respond to the employees’ real needs and thus permanently boosting their knowledge and skills. As we are committed to providing equal opportunities, we create a Training Plan each year aimed at covering multiple professional disciplines, languages and other areas for personal improvement. We have specific training plans for each position, with both in-person and digital formats, for our sales network and corporate services. At the international level, different in-person training activities were carried out throughout the year, depending on the strategic and operational needs that were detected. These actions cover a wide variety of content, including sales techniques, inventory, products, click shopping and management skills. They have contributed to the teams improving their ability to perform their tasks and have also made a positive impact on business development in the countries. 6,831 42,937 16.39% 83.61% employees who have training hours men women received training Training hours by professional category Corporate Services Stores Senior management Middle management Specialist Managers Shop assistants 303 h. 2,155 h. 7,040 h. 17,821 h. 15,618 h 84 Sustantibility Report 2019 In-person training The objective of our training policy is to support the achievement of the company’s strategic objectives. That is why once the Training and Development Department has identified the training needs each year, it designs a catalogue of courses for boosting technical knowledge as well as developing professional skills. Among other things, this year we have launched productivity programmes in stores with a new application for managing staff data and schedules. On the other hand, we have given continuity the in-person language programmes at our offices in Madrid and Barcelona and at our logistics centre in Aranjuez; and we have worked with Emotional Management (Mindfulness) programmes, providing resources and techniques for ‘full attention’. 1,445 1,060 20,274 store smployees Corporate Services hours of in-person employees training 1,739 participants During 2018, an internal training program given by employees was launched with excellent results, making the most of all the organisation’s internal talent. A school was created for each area, allowing each employee to choose the courses of most interest to 23 them and attend the various courses in person. mentors This year, we have continued with this very successful project and we have completed it by improving the 5,668 courses that are offered and their quality. Thanks to the mentors, their knowledge and their professional and personal experience, the courses have received a higher rating and there has been a higher level of satisfaction hours than last year. 5. Nuestras personas 85 E-learning We are committed to professional development within the company and using a digital format allows more knowledge to reach the maximum number of employees. This is why we have Be!Talent, our training and development portal that all our employees can access as soon as they join us. The courses are designed to be completed in a short period of time and are adapted to our employees’ schedules. The portal has a learning management system that allows us to track their progress and create personalised programmes. 11,834 412 21,502 store employees Corporate services hours of e-training employees Training using digital tools We also work with gamification methodologies using the 75% Be!Talent&Game app which aims to boost participants’ motivation of shop employees through game playing using competition and reward techniques: gaining registered* points, moving up levels, challenges, etc. Gamification has already been introduced in Spain for Cortefiel, Pedro del Hierro, Women’secret and Springfield and in Portugal, Russia, and Mexico for Women’Secret and Springfield with very positive results. The project will soon be expanded to include new brands and countries. 80% game users* * Data in Spain 86 Sustantibility Report 2019 Average remuneration by professional category (euros)* Executives and senior Middle Shop assistants, administrative Average management management and other Germany 0 44,784 22,812 25,140 Bangladesh 0 0 7,812 7,812 Bosnia 0 10,884 6,852 7,632 Bulgaria 0 27,540 13,164 18,576 Croatia 56,328 13,278 8,269 10,083 Spain 78,791 29,891 20,136 24,572 France 95,112 32,088 25,356 29,136 Hong Kong 84,811 49,002 35,366 45,120 Hungary 62,659 16,605 11,884 12,651 India 17,759 6,564 6,264 8,435 Mexico 44,940 14,988 6,768 9,972 Montenegro 0 10,703 7,008 7,817 Portugal 130,212 20,772 13,932 15,756 Russia 145,116 21,755 12,120 15,732 Serbia 69,170 10,563 6,379 8,445 Average remuneration by gender (euros)* Men Women Average Germany 35,916 22,560 25,140 Bangladesh 7,560 8,184 7,812 Bosnia 15,504 7,332 7,632 Bulgaria 18,516 18,588 18,576 Croatia 9,120 10,104 10,080 Spain 32,130 22,833 24,572 France 30,780 28,572 29,136 Hong Kong 58,098 37,376 45,120 Hungary 13,255 12,542 12,651 India 9,396 7,728 8,424 Mexico 11,376 9,312 9,972 Montenegro 0 7,817 7,817 Portugal 20,460 14,988 15,756 Russia 29,592 14,136 15,732 Serbia 25,173 7,323 8,445 Average remuneration by age (euros)* <25 25-35 35-50 >50 Germany 11,766 17,275 27,377 24,165 Bangladesh 0 7,812 0 0 Bosnia 7,020 6,624 9,288 17,964 Bulgaria 14,496 18,012 30,252 0 Croatia 8,904 9,888 11,568 30,132 Spain 18,249 21,190 29,155 39,602 France 27,506 26,188 28,621 44,407 Hong Kong 22,848 28,956 51,036 44,988 Hungary 10,735 11,802 16,870 15,816 India 2,424 7,668 10,944 0 Mexico 6,144 8,772 20,448 0 Montenegro 5,688 7,620 8,688 0 Portugal 13,476 14,280 20,028 30,816 Russia 13,044 18,012 39,012 0 Serbia 6,345 6,579 11,663 16,203 *Calculated on the total remunerations of the workforce (fixed + variable) converted from local currency to euros. 5. Nuestras personas 87 Difference in average remuneration by professional category and gender (data for Spain) General Central services Stores Executives and senior Middle Shop assistants, Middle Shop assistants, 29.19% management management administrative and other management administrative and other 34.22% 2.96% 19.21% 9.31% 1.26% These figures have been calculated solely on the total wage gap between men and women (fixed+variable remuneration) without taking into account other factors that allow an accurate comparison of equivalent works. The total wage gap of the group is 29.9% calculated taking into account the weighting of each country with regard to the group. Number of dismissals by gender Spain International Total Men Women Men Women Number of dismissals 64 268 67 240 639 Number of dismissals by professional category Spain International Shop assistants, Shop assistants, Senior Middle Senior Middle administrative administrative management management management management and other and other Number of dismissals 6 94 232 3 56 248 Number of dismissals by age Spain International Total Under 25 58 41 99 Between 35 and 50 177 45 222 Between 25 and 35 92 18 110 Over 50 5 7 12 Total 332 111 443 Scope 93.6% of staff On an international level, dismissals are concentrated in the 25 to 35 years range Accidents at work (data for Spain) Accidents at work (international data) Men Women Men Women Frequency Rate * 6.91 9.75 Frequency Rate * 8.64 15.23 Severity Rate ** 0.38 0.36 Severity Rate ** 0.15 0.29 Days missed due to accidents 777 3,226 Days missed due to accidents 127 1,413 *  Frequency rate = (no. of accidents with sick leave in work centre * F requency rate = (no. of accidents with sick leave in work centre + *1,000,000) / Hours worked commuting *1,000,000) / Hours worked ** Severity rate = (days of sick leave per accident in work centre ** S everity index = (days of sick leave per accident in work centre + *1,000) / Hours worked commuting *1,000) / Hours worked 88 Sustantibility Report 2019 6. Responsible supply chain Our suppliers External Code of Conduct Responsible supply chain Logistics management 6. Responsible supply chain 89 90 Sustantibility Report 2019 Our suppliers Currently, Tendam works with suppliers from 50 countries, to manufacture garments and all types of products and services in the countries where the company operates directly. The company bases its selection of suppliers on Transparency and three pillars: transparency, equal opportunities and mutual interest. Choosing suppliers is an intensive communication process that involves researching and evaluating them according to quality standards, product, production capacity and social aspects. Communication with the supplier must be done in a direct and transparent way, both during the contracting phase and when The Third Party Due Diligence Group (TDDG) carries services are provided. out review and control processes for certain markets, customers and suppliers based on certain risk criteria. The purchasing processes of general services, the application, awarding and contracting processes will be done according to Country risk exposure is monitored and those controls required by third parties (suppliers or franchisees) are the type and amount of product or service, taking the evaluated based on their specific circumstances due to company’s interests into consideration and continuously the critical nature of the operations. pushing for transparency, efficiency and agility in the purchasing and contracting processes. To manage garment and product purchases, there is a supplier portal that allows them to have a single centralised point for access to all the documentation and necessary applications in a fast and simple way. Every supplier can connect to the portal from anywhere in the world and access all the information and applications for which it has authorisation. The status of orders and invoices can be checked at any time, as well as the phase of the approval process they are in. The company has an Whistleblower Channel service which can be accessed both from the intranet and on the company’s website. It allows any employee or third party to report possible irregular or unethical behaviour or any behaviour that goes against the principles set out in the Code of Conduct. Number of Active Suppliers Distribution of Payments to Suppliers (garments, products, and services) (garments, products, and services) Hungary 57 Turkey 2% Others 375 Spain 1,639 Others 8% Spain 36% Portugal 2% Bosnia Herzegovina 72 South Korea 2% Hong Kong 77 Mexico 2% China 80 Singapore 3% Italy 85 Russia 3% Portugal 104 India 4% Mexico 119 Pakistan 4% Croacia 146 Serbia 151 Bangladesh 8% Belgium 185 China 11% France 204 Hong Kong 15% Russia 338 6. Responsible supply chain 91 External Code of Conduct In line with its values and commitments regarding ethical and responsible behaviour, the company extends accountability to its supply chain through the External Code of Conduct. The ultimate goal of this Code is to include respect for Human Rights in all parts of the supply chain. To ensure that all suppliers work under responsible working Furthermore, for garment suppliers it is a contractual clause conditions, the code includes 12 fundamental principles based in commercial contracts, and they are subjected to periodic on the principles of the United Nations Global Compact and audits and evaluations to guarantee their workers’ working the guidelines of the International Labour Organisation (ILO). and social conditions. The mandatory formal acceptance of the External Code of Conduct by all suppliers improves the traceability of the process, thus ensuring everyone is aware of it. External Code of Conduct link 1. 2. 3. 4. Protection of Dignity Health, safety, and Wages and Human Rights and respect hygiene benefits 5. 6. 7. 8. Working hours Freedom of Forced and No child labour association and compulsory labour collective bargaining 9. 10. 11. 12. Non-discrimination Respect for the Compliance Supervision environment with laws 92 Sustantibility Report 2019 Responsible Supply Chain Garment suppliers classified by source Europa Total Bulgaria 1 suppliers 447 Spain 49 Greece 1 Italy 5 Portugal 22 Romania 2 Turkey 29 Asia Bangladesh 41 Cambodia 18 China 149 India 54 Laos 1 África Myanmar 27 Ethiopia 1 Nepal 1 Madagascar 1 Pakistan 13 Morocco 15 Sri Lanka 1 Tunisia 3 Thailand 1 Vietnam 12 Distribution of garment purchases by origin Tendam works under the premise of promoting best practices China 32% in the supply chain, based on a relationship of mutual trust Thailand 1% with suppliers, long-term collaboration, permanent dialogue Otros 1% Morocco 1% and joint planning. Portugal 2% Within its global supply chain, it has established a process Vietnam 2% of researching and approving suppliers according to quality Turkey 3% standards, product, production capacity and social aspects to ensure the quality of the products and its suppliers’ working Spain 4% and social conditions. Suppliers management and production from the different India 5% geographical areas are controlled from its sourcing offices in Hong Kong, India, Bangladesh and Madrid. Its principal Cambodia 6% function is to coordinate with suppliers and continually supervise factories with audits for quality and compliance Pakistan 7% with the Code of Conduct. Myanmar 10% Bangladesh 25% Due diligence mechanisms for Human Rights Human Rights Supervision Communication Identification Risk and remediation and evaluation Assessment mechanisms Traceability of the Country risk Supervision of the Report and website production supply chain Analysis of production Whistleblower Supplier platform volumes Monitoring Channel Relocation Corrective action plan 6. Responsible supply chain 93 Supplier social assessment AMFORI is a global association for Acceptance open and sustainable trade whose of the Code of main mission is to improve society New supplier Conduct and encourage the sustainable use of resources. Through the initiatives BSCI (Business Social Compliance Initiative) and BEPI (Business Environmental Performance Initiative), they provide an international framework to support Evaluation actions aimed at reducing risks of the factory associated with the supply chain. Amfori BEPI offers a wide range of services that enable companies to drive environmental improvements Corrective throughout their supply chain and action YES Deviations carry out sustainable trade. It covers plan 11 environmental performance areas ranging from energy use and greenhouse gases to chemical management. NO Tendam has been a member of AMFORI since 2017, with the objective of strengthening the capability of assessing and Periodic monitoring suppliers throughout the monitoring value chain by sharing knowledge and experience with all the members of the initiative. Acceptance of the Code of Conduct Before beginning any work relationship with a supplier, we check that all suppliers meet our minimum requirements and must accept our Code of Conduct reflecting their commitment to integrity, Human Rights and the environment. Evaluation and validation In order to place an order, any supplier that works for the first time for any of the Tendam brands must undergo an evaluation by the company’s technicians on their technical capacity: processes, machinery, production capacity, etc. Traceability The evaluations are carried out at each of the factories expected to take part in manufacturing the orders for the company. If it does not pass In order to better supervise and monitor the technical audit, it will fail and the evaluation process will be over, products, a system has been put in place that although the factory will be provided a period of time to implement the improves the traceability of the supply chain necessary actions to comply with the requirements. with all the information related to suppliers, In addition to the technical evaluation, an evaluation of the working factories where each order is produced and the and social conditions is carried out. In order to meet the requirements technical production data. This system allows that have been established, the factory can present a certification the purchasing and auditing teams to have in accordance with international schemes that will be validated and information on the traceability of each order verified by the company’s technicians or subjected to an audit by immediately. accredited independent entities. 94 Sustantibility Report 2019 During these audits, visual inspections, interviews with Assessed factories management and employees and evidence review are carried Countries New Renewals Total out. If they get an unsatisfactory result, a six-month extension is provided so the factory can adapt to the company’s China 49 163 212 requirements. With this system, the company works on Bangladesh 22 50 72 maintaining stable relationships with its suppliers so that it is committed to continuous improvement. Ties are established Myanmar 16 22 38 and suppliers are supported to resolve possible shortcomings India 10 26 36 in social and labour matters. Turkey 19 14 33 The suppliers system makes it possible to know the status of the evaluations of each of the factories that work for the Morocco 4 13 17 different suppliers so orders can only be placed for factories Spain 3 13 16 that are already in the system with a positive evaluation. Otherwise, the process must be started again. Pakistan 10 6 16 Cambodia 4 11 15 Vietnam 3 6 9 Portugal 1 5 6 Sri Lanka 3 1 4 Tunisia 0 2 2 Thailand 0 1 1 Zero tolerance Romania 1 0 1 TOTAL 145 333 478 If during the audit process serious violations of Human Rights, forced labour and/or child labour or lack of freedom of association are detected, the audit will be evaluated with a negative result following the ‘Zero Tolerance’ Number of assessed factories: graph of the evolution criterion defined in the Social Audit System. The company over the last three years will not work with that factory until it adapts its situation to the minimum requirements that have been established. 2017 342 2018 433 Periodic audits and reviews 2019 478 The periodic visits of Tendam’s quality technicians to the suppliers’ factories allow Tendam to have additional firsthand information about the monitoring of working conditions, production capacity and the suppliers’ compliance with ABCDE supplier classification environmental and quality standards. Not less frequently than every three years, each factory is completely re-evaluated. By using these tools, the company B 21% D ensures that its suppliers work in a responsible manner 4% and it can detect and correct possible deviations and noncompliance. A 40% C E 35% 0% Semi-announced Audit Program Classification conducted under Tendam’s own criteria depending on the result of the social assessments of the factories. The company has a semi-announced Audit Program Five levels are established (A-B-C-D-E) based on the degree of compliance with the principles of the Code of Conduct in line with the Amfori BSCI that will be carried out for factories that obtained classification for suppliers. a low score in the previous audit, as well as for 61% of the factories fall into the A and B categories as they have no factories that have a significant production volume. significant deviations, 39% into categories C and D as they have deviations that entail following the Corrective Action Plan for a year, and category E, with severe breaches in the review process, would require another audit in less than six months. 6. Responsible supply chain 95 Towards purchasing more sustainable products The brands’ Sourcing and Product Purchasing Departments work in coordination with suppliers to encourage the use of more sustainable materials and more innovative production techniques.  n internal work group, WE CARE, has been created to promote and coordinate our teams’ and suppliers’ A initiatives and proposals related to sustainability and textile innovation. A  collaborative platform has been created to share market trends and spread knowledge for the transformation towards a more sustainable model.  n internal procedure for sustainable certifications and licensing has been established to support all brands by A setting out clear criteria on what documentation is required as well as the different implementation stages of each of these standards/certifications.  pecific training is provided, especially for the Purchasing and Design teams, on sustainable products and S processes, certifications and standards, as well as the main environmental implications of the supply chain. Logistics management A key aspect in supply chain performance is the logistical efficiency of managing the products, from the time they leave the factory until they reach the stores. Tendam channels this management through two strategic distribution centres. On the one hand, there is a multi-brand consolidation centre to 100% of its own stores and 70% of all the brands’ in Hong Kong where merchandise from Asian suppliers is franchised stores as well as two of the group’s e-commerce distributed to the Group’s franchise network and its own warehouses in Spain and Russia. stores in Mexico through cross-docking. In addition, in the The Madrid logistics centre is certified as a regulated agent Central American country there is a specific distribution and known consignor by the National Aviation Safety centre for deliveries to the group’s own stores and the Agency. This ensures that the supply chain is safe and Mexican franchises. that customs processes and controls are complied with, in The main logistics centre is located in Madrid which acts addition to significantly shortening delivery times. as a franchise consolidation centre for merchandise from Multi-brand distribution means a considerable decrease in suppliers in the Euro-Mediterranean region. It is the sole transport and deliveries to stores outside of business hours distributor for all its own stores in Europe. This logistics in order not to hinder the activity and to minimise the effects centre, located in Aranjuez, receives merchandise from of traffic and pollution in urban areas. suppliers from all countries. From there, it provides stock Russia Aranjuez Tarancón Hong Kong Mexico 5 Logistics centres 135,000 sqm 107 million of storage surface area garments dispatched 96 Sustantibility Report 2019 7. Environmental management Committed to environmental sustainability Eco-friendly garments Commitments to climate change Energy efficiency Emissions 7. Gestión ambiental 97 98 Sustantibility Report 2019 Committed to environmental sustainability Circular economy Educating and raising awareness Working on the principles of circularity at all our Developing innovative approaches for our teams as brands including using more sustainable materials, well as educating the next generations of designers efficiency in processes, minimising resources, and and raising consumers’ awareness of how they can recycling and extending the useful life of products. participate in these global commitments. Promoting intersectoral collaboration Improving traceability and measurement Working with partners, competitors and suppliers, as Improving internal traceability processes and well as support platforms, that allow for intersectoral measuring and monitoring results, as well as collaboration to obtain key solutions that make measuring the impacts of operations. greater impacts together viable and scalable. Eco-friendly garments Committed to working in a more sustainable and environmentally friendly way, our brands are increasing their collections with eco-friendly materials and processes. Using new production methods and new types of innovative fibres and fabrics helps us to reduce the environmental impact of our products. All our brands have evolved significantly in the production of more sustainable garments under their different collections. Currently 7% of the group’s total production is made under more sustainable terms and the goal for 2020-2021 is to reach 15% globally, a volume already achieved by Springfield with its R[ECO]NSIDER line. Fibres Organic cotton Recycled polyester Recycled wool SORONA® Dupont ™ Its seeds are not genetically Recycled polyester is the Wool is a renewable, This synthetic fibre is a modified and it is grown same quality as virgin biodegradable, insulating, biopolymer partly made of without chemical fertilizers polyester but uses fewer and durable material that natural materials. Producing or pesticides. It needs resources and emits less prevents bad odours from it uses less energy, reduces 90% less water than CO2 in its manufacturing building up. CO2 emissions and conventional cotton. process. uses renewable natural resources instead of petroleum products. 7. Gestión ambiental 99 Water use Water is the most important natural resource we have that we must conserve. Reducing water consumption in our garment manufacturing processes is one of our major goals. Using innovative techniques in denim manufacturing processes allows us to reduce the environmental impact of the finishes of this type of garment. Laser and ozone technologies are the two initiatives that our denim garments include, two key techniques for reducing the strong environmental impact of the finishing processes of these types of garments. Nanobubbles: quality Ozone: it naturally allows Laser: technology to make finishes with the minimum for oxidation with a large denim looked distressed amount of water and no decrease in the consumption through a dry process that waste since this technology of water and chemical does not use water. allows water, energy and products such as chlorine chemicals products to and permanganate. be saved compared to conventional processes WE CARE is an internal work group coordinated by Sourcing and Quality Department that brings together members of the Design and Purchasing departments of all our commercial chains, as well as other corporate departments to promote and coordinate procedures, initiatives and proposals related to textile sustainability and innovation. Its main aim is to make the team aware of areas for improvement and market trends for their implementation and thus contribute to the transformation towards a more sustainable model. ECOVERO ™ TENCEL® LYOCELL RDS (RESPONSABILE THERMOLITE ® DOWN STANDARD) LENZING ™ Ecovero ™ Biodegradable fabrics THERMOLITE T-Down fibre is a viscose obtained made from the wood of It is an independent, EcoMade provides a new from sustainable wood eucalyptus trees from voluntary global standard generation of recycled and cellulose which comes forests that are managed that ensures a process synthetic fibre designed from certified sources. Its in a sustainable manner. without cruelty to animals. to replace down. It is GRS manufacturing process It is very pleasant to the The down is 100% natural approved and made from reduces emissions and touch and very resistant to and biodegradable and 100% recycled PET fibre. impact on water resources stretching and wrinkles due guarantees lightness, by 50 per cent. to its moisture management insulation, and maximum property. breathability. 100 Sustantibility Report 2019 Plastics The fight against plastics and micro-plastics is one of the priority areas for protecting the oceans. At Tendam, we see it as one of the most difficult challenges that we have ahead of us. In recent years, plastic shopping bags have been replaced by paper or recycled plastic (min. 70%). The paper bags, which are delivered to the customer, are PEFC or FSC certified. These certifications evaluate the whole line of forest production, from the tree to the final product, verifying that its origin is environmentally friendly. 3R Project – Pre-consumer plastics Tendam works to reduce pre-consumer plastic generated in the supply chain by reducing or replacing polyethylene poly bags that protect the products from dirt and moisture until they reach consumers. By introducing the 3R PROJECT years ago, Springfield has achieved very significant savings and its results are being applied to the rest of the group’s brands according to the particularities of their garments and fabrics. The 3R Project is based on eliminating single-use polyethylene bags and replacing master poly bags with wax-coated paper which protects all the garments in each box. The WE CARE group is currently coordinating a new project to replace traditional poly bags with thinner alternatives containing recycled material. The next steps are based on looking for alternatives to eliminate petroleum-based polymers. To this end, different solutions are being analysed in terms of their viability and resistance. Alternatives are being tested with paper, biodegradable materials and water-soluble polymers. 7. Gestión ambiental 101 Waste In recent years, we have been implementing different measures to know and manage the waste generated by the company directly and indirectly to apply the most efficient solutions. Thus, we have introduced procedures to improve and optimise the use of resources by promoting reusing and recycling. Packaging Paper Seventy per cent of the boxes that arrive at the logistics To reduce substantially paper at our central services, we have centre from suppliers are reused during picking for store introduced signing contracts with third parties via electronic replenishment, optimising the use of materials and reducing signature using the DocuSign tool, which allows documents the generation of new waste. to be approved, finalised and signed quickly and securely from any device without needing to print any documents. The Legal In addition, to reduce waste generation at consumers’ homes, Department handled 752 contracts using this tool. measures are carried out to replace packaging materials with others that have a lower environmental impact and to get rid Replacing paper receipts with electronic ones for online of unnecessary elements. purchases has resulted in an estimated reduction of 1 million paper receipts since it was introduced in May 2019. In addition, this year the individual printers have been replaced Textile waste by efficient collective printers with the aim of reducing paper We have a firm social commitment to managing textile waste consumption. and using garments that cannot be sold in order to prevent destroying or incinerating the garments and waste generation. Management and Reuse of Electric and Electronic That is why we have a social programme, launched more Equipment than 15 years ago, which makes the most of these products through two mechanisms: donations in kind to non-profit Inadequately handling electronic waste creates serious health organisations so they can be directly used in programmes problems due to its hazardous components, and management for people at risk of exclusion and, secondly, the Involucrados processes without the proper means and facilities with project, where social projects are funded by selling these items qualified personnel pose an additional threat to the planet. in charity markets, which socially maximises the value of these A total of 9,724 kg of waste electrical and electronic out-of-market resources. equipment (WEEE) has been disposed of during 2019, mainly This year, we have directly donated 23,430 garments and, on screens, desktop PCs and large equipment. the other hand, we have donated garments worth €152,000 The disposal of obsolete equipment at facilities and stores by through the Involucrados project. an authorised agent includes safely erasing the information Another 6,897 kg of pre-consumer waste was processed stored in all the memory units. through an authorised agent, of which 98.88% was reused Equipment susceptible to second use is restored, prioritizing in the second-hand market and the remaining 1.12% was reuse as the best treatment option. Of the waste managed, recycled. 6.92% by weight of desktop PCs have been reused and 35% of all other devices have been reconditioned. 102 Sustantibility Report 2019 Commitments to climate change In 2019, the company has made great progress in its commitment to climate change, aligning its goals with international initiatives that, through sectoral and multinational cooperation, join forces to achieve the challenge of decarbonisation by 2050. Currently, the company is involved in the process of defining a new climate change strategy that will allow it to make more progress and fulfil all the commitments it has made. The Fashion Pact Tendam has joined the Fashion Pact, the grand coalition of leading global fashion companies committed to shared key environmental goals based on the Paris Agreement goal of “We’re forging ahead in our sustainability strategy limiting the planet’s temperature rise to below 1.5ºC. and joining the Fashion Pact is a sign of our commitment. This translates into clear control As part of its strategy to manage operations in the policies in operations in which we are directly most efficient and environmentally friendly way, specific involved, while consistently pursuing maximum quantitative targets have been set to address the industry’s efficiency and minimum consumption”. challenges regarding the fight against climate change, protecting the oceans and biodiversity conservation. All of this is done within the framework of the Science Based Targets (SBT) initiative. Jaume Miquel, Chairman and CEO of Tendam Our firm commitment to this initiative has led us to join their Executive Committee as well as their Management Committee, actively participating in decision-making. Strategic Global Concrete targets Commitments Actions 3 Pillars CLIMATE BIODIVERSITY OCEANS 7. Gestión ambiental 103 Busines ambition for 1.5ºC Regarding the 2019 United Nations climate change Conference (COP25), Tendam has been recognised by the United Nations Global Compact for joining the Business Ambition for 1.5ºC initiative which will set targets for reducing global temperature rise to 1.5ºC in accordance with the limit agreed upon by the scientific community to prevent the worst social and environmental impacts. This commitment to a significant reduction of carbon for a future with net-zero emissions by 2050, also shared by the Fashion Pact, is part of the most ambitious effort, carried out by companies that UN Fashion Industry Charter demonstrate leadership at a time of environmental, social and economic concern for Climate Action and uncertainty. In order to implement the principles of the Fashion Industry Charter for Climate Action, Tendam is committed to working together with stakeholders to achieve the targets that have been set. Tendam has joined the Fashion Industry Charter for Climate Action, overseen by the United Nations climate change Office, to define action steps as well as to set an initial target to reduce GHG emissions by 30% by 2030 and other specific measures such as phasing out carbon sources in supply chains. Goals for 2020-2022 Defining a new climate change strategy Carbon Disclosure Project Defining SBTi reduction targets 104 Sustantibility Report 2019 Energy efficiency With over 1,300 own points of sale all over the world, the stores become the heart of the activity and need to adapt to the needs of each space and the specific and differentiated commercial offer of each of our brands. They are one of the critical factors in terms of electricity consumption from our direct activities. This is why environmental factors and the design of each of the spaces turn every opening or renovation into a rational energy consumption project in itself, where we must take into account lighting as well as heating and cooling installation improvements to achieve greater energy efficiency and to maximise our sustainability criteria. The Aranjuez logistics centre has a photovoltaic system covering the entire roof of the building, equipment such as low-energy lighting, automated systems that turn on or off depending on the ambient light, compartmentalisation of areas, and automation systems. Renewable Energy Tendam has committed to renewable energy adquisition. During 2020, all the energy consumed for the group’s operations in Spain, which is 80% of the electricity purchased for its own operations, will be renewable. The contract to supply renewable energy represents a total volume of about 80GWh/year and covers the 800 stores that Tendam’s brands have in Spain as well as the group’s operational facilities in the country, its headquarters, and logistics centres. Thus, 100% of this energy will be certified with Guarantee of Origin (GoOs) issued by the National Commission on Markets and Competition (CNMC, for its abbreviation in Spanish) during 2020. This way, the carbon footprint will be significantly reduced as it will prevent the emission of an estimated 30,000 tonnes of CO2 into the atmosphere. Renewable electricity targets for own operations 2020 2025 2030 80% 90% 100% 7. Gestión ambiental 105 Electrical Power Consumption (KWh) 2017 2018 2019 Stores * 93,746,266 91,052,450 94,054,997 Headquarters and offices 2,779,144 2,917,517 2,848,431 12.04% Logistics Centres Total 3,499,093 100,024,503 3,152,991 97,122,958 2,671,605 99,575,033 Acquired renewable energy Acquired renewable energy** 0% 0% 12.04% * Only taking into account energy consumption in our own stores (without corners), this represents 98.9% of the total commercial surface area of our own stores. ** Renewable energy acquired in Spain Energy consumption by country (KWh) Countries 2017 2018 2019 Spain 81,306,146 78,752,681 80,352,604 Belgium 1,480,978 1,288,627 1,208,207 Croatia 4,800 51,513 570,000 France 641,937 712,856 910,050 Hungary 1,205,268 1,203,071 1,202,089 Luxembourg 389,099 398,590 272,799 Mexico 1,440,043 1,240,629 1,525,793 Montenegro n/a n/a n/a Portugal 12,300,344 12,301,184 12,206,541 Russia 839,518 852,527 916,000 Serbia 245,000 321,280 315,450 Total 100,024,503 97,122,958 99,575,033 Efficient Logistics Logistical decisions directly impact environmental Efficient distribution to all stores is achieved thanks to two consequences. This year, air transport has once again been main areas: the distribution centre in Aranjuez (Madrid) and reduced, decreasing emissions from imports as well as the cross-dock centre in Hong Kong. long-distance exports. This is the direct result of applying Multi-brand distribution means a considerable decrease in a business model that is not focused on fast fashion but on transport and deliveries to stores outside of business hours in more planning and a high-quality commercial offer that lasts order not to hinder the activity and to minimise the effects of longer. traffic and pollution in urban areas. Regarding land transport, efficiency measures when filling boxes and trucks also reduce the emission of greenhouse gases for each tonne transported. 106 Sustantibility Report 2019 Emissions Calculation Period: Financial year: 1 March 2019 to 29 February 2020 Calculation method: GHG emissions calculated in accordance with the ‘Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol). Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard’ established by the WRI (World Resources Institute) and WBCSD (World Business Council for Sustainable Development). Direct emissions Indirect emissions Fuels Transport from supplier to logistics centre IMPORT Transport to franchises EXPORT Leased vehicles Electricity acquired Transport to own stores Transport for e-commerce/online Air conditioning recharges Employee trips SCOPE 1 SCOPE 2 SCOPE 3 Fugitive emissions SCOPE 1: DIRECT EMISSIONS: 3,198 TnCO2 e (93%)  uels: Emissions from using heating fuel in stores F and facilities. Combustion SCOPE 3% Coolants: Leaked emissions from air conditioning Mobile combustion units in stores in Spain, Portugal and Belgium. 1 4% Vehicles: Emissions from vehicle fuel consumption (as they do not have their own fleet, it refers to leased vehicles only). SCOPE 2: I ndirect electricity-related emissions: 23,747 TnCO2 e Scope 2 has been reduced by 32% with respect to  lectricity: Emissions derived from electricity E the previous year due to the acquisition of renewable consumption at the headquarters, Aranjuez logistics energy and because the decarbonisation measures are centre (Madrid), warehouses, country headquarters and reducing the emission factor of the electricity mix of the the entire network of our own stores. Spanish supply companies. 61% SCOPE 3: Indirect transport-related emissions: 19,003 TnCO2 e 8% 3% Imports: Emissions due to the transport of goods from suppliers to the Hong Kong and Aranjuez 8% SCOPE (Madrid) logistics centres. 3 7% Logistics: Emissions due to the transport of goods from the logistics centres to the entire network of our own stores. 13% Exports: Emissions due to transport to the entire network of franchise stores. E-commerce: Emissions due to the transport of Transport to logistic centres Business trips (imports) goods from online sales. Transport to franchises Transport to own stores (exports) (national) Travel: Emissions from employee business trips. Shipping for online purchases Transport to own stores (international) 7. Gestión ambiental 107 Total emissions have decreased by more than 30% compared to 2017 2018 2019 2018. The main variation is in scope 2 (emissions from electricity) Scope 1 3,206 4,218 3,198 due to the acquisition of renewable energy and the fact that the emission factor of the supplier in Spain (which accounts for Scope 2 36,067 35,139 23,747 almost 80% of total consumption) has dropped considerably as Scope 1+2 39,273 39,357 26,945 decarbonisation has led electricity companies to change their energy mix. In scope 3, emissions also decrease due to streamlining air Scope 3 21,816 22,813 19,003 transport. Direct GHG emissions Type CO2 (Tn CO2) CH4 (Tn CO2 e) N2O (Tn CO2 e) refrigerant gases GEI (Tn CO2 e) % (Tn CO2 e) Stationary combustion 96.19 0.30 0.10 97 3% Mobile combustion 121.13 0.03 1.73 123 4% Refrigerant gases 2,978.99 2,979 93% fugitive emissions TOTAL (Tn CO2 e) 217.32 0.33 1.83 2,978.99 3,198 100% Indirect GHG emissions from electricity Electricity 23,747.31 (Tn CO2 e) 100.0% OTHER INDIRECT GHG EMISSIONS Description CO2 (Tn CO2) CH4 (Tn CO2 e) N2O (Tn CO2 e) GHG (Tn CO2 e) % Transport to own stores (National) 1,284.69 0.29 16.59 1,302 7% Transport to own stores (international) 2,394.50 0.26 28.21 2,423 13% Transport to logistic centres (Imports) 11,594.64 1.96 106.39 11,703 62% Transport to franchises (Exports) 1,552.56 0.26 15.37 1,568 8% Shipments from online purchases 523.27 0.03 3.74 527 3% Business trips 1,465.89 0.43 13.42 1,480 8% Total (Tn CO2 e) 18,815.55 3.23 183.73 19,003 100% Consumption ratios and indirect emissions from electricity use in stores Countries KWh stores KWh/m2 Tn CO2 e kg CO2 e / m2 Spain 74,914,916 266 17,241 61 Belgium 1,193,924 215 247 45 France 903,007 212 37 9 Hungary 1,193,688 195 335 55 Luxembourg 272,799 205 83 62 Croatia 570,000 144 111 28 Portugal 12,169,920 259 3,298 70 Serbia 315,450 46 219 32 Russia 900,000 79 342 30 Mexico 1,525,793 177 697 81 Total 93,959,497 249 22,612 60 Only taking into account the electricity consumption at its own stores (without corners), this represents 98,79% of the total commercial surface area of its own stores. Calculated based on the emissions factors of the International Energy Agency (IEA 2016) and MITECO 2020. 108 8. Committed to society Strategic alliances Social impact projects Corporate Volunteering 109 110 Sustantibility Report 2019 Strategic alliances We are a company that wants to have a positive impact on our society, becoming an agent of change, promoting diversity, inclusion, and the well-being of the communities where we operate. Our contribution is materialised through collaborations with other entities to promote networking, innovation and talent management, contributing to the betterment of society. SERES Foundation Lealtad Foundation We are part of the SERES Foundation The Lealtad Foundation is an independent non-profit organisation that together with 140 other companies with seeks to strengthen society’s confidence in social action foundations the objective of driving the social actions of and associations to increase cooperation among companies and companies and transforming business reality individuals. Since 2003, thanks to the close cooperation between both to create a better and healthier society. parties, Tendam has supported the task of propagating transparency in the third sector. The Fashion Pact Foro Social de la Industria UN Fashion Industry We have joined the coalition de la Moda Charter for climate change of leading global fashion It has been created as a platform The fashion industry is moving companies committed to for dialogue made up of organisations towards a commitment to climate shared environmental goals linked to the fashion industry in Spain. action and the launch of the Fashion that are key to climate change, Through our participation in the Industry Charter in 2018 is a result of biodiversity and the oceans. Forum, we strengthen companies’ this. This Charter sets out common commitment to improving society with objectives for reducing emissions, as responsible actions, acting well as analysing and establishing as a tool for a decarbonisation approach for dialogue the fashion industry based on the and promoting methodologies of the Science-based good practices. Targets Initiative. Tendam is a member of many leading national and international organisations in the industry, actively taking part through their management boards, committees and working groups and contributing with the corresponding necessary fees. ACME (Asociación de Creadores de Moda de España), ACOTEX (Asociación Empresarial del comercio Textil, complementos y piel), AMFORI (BSCI Foreign Trade Association), ANGED (Asociación Nacional Grandes de Empresas de Distribución), ASECOM (Asociación de Empresas de Confección y Moda de la Comunidad de Madrid), ASEPAM (Asociación Española del Pacto Mundial de Naciones Unidas), EBCA (European Branded Clothing Alliance), FEDECON, and FMRE (Foro de Marcas Renombradas Españolas). 8. Comprometidos con la sociedad 111 We are committed to trainig and talent Aula Tendam with the Universidad Politécnica de Madrid We participate in the Aula Tendam on Sustainability, Responsibility, and Innovation in Fashion Design in collaboration with the Centro Superior de Diseño de Moda de Madrid (CSDMM), affiliated with the Universidad Politécnica de Madrid. This collaboration is another example of the company’s commitment to society and it allows it to fulfil its educational mission with three goals: to support talented young people, to train professionals and to professionalise the industry. It also clearly supports sustainable innovation through the design process. Chair at the ISEM Business Fashion School The Tendam Chair at ISEM, a Univesity of Navarra center—the first business school specialised in fashion companies in Spain—focuses on promoting young talent and fostering their professional growth as strategic pillars to boost their employability. Tendam shares the aim of training professionals to work in the fashion industry by building their negotiation and leadership skills. Atelier by ISEM Tendam collaborates on the Atelier by ISEM project, the start-up accelerator run by the ISEM Business School, the University of Navarra’s business school focused on the fashion industry. In this third edition of the project, we have joined up with other major companies to promote new alliances with entrepreneurs and start-ups and to be able to add new technologies to the development of the industrial base of the retail industry specialising in fashion. Business Women Empowerment The company sponsors this initiative, promoted by Cinnamon News, whose objective is to contribute to the empowerment of women in the economic and business world. Within this framework, Woman2Woman is a mentoring programme focused on searching women with vocation to become protagonists of a new phase to transform the business world towards equality. EngageMEN, engaging men Our CEO has participated in the EngageMEN challenges, a Mujeres&Cia’s initiative, with a clear challenge to speed up women’s access to management positions. As a result of this participation, the company has launched a new internal sponsoring program to promote female leadership and to seek equality. 112 Sustantibility Report 2019 Social impact projects We maintain a strong commitment to our social programs as a means to contribute to the Sustainable Development Goals, strengthening the well-being of the community. We pay special attention to developing programmes that help improve people’s personal and professional skills, reflecting our commitment to our employees and our willingness to be an actor in development. #SIMEIMPORTA (#IDOCARE) movement for cancer prevention Through the collaboration they have had since 2013, Women’secret and the Dexeus Mujer Foundation have taken another step towards preventing hereditary breast cancer. This year, they have launched the ‘A mí, me importa. ¿Y a ti?’ (‘It matters to me. What about you?’) campaign, a solidarity initiative with which the brand wanted to call on all women to join the #SÍMEIMPORTA movement, whose objective is to contribute to improving the quality of life of women with cancer and normalising the disease. The Post Surgery Bras project was created six years ago to support and contribute to normalising the lives of women who have suffered from breast cancer with the aim of making their daily lives easier. It is a line of lingerie and swimwear created for women who have had this cancer, designed to be able to adapt to being worn with a prosthesis or to being worn postsurgery. In recent years, there has been an increase in breast cancer diagnoses in young women, which is often hereditary. To prevent them, the Dexeus Mujer Foundation does genetic testing for women who may have a hereditary risk. The campaign presented by both brands this year aims precisely at enhancing prevention. It involves selling an underwear collection to obtain funds to help make these tests free for women who are at risk. SERES Award for Social Innovation The SERES Foundation firmly believes in social innovation as a key element for facing today’s challenges of society and organisations. The SERES 2019 awards have recognised the best strategic and innovative actions that create value for society and companies. The foundation has awarded the #SIMEIMPORTA project for its innovative nature and for creating value for women. 8. Comprometidos con la sociedad 113 INVOLUCRADOS (INVOLVED) with the community In 2005, the Involucrados (Involved) project was born as the result of the company’s commitment to the development of society, contributing to the health and well-being of the community. Through a public call, with requirements and a transparent process, four projects from different social organisations are chosen to be the beneficiaries of all the money raised from the pieces sold through the company’s charity sales. With this social action programme, we support projects that promote social and labour market integration and the fight against poverty and exclusion, as well as contributing to International cooperation projects carried out in developing countries to fight poverty and exclusion. In 15 years, we have done big things: 53 +€1.6 +500,000 projects funded million euros beneficiaries around the world Gil Gayarre Foundation Sauce Foundation The Foundation carries out its Water and Rhythm The Foundation promotes the inclusion of people with programme by providing a therapeutic approach to disabilities and/or who are at risk of exclusion in the emotional and health issues related to intellectual labour market in the Battambang Textile Association disabilities. Its main aim is to fix and alleviate problems (Cambodia). This centre has become a tool for local textile related to intellectual disabilities that further limit the manufacturing and for creating opportunities as a source person’s adaptation and development comprehensively of employment for people who would never have had the and harmoniously. The therapy is individualised with two chance to join the labour market. rehabilitative/therapeutic treatments using hydrotherapy and music therapy. €37,225/ Cambodia €40,369/ Spain 40 Workers with a disability 178 families Asociación Española de Esclerosis Recover Foundation Lateral Amiotrófica With the slogan ‘a ghost detectable in time’, the The Near to you programme by the Asociación Recover Foundation focuses on the detection of cervical Española de Esclerosis Lateral Amiotrófica cancer in women in Cameroon. Cervical cancer is a (ADELA, for its abbreviation in Spanish) focuses on disease that is easy to diagnose and treat by trained personalised care and independent living for people healthcare professionals, so the death of thousands of with Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis and their family women can be prevented through the early diagnosis of members. This programme meets the need for this type of cancer. physiotherapists, speech therapists, psychologists and other professionals working with people with ALS in order to improve their quality of life and their social and home environment. €38,632/ Cameroon 2,000 Women €35,943/ Spain 500 Beneficiaries 114 Sustantibility Report 2019 PERFECTOS IMPERFECTOS (PERFECTLY IMPERFECT) to raise awareness of disabilities Cortefiel supports the Cadete Foundation with the Perfectos Imperfectos project with the aim of positively highlighting how children born with a disability are imperfect, different, and original. 100% of the money raised from selling the capsule collection made up of different menswear and womenswear garments has been put towards it. Fifty-six children with different types and levels of disabilities have been provided financial assistance to receive rehabilitation treatment at 37 centres in the Community of Madrid. €49,000/ Spain 56 c hildren have received financial assistance Solidarity Bracelets WOMEN POWER Women’secret has collaborated with the #GirlsGetEqual campaign launched by Plan International. It is a worldwide movement for the equality of girls and young women that takes place in more than 75 countries and seeks to ensure that girls are equally seen, heard and valued. The action consisted in selling bracelets designed for the International Women’s Day. Thanks to Women’secret’s Women Power campaing were raised €50,000 to contribute to funding Plan International’s education programme in collaboration with AECID (the Spanish Agency for International Development Cooperation) in the fields of Cox’s Bazar (Bangladesh). This project directly benefits over 3,610 children, young people and women, both Rohingya and Bangladeshi refugees, promoting education and equality for girls. €51,273/ Bangladesh 3,610 Children 8. Comprometidos con la sociedad 115 Salvemos nuestro Mediterráneo (Let’s save our Mediterranean) Under its eco-friendly label, R[ECO]NSIDER, and as part of its strategic commitment to caring for the environment, Springfield is collaborating with National Geographic and Manu San Félix on the Salvemos nuestro Mediterráneo project. The initiative is part of the communication campaign for the premiere of the documentary directed by marine biologist Manu San Felix focused on the Posidonia Maps project, aimed at conserving Posidonia oceanica on the Mediterranean seabed in the Balearic Islands. €10,000 for Posidonia Map FASHION 2ND LIFE for Alzheimer’s With the slogan ‘Fashion 2nd Life: Let nobody forget their memories’, Pedro del Hierro held an auction with its exclusive creations to fund research for finding a cure for Alzheimer’s disease. All the money has gone towards funding a research project based on immunotherapy led by CIMA University of Navarra (Center for Applied Medical Research). The project studies how the olfactory system can modulate the immune system and the effects of immune activation or suppression on memory. The results will contribute to the search for a cure for Alzheimer’s disease. €15,500 for Alzheimer’s research 116 Sustantibility Report 2019 Telva Solidarity Award Clothing donations for the Andrés Marcio Foundation At Tendam, there is a firm social commitment For another year, Tendam has sponsored the XXVI edition to making the most out of our defective of the TELVA Solidarity Awards that recognises five social samples and garments that cannot be sold on projects. the market, thus avoiding the destruction of the garments and the consequent generation On this occasion, the company has collaborated with the of waste. Andrés Marcio Foundation by donating €9,000 to fund As a result, there is a social programme, miniature subcutaneous holter devices to prevent the launched more than 15 years ago, which sudden death of children with laminopathy. This is a rare makes the most of these products through disease with severe congenital muscular dystrophy that has two mechanisms: donations in kind to nonno cure at this time. profit organisations so they can be directly used in programmes for people at risk of Currently, only eight cases have been identified in Spain. exclusion and, secondly, the Involucrados project, whereby social projects are funded by €9,000 selling these items in charity markets, which socially maximises the value of these out-ofdonated to the foundation market resources. The most direct way of using these leftovers is donating them, but we also use them to generate economic resources that allow for the creation of a much greater benefit to society. In this way, resources that the company would not benefit from in its regular commercial management are maximised, avoiding the generation of textile waste. 23,430 units donated with a value of €156,200 Employee collaborations The Women’secret teams organised an incompany solidarity market to help a co-worker whose son has Hereditary Spastic Paraparesis, a rare neurodegenerative disease. The proceeds went entirely to the Division of Molecular Genetics at Columbia University Medical Center, one of the few research centres in the world on this rare disease, to support research (KIF1A Research) to better understand the genetic basis of the disease, its natural history, what support is most useful for people who have it and possible new treatments in the future. Advances in research are key for developing treatments. €11,404 raised for researching the disease 8. Comprometidos con la sociedad 117 Corporate volunteering Through our corporate volunteer programme, ‘Somos 167 volunteers 872 hours Voluntarios’, employees can actively collaborate in various social and environmental programmes that give them the chance to add value to society. With this initiative, the company provides the talent of its professionals to third sector organisations to make an internal and external impact, bringing it closer to the community. The programme revolves around two main lines of action: integrating groups at risk of social exclusion and protecting the environment. Supporting women with the Quiero Trabajo Foundation Over 15 volunteers from Tendam collaborate with the Quiero Trabajo Foundation, boosting the employability of women who are at risk of social exclusion due to their situation: migrants, persons seeking international protection and refugees, women over 45 years old, single mothers, etc. The volunteers have helped 18 women, offering styling and mentoring sessions with the aim of empowering them and increasing their selfesteem so that they can feel confident and secure during recruitment processes. Teaching Students of the Síndrome de Down de Madrid Foundation We celebrated World More than 20 volunteers give workshops to the students of the Cleanup Day Foundation’s FOCUS training programme where young people with disabilities are provided with a space for their personal and educational development once they finish their schooling. As part of On Saturday, 21 September, we the business, hospitality and tourism modules, Tendam’s volunteers celebrated World Cleanup Day by joining provide training workshops on personal styling and job interviews more than 150 countries that came for their future incorporation into the labour market. together that same day to clean up streets, parks, beaches and forests. We invited all employees to participate along We participated in COP25 with their families, challenging them to bring together the most volunteers and Tendam supported the Madrid City Council with the volunteer to collect as much waste as possible in programme for COP25 that was held in December. a competition with other international companies. As a company and because of our commitment to sustainability and climate change, we wanted to participate in this world-class We carried out waste removal actions event directly. A group of volunteers participated at the Sustainable in the Valmayor reservoir as part of the Development Goals and Agenda 2030 stand located in the Green Zone, Libera Project in collaboration with SEO sharing the SDGs and their contribution to achieving a better world. Birdlife and Ecoembes. 118 Sustantibility Report 2019 9. About this Report The report’s scope and coverage Economic contribution Principles of the Global Compact Information requested under the Law 11/2018 External Verification 9. About this Report 119 120 Sustantibility Report 2019 The report’s scope and coverage This 2019 Sustainability Report includes all the activities of tendam brands, s.a. as the parent company, and of the companies directly or indirectly controlled by it, which comprise the Tendam Group. The Report includes the consolidated Statement of The Report includes all the information required by Spanish Noninancial Information (ENIF) of the Company and its group, Law 11/2018, of 28 December, which modifies the corresponding to the corresponding to the fiscal year between Commercial Code (Código de Comercio), the consolidated text March 1, 2019 and February 29, 2020. It is submitted as a of the Spanish Corporate Enterprises Act (Ley de Sociedades separate report, forming part of the consolidated management de Capital) approved by Royal Legislative Decree 1/2010, report of the Company and its group. of 2 July, and Spanish Law 22/2015, of 20 July, on Account Auditing, in relation to nonnancial information and diversity. The 2019 Sustainability Report has been prepared by the Board of Directors of the Company and was signed by all its For the preparation of the report, the relevant environmental members on 30 July 20201. and social aspects of the business have been considered in the significant geographical areas where the activity is carried The contents of this report have been produced in out. In the case of limitations in some contents, these are accordance with international standards such as the Global detailed in the corresponding section of the report or in the Reporting Initiative, and following the guidelines and corresponding index, and there is a commitment to continue principles established in the SRS Standards (Comprehensive working on internal data management to present the most application level). complete information. The characteristics of the organization and the expectations of the interested parties have been taken into account. The basic principles followed to produce this report are: E  xcept where expressly indicated otherwise, the data included refer to the position on 29 February 2020. F  or comparative purposes, quantitative information from the previous year is included, either in the contents of each chapter or in the “Main KPIs” table in this section.  he information and data extracted from the different internal management T systems of the Tendam Group have been validated by the people responsible for the different departments.  he information provided is not exclusively limited to quantitative indicators. T Supplementary information of a qualitative nature makes it possible to provide an appropriate assessment of sustainability.  ll image and graphic resources used are owned by the Company or have A been appropriately licenced for use in this report. 1. In accordance with the deadlines set out in Royal Decree Law 8/2020 of 17 March on urgent extraordinary measures to deal with the economic and social impact of COVID-19 and Royal Decree Law 19/2020 of 26 May adopting supplementary measures in the agricultural, scientific, economic, employment and social security and tax fields to alleviate the effects of COVID-19. 9. About this Report 121 Economic contribution Main Figures (Millons of euros) Distribution of expenditures (Millons of euros) 2018 2019 2018 2019 Non financial fixed ass 1,015.78 1,382.08 Employee remuneration 220.97 235.16 Financial fixed assets 21.57 21.70 Provisions 440.35 451.50 Stock 157.67 154.31 Other operating costs 328.37 205.50 Customers 15.40 24.91 Comercial suppliers 223.40 228.36 Remuneration of employees 2019 Total discontinued operations 1,150.83 1,187.28 income Salaries Gross margin / Income 61.74% 61.97% 69.37% Operating profit 119.91 125.10 Recurring EBITDA 161.71 296.97 Social Security Stock / Sales 13.79% 13.08% 21.12% Customers / Sales 1.35% 2.11% Other Suppliers / Sales 19.55% 19.36% compensation social expenses 9.49% Income (Millons of euros) Results before taxes (Millons of euros) 2018 2019 2018 2019 2019 Cortefiel and Pedro del Hierro 312.92 315.93 (pre-IFRS16) (pre-IFRS16) (post-IFRS16) Women’secret 312.21 336.31 Spain 45.90 70.65 64.98 Springfield 444.21 446.02 Portugal 11.17 12.30 11.41 Fifty 79.41 87.44 Others 23.75 -1.70 -3.98 Corporate Unit 2.08 1.58 Total 80.82 81.25 72.41 During the 2019 financial year, new accounting standards Cortefiel and came into force, among which the IFRS16 applicable to the accounting treatment of leases stands out. Data for the year Corporate Unit Pedro del Hierro ended February 29, 2020 are included both with or without and Fifty 26.6% the effect of the application of this standard, in order to 7.5% facilitate comparison with the data from the previous year. Springfield Corporation tax paid: 37.57% In the 2018/19 nancial year, a total of €8.92 million was Women’secret recorded as corporation tax paid. 28.33% Public grants: The Company does not receive public grants, except on Environment provisions: the subject of employment training in Spain (Fundae) equivalent to €0.32 million provided in the form of a The Company does not have environmental provisions in reduction on social security contributions. place. It considers that the damages and responsibilities that, as the case may be, could derive from incidents of this nature are suf ciently covered by the insurance policies taken out by the group. 122 Sustantibility Report 2019 Main KPIs 2018-2019 MAIN KPIs 2018 2019 MAIN KPIs 2018 2019 TENDAM Executives and senior 261 262 Employees by Countries in which we operates 84 86 professional management 2,022 2,070 category Points of sale 1,993 1,990 Middle management 8,412 8,403 Own Stores 1,361 1,367 Shop assistants and other 1,271 1,286 Business Franchises 632 623 Permanent contract-Men 5,605 6,041 Online markets 38 47 Contract type Permanent contract-Women 6,876 7,327 Millions of garments produced 90 91 by gender Permanent Total 501 425 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Fixed-term Men 3,270 2,983 Training Code Trained employees 2,118 1,592 Fixed-term Women 3,771 3,408 of Conduct Training hours 4,236 3,184 Fixed-term total 253 253 Visits to the Whistleblower Channel 1,435 1,089 Permanent contract Senior 8 9 Whistleblower management Incidents (Whistleblower Channel ) 29 44 Channel Fixed-term Senior management 1.950 2.025 Ratio of complaints per employee (%) 0,22% 0,44% Contract type by professional Permanent contract Middle % Women on the Board of Directors 12.50% 14.28% category 72 45 management Governance % Women on the Management 27.30% 27.30% Fixed-term Middle management 4.673 5.049 Committee Permanent contract Shop OUR CUSTOMERS 3.691 3.354 assistants and other Online markets 38 47 Fixed-term Shop assistants and 492 1.121 Online Online sales growth 30% 28,7% other Online turnover in relation to total 8% 9,6% Permanent contract Under 25 2,868 2,969 Loyalty clubs No. of members 22 millions 26 millions Permanent contractBetween 25 2,220 2,074 and 35 Garments Analyzed patterns 11,399 11,242 Contract type Permanent contractBetween 35 security Favorable chemical tests 98.91% 98.9% by age 463 481 and 50 Operations performed 1,209,814 1,362,505 Permanent contract Over 50 1,673 1,084 CSD Customer Service 95% 94% Fixed-termUnder 25 1,857 1,658 Complaint forms 1,074 1,155 Fixed-term Between 25 and 35 228 615 OUR PEOPLE Fixed-term Between 35 and 50 7 51 Number of employees 10,647 10,735 Permanent contract Men 917,25 951,58 % Store staff 75% 78% Permanent contractWomen 3.672,92 3.957,00 Employess % Corporate Services Staff 25% 22% Fixed-term Men 460,75 353,50 % Women 83% 84% Fixed-termWomen 2.570,75 2.351,75 Employees by No. of men 1,772 1,711 Permanent contractSenior gender 205,92 208,58 No. of women 8,875 9,024 management Germany 16 13 Fixed-term Senior management 8,50 7,33 Bangladesh 5 Permanent contract Middle 1.413,25 1.465,00 management Belgium 153 139 Fixed-term Middle management 27,83 19,25 Bosnia 83 93 Permanent contract Shop Bulgaria 23 18 Annual average: 2.971,00 3.235,00 type of contract assistants and other Croatia 115 102 (Spain) Fixed-term Shop assistants and 2.995,17 2.678,67 Spain 7,434 7,381 other France 174 153 Permanent contract Under 25 233,58 336,17 Employees by Hong Kong 55 53 Permanent contract Between 25 country 2.245,58 2.279,42 and 35 Hungary 176 185 Permanent contract Between 35 1.708,58 1.858,33 India 10 12 and 50 Luxembourg 31 26 Permanent contract Over 50 402,42 434,67 Mexico 203 276 Fixed-term Under 25 1.373,67 1.204,33 Montenegro 23 21 Fixed-term Between 25 and 35 1.499,50 1.306,08 Portugal 1,284 1,317 Fixed-term Between 35 and 50 149,92 184,58 Russia 632 682 Fixed-termOver 50 8,42 10,25 Serbia 235 259 Under 25 2,165 2,205 Employees Between 25 and 35 4,725 4,627 by age Between 35 and 50 2,448 2,689 Over 50 470 532 9. About this Report 123 MAIN KPIs 2018 2019 MAIN KPIs 2018 2019 Full-timeMen 1,054 1,026 Dismissals by No. of dismissals Men 122 131 Full-time Women 3,747 3,883 gender No. of dismissals Women 461 508 Type of workday Total Full-time 4,801 4,909 No. of dismissals Senior 12 9 by gender management Part-time Men 718 685 Dismissals by No. of dismissals Middle Part-time-Women 5,128 5,141 professional 102 150 category management Total Part-time 5,846 5,826 No. of dismissals Shop assistants 469 480 Full-time Senior management 237 242 and other Full-time Middle management 1,713 1,766 No. of dismissals Under 25 133 99 Full-time Shop assistants and other 2,851 2,901 No. of dismissals Between 25 Type of workday 260 222 Dismissals and 35 by professional Part-time Senior management 25 20 by age category (93,6% reach) No. of dismissals Between 35 Part-time Middle management 308 304 90 110 and 50 Part-time Shop assistants and No. of dismissals Over 50 15 12 5,513 5,502 other Disability No. of employees with disabilities 18 88 Full-time Under 25 399 621 No. of trained employees 6,013 6,831 Full-time Between 25 and 35 2,037 1,866 No. of training hours 58,738 42,937 Full-time Between 35 and 50 1,445 1,521 Training hours Senior management 456 303 Type of workday Full-time Over 50 342 376 by age Training Training hours Middle management 2,997 2,155 Part-time Under 25 1,766 1,584 Training hours Technicians 8,634 7,040 Part-timeBetween 25 and 35 2.688 2.761 Training hours Managers 26,152 17,821 Part-time Between 35 and 50 1.003 1.168 Training hours Shop assistants 20,499 14,457 Part-time Over 50 128 156 SUPPLY CHAIN Full-time Men 805,50 774,92 Total number of suppliers 3,932 3,632 Full-time Women 2.265,33 2.230,00 Suppliers No. of garment suppliers 464 447 Total Full-time 3.070,83 3.004,92 Social audits Factories evaluated Social Audit 433 478 Part-time Men 572,50 530,17 ENVIRONMENT Part-timeWomen 3.978,33 4.078,75 In-Store Consumption (MWh) 91,052,450 94,054,997 Total Part-time 4.550,83 4.608,92 Consumption in Headquarters Full-time Senior management 189,17 193,83 2,917,517 2,848,431 Energy (MWh) Full-time Middle management 1.159,17 1.193,75 consumption Consumption in logistics centres and 3,152,991 2,671,605 Full-time Shop assistants and other 1.722,50 1.617,33 warehouses (MWh) Part-time Senior management 25,25 22,08 Total Energy Consumption (MWh) 97,122,958 99,575,033 Annual average: type of workday Part-time Middle management 281,92 290,50 Renewable (Spain) % Renewable energy acquired 0 12.04% energy Part-time Shop assistants and 4.243,67 4.296,33 Natural gas (m3) 34,219 27,928 other Fuel consumption Gasoil (litres) 3,612 2,890 Full-time Under 25 252,08 242,58 SCOPE 1 (TnCO2 eq) 4,218 3,198 Full-time Between 25 and 35 1.514,75 1.361,75 Emissions SCOPE 2 (TnCO2 eq) 35,139 23,747 Full-time Between 35 and 50 1.008,00 1.076,92 SCOPE 3 (TnCO2 eq) 22,813 19,003 Full-time Over 50 296,00 323,67 Sustainable Percentage of sustainable Part-time Under 25 1.355,17 1.297,92 n.d. 7% garments production in the group Part-timeBetween 25 and 35 2.230,33 2.223,75 SOCIETY Part-time Between 35 and 50 850,50 966,00 Direct donations to the third sector (€) 215,327 298,230 Part-time Over 50 114,83 121,25 No. of beneficiaries Proyecto 57,747 26,206 Frequency Index Men 15.00 6.91 Social Involucrados Frequency Index Women 11.20 9.75 contribution Donation in kind number of items 17,700 23,430 Accidentality (Spain) Severity Index Men 0.40 0.38 Donation in kind monetary value of 118,000 156,200 the garments (€) Severity Index Women 0.20 0.36 Frequency Index Men 8.64 Accidentality Frequency Index Women 15.23 (International) Severity Index Men 0.15 Severity Index Women 0.29 No. of hours Men 121,792 108,455 Absence No. of hours Women 669,672 817,258 Total absence hours 791,464 925,713 124 Sustantibility Report 2019 Principles of the Global Compact Tendam signed up to the United Nations Global Compact in 2002. Since then, it has submitted progress reports on an annual basis to inform its stakeholders, as well as society in general, about its progress towards commitments made upon subscribing to the Global Compact Principles. It follows best practice for the preparation of Global Compact Progress reports and, given the analysis performed on the Sustainability Report’s materiality and content relevance, integrates the topics aligned with the 10 Global Compact principles which can be found in different report points, linked to the indices required by Global Reporting Initiative. AREA UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES SRS STANDARDS GRI 103-2, GRI 410-1, GRI 411Principle 1. Businesses should support and respect the 1, GRI 412-1, GRI 412-2, GRI protection of internationally proclaimed Human Rights. 412-3, GRI 413-1, GRI 413-2 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 2. Business should make sure they are not complicit GRI 414-1, GRI 414-2 in Human Rights abuses. Principle 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of GRI 102-41, GRI 407-1, association and the effective recognition of the right to GRI 402-1 collective bargaining. Principle 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all GRI 409-1 forms of forced and compulsory labour. LABOUR Principle 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition GRI 408-1 of child labour. GRI 102-8, GRI 103-2, GRI 202Principle 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of 1, GRI 202-2, GRI 404-1, GRI discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 414-2, GRI 406-1 GRI 201-2, GRI 301-1, GRI 302Principle 7. Businesses should support a precautionary 1, GRI 303-1, GRI 305-1, GRI approach to environmental challenges. 305-2, GRI 305-3, GRI 305-6, GRI 305-7 ENVIRONMENT Principle 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to GRI 307-1, GRI 308-1, promote greater environmental responsibility. GRI 308-2, GRI 103-2 Principle 9. Businesses should encourage the development GRI 302-4, GRI 302-5, GRI 305-5 and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. GRI 102-16, GRI 102-17, GRI ANTIPrinciple 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all 205-1, GRI 205-2, GRI 205-3, CORRUPTION its forms, including extortion and bribery. GRI 415-1 9. About this Report 125 Information requested under the Law 11/2018 Indicative Equivalent GRI Page of the Non-financial information to be reported Standard Report GENERAL INFORMATION A brief description of the group’s business model, which will include its business 102-2 Page 10 -29 environment, its organisation and structure, the markets it serves, its objectives and 102-3, 102-4, 102-6, 102-7, Page 36-37 strategies, and the main factors and trends that may affect its future evolution. 102-15 Page 33 A description of the policies that the group applies to these issues, which will 102-2 Page 36-39 include the due diligence procedures in place for the identification, assessment, 102-3, 102-4, 102-6 Page 42-43 prevention and mitigation of significant risks and impacts and procedures for 102-15 Page 52-51, verification and control, including the measures that have been adopted. 54-55 The results of these policies, which must include key indicators of relevant non102-2 financial results that allow for the monitoring and assessment of progress, and Page 54-55 102-3, 102-4, 102-6 that favour comparability between companies and sectors, in accordance with the Page 90-95 102-15 national, European and international frameworks of reference used for each issue. The main risks related to these issues linked to the group’s activities, including, when relevant and proportionate, its commercial relations, products or services that may have negative effects in these areas, and how the group manages these risks, explaining the procedures used to detect and assess them in accordance with 102-15 Page 54-55 the national, European and international frameworks of reference for each issue. Information on the impacts detected must be included, offering a breakdown of these, especially about the main risks in the short, medium and long term. INFORMATION ABOUT ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES Detailed information on the current and foreseeable effects of the Company’s activities on the environment, health and safety, the environmental assessment 103-2, 103-3, 102-11 and certification procedures, the resources dedicated to the prevention of 102-15 Page 121 environmental risks, the application of the precautionary principle and the quantity 307-1 of provisions and guarantees for environmental risks. POLLUTION Measures to prevent, reduce or remedy carbon emissions that seriously affect the environment, taking into account any specific form of atmospheric pollution of an 305-6, 305-7 Page 102-107 activity, including noise and light pollution. CIRCULAR ECONOMY AND PREVENTION AND MANAGEMENT OF WASTE Prevention, recycling, reuse, other forms of recovery and disposal of waste; actions Page 100-101 306-2 to combat food waste (1) SUSTAINABLE USE OF RESOURCES Water: the consumption and supply of water in keeping with the local limitations. 303-1 (2) Consumption of raw materials and the measures adopted to improve the efficiency Page 62 301-1 of their use. Page 98-99 Energy: direct and indirect consumption, measures taken to improve energy 302-1, 302-1, 302-3 Page 104-105 efficiency, use of renewable energies (1) Food waste does not apply to the activity of the company. (2) Based on the results of our materiality analysis, we consider that the indicators related to water consumption are not material for retail activity. 126 Sustantibility Report 2019 Indicative Equivalent GRI Page of the Non-financial information to be reported Standard Report CLIMATE CHANGE The important elements of emissions of greenhouse gases generated as a result of 305-1, 305-2, 305-3 Page 106-107 the Company’s activities, including the use of the goods and services it produces. Page 102-103 The measures adopted to adapt to the consequences of climate change. 201-2 Page 106-107 The voluntarily reduction targets established in the medium and long term to Page. 37 reduce emissions of greenhouse gases and the methods implemented for that 305-5 Page. 102-103 purpose. Page. 106-107 PROTECTION OF BIODIVERSITY Measures taken to preserve or restore biodiversity 304-3 Page 102 Impact caused by activities or operations in protected areas 304-2 (3) INFORMATION ON CORPORATE AND PERSONNEL MATTERS EMPLOYMENT Total number and distribution of employees by gender, age, country and personal 102-8, 405-1 Page 72-73 classification. Total number and distribution of contract types and annual average of permanent Page 73,75 contracts, fixed-term contracts and part-time contracts by: gender, age and 102-8 Page 122-123 professional classification. Number of dismissals by gender, age and professional classification 401-1 Page 87 Average remuneration and its evolution broken down by gender, age and professional classification. Wage Gap, the remuneration of equal jobs or the 102-38, 102-39 Page 86-87 average for the Company. The average remuneration of the directors and executives, including variable remuneration, allowances, indemnifications, payments into long-term savings and 102-38, 102-39 Page 49 benefits schemes and any other payments broken down by gender. Disconnecting from work policies. 103-1; 103-2; 103-3 (4) Employees with disabilities. 405-1 Page 79 ORGANISATION OF THE WORK Organisation of the working time: number of hours of absenteeism 403-2 Page 77 Measures aimed at facilitating a work-life balance and promoting the shared use of 401-3 Page 74-75 these by both parents. HEALTH AND SAFETY Occupational health and safety conditions. 403-3 Page 76-77 Workplace accidents, in particular their frequency and severity as well as Page 77 403-2 occupational diseases; broken down by gender. Page 87 (3) No direct impacts on protected areas caused by the direct activity of the company have been identified, but there is a commitment to work for the protection of biodiversity since the indirect impacts of the activities affect globally. (4) Disconnection policies have not yet been formalized, but a corporate policy on the matter to be implemented is being worked on in the exercise 20-21. 9. About this Report 127 Indicative Equivalent GRI Page of the Non-financial information to be reported Standard Report SOCIAL RELATIONSHIPS Organisation of the social dialogue, including procedures to inform and consult the 102-43, 402-1 Page 71 staff and negotiate with them. Percentage of employees covered by a collective agreement by country. 102-41 Page 71 The balance sheet of collective agreements, particularly in the field of occupational 403-4 Page 76-77 health and safety. TRAINING The policies implemented in the field of training. 404-2 Page 82-85 The total number of training hours by professional category. 404-1 Page 83 UNIVERSAL ACCESSIBILITY Universal accessibility of people with disabilities 103-1; 103-2; 103-3 Page 60-61 EQUALITY Measures adopted to promote equal treatment and opportunities 404-2 Page 78-79 for women and men. Equality plans (Chapter III of Organic Law 3/2007, of 22 March, for effective equality between women and men), measures adopted to promote employment, 404-1 Page 78-79 protocols against sexual and gender-based harassment, integration into the labour market and the universal accessibility of people with disabilities. The policy against all types of discrimination and, where necessary, for the Page 51 406-1 management of diversity. Page 78-79 INFORMATION ON RESPECT FOR HUMAN RIGHTS Page 42-43 Implementation of due diligence procedures on the subject of Human Rights. 103-2, 103-3, 102-15, 412-1 Page 92 Prevention of risks of Human Rights violations and, where necessary, measures to Page 42-43 412-1 mitigate, manage and remedy possible abuses committed. Page 92 Complaints about cases of Human Rights violations. 103-1; 103-2; 103-3 Page 43 Promotion and compliance with the fundamental conventions of the International Labour Organisation related to respect for the freedom of association and the right Page 42-43 408-1, 409-1 to collective bargaining; the removal of job and employment discrimination; the Page 71 abolition of forced or mandatory labour; and the effective abolition of child labour. INFORMATION ON THE FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION 103-2, 103-3, 102-15, Measures adopted to prevent corruption and bribery. Page 52 205-2 Measures to fight against money laundering. 205-2 Page 52 Page 52 Contributions to non-profit foundations and associations. 201-1 Page 108-117 128 Sustantibility Report 2019 Indicative Equivalent GRI Page of the Non-financial information to be reported Standard Report INFORMATION ABOUT THE SOCIETY COMMITMENTS OF THE COMPANY TO SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT The impact of the Company’s activity on employment and local development. 103-2, 103-3 ,413-1 Page 90-95 The impact of the Company’s activity on local and regional populations. 413-1 Page 90-95 The relationships maintained with the agents in the local communities and the Page 38-39 102-43 methods for dialogue with these. Page 71 Association or sponsorship actions. 103-1; 103-2; 103-3 Page 108-117 SUBCONTRACTING AND SUPPLIERS The inclusion in the procurement policy of social, gender equality and 103-2, 103-3 Page 90-93 environmental matters. Consideration in relationships with suppliers and subcontractors of their social and 308-1, 414-1 Page 90-93 environmental responsibility. Supervision systems and audits and their results. 308-2, 414-2 Page 93-94 CONSUMERS Measures for the health and safety of consumers. 416-1 Page 63 Complaints systems, complaints received and their resolution. 418-1 Page 64-66 TAX INFORMATION Profits obtained country by country. 201-1 Page 121 Corporation taxes paid. 201-1 Page 121 Public subsidies received. 201-4 Page 121 9. About this Report 129 External Verification KPMG Asesores, S.L. Pº de la Castellana, 259 C 28046 Madrid Independent Assurance Report on the Sustainability Report of Tendam Brands, S.A. for the year 2019 (Free translation from the original in Spanish. In case of discrepancy, the Spanish language version prevails.) To the shareholders of Tendam Brands, S.A.: Pursuant to article 49 of the Spanish Code of Commerce, we have provided limited assurance on the Sustainability Report 2019 (hereinafter the Report), that includes the Non-Financial Information Statement Consolidated (hereinafter NFIS) for the year ended 29 February 2020 of Tendam Brands, S.A. (hereinafter the Parent) and subsidiaries (hereinafter the Group) which forms part of the Group's 2019 consolidated Directors’ Report. The Sustainability Report 2019 includes additional information to that required by prevailing mercantile legislation governing nonfinancial information that has not been subject of our assurance work. In this regard, our assurance work was limited only to providing assurance on the information contained in table “Information requested under the Law 11/2018” of the accompanying Sustainability Report. Directors’ responsibilities _________________________________________________ The Board of Directors of the Parent is responsible for the contents and the authorisation for issue of the NFIS included in the 2019 Group’s Directors’ Report. The NFIS has been prepared in accordance with prevailing mercantile legislation and selected Sustainability Reporting Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI Standards), in accordance with each subject area in table “Information requested under the Law 11/2018” of the aforementioned 2019 Sustainability Report. This responsibility also encompasses the design, implementation and maintenance of internal control deemed necessary to ensure that the NFIS is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. The Parent’s directors are also responsible for defining, implementing, adapting and maintaining the management systems from which the information necessary for preparing the NFIS was obtained. Our independence and quality control _____________________________________ We have complied with the independence and other ethical requirements of the International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including international independence standards) issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants (IESBA), which is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. KPMG Asesores S.L., a limited liability Spanish company and a member firm of the Reg. Mer Madrid, T. 14.972, F. 53, Sec. 8 , H. M -249.480, Inscrip. 1.ª KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International N.I.F. B-82498650 Cooperative (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity. Paseo de la Castellana, 259C – Torre de Cristal – 28046 Madrid 130 Sustantibility Report 2019 2 Our firm applies International Standard on Quality Control 1 (ISQC1) and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. The engagement team was comprised of professionals specialised in reviews of non-financial information and, specifically, in information on economic, social and environmental performance. Our responsibility ________________________________________________________ Our responsibility is to express our conclusions in an independent limited assurance report based on the work performed We conducted our review engagement in accordance with the Revised International Standard on Assurance Engagements, “Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information” (ISAE 3000 Revised), issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB) of the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC), and with the Performance Guide on assurance engagements on the Non-Financial Information Statement issued by the Spanish Institute of Registered Auditors (ICJCE). The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement, and consequently, the level of assurance provided is also lower. Our work consisted of making inquiries of management, as well as of the different units of the Parent that participated in the preparation of the NFIS, in the review of the processes for compiling and validating the information presented in the NFIS and in the application of certain analytical procedures and sample review testing described below: – Meetings with the Parent personnel to gain an understanding of the business model, policies and management approaches applied, the principal risks related to these questions and to obtain the information necessary for the external review. – Analysis of the scope, relevance and completeness of the content of the NFIS based on the materiality analysis performed by the Parent and described in the section “Materiality Analysis” considering the content required in prevailing mercantile legislation. – Analysis of the processes for compiling and validating the data presented in the NFIS for 2019. – Review of the information relative to the risks, policies and management approaches applied in relation to the material aspects presented in the NFIS for 2019. – Corroboration, through sample testing, of the information relative to the content of the NFIS for 2019 and whether it has been adequately compiled based on data provided by internal and external information sources or third-party reports. – Procurement of a representation letter from the Directors and management. 9. About this Report 131 3 Conclusion _______________________________________________________________ Based on the assurance procedures performed and the evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Sustainability Report 2019 that includes the NFIS of Tendam Brands, S.A. and subsidiaries for the year ended 29 February 2020 has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with prevailing mercantile legislation and the content of the selected GRI Standards, in accordance with that mentioned for each subject area in the table “Information requested under the Law 11/2018” of the aforementioned Sustainability Report. Use and distribution ______________________________________________________ This report has been prepared in response to the requirement established in prevailing mercantile legislation in Spain, and thus may not be suitable for other purposes and jurisdictions. KPMG Asesores, S.L. (Signed on original in Spanish) Ramón Pueyo Viñuales 30 July 2020 Avenida de Llano Castellano, 51 | 28034 Madrid www.tendam.es
