May 13th 2020 1 2 Letter of commitment Presentation of the company Human rights and labor law Environment Anti-corruption Sustainable development goals 3 4 4 4 Presentation of the company COSFIBEL PREMIUM, a member of the COSFIBEL GROUP, is a global provider of packaging and gifts solutions within the industries of beauty, wine & spirits and fine food. We offer International brands a global and innovative solution of personalized products and services in most of the developed or developing countries. We study and develop packaging and merchandising solutions ranging from functional and aesthetic packaging to point-of-sale presentations, as well as promotional items such as bags, jewelry, towels and other gifts. Cosfibel premium is a medium sized enterprise with a main office based in Boulogne-Billancourt in France. In order to strengthen our proximity with our suppliers and customers, half of our employees are based in Asia and our sales teams are located in 15 countries on 4 continents Since 2014, Cosfibel has decided to include all social, environment and sustainable actions into CARES* program. *CARES : Cosfibel Actions for Responsible Sourcing 5 5 Human rights and labor law The Group has a BOOK VALUES/ETHICAL CHART document which is regularly updated by our main shareholder and signed by our board of direction. Here is the last version`s sample : « » « 6 COSFIBEL fully subscribes to the Declaration of the Human Rights and is in our daily mission to ensure that both Cosfibel Premium company and our suppliers do not infringe those pillars . A dedicated team with an Asia Focus Mr Stanislas Peronnet, Cosfibel COO, based in Europe, 10% of his time on CRS. One Ethical Sourcing Manager and based in Hong Kong, One social and environment projects coordinator, based in China mainland, 100% of her time allocated to CSR. It shows a long term commitment to have invested in a stable team to reinforce both social and environment aspects and get closer to high risk regions which are mainly in Asia in the case of Cosfibel Premium activity. All Cosfibel teams to vehiculate social values In 2019, we have also added up more committee, meetings and trainings about human right and labor low to well control along our supply chain . With this additional communication we ensure that those values are well known and well followed in our daily actions. Therefore the Cosfibel teams are able to ensure socially compliant chain in the 12 countries where we have suppliers. 7 Cosfibel is a good example of women empowerment company. In 2019, the main Cosfibel bureau conducted an employee survey and analyze to report the company social situation to the top management :  In average over 2019, more than 78% were women in our French head quarter  Our company has been paying men and women at the same level (with same education and position criteria)  Cosfibel has a fair mix of age among the employees with a mix of generations X, Y, Z which are a great tool for young generations to learn with the older ones and get chances of promotion 8 Our monitoring of human rights and labor conditions strictly following international standards. As traders, we have a strong responsibility and commitment to ensure that our supply is well controlled and fulfill all human rights and labor principals. For this we have our CSR team, all Cosfibel department support , but also 3rd party SAAS certified audit companies. All purchase and business is done with approved factories only and this wherever their country location. Since over 13 years, Cosfibel has worked along per various standards such as L`Oreal, SA8000, Flocert, WRAP, BSCI, Wethica or SMETA 2 pillars mainly. From 2016, as a wish to harmonize our requests along the supply chain, we decided to enforce SMETA 4 pillars audits and systematically suggest such audit to customers before considering going for other standards. Cosfibel itself as trader and as an operating company is audited on regular basis by recognized companies through FSC, GRS, Ecovadis and local government governance. 9 In 2017, Cosfibel Premium has decided to widen the scope of its social program CARES® (“Cosfibel Actions for Responsible and Ethical Sourcing”) related to social and environment aspects.  CARES® is now including all our social and environmental actions and its name and/or logo is included in all our communication tools. Thanks to this communication tool and because CARES® was already well known in Cosfibel Group as well as among Cosfibel customers and suppliers, Cosfibel emphases the importance of its social actions and involves all departments. In 2017, in its Social and Responsible Policy, Mr Stanislas Peronnet, COO of Cosfibel Group insists that : « » 10 Environment COSFIBEL has been involved for several years in an active approach to sustainable development, one of the three pillars of which is respect for the environment. In 2018, the creation of a Sustainable Development Department intensified this approach. In 2017, on our BOOK VALUES/ETHICAL CHART we now declare : In 2017, Cosfibel states in its Quality manual : “ENVIRONMENTAL SOLUTIONS: We are turned towards sustainable development always more efficient for an optimized environment protection and can propose to our customer environmental friendly packing and recycled materials. FSC certification: Cosfibel is FSC certified (French and Hong Kong offices) and is able to sell and develop FSC certified items. Environmental ” 11 Our “General Terms of Purchase” also include environmental commitments, and in particular recommendations on the materials used:  The deliberate addition of chemicals that may be hazardous to health or to the environment is strictly forbidden.  We prefer to use recycled materials, provided that these materials are of the requisite quality and that sufficient quantities are available. We also wish to be notified in the event that recycled materials may potentially be used, so that we can offer this option to our customers.  The minimum possible volume of packaging must be used.  All paper and cardboard must be ECF (Elementary Chloride Free). Compliance with the chemicals regulations and the protection of the natural resources of each country and region is our priority. We have a strict program for the European Reach regulations and the RBUE regulations for example. We are also cautious to all developments outside Europe (USA and Japan Textile Standards, California Proposition 65, etc.) and we must respect higher standards either on our own initiative or from our customers. We carry out regular laboratory tests to ensure the absence of prohibited substances and carry out strict follow-up of traceability and original research of materials. We involve our suppliers and we also ask them to confirm in writing the compliance of the goods to our local countries regulations or customer own requirements. In 2019, we have been intensively working on more eco design and more eco material and as a result, we have increase our eco material by over 340%. We aim as increasing the eco material in our products again in 2020. 12 In 2017, Cosfibel organized a 44 questions environment questionnaire following the basics of ISO14001, and in 2018 we kept working on this program together with our partner factories. The purpose is to check factory situation in details and have a proper action of training on precise points whenever a major or critical point is found. Cosfibel is so far organizing those actions together with his internal auditor. Procedure : 1-Ask factories to answer to the questionnaire by themselves 2-Cosfibel auditor go to factories and check each points and supporting documents together with factories. 3-Discussion and training start whenever there are discrepancies with the original self questionnaire or with the audit. In 2019, Cosfibel has persue the program and kept audits and tracking of the factories situation 13 Anti-corruption In Cosfibel, the anti corruption guidelines and principles are express on a direct and clear manner towards both Cosfibel team and its suppliers through : -Our General Terms of Purchase“ -Anti bribery Policy Our control policy is defined in a very strict and constant awareness of our teams to prevent corruption such as:  The selection of suppliers is done on the basis of competitiveness and quality performance criteria calibrated by quantitative and qualitative indicators. (Same guideline applies to all suppliers) In order also to limit the corruption risk, we have group decisions on the suppliers choice and attribution of big orders.  Cosfibel employees including sales and purchasing operations are aware of such risk among customers and suppliers and ensure the transparency of the markets on which they are working. Regular trainings of the team but also regular reminder to suppliers about none bribery is conducted from top management to middle management and this from every offices of Cosfibel Group. 14 Sustainable development goals Cosfibel contributes to the broader objectives and issues of the UN: We contribute, directly or indirectly, through our business and competence to the following broader United Nations development goals. With its own CARES program (Cosfibel Actions for Responsible and Ethical Sourcing), Cosfibel main targets for 2020 are :  Increase the number of FTE (in 2020) (L`Oreal program)  Increase the use of more eco friendly material and eco construction for our final products  Add up more eco material within our product range  Increase our logistics good practices to lower environmental impact  Increase our Ecovadis score from 60 to 62. 15 15
