Enabling a zero carbon, lower cost energy future Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Welcome to Drax Group Our purpose is to enable a zero carbon, lower cost energy future. Our ambition is to become carbon negative by 2030. Being carbon negative means that we will be removing more carbon dioxide from the atmosphere than we produce throughout our operations – creating a negative carbon footprint for the company Our strategic aims are: To build a long-term To be the leading To give our customers future for biomass provider of power control of their energy Building on our world class expertise, system stability Through the provision of insight and we believe biomass can deliver carbon digitisation we provide control over Through a portfolio of dispatchable negative dispatchable renewable energy. energy and access to markets to flexible assets and new technologies – optimise energy use and lower costs. ours and our customers’ – we will support the system and decarbonise through the growth of intermittent renewable energy. F  ront cover Sapling at a tree nursery run by Drax Biomass supplier, Weyerhaeuser,  Mississippi, USA, where tens of millions of saplings are grown each year to be See more online at planted in forests in the southern US. www.drax.com Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 2019 Highlights Contents Strategic Report Adjusted revenue (1) Adjusted gross profit (1) 01 2019 Highlights 02 Core activities at a glance £4,703m £867m 04 Business model 06 Chair’s statement 08 Group CEO’s review (2018: £4,237m) (2018: £601m) 14 Group financial review 20 Remuneration at a glance 22 Market context Adjusted EBITDA(1) Total revenue 24 Working with our stakeholders 30 Biomass cost reduction 32 System stability £410m £4,713m 33 Customers 34 Biomass sustainability 36 Building a sustainable business (2018: £250m) (2018: £4,229m) 52 Viability statement 54 Principal risks and uncertainties Total gross profit Total operating profit Governance 62 Letter from the Chair £734m £62m 64 Board of Directors 66 Executive Committee 67 Corporate governance report (2018: £639m) (2018: £60m) 73 Nomination Committee report 78 Audit Committee report 86 Remuneration Committee report Net debt Percentage of total UK renewable 115 Directors’ report electricity generated 119 Directors’ responsibilities statement £841m 12% 120 Verification statement Financial Statements (2018: £319m) (2018: 12% ) 121 Independent auditor’s report to the members of Drax Group plc 129 Financial statements Total recordable incident rate Dividend per share 132 Financial statements contents 133 Consolidated financial statements Consolidated income statement 0.22 15.9p Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Consolidated balance sheet (2018: 0.22) (2018: 14.1p) Consolidated statement of changes in equity Customer meter points Wood pellets produced Consolidated cash flow statement 138 Financial performance 152 Operating assets and working capital 419k 1,407kt 163 Financing and capital structure 169 Other assets and liabilities 175 Our People (2018: 396k) (2018: 1,351kt) 185 Risk management 203 Reference information 209 Company financial statements Company balance sheet Company statement of changes in equity 210 Notes to the Company financial statements Shareholder Information (1) We calculate Adjusted financial performance measures, which are specific to Drax and exclude income statement 216 Shareholder information volatility arising from derivative financial instruments and the impact of exceptional items, to provide additional information about the Group’s performance. Adjusted financial performance measures are described more fully 219 Company information on page 131, with a reconciliation to their statutory equivalents in note 2.7 to the consolidated financial statements 220 Glossary on page 149. Throughout this document we distinguish between Adjusted financial performance measures and Total financial performance measures, which are calculated in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 1 Core activities at a glance We operate an integrated value chain across three principal areas of activity: sustainable wood pellet production; flexible, low carbon and renewable energy generation; and energy sales and services to business customers. Pellet Production A leading producer of wood Where we operate: pellets from sustainable low-value Pellet production sites Customers commercial forestry residues Drax Power Station Options for Open-Cycle Gas Turbine (OCGT) projects Our pellets provide a sustainable, low carbon fuel Options for Closed-Cycle Gas Turbine (CCGT) projects source. This can be safely and efficiently delivered Hydro and gas generation assets acquired in 2018 through our global supply chain and used by Drax’s Generation business to make flexible, renewable electricity for the UK. Our manufacturing operations UK also promote forest health by incentivising local landowners to actively manage and reinvest in their forests. Our assets: • 2 x 525 kt pellet plants • 1 x 450 kt pellet plant • 350 kt planned expansion of existing facilities, under construction • 2.4 Mt export facility at Baton Rouge port Pellets produced Sales of pellets 1,407kt £229m US 2 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Find out more at www.drax.com/about-us/ Generation Customers A portfolio of flexible, A leading supplier of renewable low carbon and renewable energy solutions to industrial UK power generation and business customers Our multi-site, multi-technology generation portfolio Our B2B Energy Supply business – comprised provides power and system support services to the of Opus Energy and Haven Power – is the third electricity grid. This portfolio provides long-term largest B2B power supplier in the UK and the largest earnings stability and opportunities to optimise supplier of renewable energy to British businesses. returns from the transition to a low carbon economy. We are giving our customers control of their Our assets: energy, which in turn supports the stability • Renewable biomass – 2.6GW of the energy system. • Hydro – 0.6GW • Thermal: Our assets: –– Gas – 2.0GW • Opus Energy –– Coal – 1.3GW • Haven Power Generation Renewables Customer meters Electricity and gas sales 17.3TWh 79% 419k 18.9TWh Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 3 Business model Our resources Our purpose and aims Enabling a F  inancial • Multi-site, multi-technology portfolio of assets • Growing proportion of non commodityzero carbon, related earnings • Long-term debt, foreign exchange and trading facilities Manufactured • Flexible, low carbon and renewable lower cost energy future power generation • Pellet production capabilities Human • Diverse range of expertise, skills and knowledge • Strong health and safety culture T  o build a long-term future 1 for sustainable biomass I ntellectual • World leaders in sustainable biomass Building on our world class expertise, we believe generation and logistics biomass can deliver carbon negative dispatchable • Innovation in Bioenergy Carbon Capture renewable energy and Storage (BECCS)  o be the leading provider of T  atural N 2 power system stability in the UK • Low-value, sustainable forestry residues sourced from sustainably managed forests, Through a portfolio of dispatchable flexible assets supporting forest health and growth and new technologies – ours and our customers’ – • Our hydro and pumped storage assets use we can support the system and decarbonise through natural resources to produce electricity the growth of intermittent renewable energy To give our customers Social • Active community engagement 3 control of their energy • Visitor centres at plant sites • Employee volunteering Through our insight and digitisation we provide • Corporate charitable giving control over energy and access to markets to optimise energy use and lower costs Our essential enablers Innovation People 4 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Principal risks page 54 Working with our stakeholders page 24 Outputs Value creation  inancial  F Group adjusted EBITDA Average net debt • High quality earnings £410m (2018: £250m) £950m (2018: N/A) • Sustainable and growing dividend • Strong balance sheet Total recordable Cost of incident rate production Manufactured 0.22 (2018: 0.22) $9.08 (2018: $9.37/GJ) /GJ • We generate 12% of the UK’s renewable power • Drax is the fourth largest energy generator in the UK • Drax is a leading hydroelectricity generator Fines (a measure of Commercial wood pellet quality) availability 7.9% (2018: 8.0%) 88% (2018: 89%) Human • Our Future Creators programme develops 22 highpotential individuals to grow our leadership pipeline Value from flexibility Gross margin £129m (minus bad debt) for Customers business (2018: £79m) £116m (2018: £112m) I ntellectual • We are making progress in developing carbon capture and storage technology which could make Drax the world’s first carbon negative power station Cost to serve customers £208 (2018: £206/MPAN) /MPAN G  roup Scorecard outcomes page 105 N  atural • The carbon intensity of our electricity generation reduced by over 85% from 2012 to 2019 • We announced our ambition to be carbon negative by 2030 Drax is a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series Social • We contributed £290k in 2019 through community partnerships, employee match funding, payroll giving, our community fund and national fundraising days In 2019, Drax received a rating of • We monitor ethical matters and business conduct AA (on a scale of AAA-CCC) in the risks of third parties with whom we do business MSCI ESG Ratings assessment* • We are a signatory to the Social Mobility Pledge Drax received a score of B in the CDP Forests Programme and C in the CDP Climate Change Programme *www.drax.com/sustainability Reputation Safety Sustainability Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 5 Chair’s statement We continue to advance our purpose of enabling a zero carbon, lower cost energy future.” Philip Cox CBE Chair Investment case Introduction by 2027, which we believe will drive Drax Group’s purpose is to enable a significant cost reduction and attractive • Critical to decarbonisation zero carbon, lower cost energy future. returns to shareholders. We have made of the UK’s energy system Since 2012 Drax has reduced its reported good progress in 2019 and will continue to and a major source of carbon emissions by over 85%. In implement measures to reduce costs and December, we took a step further and develop expansion opportunities in 2020. flexible, low carbon and announced an ambition to become renewable power from carbon negative by 2030. With the The Group is working with a range of a nationwide portfolio of right support and negative emissions partner organisations to outline a plan for framework from the UK Government, the decarbonisation of the Humber area. generation technologies we believe we can realise this ambition. This is an industrial area in the northeast • Underlying growth in of England with one of the highest levels Through these activities we expect to of CO2 emissions, making it a natural the core business and play a major role in delivering the UK’s and cost-effective location for the attractive investment legally binding objective to become deployment of carbon capture and opportunities carbon neutral by 2050. storage, using Bioenergy with Carbon Capture and Storage (BECCS) at Drax • Increasing earnings The Group’s purpose informs our strategy Power Station. Through these initiatives visibility, reducing through which we aim to build a longwe hope to deliver long-term benefits to commodity exposure term future for sustainable biomass, a wide range of stakeholders and support become the leading provider of system the UK’s transition to net zero. • Strong financial position stability in the UK and give customers and clear capital control of their energy. This is one example of how our engagement with stakeholders is an allocation plan In 2019 we continued to make good enabler to the delivery of our strategy. progress in delivering this strategy. In On pages 24 to 29 of the Annual Report, doing so we are delivering higher quality we provide further detail on our earnings, reducing commodity exposure stakeholders and how members of the and creating opportunities for growth Board, including Non-Executive Directors, aligned with the UK’s carbon neutral have participated in discussions and agenda. sought to understand views in order to inform decision making. Biomass has a long-term role to play in the UK and global energy markets as a Drax Power Station is the UK’s largest flexible and sustainable source of single source of renewable electricity, renewable energy, as well as a means providing 11% of the total. During 2019 to deliver negative emissions. Key to the Generation business managed a securing this long-term role is reducing programme of major planned outages. the cost of biomass. We aim to increase The business also optimised biomass biomass self-supply to five million tonnes operations to reflect weather-related 6 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Corporate governance page 62 biomass supply chain constraints. Over performance from the hydro and gas Andy is highly experienced, having the same period coal generation has generation businesses, as well as previously served as CFO at Fidessa reduced, reflecting challenging market continued growth in our Pellet Group plc. conditions. Following a comprehensive Production business. review of operations and discussions We greatly value the contribution made by with National Grid, Ofgem and the UK At the 2019 half year results we our Non-Executive Directors and during a Government, the Board of Drax has confirmed an interim dividend of time of growth their role remains especially determined to end commercial coal £25 million (6.4 pence per share). The important. David Lindsell, Tony Thorne generation at Drax Power Station. Drax Board proposes to pay a final dividend in and Tim Cobbold each stepped down, and will shortly commence a consultation respect of 2019 of £38 million, equivalent I would like to thank all three for their very process with employees and trade unions to 9.5 pence per share, making the full significant contributions to the Board with a view to ending coal operations in year 2019 dividend £63 million (15.9 pence and the stewardship of the business. September 2022. Under these proposals, per share) (2018: £56 million, 14.1 pence commercial generation from coal will end per share). This represents a 13% increase John Baxter joined the Board in April 2019 in March 2021 but the two coal units will on 2018 and is consistent with our policy and brings a wealth of industry, remain available to meet Capacity Market to pay a dividend which is sustainable and engineering and safety management obligations until September 2022. expected to grow as the strategy delivers expertise. stable earnings, strong cash flows and In December 2018 we completed the opportunities for growth. Our people acquisition of a portfolio of hydro and gas Our people – employees and contractors generation assets from ScottishPower, The Group has a clear capital allocation – remain a key asset of the business and making Drax the fourth largest electricity policy which it has applied throughout we are focused on creating a diverse and generator in the UK and a leading provider 2019. In determining the rate of growth inclusive working environment that is of system support services. During 2019 in dividends from one year to the next the both safe and supportive. we successfully integrated these assets Board will take account of contracted cash into our generation portfolio. The assets flows, the less predictable cash flows from We recognise the importance of listening have performed strongly, with returns the Group’s commodity based business to employees to understand their concerns significantly ahead of the Group’s cost and future investment opportunities. If and act on them. To that end, in 2019, of capital. there is a build-up of capital, the Board will we established an enhanced programme consider the most appropriate mechanism of workforce engagement to improve Following weather-restricted production to return this to shareholders. communication and feedback between in the first quarter of 2019, our US Pellet the Board, senior management and our Production business produced at full Governance and values workforce. Together with Will Gardiner, capacity. Our focus remains on the Sustainability is at the heart of the Group our CEO, I participated in meetings with production of good quality and low-cost and its culture. It covers the sustainable the chairs of our newly established biomass. Although pellet quality improved sourcing of biomass, which is a core engagement forums. More information in 2019, it was below the level we expect principle of the Group, and also long-term on this can be found on page 28. and we are focused on delivering further sustainability. This means achieving improvements during 2020. a positive economic, social and Safety is a long-held and central environmental impact and considering commitment of our operational In our Customers business, which long, medium and short-term factors philosophy. While the number of incidents supplies electricity and gas to business in our stewardship of the business. is low, we need to remain vigilant and customers, we made progress reducing work to reduce them. We are committed cost, increased the margin per MWh and We are committed to promoting the UN to the highest standards and have installed more smart meters year-on-year. Global Compact principles on respect continued our efforts to strengthen our However, in a challenging market for human rights, labour rights, the approach to health, safety and wellbeing financial performance was below the environment and anti-corruption. governance across the Group. level we expect and we have more work to do to realise the opportunities we Our aim is to maintain an open and To conclude, in 2019 we delivered strong continue to see in this area. During 2019 collaborative culture across the Group. financial performance and made good we consolidated the management team Setting the right standards helps to progress with our strategic objectives. I at Haven Power and Opus Energy into a protect the business and the interests of look forward to building on these in 2020. single integrated team. We expect this our stakeholders. We remain committed Through this strategy we will deliver new structure to improve operational to the highest standards of corporate sustainable long-term value, support the efficiency. governance, and the Board and its communities in which we operate and committees play an active role in guiding realise our purpose of enabling a zero Results and dividend the Company and leading its strategy. carbon, lower cost energy future. Adjusted EBITDA in 2019 of £410 million grew by 64% compared to 2018 (£250 In 2019 we saw several changes to the Philip Cox CBE million). This reflects high levels of Board, including the appointment of Andy Chair renewable power generation from Skelton as Chief Financial Officer (CFO). sustainable biomass, a strong Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 7 Group CEO’s review 2019 highlights • Strong growth in Adjusted EBITDA • Delivered ahead of target net debt to Adjusted EBITDA ratio, after adjusting for deferred cash receipt of Capacity Market payments • Reduction in CO2 • Reduction in biomass self-supply cost • Strong system support performance 2019 was an important year for Drax Alongside a good operational Group. Following the acquisition of the performance, we delivered Adjusted • Completion of private hydro and gas generation assets from EBITDA of £410 million, an increase of placement and ESG debt ScottishPower in December 2018, we 64% on 2018. We propose to pay a are now the UK’s fourth largest generator, dividend in respect of 2019 of £63 million, facilities meeting 5% of its power requirements, an increase of 13% on 2018. By the end of and generating 12% of the country’s 2019, net debt was £841 million, 1.9x net • Development of renewable power. debt to EBITDA, ahead of target of 2.0x, Bioenergy Carbon Capture after adjusting for deferred cash receipt and Storage project In 2019, we continued to advance our of Capacity Market payments of purpose of enabling a zero carbon, lower £72 million, received in January 2020. cost energy future. In December 2019, we announced a world first ambition Purpose and Strategy to become a carbon negative company Drax’s purpose, to enable a zero carbon, by 2030, removing more CO2 from the lower cost energy future, sits at the heart atmosphere than we put into it. We have of everything we do. We see growing made significant progress towards that opportunities to create value for goal, as the carbon emissions from the shareholders as well as significant Group have reduced by over 85% since benefits for all stakeholders as we 2012. We now expect to take this a step deliver that purpose. further with the end of commercial coal generation in 2021 and the formal closure 2019 saw increasing global recognition of the coal units in 2022. For more of the need for urgent action to tackle information on this please see page 118. climate change by reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The UK Government has The safety and wellbeing of our taken a lead by putting in place legally workforce is paramount to the Group. binding targets to deliver net zero carbon We continue to invest in the systems, emissions across the UK economy by governance and training to keep our 2050. This is an ambitious target which workforce and assets safe. can only be delivered with action and investment now. Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR), a key scorecard measure of safety, was We are playing a key role in this 0.22. This was the same as in 2018 transformation. The CO2 emissions at Drax although behind the challenging Power Station were less than one million scorecard target for 2019. Safety remains tonnes for the first time, a 97% reduction our priority and as always there is more since 2012, and it is now the UK’s largest we can do in our pursuit of zero incidents. source of renewable power generation. 8 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Group Financial Review page 14 The Group’s purpose informs the three business by 2027, with the option to pillars of our strategy (i) to build a service wood pellet demand in Europe, Our ambition is to long-term future for biomass, (ii) to be the North America and Asia. leading provider of power system stability become a carbon and (iii) to give our customers control of their energy. Summary of 2019 Overall performance of the Group and negative company In 2019 we continued to make good its business units is measured as part of our Group Scorecard which covers a by 2030.” progress delivering our purpose and strategy. Through addressing UK energy combination of financial, environmental, social and governance issues. The Will Gardiner needs, and those of our customers, our Group’s score in 2019 was 0.9, with a Group CEO strategy is designed to deliver excellent score of 1.0 being on target. long-term financial performance across the Group. In doing so we are reducing Adjusted EBITDA, a key financial KPI, of our historic exposure to commodity £410 million represents a 64% increase on markets and delivering higher quality 2018. This includes £78 million of Capacity earnings, strong cash generation, Market income in respect of the whole of increased dividends to shareholders 2019 and the last two months of 2018. and further opportunities for growth. Despite challenging weather conditions A good example of this is the successful in early 2019, Pellet Production increased This was achieved through our continued integration of a generation portfolio of output across the full year from 1.35 million focus on renewable biomass combined flexible, low-carbon and renewable hydro tonnes to 1.40 million tonnes. At the same with operational excellence and innovative and gas generation assets acquired in time, the cost of producing and delivering engineering. December 2018. Our expanded asset base wood pellets to our port facility at Baton has improved the risk profile of the Group Rouge reduced from $166/tonne in 2018 While others target net zero, in December and provided more opportunities to deliver to $161/tonne in 2019, although challenges 2019, Drax became the first company system support services to the UK energy remain in terms of pellet quality. in the world to announce an ambition market. Our expected EBITDA from these to become carbon negative by 2030 – assets was £90-£110 million and they In Generation, the integration and removing CO2 from the atmosphere have delivered £114 million of high-quality performance of the acquired assets using Bioenergy with Carbon Capture earnings, with financial returns was a success. At Drax Power Station and Storage (BECCS) to safely capture significantly ahead of the Group’s cost we managed lower levels of biomass and store CO2 at scale. of capital. availability, which restricted generation in early 2019. By optimising biomass In May 2019 the UK Committee on As part of our strategy to deliver a generation under the Renewables Climate Change published its pathway long-term future for sustainable biomass, Obligation (RO) scheme we were able for how the UK can deliver net zero in November 2019, we announced plans to partially offset the constraint by carbon emissions by 2050. It highlighted to expand our supply chain to self-supply producing higher levels of biomass the need for BECCS. Drax is in a leading five million tonnes of biomass to our generation later in the year, particularly position to deliver BECCS at scale in generation business by 2027. In 2019 December, in which we reported record the UK and provide as much as a third we self-supplied 1.4 million tonnes. We monthly renewable generation. The of the negative emissions the UK will expect this expansion to be delivered business also completed a programme require. We believe we can deliver the through existing sites, new developments of major planned outages across the engineering solution, but our ambition and a wider fuel envelope of sustainable portfolio. also requires the right regulatory biomass. Through these initiatives we framework and policy support to expect to reduce the cost of biomass In our Customers business, which underpin an investment decision. from around £75/MWh to £50/MWh by supplies electricity and gas to business 2027, assuming an exchange rate of customers, we have made progress To support that process, in May 2019 $1.45/£. This is a level at which we believe reducing cost, however performance we joined with National Grid and Equinor renewable electricity from biomass can elsewhere has been below our to advocate for a framework to support be economic without the current support expectation. This in part reflects a the development of a carbon cluster in mechanisms. challenging market and we have more the Humber region, one of the most work to do to deliver the opportunities carbon intensive areas of the UK. This These activities, alongside the we continue to see in this area. programme is called Zero Carbon Humber. development of a biomass trading capability, could enable Drax to develop an unsubsidised biomass generation Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 9 Group CEO’s review continued During the year we completed the A co-location agreement with Hunt refinancing of the funding used to Forest Products (a sawmill operator) led We have remained acquire the hydro and gas generation to the development of a sawmill next to assets. These new facilities extend the our LaSalle site. The sawmill commenced Group’s debt maturity profile to 2029, incorporating a £125 million production in February 2019 providing greater access to low-cost sawmill focused on Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) facility with a mechanism that residues, lower transportation costs and a reduction in the number of stages opportunities to adjusts the interest margin based on Drax’s carbon emissions against an in the production process. reduce the cost annual benchmark. We believe we are A new rail spur linking LaSalle to the of biomass to one of the first companies to implement regional rail network and our port facility such a feature within its debt, at Baton Rouge was commissioned in £50/MWh by 2027.” demonstrating our commitment to May 2019. This will increase embedding ESG in financial performance. transportation efficiency, provide Will Gardiner The Group’s cost of debt is now below economies of scale and reduce both Group CEO 4% and below 3% on the new facilities, cost and carbon footprint. reflecting a reduced business risk. We expect to benefit from further sustainable without subsidy. We expect Operational review economies of scale in rail associated to do this by using a greater proportion of In the US, our Pellet Production with the commissioning of an enlarged lower cost wood residues, expanding our operations reported Adjusted EBITDA chambering yard at the port of Baton self-supply capacity to five million tonnes of £32 million up 52% (2018: £21 million). Rouge in 2020, allowing 80-car train and exploring ways to expand our fuel sets to operate from our LaSalle and envelope to include a wider range of High levels of rainfall in the US Gulf in Morehouse sites. sustainable low-cost biomass residues. early 2019 restricted the level of commercial forest extraction and the These initiatives and others have In Generation, Adjusted EBITDA of availability of low-cost fibre for wood contributed to a year-on-year reduction in £408 million was up 76% (2018: £232 pellet production. This in turn had an cost per tonne of 3%, which represents a million). This includes £114 million from impact on the shipment of pellets from saving of $5 per tonne compared to 2018. the hydro and gas generation assets the port of Baton Rouge. Since then acquired in December 2018. These assets commercial forestry processes, wood We expect to deliver further savings have performed strongly, exceeding pellet production and shipments to the by expanding our existing sites (LaSalle, our financial expectation in the first year UK have increased. As a result, wood Morehouse and Amite) by 350,000 of ownership. pellet volumes for 2019 were 1.40 million tonnes over the next two years – an tonnes, up 4% (2018: 1.35 million tonnes). investment of £50 million. This will Commercial availability, which measures expand total capacity to 1.85Mt, provide the time we are available to operate in our Pellet quality, as measured by the amount economies of scale and allow greater markets, was 88% (2018: 89%). This was of fines (larger particle-sized dust) in each utilisation of low-cost residues. We below our target and principally reflects cargo, is a KPI for the Group. Lower levels believe these projects offer returns restricted biomass generation in the first of fines result in fuel that is easier and significantly ahead of the Group’s cost of quarter of 2019 and gas unit outages. safer to handle at ports and at Drax capital, with payback in advance of 2027. The engineering challenges associated Power Station. The quality of the pellets with such an outage are significant and we produced was below our target level These larger projects are accompanied the completion of the work and in 2019 and we are taking steps to by small operational improvements such recommissioning, which allowed a strong address this issue in 2020. as greater efficiency in the loading of operational performance, is testament to road haulage, saving 50 cents per tonne. the skill and commitment of our people. We have remained focused on Over time these improvements, when opportunities across the supply chain applied across the supply chain, can In 2019, we completed two major planned to deliver improved operational deliver significant incremental savings. biomass outages, including the first in performance and cost savings as part a series of three high-pressure turbine of our programme to reduce the cost of Taking the savings in 2019 together with upgrades which we expect to increase biomass to £50/MWh by 2027. We have the other initiatives we have described, thermal efficiency and reduce the cost made good progress with increased we believe there are opportunities to of biomass generation. volumes, operational improvements and reduce the cost of biomass by $35 per greater utilisation of low-cost fibre which tonne (£13/MWh) on our existing portfolio Notwithstanding these planned outages have contributed to lower cost wood by 2022. This represents good progress, our biomass units produced 11% of the pellet production. but more work and investment will be UK’s renewable electricity – enough to required to deliver our goal of making power four million homes. This level of biomass power generation economically renewable generation, combined with the flexibility of our expanding portfolio, 10 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information allows the Group to support the The flexibility and dispatchable nature of the Haven Power and Opus Energy brands continued deployment of intermittent our generation portfolio is an important under a single operating structure. The renewables and the UK’s plans for source of value and was a key factor in creation of a single management team decarbonisation. our acquisition of the hydro and gas is now complete and will help drive generation assets. Given the shift alignment of decision making, effective Over the last five years the operational towards wind generation, which will market segmentation and operational experience with biomass generation has provide the majority of the UK’s future efficiencies. been positive and we are now exploring electricity requirements, we anticipate a wider range of sustainable biomass a growing need for system support During the year significant focus was materials. In time we believe that services. In 2019 Value from Flexibility given to cash collection to address utilisation of this expanded fuel mix (a scorecard measure of the value from historic challenges associated with bad will support a reduction in the cost of flexible power generation, system debt at Opus Energy. As a result we have biomass generation. support services and attractively priced seen further improvements in the coal fuels) was £129 million (2018: management of bad debts during the Our hydro assets, which include the £79 million), which was ahead of plan, period, reflected in a reduced charge Cruachan pumped storage power station reflecting a 63% increase on 2018. to the income statement of £18 million as well as Lanark and Galloway hydro (2018: £31 million), whilst maintaining schemes, have performed strongly, We believe there is a need for flexible, a prudent level of provision. providing flexible, renewable and low large-scale dispatchable generation, but carbon electricity. Cruachan Power this must support the UK’s target of net We have a differentiated market position Station – the largest of these assets zero carbon emissions by 2050. To that – selling purely renewable power, helping (440MW) – plays an important role in end we continue to develop options for over 2,000 independent renewable the provision of system support services four 299MW Open Cycle Gas Turbines generators access the market and to the UK energy market. Over 80% of (OCGTs) and 5.4GW of CCGTs between developing products which will meet Cruachan’s earnings are from nonDamhead Creek and Drax Power Station. our customers’ needs. We continue to commodity sources, including Balancing believe this approach will support Market activities, Ancillary Services and We expect the CCGTs to be among the long-term growth. the Capacity Market. most efficient assets in their class and hence sit high in the UK merit order, in Over time, we expect this business, We operate 2.0GW of Combined Cycle addition to being available for system through efficiency and demand-side Gas Turbines (CCGT) – Damhead Creek, support services. The OCGTs will perform response, to contribute increasingly Shoreham, Rye House and Blackburn. a system support role and meet peak to balancing the power system and we These units produced 2.9TWh, power demand at short notice. are excited about our opportunity to representing around 17% of our total make a difference in this area. generation. The location of three of the An appropriate clearing price in a future four units in southeast England makes Capacity Market will be required to Biomass sustainability them well placed to provide system underpin investment in new-build gas. Under well-established UK and European support services to the UK energy market. We will remain disciplined through this legislation, sustainably sourced biomass process and at the most recent auction is a renewable source of electricity. The During the year we completed two in January 2020 Drax did not accept a rules and the science which underpins planned outages, including turbine Capacity Market agreement for these this treatment are clear. repairs and interim inspection work at projects. We remain committed to Shoreham Power Station, providing the developing the most cost-effective capital We source low-cost sawmill residues and option for a future turbine upgrade to programmes for all of our gas projects, forest residues, which are a by-product take place. which we believe can make them of commercial forestry processes, and competitive in future capacity auctions. thinnings from growing forests, which Since the start of 2019 seasonal help improve forest stocks and forest electricity prices have weakened, Planning approval for the CCGT at Drax health. The CO2 emissions are absorbed reflecting a mild winter and high levels Power Station is subject to a judicial by new forest growth. We use feedstocks of European gas storage. The market for review and we will not participate in that have been shown to have no carbon coal generation has remained challenging future Capacity Market auctions until debt associated with them. and our two coal units continue to focus the outcome is known. on short-term power market opportunities during higher demand Our Customers business, which focuses periods. Coal generation of 0.6TWh on B2B supply, has faced a challenging represents 4% of the Group’s output. market environment. Taken together with Where we sold forward volumes on a integration costs, Adjusted EBITDA of limited basis, weaker power prices £17 million is lower than prior year (2018: allowed us to buy back some of those £28 million). This includes £8 million of volumes at a lower price, adding margin. investment in restructuring to integrate Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 11 Group CEO’s review continued Environmental, social and In Pellet Production we remain focused governance on the production of good quality pellets at the lowest cost, cross-supply chain We maintain a The health, safety and wellbeing of our employees and contractors is vital to optimisation and an expanded self-supply rigorous and robust the success of the Group and remains our priority. We believe that a safe and capacity to five million tonnes by 2027. approach to biomass sustainable business model is critical to our strategy and long-term performance. Our Generation proposition is strong: flexible, renewable and low carbon sustainability.” In 2019 we implemented a new Groupelectricity and system support services. We will continue to provide high levels wide approach to health, safety and Will Gardiner wellbeing, as well as the establishment of renewable electricity to the UK and Group CEO of a new Group-wide workforce support increased deployment of engagement forum. intermittent renewables necessary to support the UK’s transition to a We maintain a rigorous and robust In March 2019 we published our second net zero carbon economy. approach to biomass sustainability, gender pay report. While the data showed ensuring the wood fibre used and pellets that our businesses were in line with the Flexible dispatchable gas has an produced are fully compliant with the energy sector overall, it highlighted that important long-term role to play in UK’s mandatory sustainability standards we still have work to do. supporting the transition to a net zero as well as those of the European Union. carbon economy. We will optimise our Since the introduction of the Renewable In June 2019, we published our third portfolio to meet this demand and Obligation Certificate (ROC) scheme in statement on the prevention of slavery develop carbon capture and storage 2002 Drax has maintained full compliance and human trafficking in compliance with ready projects – options which could with UK and European legislation. the UK Modern Slavery Act (2015) and we include hydrogen fuelling – subject to the are a signatory to the UN Global Compact right price in future capacity auctions. However, there are carbon emissions (UNGC). We are committed to promoting associated with the biomass supply the UNGC principles on respect for Our ambition to become a carbon chain. Under UK legislation biomass is human rights, labour rights, the negative company is underpinned by the only source of electricity generation environment and anti-corruption. the development of BECCS. Working in required to report its supply chain partnership, and with the right support emissions. The Group’s biomass life cycle from the UK Government, we could carbon emissions are 124 kgCO2 -eq/MWh Brexit develop BECCS at scale before 2030. By Brexit remains a key issue for the UK. of electricity (2018: 131 kgCO2 -eq/MWh), reducing our biomass supply chain cost To date, the impact on the Group has less than half the UK Government’s 285 we will support this objective and deliver been limited, with the principal risk being kgCO2 -eq/MWh of electricity limit for further attractive returns to shareholders. weaker Sterling affecting the cost of biomass. This equates to an 87% carbon biomass, which is generally denominated emission saving against coal, inclusive In our Customers business we will remain in US dollars. Through our use of mediumof biomass supply chain emissions, but focused on operational excellence, term foreign exchange hedges the Group excluding those of coal, which means the reducing our cost to serve customers, has protected its position out to 2024 at actual saving from biomass is even greater. growing gross profit per MWh and rates close to those that we saw before managing bad debt. We will offer the Brexit referendum vote. Reflecting this and a lower level of coal attractive propositions and develop our generation, reported carbon emissions presence in the market for system support under the European Union Emissions Outlook through flexible demand management Trading Scheme fell by 50% to 113tCO2 / Our focus remains on progressing our and other value-added services. GWh (2018: 226tCO2 /GWh). strategy: to build a long-term future for sustainable biomass; to be the leading We are making good progress with the Strengthening our leadership on biomass provider of system stability in the UK and delivery of our strategy and will build on sustainability, we introduced a new to give customers control of their energy. this as we achieve our targets. We will Responsible Sourcing Policy for Biomass Through achieving these strategic also continue to play an important role and established an Independent Advisory objectives we expect to deliver tangible in our markets as well as realising our Board, chaired by Sir John Beddington, financial benefits – long-term earnings purpose of enabling a zero carbon, lower the UK’s former Chief Scientific Adviser. growth, strong cash generation and cost energy future for the UK. We responded to the Climate Disclosure attractive returns for our shareholders. Programme’s (CDP) Climate Change and Will Gardiner Forests questionnaires. These activities continue to be Group CEO underpinned by safety, sustainability and operational excellence. 12 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Climate change is the biggest challenge of our time and we have a crucial role in tackling it. CEO Will Gardiner answers questions on climate change How is Drax helping the What impact has the Why did you decide to Q UK reach its climate goal Q move to biomass had Q work at Drax? to be net zero by 2050? on Drax’s carbon emissions? I took this job because Drax had already We’re committed to a zero carbon, lower Biomass has been a critical element in made a contribution to the energy cost energy future and are stepping up the UK’s decarbonisation journey, helping transition in the UK. Climate change is our efforts to help the UK become net the country get off coal much faster than the most important challenge we face zero by 2050. We have already anyone thought possible. and I passionately believe Drax has a successfully converted two thirds of crucial role in tackling it. Drax Power Station to run on sustainable Since 2012, at Drax Power Station we biomass instead of coal in what was the have reduced our carbon emissions I want to use all of our capabilities to fight largest decarbonisation project in Europe. by 97%, becoming the largest climate change. I also want to make sure This means we’re generating 12% of the decarbonisation project in Europe. that we listen to what everyone else has UK’s renewable electricity and we’ve And we want to do more. to say to ensure that we continue to do reduced our carbon emissions by more the right thing. Our people are very than 85% since 2012. We’ve also expanded our generation engaged on issues relating to climate operations to include hydro and gas change and I’m proud of the passion and We now want to become a carbon generation, and we’ve continued to bring innovation I see around the business. negative company by 2030, which we coal off the system. can do by applying carbon capture and Does building gas power storage technology to our biomass units. What happens to the Q stations mean the UK This is known as BECCS and, through our Q forests where Drax will be tied into fossil fuels BECCS pilot project at Drax Power Station, we have the capability to capture sources its biomass? for decades to come? one tonne of carbon a day. With the right Sustainable biomass from managed Our energy system is changing rapidly, investment framework and support forests is helping to promote healthy as we increase our use of wind and solar mechanisms in place, we believe we could forest growth and biodiversity as well as energy, but the wind doesn’t always blow capture 16 million tonnes of CO2 a year. decarbonising the UK’s energy system. and the sun doesn’t always shine, so we need technologies that can operate when What are negative The biomass we use comes from needed to fill in those gaps. Q emissions and why are sustainably managed forests that supply industries like construction and furniture. We’re looking at a range of options to they important? We use residues from forestry and generate power and support the Negative emissions mean Drax will be sawmills, like sawdust, that other electricity system as it decarbonises. removing more carbon dioxide from the industries don’t use. These include BECCS, hydrogen and gas, atmosphere than it produces from its which can help enable more renewables operations. The UK needs negative The biomass that we use is renewable to connect to the system. emissions to help offset emissions from because the forests are growing and sectors that are harder to decarbonise continue to capture more carbon than As I said already, gas is one option we’re than transport and power, for example we emit from the power station. looking at but it won’t happen without aviation and shipping. the right investment conditions. If we do  ou can read more about Y decide to build new natural gas plants, we Both the UN’s Intergovernmental Panel our approach to biomass will make sure that it is ready for carbon on Climate Change and the UK’s sustainability on page 34. capture and storage. We will also look at Committee on Climate Change have converting the plants to run on hydrogen. said negative emissions with BECCS technology will be critical to limiting global temperature rise to 1.5 degrees. See more online at www.drax.com Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 13 Group financial review We’ve delivered 64% growth in Adjusted EBITDA and a Net Debt to Adjusted EBITDA ratio ahead of our target of 2x.” Andy Skelton Chief Financial Officer 2019 Highlights Introduction The Group has delivered significant • 64% Adjusted EBITDA growth to £410 million growth during 2019, with Adjusted EBITDA increasing by 64% from • Delivered net debt to Adjusted EBITDA £250 million in 2018, to £410 million. ratio ahead of target of 2x, after adjusting for deferred cash receipt of Capacity Total operating profit, which includes Market payments of £72 million, received the effect of remeasurement losses of £133 million (2018: remeasurement gains in January 2020 of £38 million) on derivative contracts, • Strong performance of acquired also increased from £60 million in 2018 to £62 million. generation assets with Adjusted EBITDA of £114 million Our new portfolio of pumped storage, hydro and gas generation assets • Significant increase in Adjusted profit (hereafter referred to as the “new after tax to £118 million resulting in improved generation assets”), acquired on Adjusted earnings per share of 30 pence 31 December 2018, delivered Adjusted EBITDA of £114 million. Growth was • Total operating profit of £62 million, further supported by an increased increased from £60 million contribution from renewable power generation from sustainable biomass • Net cash flow from operating activities at Drax Power Station and our Pellet of £413 million, compared to £311 million Production business. in 2018 This performance is particularly pleasing • 13% increase in dividend to £63 million when considering the challenges we faced in the first half of the year where or 15.9 pence per share both our pellet production operations and biomass generation were impacted by lower levels of biomass supply as a result of historically bad weather conditions in the US Gulf. Following the reinstatement of the UK Capacity Market in October 2019, the results for the year include £78 million of capacity market income, including £7 million for the period in 2018 after its suspension. The associated cash was 14 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Financial Performance Summary Adjusted revenue Adjusted EBITDA Adjusted profit after tax £4,703m (2018: £4,237m) £410m (2018: £250m) £118m (2018: £42m) Total revenue Total operating profit Total profit after tax £4,713m (2018: £4,229m) £62m (2018: £60m) £1m (2018: £20m) Net debt Cash from operating activities Dividend per share £841m (2018: £319m) £413m (2018: £311m) 15.9p (2018: 14.1p) subsequently received after the year end Driven by strong cash generation in the performance comes despite industryand does not form part of our reported period, supported by active management wide challenges with wood pellet net debt at 31 December 2019. of working capital, net debt at 31 December production and associated supply 2019 was £841 million (2018: £319 million), constraints in the first half of the year, The Group improved its access to delivering a net debt to Adjusted EBITDA and includes the contribution of capital during 2019. We refinanced ratio of 1.9x, ahead of our target of 2.0x £114 million from our new generation the acquisition bridge facility, used to for the year end after adjusting for the assets, described above. part-fund the acquisition in December deferred receipt of £72 million cash in 2018 of the new generation assets respect of Capacity Market payments Following the reinstatement of the from ScottishPower, in three stages. received in January 2020. Capacity Market in October 2019, we have recognised related income totalling In May, we issued an additional We remain committed to a sustainable £78 million across the Generation US$200 million of the existing 2025 and growing dividend. The Board will portfolio. Our financial results for 2018 6.625% loan notes. In July, we entered recommend at the forthcoming Annual excluded £7 million of capacity market into two new senior debt facility General Meeting a final dividend that income following its suspension in agreements, a £375 million private takes total dividends for the financial October 2018, and this amount has placement and a £125 million year to £63 million, or 15.9 pence per now been recognised in 2019. environmental, social and governance share, an increase of £7 million or 1.8 (ESG) facility. The average rate of the two pence per share when compared to 2018. Total output at Drax Power Station new facilities is below 3%, reducing the reduced, as we continue our transition Group’s overall cost of debt to below 4%, Financial Performance away from coal; however, our biomass reflecting a reduced business risk profile. Adjusted EBITDA units delivered output broadly in line Group consolidated Adjusted EBITDA with 2018, of 13.4TWh (2018: 13.7 TWh). of £410 million includes a contribution The small reduction in part reflected an of £114 million from our new generation outage over the summer period on Unit 1, Adjusted EBITDA/Total Operating Profit which is supported by the Contract for assets, acquired at the end of 2018. (£m) Difference (CfD) regime. This is an excellent result and exceeds 500 our forecast range of £90-£110 million, reflecting strong operational Despite lower CfD generation, overall 400 performance across the portfolio, better renewable support under the CfD and than expected performance in ancillary ROC regimes remained broadly in line 300 and balancing services and excellent with the prior period, due to higher progress with the integration of the ROC generation and indexation of 200 assets into our existing generation support payments. business, which is now complete. 100 Overall captured spreads improved In total, the Generation business following efficiency gains as a result 0 contributed Adjusted EBITDA of of our programme of investment in the Adjusted Total operating EBITDA profit £408 million (2018: £232 million), an performance of generating units at increase of £176 million or 76%. This Drax Power Station and benefits from 2019 2018 our trading position and portfolio. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 15 Group financial review continued We continue to derive value from Our Customers business contributed Production in the year increased slightly flexibility (balancing mechanism, ancillary Adjusted EBITDA of £17 million in 2019, to 1,406kt (2018: 1,351kt), reflecting a full services and advantaged fuels), which an £11 million reduction when compared year of operations at the LaSalle pellet improved from £79 million in the prior to 2018. plant. This would have been higher but year to £129 million in 2019, an increase of for challenging weather conditions in the 63%. Our new hydro and pumped storage The 2019 result for Customers includes first quarter, resulting from unseasonably assets performed particularly strongly £8 million of investment cost in the high rainfall and associated high river in this area, a demonstration of the restructuring of the business, to more levels, which materially restricted output contribution of the acquisition to our closely integrate our two brands and at all three of our pellet plants and caused strategy to become the leading provider bring them under one management team difficulties in loading ships at the port. of system stability in the UK. (In 2018, £3 million of restructuring and integration costs were treated as We have made good progress with The Generation business acquires exceptional and excluded from Adjusted biomass cost reduction projects in the biomass pellets predominantly in US results in the first year post-acquisition year, with the average cost per gigajoule dollars, which we actively hedge over a of Opus Energy), and a further £7 million of our self-supplied pellets falling to rolling five-year period, to manage our for the development of next-generation US$161/tonne in 2019 compared to foreign currency exposure to a weaker IT systems (2018: £6 million). US$166/tonne in the prior year. pound. The renewable support (CfD and ROCs) received in respect of biomass We delivered the new ERP system at Key contributions to this saving came generation are subject to UK inflation Opus Energy during the second half from the benefit of a full year of lower indices. This exposure is managed as of 2019 but have stopped the operational costs as a result of the part of our active long-term financial implementation of a new billing system headquarters relocation from Atlanta derivatives hedging programme. and are in ongoing discussions with the to Monroe during 2018 and the rail supplier. We have incurred approximately spur project at our LaSalle plant, We hold a large portfolio of forward and £19 million of costs to date, held on the commissioned in early May 2019, saving option contracts for various commodities balance sheet, which we believe have transport costs across the rest of 2019 and financial products, the nature, value value and will be recovered. with a positive impact on supply chain and purpose of which is described in emissions. Furthermore, the sawmill note 7.2 to the consolidated financial Overall volumes sold were down by co-location project at the same plant statements. These contracts are held 9% compared to 2018, which largely has delivered further savings. to de-risk the business, by protecting reflects a mild 2018/19 winter that led the sterling value of future cash flows in to a challenging first half of the year. The total savings from these projects relation to the sale of power or purchase As a result, overall gross profit fell from delivered in 2019 was £14 million, which of key commodities. We manage our £143 million in 2018 to £134 million more than offset the weather impact exposures in accordance with our trading in 2019. described above. and risk management policies. During the year, significant attention Central and other costs of £46 million From time to time, for example where was focused on improving cash have increased by £18 million in 2019. market conditions or our trading collections, where we have seen a expectations change, action may be positive performance. As a result of This increase includes incremental needed in accordance with these policies this, in addition to a £6 million benefit research and innovation costs associated to rebalance our portfolio. This year such in respect of resolution of legacy credit with key strategic initiatives – including activity included restructuring in-thebalances, bad debt charges reduced those relating to Bio-Energy Carbon money foreign currency exchange from £31 million in 2018 to £18 million Capture and Storage (BECCs). contracts, to balance short and long in 2019. The higher charge in the prior periods across the duration of the hedge. year reflected an increased level of As we described at the half year, and in During 2019 we also realised value from provisioning required due to reduced connection with the integration of the closing out positions as expectations for collection performance, plus a £3 million acquired generation assets; we incurred coal generation reduced, the benefit of one-off expense in respect of SME one-off costs implementing a new which is included in value from flexibility, business. The closing provision at organisational structure that we believe above. The financial impact of these 31 December 2019 of £41 million is will enable us to execute our strategy activities – which is driven by market slightly lower than the prior year (2018: more effectively. Costs associated with prices at the point of execution – is £44 million), reflecting the improved delivering working capital initiatives have recognised in the cost of sales of our performance during the year. also increased. Generation business and therefore is reflected in our Adjusted Gross profit Pellet Production Adjusted EBITDA of and Adjusted EBITDA. £32 million increased 52% from £21 million in 2018. 16 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Total Operating Profit Profit After Tax and Earnings per Share development expenditure. Total patent Total operating profit of £62 million has Adjusted profit after tax of £118 million box credits included in the overall tax increased 3% from £60 million in 2018. compares to £42 million for the prior year, credit for 2019 are £8 million (2018: This includes the effect of acquisition resulting in Adjusted earnings per share £8 million). and restructuring costs and (EPS) of 30 pence (2018: 10 pence) which remeasurement gains and losses on represents a 200% increase. Cash taxes paid during the year were derivative contracts that are excluded £9 million (2018: £1 million). from Adjusted results. Our policy and Improvements in Adjusted profit after approach to calculating Adjusted results tax and EPS largely reflect the growth Capital Expenditure is set out on page 131. in Adjusted EBITDA described above, We maintain a disciplined approach although this has been partially offset to capital expenditure, with all significant Acquisition and restructuring related by higher depreciation charges resulting projects subject to appraisal and costs of £9 million (2018: £28 million) from the new generation assets, and prioritisation by a Capital Committee prior reflect the first-year costs of integrating an increase in interest charges as a to approval, overall ensuring adherence the new generation assets into our result of the new debt issued to part-fund to our capital allocation policy and existing Generation business, following the acquisition, as described in further maintenance of an appropriate net transaction costs associated with the detail below. leverage profile. acquisition last year. The integration is now complete, and in line with our policy Total profit after tax of £1 million is lower Total capital expenditure of £172 million no further acquisition and restructuring than £20 million for last year, with a in 2019 was higher than £114 million in costs in relation to the acquired assets corresponding reduction in Total EPS the prior year. will be excluded from Adjusted EBITDA from 5 pence in 2018 to nil pence in 2019. in 2020. The increase principally reflects Total profit after tax reflects exceptional additional expenditure in respect of the Net fair value remeasurement losses on items and certain remeasurements, new generation assets, strategic projects derivative contracts included in operating including the derivative remeasurements and investments to progress our profit were £131 million (2018: gains of and acquisition and restructuring costs objective of increasing self-supply of £38 million) reflecting movements in the described above. In addition, it includes pellets to 5 million tonnes and reduce mark-to-market position on our portfolio a further £5 million of interest charges the cost of pellets. of commodity and financial derivative relating to the acquisition bridge facility. contracts, to the extent they do not These costs have been treated as We have made an initial investment in qualify for hedge accounting. exceptional given the direct link to the biomass expansion projects in the Pellet acquisition and their one-off nature Production business, ahead of full delivery The losses in 2019 are predominantly (2018: £7 million). in 2020, in line with our strategy to expand the result of the strengthening of sterling self-supply. We have also continued in the period and the resulting impact The total tax credit of £3 million (2018: investment in our gas development on the value of our extensive portfolio £6 million) reflects an effective tax rate projects – our four OCGT sites, a new of foreign currency exchange contracts, that is lower than the standard rate of CCGT at Drax Power Station and the which provide a rolling five-year hedge tax in the UK. This principally reflects expansion option at Damhead Creek. against changes in exchange rates for the benefit of patent box tax credits fuel purchases denominated in foreign in respect of biomass research and currencies. Earnings per Share (pence) Capital Expenditure 35 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 Maintaining operational performance £59m Adjusted Total EPS EPS New generation assets £15m Enhancements £24m 2019 2018 Strategic £67m Other £7m Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 17 Group financial review continued Cash and Net Debt During 2019, we refinanced the acquisition generation assets and a disciplined At 31 December 2019, total borrowings bridge facility in three stages, including approach to working capital, partially were £1,245 million (2018: £608 million) two new long-term debt facilities. offset by increased interest payments and net debt was £841 million (2018: on the expanded debt portfolio. £319 million). On 16 May 2019, we issued an additional US $200 million of the existing 2025 In addition to the improvements in Following the reinstatement of the 6.625% US dollar loan notes. The operating performance described above, Capacity Market in October, we accrued proceeds from the issuance were used the Group has a strong focus on cash the £78 million of associated income in to repay £150 million of the drawn down flow discipline. We also use various full; however, the cash payments were acquisition bridge facility. Reflecting the methods to manage liquidity through not received until after the year end. strong investor appetite, the notes were the business’ cash generation cycle. After adjusting for the receipt of £72 issued at 101.5% of their face value which, million of cash in January 2020 in respect when swapped back into sterling, The Group has access to a £315 million of Capacity Market payments, covering achieved an interest rate of 4.74%. revolving credit facility, which can be the standstill period, this reflects a net used to manage low points in the cash debt to EBITDA ratio for 2019 of 1.9x On 24 July 2019, we entered into two cycle, which expires in 2021. No cash was (2018: 1.3x), within our target of less than new senior debt facilities agreements, drawn under this facility at 31 December 2x. Without adjusting year end net debt a £375 million private placement with 2019 (2018: £nil). We actively optimise for this payment our closing net debt to infrastructure lenders with maturities our working capital position by managing EBITDA ratio was 2.1x. between 2024 and 2029, and a payables, receivables and inventories £125 million ESG facility agreement that to ensure that the working capital The increase in borrowings and net debt matures in 2022. The ESG facility includes committed is closely aligned with in 2019 reflects the additional debt drawn a mechanism that adjusts the margin operational requirements. to part-fund the acquisition of the new based on carbon emissions against an generation assets, for which the cash annual benchmark. The key working capital benefits in 2019, consideration was settled in January 2019. in terms of cash flow, arise from making Together these new facilities extend sales and purchases of ROC assets and Taking this into account, and allowing the Group’s debt maturity profile beyond rebasing foreign currency exchange for a full year of EBITDA from the new 2027 and reduce the Group’s overall cost contracts. generation assets in 2018, this represents of debt to below 4%. a significant deleveraging on a like-forHistorically, cash from ROCs has typically like basis from a net debt to EBITDA A full reconciliation of the Group’s been realised several months after the ratio of 3.1x. borrowings in the period is provided in ROC was earned at the end of the ROC note 4.3 to the consolidated financial compliance period; however, the Group is On 2 January 2019, the Group drew down statements. able to limit the overall impact of ROCs on £550 million from the £725 million working capital by making separate sales acquisition bridge facility to partially fund The Group continued to generate strong and purchases in the compliance period. the acquisition, with the remainder of the cash from operating activities in 2019, For 2019, such transactions generated consideration funded from the Group’s with a total inflow of £413 million in 2019 a net cash inflow of £131 million and cash resources. At inception, the (2018: £311 million). The increase supported an overall working capital acquisition bridge facility was due to principally reflects improved profitability, inflow from ROCs of £54 million. The mature in the second half of 2020. the contribution from newly acquired Group also has access to facilities enabling it to sell ROC trade receivables Net Debt Development (£m) 1200 692 1,011 410 1000 62 51 48 10 841 72 800 171 769 150 600 400 319 200 0 2018 Acquisition 2018 net Adjusted Capital Debt Tax Dividends Working 2019 Capacity 2019 net debt debt (inc. EBITDA expenditure service & share Capital/ net debt market (CM) net debt acquisition) buyback other payments (inc. CM payments) 18 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information arising on a non-recourse basis. These net proceeds from new borrowings of contracts identified as leases under the facilities were not utilised at 31 December £653 million (2018: net repayment of previous standards. As a result, adoption 2019 (2018: £nil). £5 million) and payments in respect of of IFRS 16 has not resulted in any acquisitions of £692 million (2018: £nil). retrospective changes to amounts During 2019 the Group rebased several recognised in the Group’s annual foreign currency contracts, which Distributions consolidated financial statements for resulted in a working capital benefit. We have a long-standing capital the year ended 31 December 2018. The total cash released from related allocation policy – a commitment to trades still outstanding at the end of the robust financial metrics that underpins Adoption of IFRS 16 has resulted in a year was £84 million (2018: £3 million) our strong credit rating, invest in our core reduction of operating costs in 2019 reflected in cash generated from business, pay a sustainable and growing of £7.4 million, with the costs of leases operations. By undertaking a similar dividend and return surplus capital to now reflected as depreciation and exercise on cross-currency swaps, shareholders as appropriate. interest charges. we released a further cash benefit of £23 million (2018: £nil). This has no At the Annual General Meeting on 17 April Had the standard been applied in 2018, impact on Adjusted EBITDA, the gains 2019, shareholders approved payment the equivalent reduction in operating are held on the Group’s balance sheet, of a final dividend for the year ended costs for the year ended 31 December until the rebased trades expire. 31 December 2018 of 8.5 pence per share 2018 would have been £6.3 million. (£34 million). The final dividend was paid In addition, the Group has access to a on 10 May 2019. Restatement of Comparative Financial £200 million receivables monetisation Information facility (extended from £150 million in On 23 July 2019, the Board resolved to The Group consolidated financial 2018), which accelerates associated cash pay an interim dividend for the six months statements (see page 133), include flows and mitigates exposure to credit ended 30 June 2019 of 6.4 pence per comparative information for the year risk, and a number of payment facilities share (£25 million), representing 40% ending 31 December 2018. to leverage scale and efficiencies in of the expected full year dividend. transaction processing. We also facilitate The interim dividend was paid on The 2018 comparatives have been a supply chain financing scheme, which 11 October 2019. restated, from those originally published, enables certain suppliers to access in respect of the following items: payment earlier than contractually At the forthcoming Annual General • Finalisation of the opening values agreed payment terms and supports Meeting, on 22 April 2020, the Board of assets and liabilities acquired in the wider working capital efficiency will recommend to shareholders that a respect of the acquisition of the new of the Group. The balances outstanding resolution is passed to approve payment generation assets on 31 December at 31 December 2019 and change in of a final dividend for the year ended 2018. During 2019, we concluded a utilisation in respect of each of these 31 December 2019 of 9.5 pence per share completion statement process and facilities is set out in note 4.4 to the (£38 million), payable on or before 10 May identified adjustments to fixed asset consolidated financial statements. 2020. Shares will be marked ex-dividend values totalling £4 million. The net on 23 April 2020. This brings the total effect of these changes was a The overall net cash inflow for the year dividend payable for 2019 to £63 million £5 million increase in consideration was £122 million (2018: £66 million), after and delivers 13% growth on 2018. payable and a £3 million reduction in cash payments for capital expenditure of goodwill. See note 5.1 to the financial £171 million (2018: £104 million), dividend The Group’s £50 million share buy-back statements. payments of £59 million (2018: £53 million), scheme, which commenced in April 2018, concluded in January 2019. In total, • Correction of an historical error 13.8 million shares were repurchased and identified in respect of translation of are now held in treasury. fixed assets in our US-based business Total Dividends (£m) into the consolidated group financial statements. Application of the correct 70 Other Information foreign exchange rates resulted in an 60 New Accounting Standards increase in fixed asset carrying values The impact of adopting IFRS 16 during 50 at 1 January and 31 December 2018 of the financial year – the new accounting 40 £34 million and £56 million respectively, standard for leases – is set out in note 8.3 with an equivalent amount recognised 30 to the consolidated financial statements. in the translation reserve. The On transition, the Group elected to use 20 correction has no impact on previously the practical expedient available, allowing reported profit or cash amounts. 10 the standard to only be applied to those 0 Andy Skelton 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Chief Financial Officer Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 19 Remuneration at a glance A new Remuneration Policy which aligns with our purpose of enabling a zero carbon, lower cost energy future and rewards sustainable long-term performance Drax has continued to evolve since The proposed new remuneration the last full review of the Directors’ structure is simplified, with annual bonus Remuneration Policy (the policy). payments linked to these goals – a The Group has a broader position in decision informed by engagement with the energy market following the biomass shareholders. conversion programme and the acquisitions in the Customers business In the long-term incentive, Total and, more recently, in Generation with Shareholder Return (TSR) will be retained the successful integration of the hydro, but the Group scorecard will be replaced pumped storage and gas assets. with cumulative adjusted EPS. We feel this change will help to drive further To ensure that our approach to shareholder value over the medium to remuneration supports the strategy, the longer term. Remuneration Committee has undertaken a full review of the policy, taking into Attracting and retaining the right talent account the Group’s strategy, shareholder capable of delivering high quality feedback and the new provisions in the business performance and growth Corporate Governance Code. is critical in achieving our strategy. We believe the new long-term incentive, Our principal aims are to ensure that focused on rewarding stretching executive pay is closely linked to Group performance, and with extended performance, underpins our purpose of holding requirements will enable this. The Committee has enabling a zero-carbon, lower cost energy future; better aligns reward with I have met a number of our major undertaken a full delivering the strategy; incorporates targets that reflect the Group’s progress, shareholders and have incorporated their feedback. I welcome further feedback review of the policy, and are relevant and transparent for the wider workforce and our shareholders. on the proposed policy. taking into account The proposed new policy is designed You can read more about our shareholder to support delivery of our core business new policy in our Directors’ remuneration report on page 91. against a smaller number of stretching feedback.” annual financial, operational and strategic targets, rewarding the delivery Nicola Hodson of growth, innovation and sustainability Remuneration Committee Chair over the long term. 20 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The full Policy appears on page 91 Our purpose: enabling a zero carbon, lower cost energy future Our purpose is embedded in the core principles of our new remuneration policy Making sure Simplifying Incentives earned Attracting and Aligning executive that executive the design and for the delivery of retaining the right reward with remuneration is application of stretching corporate, talent through shareholder value, closely linked to the our executive financial, strategic market-aligned over the longer term, performance of the remuneration and operational incentive opportunity through the new Company programmes targets Long-Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) Our new remuneration policy is aligned with the provisions of the 2018 Corporate Governance Code Clarity Simplicity Risk • Alignment between the delivery of • Annual Bonus: Simplifying the bonus • Greater proportion of remuneration strategic goals and remuneration by focusing on a smaller number of linked to the longer term, ensuring outcomes financial and strategic measures, which stronger alignment with the shareholder • Remuneration which rewards provide greater clarity and simplicity experience shareholder value over the medium • Revised long-term incentive plan (LTIP). • Increased shareholding requirement to longer term Replacing the scorecard element of the for Executive Directors during and post • Performance related elements, relevant LTIP with cumulative adjusted EPS, employment for the Group as a whole, creating which reflects the capability to deliver • Malus and clawback provisions mitigate alignment across the wider workforce more stable earnings and the behavioural risks by enabling payments in delivering financial, operational and implementation of a metric aligned to to be reduced or reclaimed in specific strategic imperatives shareholder interests in delivering circumstances. growth Predictability Proportionality Alignment to culture • Transparent performance measures and • Performance measures are linked to • Bonus measures for all employees, targets make clear the possible range the Company’s strategy and aligned including Executive Directors, are the of remuneration outcomes and these with long-term creation of value for same so that all employees are focused potential outcomes are illustrated in shareholders collectively on, and rewarded for, the the Directors’ Remuneration Policy • Stretching targets ensure that delivery of strategic goals • The Committee will continue to have payments are only made for strong • The annual bonus contains measures discretion to override formulaic corporate performance related to health and safety, people outcomes to ensure that remuneration and reputation which underpin the appropriately reflects overall Company’s value and business strategy performance Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 21 Market context Decarbonisation, electrification and flexibility Globally the energy market in 2019 was marked by geopolitical tension, commodity prices which varied within a relatively stable range and, most importantly, rising awareness of climate change and its implications. The UK energy market is increasingly shaped by three major trends: the pace of decarbonisation of the sector is increasing; the need for electrification and more electricity is growing as the heat and transport sectors decarbonise; and the need for flexible sources of power is greater than ever. Decarbonisation – In July 2019 the UK Government passed legislation requiring the UK economy to be net zero carbon by 2050. Tackling climate change is high in the public consciousness and widespread engagement and activism suggests that the UK public increasingly expects the Government and industry to work together to provide solutions. To date the power sector has led the way in the UK’s efforts to decarbonise, and we believe it will have an even greater role in helping to realise net zero. In fact, to hit net zero by 2050, including the hard to decarbonise sectors such as aviation and agriculture, we envisage that the power sector will have to contribute negative emissions to the overall carbon balance. Electrification – Decarbonisation on the scale outlined above is likely to require an absolute increase in the amount of electricity produced and consumed due to the electrification of heating and transport. The UK Government has signalled a commitment to end diesel and petrol car sales by the middle of the next decade, which is expected to increase the number of electric vehicles on the road and further add to the demand for electrification. Furthermore, a report from the Energy Transitions Commission (November 2018) estimated that electricity’s contribution to global energy supply must rise from 20% to 60% by 2060. Flexibility – Renewable power generation, driven by wind and solar, is increasing and is expected to provide over 80% of power by 2050. Delivered by smaller, more widely distributed, sources of generation this will mean the UK power grid will need to manage more volatility, and energy customers will increasingly need more control over the way they use or generate their own energy. The need for more flexible generation was thrown into sharp relief by the power supply issues on 9 August 2019 which saw over one million people go without power when 1.9GW of power failed in a short period of time. On the next page we explore three aspects of Drax’s response to changes in the energy market in more detail. 22 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Towards a net zero carbon future Meeting the net zero Evolving mix of Changing customer 1 by 2050 target 2 generation 3 behaviours and The use of intermittent renewables, such expectations Hitting net zero and limiting average as wind and solar, continues to increase. The business-to-business energy market temperature rises to less than 1.5 degrees Flexible, thermal generation, such as coal is highly competitive and customers Celsius will require huge investment. and older gas plant generation continues demand access to both low cost and The precise path to achieve this goal to decline. This places additional pressure renewable power. Customers want more is not yet certain for all sectors but it is to balance the energy system. More control of their energy in order to manage becoming increasingly clear that carbon distributed generation and the increase both cost and their environmental removal technologies and negative in intermittent renewables are driving impact. Energy suppliers therefore need emissions will have a significant role increased levels of volatility in short-term to provide the services which customers to play. Organisations such as the prices and a need for assets to provide need. Our business customers International Panel on Climate Change system support services. There is an increasingly seek to create value from and the UK’s Committee on Climate increasing need for flexible sources of their portfolios through the installation Change agree that carbon capture power which can provide services such of their own generation capabilities, technologies, in particular those which as response, reserve, reactive power, the provision of demand side response could lead to the removal of carbon black start and inertia. and energy trading. from the atmosphere, will be important. Our response Our response Our response Drax’s portfolio of flexible generation Drax is now the third largest supplier of In 2019 Drax produced 13.7 TWh of assets (biomass, hydro and gas) provide energy to businesses and supplies more renewable power and we have reduced these increasingly important balancing of its customers with 100% renewable our carbon footprint by over 85% since services. Drax now has generation power than any of its competitors. 2012. Coal accounted for only 4% of assets with a capacity of 6.5GW Our investment in digital technologies Drax’s generation in 2019. In December distributed across Scotland, northern is providing new opportunities, a reduced 2019 we announced an ambition to and south east England, and options cost to serve and an enhanced customer become a carbon negative company by to develop generation assets in Wales experience. 2030. This means by 2030 Drax would and the East of England. be removing more carbon dioxide from the atmosphere than we are emitting. In 2019 Drax launched a partnership Drax saw a 63% increase in the value with SES Water to provide an end-to-end derived from flexibility in 2019 compared electric vehicle offer, and a new to 2018. partnership with Eaton allowed Drax to install batteries as an energy service on our customers’ property. Services like this mean Drax can open up power and flexibility markets to more of our customers and ultimately generate value for both us and our customers through our trading expertise. See more online at www.drax.com and more details about trends in the electricity sector at www.eletricinsights.co.uk Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 23 Working with our stakeholders Engaging with our stakeholders is fundamental to our success. We recognise that we need to listen to, and work with, a diverse range of interested parties to achieve our purpose: to enable a zero carbon, lower cost energy future. In this section, we explain how we have identified our stakeholders and engaged with them to inform the way we operated our business in 2019. Stakeholder relations High quality engagement with the full breadth of our stakeholders is key to well-informed decision-making that pays Communities appropriate regard to stakeholder views. and local authorities Drax has a wide range of stakeholders Workforce Customers and takes care to ensure that the Group, and the Board, has an effective strategy to identify and engage with those stakeholders. Trade and Government and industry political bodies We have a comprehensive stakeholder associations engagement strategy. This is detailed in the Communications Strategy, which is presented to the Board at least annually and sets out our stakeholders and provides oversight of how the Group Think tanks Non-governmental intends to engage with them. and academics organisations Engagement with stakeholders informs both our day-to-day decision making, that ensures the smooth running of the Regulator Suppliers and business, and the strategic decisions and network contractors which help set our direction for the years businesses and decades to come. Shareholders Schools and Drax employs dedicated teams to and investors colleges engage both proactively and reactively with particular stakeholder groups. This includes a stakeholder relations team, an investor relations team, an internal relations team, a sustainable business team, a business ethics team, a media relations team and a digital engagement team. Methods of engagement with stakeholders vary according to the issue at hand and the stakeholder concerned. The table on page 25 sets out the broad Companies Act, Section 172 Statement stakeholder groups that we identified Meaningful engagement with all our stakeholder groups supports our and engaged with during 2019. It also obligations under Section 172 of the Companies Act 2006. highlights why we engaged, how we engaged and the areas of focus. On pages 24 to 29 we set out how the Board, and the Group more widely, has had regard to stakeholder interests when discharging its duty to promote the success of the Company. On pages 49 and 50 we explain how we seek to maintain our high standards of business conduct. 24 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Understanding the needs of our various stakeholders is essential to our long-term success Engagement takes place at many levels Supporting the Board’s duty to promote In 2019, we developed a new of the business and a judgement about the success of the Company, as set out Remuneration Policy. Nicola Hodson, whether Board engagement, Executive in Section 172 of the Companies Act the Remuneration Committee Chair, led Committee engagement, senior 2006, Board and Executive Committee the engagement with our shareholders, management or working level discussions include information on to gain their feedback on the proposed engagement is required is made on a case stakeholders likely to be affected by Policy. You can read more about the new by case basis. The Group Head of Public items under discussion and the potential Policy in the Directors’ Remuneration Affairs maintains a detailed map of key impact. This ensures that the interests Report on page 86. stakeholders, the concerns they have of all relevant stakeholders are considered raised and the date of the last meeting. in decision-making. As part of his induction, John Baxter Management keeps under review the visited 12 Drax sites in 2019, meeting relevant stakeholders who may be The Group Director of Corporate Affairs with local management to discuss the affected by major decisions. and the Group External Affairs Director business, in particular health and safety presented a detailed report on and plant management. To ensure clear feedback to the Board, stakeholder engagement in July 2019, the CEO regularly reports to the Board on to both the Board and the Executive On appointment as Senior Independent key stakeholder relations activity, current Committee. This included the Board’s Director in April 2019, David Nussbaum issues and the relevant feedback received response to the 42% vote against the wrote to our largest shareholders to from interaction with stakeholders. This political donations resolution at the 2019 confirm his availability to meet with them. is supported by the Group Director of AGM and the development of a new David also attended the Group’s Capital Corporate Affairs, the Corporate Affairs policy for political expenditure. You can Markets Day in November 2019 and met team and the relevant owners of direct read more about this on page 27. with a variety of investors. stakeholder engagement. Stakeholder Why How Areas of focus Communities and Drax is an active participant in the We engage regularly with the Jobs and employment, local local authorities communities in which it operates. communities around our businesses environmental impact, community Good community relationships through supporting local initiatives, initiatives and sponsorship strengthen our licence to operate holding quarterly meetings and in those areas formal drop in sessions. For example, we invested £100,000 to support local initiatives via the Galloway Glens Landscape Partnership Customers Engagement allows us to better Our Customers business engages Energy costs, customer service understand our customers’ needs with our customers through support, Third Party Intermediary and how we can deliver continuous channels including social media, relationships, sales and product improvement in customer service our website, by phone and through details, energy efficiency, carbon our complaints procedure footprint Government and Constructive engagement with We regularly engage with regulators Energy costs, Decarbonisation and political bodies Government is key to Drax’s in the UK, EU and US on a broad Carbon Price Support, nationalisation purpose to enable a zero carbon range of topics including the risks, Impact of Brexit, Capacity Market, lower cost energy future need for decarbonisation, the role decarbonisation, climate change of biomass and carbon capture mitigation, biomass sustainability, and storage policy. For example, Station ROC cap, development of engagement with political policy to support BECCS, delivery of UN stakeholders at Party Conferences Climate Change Conference (COP26), through All-Party groups unabated coal closure Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 25 Working with our stakeholders continued Stakeholder Why How Areas of focus Non-governmental Engagement with NGOs helps We engage directly with NGOs Biomass sustainability, coal phase organisations us to challenge and enhance our on a wide range of topics from out, potential gas phase out, climate (NGOs) practices on behalf of the wider biomass sustainability through to change, Carbon price support society carbon pricing. For example, our new Biomass Sustainability Policy addresses stakeholder issues Regulators & Engagement with Ofgem and We engage directly with the Targeted Charging Review, Smart network operators National Grid allows us to help relevant teams at Ofgem and meter installation, energy trading deliver a secure, reliable network National Grid. For example, we compliance, environmental with the least cost engage with National Grid and compliance, health & safety Ofgem over the growing need for compliance, compliance with biomass financial mechanisms to support sustainability policy, ROC compliance, the provision of system services to and business ethics compliance, the grid including data protection Schools and Engagement with schools and We engage directly with schools and Jobs and employment, local colleges colleges allows us to promote colleges and offer free access to environmental impact, community interest in science, engineering and our site tours for all students in term initiatives and sponsorship the energy sector, with a particular time. For example, Drax’s Women focus on under-represented of the Future event in November sections of society 2019 formed part of the Company’s continuing efforts to encourage girls to study STEM subjects Shareholders and Engagement allows us to We engage through a wide range Drax strategy, capital allocation investors understand their concerns and of channels including our website, and dividend policy, reinstatement priorities and take these into AGM, full-year and half-year results, of the Capacity Market, share account in our decision-making a Capital Markets Day, an ongoing price performance, operational programme of investor relations performance, remuneration policy, meetings, engagement by the Chair political engagement policy of the Remuneration Committee on the proposed new Remuneration Policy, engagement on the new Political Engagement Policy and an investor audit Suppliers and Strong relationships with suppliers Drax’s procurement, business ethics Expected standards of conduct and contractors and contractors allow us to and sustainability functions engage satisfactory responses to our due mitigate health and safety risk, directly with suppliers around key diligence requests, Prompt Payment promote high standards and issues to ensure our values and Code, provision of guidance regarding ensure realistic expectations our policies are upheld throughout statutory obligations, such as Modern on project delivery our supply chain Slavery Act Think tanks and Engagement allows us to keep We engage with think tanks Carbon pricing, CCS policy, biomass academics abreast of the latest thinking and and academics through direct sustainability, future energy policy likely policy developments across participation in events and round a range of areas tables. We directly sponsor several PhDs at British universities. Established an Independent Advisory Board on sustainable biomass Trade and industry Active membership of a wide range We engage directly with trade Energy policy, reputation of energy associations of trade and industry associations bodies focusing on energy and sector, reputation of biomass sector, allows us to keep track of best sustainable forestry. For example, Ofgem’s targeted charging review, practice in our sector Drax is an active member of Energy Health & Safety best practice UK, Biomass UK and the CBI Workforce To create an engaging environment We maintain regular dialogue with One Drax awards, benefits where our employees can thrive and our workforce through our MyVoice review, Beyond Coal, impact of people want to work Forums, briefings, weekly updates transformation and restructure, and Q&A from our CEO and our future strategy, trade union annual survey relations, learning and development, career progression and wellbeing 26 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Engagement over political donations policy While Drax makes no political donations in the generally accepted definition of the term, it is important that we engage with politicians, political parties, policy makers and other stakeholders. The engagement includes, for example, sponsorship of events at party conferences and facilitating visits to the areas in which we operate where such activity is closely tied to our business objectives. While this type of expenditure is typically classified as “commercial spend”, Drax is mindful of the potential for these activities to be considered political, or to be included on the Electoral Commission Register. At Drax’s 2019 AGM, a majority of shareholders voted in favour of an increase in the authority which would allow for inadvertent political spending. However, 42% of shareholders voted against the proposed increase. This represented a significant fall in support compared to previous years so we implemented a systematic programme to engage with shareholders to understand how our approach could better align with our investors’ expectations and address the concerns expressed at the 2019 AGM. We reviewed initial feedback received from shareholders at the time of the AGM; analysed spend from political engagement activities; engaged a third party to conduct an external benchmarking exercise on political donations authorities; developed a new Political Engagement Policy (Policy), which included an aggregate expenditure cap of £125,000 reflecting initial shareholder feedback; developed a strategy for engagement with shareholders which was approved by the Board in July 2019, along with the new Policy; engaged with major shareholders both in writing and in person; considered further feedback received; published an update on our website in October 2019, within six months of the AGM, and published the new Policy on our website: drax.com/about-us/drax-politicalengagement-policy/ Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 27 Working with our stakeholders continued Workforce engagement Workforce engagement forums – training course to develop the skills MyVoice – were implemented in 2019. needed to be confident in fulfilling In determining the most appropriate their role. Penny Small, Chief engagement method to adopt, the Transformation officer, is the Board considered that the workforce Executive Committee sponsor. forums already in place in parts of the business provided a strong basis on The chairs of each of the forums which to develop and grow a Groupcome together quarterly to discuss wide structure. It was therefore agreed workforce issues across the business. to expand the existing infrastructure, The chairs then meet with the Group create a more formal governance Chair and CEO to discuss the key framework and provide appropriate issues raised, with feedback from resourcing to support the forums. these meetings then shared with all forum members. The forums are aligned to our operating model, representing the Matters discussed during 2019 include Pellet Production, Generation and how effectively communication filters Customers businesses, and Core down from senior leadership to the Services. Each forum comprises up to wider business: wellbeing, including 12 colleague representatives, including a greater focus on mental health; the chair, and meets as regularly as and living our values. In response to each forum feels is appropriate for MyVoice feedback, the Safety, Health, local needs. Environment and Welfare Leadership Executive Committee, a subEach forum is made up of members committee of the Executive drawn from nominated colleagues Committee, has developed plans to from across the relevant business address wellbeing across Drax Group, unit, and each forum chair has been including mental wellbeing, which selected by membership vote. have been shared with the MyVoice MyVoice forum members attended forums to seek their input before an independently facilitated two-day rolling out in 2020. 28 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Capital Markets Day Ask the CEO Zero Carbon Humber In November 2019 we hosted a Each week employees are able to In 2019 Drax Group, Equinor and Capital Markets Day to update ask, anonymously, questions of National Grid Ventures launched investors on our strategy. Around the CEO on any subject. The CEO the Zero Carbon Humber campaign 80 participants joined the Capital then sends a weekly email to all which commits them to work Markets Day presentation, colleagues with his thoughts and together to explore how a largereflecting a combination of existing highlights of the week followed scale carbon capture use and shareholders, investors and lenders. by his responses to the latest storage (CCUS) and hydrogen questions. production facility could be A key theme of the event was the constructed in the Humber in business case behind our plans to In 2019 employees asked nearly the mid-2020s. increase our self-supply of pellets. 2,000 questions in “Ask Will”. The event included a presentation Subjects ranged from questions This initiative was the first by Dr Rebecca Heaton, our Group about strategy – with employees significant response from industry Head of Climate Change, on the enquiring and challenging to gain following the UK Committee on ways in which we ensure our deeper understanding of what we Climate Change’s Net Zero report biomass supply is sustainable do and plan to do; climate change which found that CCUS and (for more on this see page 34). – including what Drax is doing to hydrogen technology developed in help to tackle climate change, what regional industrial structures is There was an opportunity for employees can do as individuals essential if the UK is going to attendees to ask questions and, and Will’s own views; areas of achieve a net zero carbon economy once the main presentations were concern around the business; by 2050. over, meet with members of senior mental health and wellbeing; pay management, including the CEO, and benefits around the Group and The programme means we will work CFO, CEO Generation and Senior new or innovative ideas. with partners including the Humber Independent Director. Questions Local Enterprise Partnership, local focused on the long-term cost of Examples of action taken as a Councils, trade unions, politicians, biomass, biomass sustainability result of “Ask Will” questions include and businesses across the region and the growing focus on the development of a car-sharing to deliver what could be the world’s Environmental, Social and programme, enhancements to the first net zero carbon region. Governance (ESG) matters. cycle-to-work scheme and the development of a Group-wide In September 2019, the partnership Following the Capital Markets Day charitable giving programme. launched Capture for Growth, a we hosted an ESG site visit at Drax roadmap to guide the delivery of Power Station to discuss biomass the net zero industrial cluster on sustainability, the future of gas and Humberside by 2040. The cluster the Just Transition. could secure 55,000 jobs and capture 15% of the UK’s current All materials from the Capital annual CO2 emissions – the biggest Markets Day, together with a video contribution to the UK’s climate of the presentations and the Q&A commitments of any region. session, have been made available on the website at www.drax.com/ At the UN Climate Change investors/capital-markets-day Conference in Madrid in December 2019 we announced our ambition to become a carbon negative In 2019 around In 2019 employees asked nearly company by 2030. 80 2,000 participants joined the Capital questions in “Ask Will” Markets Day presentation Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 29 Biomass cost reduction Building a The key to delivering this objective Current initiatives: is reducing the cost of wood pellets A co-location agreement with sawmill to a level where biomass generation operator Hunt Forest Products next to long-term is economic without subsidy. the LaSalle pellet plant began production in February 2019 and provides: Current biomass generation at Drax • Low-cost sawmill residues future for Power Station is supported under two • Reduced transportation costs separate schemes. Three biomass units • Reduced processing. As sawmill receive support under the Renewable residues are a semi-processed material, sustainable Obligation scheme and one unit receives we can reduce the number of steps in support under the Contract for the production process, eliminating Difference scheme. The support under chipping, drying and debarking biomass both these mechanisms ends on 31 March 2027. Today, without these A rail spur linking LaSalle to the regional schemes, it is uneconomic to produce rail network and our port facility at Baton is a key renewable electricity from biomass. Rouge was commissioned in May 2019. This increases transportation efficiency, The Group’s objective is to reduce the economies of scale, reduces cost and strategic cost of biomass by about 30% by 2027 carbon footprint. – from around £75/MWh in 2019 to around £50/MWh. We believe that Development of an enlarged chambering objective delivering this reduction will establish yard at the port of Baton Rouge, by the an economic model for unsubsidised regional rail operator. biomass generation beyond 2027. for Drax. • Economies of scale in rail allowing How will we do this? 80-car train sets to operate from Optimise existing capacity and our LaSalle and Morehouse sites generation (previously 45-car train sets) Drax currently uses around seven million tonnes of biomass, 1.4 million tonnes of These initiatives and others have which are self-supplied by our operations contributed to a 3% year-on-year in the US Gulf. reduction in cost per tonne, which represents a saving of $5 per tonne As Drax’s pellet production business is compared to 2018. relatively immature – its first assets were commissioned in 2015 – there are The larger projects will be accompanied significant opportunities to optimise, by small projects to improve operational improve processes and drive greater efficiency such as greater efficiency in efficiencies. the loading of road haulage, which saves 50 cents per tonne. Over time these improvements, when applied across the supply chain, have the potential to deliver significant incremental savings. 30 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information We have also identified plans to Expansion of the fuel envelope Trading and optimisation expand our existing three sites, LaSalle, When we converted Drax Power Station An integral part of our strategy is to Morehouse and Amite, by 350,000 units from coal to biomass we took a develop a biomass trading capability. This tonnes over the next two years – an conservative approach to boiler is an optimisation and risk management investment of £50 million. This will chemistry and decided to use sustainable activity to support our aim to deliver expand total capacity to around 1.85Mt, biomass, such as US pine, because we lower-cost pellets, and not proprietary provide economies of scale and allow knew it would mitigate the risk of boiler trading, through which we aim to: even greater utilisation of low-cost fouling issues. • manage internal supply, or short-term residues. These projects support lower supply imbalances cost wood pellets, while delivering an To date, the operational experience has • optimise internal and external supply attractive return on capital, with payback been positive and this has allowed us to as we build our self-supply capacity before 2027. now expand the fuel envelope and • manage the different levels of demand chemistries we will consider for we might see after 2027 Further expansion of self-supply capacity renewable residues. This opens up the • take advantage of opportunities in Ownership of the supply chain provides opportunity to consider a broader range other markets as the global biomass the opportunity to reduce cost and of products and geographies which could market develops create significant value, both preand have attractive cost characteristics while post-2027. This is why Drax aims to meeting our strict sustainability criteria. increase self-supply capacity to five Beyond 2027 million tonnes by 2027. Over the last decade, as part of our work Biomass cost reduction is a significant on biomass, we have screened hundreds value opportunity, with attractive returns We are considering the development of of different types of materials, and we’re delivered pre-2027. With a lower cost low-cost satellite plants in the US Gulf now using this knowledge of chemistries base, we believe that biomass can be which would be able to use our existing and operational characteristics to inform economic without subsidy. We also infrastructure and sawmill residues to the expansion of the fuel envelope. believe that reducing costs supports the produce low-cost wood pellets. We development of bioenergy with carbon believe this could add up to 0.5 million Examples of these materials include capture and storage (BECCS). The UK tonnes of new capacity. sugar cane residues (bagasse), nuts requires more renewables and BECCS and agricultural residues. if it is to achieve its target of net zero We will continue to assess opportunities by 2050. These factors inform our to build or buy new capacity to support expectations. this ambition – both in the US Gulf and elsewhere. However, if biomass generation is uneconomic post-2027, we retain the option to sell to other international markets which we expect to grow in the coming decade. Being the largest low-cost producer in the world would give us strategic optionality and a competitive advantage in this regard. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 31 System stability How can we be the leading provider of system stability? What’s the issue? Historically, large coaland gas-fired centre of the UK. The power station is Keeping the lights on requires not just power stations were able to deliver these well-situated to provide system support electricity generation, but also a range services as a by-product of producing services to central and northern England of non-generation activities which help reliable baseload electricity. and Scotland. provide stability, flexibility and reliability. These system support services include: Now, these older coal and gas plants are Pumped Storage Hydro – Cruachan being shuttered in the UK and being Power Station in western Scotland has Inertia – The stored energy in replaced by intermittent renewable 440MW of fully flexible electricity synchronous generators which slow down energy sources, principally wind. This generation that can be brought online the rate of changes in system frequency, reduces carbon emissions but makes the in two minutes from rest. Cruachan has provision of these system support services large-scale energy storage as well as a Voltage control/Reactive Power more challenging. Wind, by its nature, is full suite of system support capabilities. (MVars) – Reactive power is used to intermittent and, for the most part, unable The power station, which is capable manage power flows around the to provide system support services. of 15 hours of full-load generation transmission system and helps to support and storage, is well located to support voltage in the event of a system fault. So as demand for system support services regional nuclear and offshore Scottish increases, there are fewer assets, such wind farms. Reserve – The system operator must as large power stations, able to provide be able to ensure a balance between them. This is increasing the cost of Gas – CCGT – Drax has 2GW of flexible demand and generation at all times operating the system and is a growing generation at Damhead Creek, Shoreham to prevent power cuts at times of peak source of value for generators like Drax and Rye House power stations in demand. This increased and decreased who can provide these services. southeast England. These are well generation is sometimes referred to as located in a key demand centre. headroom and footroom respectively. How can we do this? Managing demand can also be used Our focus as a generator is to provide Demand-side response – System support to the same effect. the flexible, renewable and low carbon is principally delivered through generation millions of households rely on. generation, but we also have a growing Response – The automatic change in Drax operates a portfolio of sustainable opportunity to provide some of these generation output, or in demand, to biomass, hydro and gas assets which are services through our Customers business. maintain a system frequency of 50Hz. well positioned, both geographically and We provide electricity to large and This frequency response is required operationally, to provide these services industrial customers, in addition to SMEs. every second of the day. to the UK electricity market. Working with these larger customers we expect to provide demand-side Black Start – The ability of a generation These assets include: response services to the electricity unit to start up without external Sustainable biomass – Drax Power market – reducing demand at times electricity supplies following a total Station in north Yorkshire has 2.6GW of of lower supply and vice versa. or partial loss of power from the flexible renewable generation in the transmission system. 32 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Giving customers control of their energy We provide all customers with the ability to control and optimise energy use, cost and source. Through the provision of insight, isn’t running at full blast for the whole Battery power digitisation, and services, we provide all time. It’s simple for the customer: Drax Energy storage through batteries is also customers with the opportunity to control has the opportunity to create value being tested with customers who already and optimise energy use, cost and source. from the asset in the provision of system generate renewable energy onsite. support services and in exchange, Demand-side Response customers get a cheaper tariff. Energy storage is the key to helping Haven Power is the leading challenger customers maximise the benefit of the brand provider of renewable energy and By reducing demand, typically at times energy they generate from their own services to Industrial and Commercial of peak demand, which are also periods small-scale renewables, providing greater customers. Haven’s large portfolio of of higher carbon intensity, Drax Group flexibility to the grid and smoothing industrial and commercial customers is supporting the energy system and volatility in the system. provides opportunities to provide system delivering the Group’s purpose of enabling support services to the energy market a zero carbon, lower cost energy future. Drax has partnered with energy storage and create value for customers. company Eaton, which offers new and Electric Vehicles (EVs) second-life batteries, such as used EV In November 2019, United Utilities became Drax is developing an end-to-end bundle batteries, for installations on customer the first customer to sign up to Haven aimed at making it easier for companies sites. Eaton can quickly scale-up the Power’s Asset Flex project. Known as to switch to EVs. SES Water was the deployment of small commercial energy Demand Side Response (DSR), customers first partner to trial this bespoke package, storage systems to larger, industrial-scale are provided with financial incentives to which includes charging infrastructure, units, helping to support more customers. turn down, or off, non-essential equipment operating software, EV leasing, and at times of peak demand depending on the renewable electricity needed to Customers are asking us about the customer’s needs. power them. technologies to make their sites more efficient and sustainable, so we’re Haven installs its technology to turn The aim is to deliver EV charging and reacting to that. Lots of our customers down or off customers’ energy demand battery optimisation, which ties into want to improve the resilience of their in peak times to reduce costs, and is our customer control strategy. By sites. This area will continue to grow. designed to always work within the understanding all aspects of EVs from constraints set by the customer. For telematics to charge-point hardware example, turning down an industrial fridge and software we are identifying or freezer where the ambient temperature opportunities to create value for can remain within certain limits even if it customers and the Group. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 33 Biomass sustainability with Dr Rebecca Heaton, Group Head of Climate Change at Drax There’s widespread recognition among not causing deforestation, or cutting leading science-based organisations, old-growth forests or harvesting wood such as the UN’s Intergovernmental Panel from protected areas. on Climate Change, that sustainable biomass has a vital role to play in meeting We’re committed to sustainable biomass climate targets. Sustainable biomass has which is why our Responsible Sourcing three big benefits: it generates renewable Policy for Biomass goes beyond existing electricity, supports forest growth and is regulations, and commits us to only take a route to negative emissions using feedstocks that the science says delivers BECCS. At Drax, replacing coal with climate benefits. Sustainable biomass biomass to generate power has already helps to provide a market for the lowdelivered carbon savings of more than value residues from a working forest. 80% since 2012. Why Generation of electricity using biomass functions as a closed loop carbon system. This creates an incentive for landowners to have more forests under management, contributing to greater forest growth and sustainable When trees grow, they absorb carbon dioxide. Emissions from using biomass to generate electricity are balanced by the more CO2 captured. Sustainably managed forests are typically healthy, support biodiversity and can absorb more carbon biomass is absorption of CO2 from the forests that are growing. This differs from burning coal where the emissions remain in the than unmanaged forests. We can see evidence of this in the US, good for atmosphere. It’s important to remember that the where we source almost two thirds of our pellets. According to US Forest Service data (Forestry Inventory Analysis database, forests and carbon benefits are only realised if the biomass is sustainable. There are many criteria for sustainable biomass, including November 2019) there is an average annual surplus of nearly 200 million m3 of new growth compared to harvesting. the climate taking wood from managed forests – those that are replanted after harvesting, In Canada, in 2017, the surplus of growth compared to harvesting was 63 million m3 (National Forestry Database, 2017). Biomass Carbon Cycle Carbon dioxide (CO2) CO2 Sustainably Biomass power managed forest station CO2 captured, transported and stored by BECCS** Logs Forestry residues* Wood pellets Construction/ Sawmill Wood pellet plant Manufacturing Sawmill residues *  Forestry residues includes branch tops and bark, thinnings and low-grade roundwood. For more information, see Sourcing Sustainable Biomass on page 41 ** BECCS is a bioenergy, carbon capture and storage system, with CO2 resulting from power generation captured and stored in an aquifer under the North Sea 34 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information See more online at www.vimeo.com/244685668 Forests are managed for multiple Why do you ship wood How will the objectives, including biodiversity, water from the US and Canada Independent Advisory management and timber production. The main timber product from a forest is saw to the UK? Board (IAB) work? logs. These large, high-value logs produce Biomass is best sourced from vast forests The six-member IAB is chaired by the wood products for construction or with established forest industries which UK government’s former chief scientific furniture, ending up as long-term carbon generate a lot of low-value residue. North adviser Professor Sir John Beddington. storage. Around half of a saw log going America, with its well-established and The IAB will help to keep our sourcing into a sawmill comes out as sawdust. sustainable commercial forest industry, guidelines under regular review so they In some parts of the world, that is simply meets those conditions. That’s why we can evolve as the science develops. You burned or ends up in a landfill. bring a lot from the US. We transport can read more about the IAB on page 41. the pellets mostly by train and ship, with Almost 40% of our wood pellet feedstock a small proportion of the journey using We expect the IAB to challenge us every is, in fact, those sawmill residues. Of the fuel-efficient trucks. We track and step of the way, and believe it’s right that rest, around 30% is thinnings, branches, manage all the journeys to ensure the companies using biomass go beyond tops and bark and 30% low-grade supply chain is as low carbon as possible, existing regulations to ensure that it roundwood. and report the final number for our makes a positive contribution to our biomass supply chain on page 43, which climate and the environment. Around a fifth of the material we use to is independently audited. make pellets is thinnings, where trees are What are the taken out at various intervals to allow the We’re also involved in various remaining trees to grow bigger. Thinning transportation initiatives such as next steps? also stops pests, diseases and fire from the Smart Green Shipping Alliance. A big part of our work in 2020 is to ripping through the forests and supports increase transparency on our biomass biodiversity. Providing a market for these Tell us about the new sourcing and its impacts. We will provide thinnings helps these forests thrive. that evidence by using big data and Responsible Sourcing satellite images to evaluate the impact on How do you know that Policy for Biomass forest cover, forest carbon and biodiversity in areas that supply Drax’s pellet mills (see the wood Drax uses is As a significant user of sustainable Healthy Forest Landscapes on page 44). biomass for energy we wanted our policy sustainable? to go beyond existing legislation and Everything we do is independently requirements. We are working with non-profit groups audited and we abide by all the current and NGOs, including Earthworm requirements for sustainable biomass. The policy we published in 2019 (available Foundation and biodiversity-focused here www.drax.com/sustainability) draws group NatureServe, to understand the The UK and EU have robust regulatory on recommendations made by Forest social and economic impacts and benefits frameworks for sustainable biomass. Research, the research agency of the in the areas where we source our biomass. Drax’s requirements on biomass Forestry Commission, in a report sustainability exceed these rules. We commissioned by the European Climate In 2020, we will broaden our work with also use external certification through Foundation. Alongside the new policy, we Earthworm on our healthy forest the Sustainable Biomass Program (SBP), also launched an Independent Advisory landscapes programme. We will also which sets a standard that is audited Board of scientists, who will keep us at the expand the pilot that evaluates the by independent third-party auditors. forefront of the latest scientific thinking impact on forest cover and biodiversity and best practice on biomass sourcing. to more sites and publish findings from It’s also about choosing the right our initial work. feedstocks in the first place – something Our policy has four parts to it. First, we we’re committed to ensuring. commit to only use feedstocks which the Ensuring the sustainability of the biomass science says delivers climate benefits. we use is vital if we’re to move to the This means we won’t use biomass that next stage and deliver negative emissions drives harvesting decisions that would using bioenergy carbon capture and We’re committed to adversely affect the long-term potential storage while continuing to supply of forests to store carbon. Second, we will flexible, renewable power to the UK grid. sustainable biomass protect the natural environment – for example, by not causing deforestation. Dr Rebecca Heaton which is why our Third, we will support people and communities. Finally, we committed Group Head of Climate Change biomass sourcing to carry out research, outreach and policy goes beyond intervention, which includes active engagement with the communities existing regulations.” where we operate and NGOs. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 35 Building a sustainable business Achieving a positive long‑term economic, social and environmental impact together. 36 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Additional information on our approach to sustainability is available at www.drax.com/sustainability At Drax, being a sustainable business means achieving a positive long-term economic, social and environmental impact as part of the Company strategy. Our Priorities Our Impact on the Sustainable Development Goals We have identified nonThe 17 United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are financial priorities that are a blueprint to achieve a better and more sustainable future for everyone. material to our business and We have identified six SDGs and associated targets where we can make important to our stakeholders. the greatest positive impact. Drax is a participant of the United Nations Our 2019 progress and Global Compact (UNGC) and sits on the UNGC UK Advisory Group. performance are reported under each priority area as follows: Affordable and Climate Action Life on Land Environment Clean Energy We contribute to SDG 13 We promote the Carbon Emissions page 38 We contribute to the share to take action to combat implementation of Environmental of renewable energy in the climate change and sustainable forest Impact page 40 global energy mix. its impacts across management in all Sourcing Sustainable our business. working forests that Biomass page 41 we source from. Healthy Forest Landscapes page 44 Industry, Innovation Sustainable Cities Partnerships for the Goals Social and Infrastructure and Communities We proactively collaborate People and Culture page 45 We contribute to We contribute to SDG 11 and engage with Health, Safety and investment in to make cities and human stakeholders and seek Wellbeing page 46 infrastructure and settlements inclusive, safe, partners to achieve our Positive Social Impact innovation in the energy resilient and sustainable. purpose of enabling a zero page 48 sector, progressing the carbon, lower cost energy technological capabilities future. This directly of our sector and enhances the global contributing to research partnership for sustainable and development spending. development to support the achievement of the Goals. Our activities are underpinned by ethics and integrity. We are committed to conducting business responsibly, in accordance with our values and all relevant laws and regulations. We believe in doing the right thing in all our business activities, wherever we operate. Ethics and Integrity Ethics and Integrity page 49 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 37 Building a sustainable business continued Environment Carbon Emissions Drax has a significant role to play in the transition to a low-carbon economy Drax’s ambition is to be carbon negative and this informs our purpose to enable a zero carbon, lower cost energy future. by 2030. Having pioneered the use of We are committed to supporting the UK government to achieve net zero sustainable biomass, Drax now produces carbon emissions by 2050. 12% of the UK’s renewable electricity. Managing Climate Change Risks With the right negative emissions policy, and Opportunities We are committed to the identification, we can do much more, removing millions management and disclosure of our climate change risks and opportunities of tonnes of emissions from the in line with the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial atmosphere each year.” Disclosures (TCFD). Will Gardiner Group CEO In 2019, we responded to the CDP Climate questionnaire and received a score of C. We introduced climate change as a new principal risk category (see Principal Risks Power Station, using molten carbonate Generation Technology Mix and Uncertainties on page 54). fuel cells as a technology for capturing From 2018 to 2019, the mix of carbon dioxide. technologies in the Generation Our Negative Emissions Ambition business diversified as we expanded At the UN Climate Change Conference In September 2019, together with Equinor our portfolio of dispatchable, flexible COP 25 in December 2019, Drax and National Grid Ventures, we launched assets to support the energy announced our ambition to become the Zero Carbon Humber Campaign system’s growing use of intermittent carbon negative by 2030. We have signed (www.zerocarbonhumber.co.uk) to renewable energy. up to the Science Based Targets initiative develop the first zero carbon industrial to further assure that our target is aligned cluster in the UK by 2040. Share of Actual Generation Output with climate science. by Technology Type (%) Carbon Emissions Performance Using technologies such as Bioenergy Group total carbon emissions (Scope 1 100 with Carbon Capture and Storage and 2) fell 47% between 2018 and 2019. (BECCS), Drax aims to remove more This reflects a reduction in coal 80 carbon dioxide from the atmosphere generation and an increased share of than it produces, creating a negative generation from biomass, gas, hydro and 60 carbon footprint for the Group. Our pumped storage. The reduction in carbon 40 leading ambition is only achievable emissions at Drax Power Station had the with an effective negative emissions most significant impact. With four of the Hydro 20 Gas policy and investment framework for six generating units now converted to Biomass technologies such as BECCS. biomass from coal, emissions from Drax 0 Coal Power Station have fallen from 22.7 2018 2019 Innovating to Decarbonise our Business million tCO2 in 2012 to below 1 million Carbon capture and utilisation is part tCO2 in 2019. of our business strategy and we made progress on this work in 2019. Significant emissions reduction activities undertaken in 2019 included Drax has set up a Bioenergy Carbon the installation of a new high-pressure Capture and Storage (BECCS) turbine on Unit 2 at Drax Power Station, demonstration pilot at Drax Power at a cost of £12.5 million, to improve its Station with C-Capture, a start-up from efficiency. We have also improved the the University of Leeds. We also secured energy efficiency at some of our funding from the UK Government to Customers business facilities, with explore the feasibility of building a measures such as installing solar panels, second carbon capture pilot at Drax LED lighting and battery storage. 38 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Unit 2019 2018 2017 Carbon Emissions Generation Carbon Emissions1 ktCO2 1,958 * 4,139 § 6,215 § Group Total Scope 12 ktCO2e 2,049 * 4,233 § 6,296 § Group Total Scope 23 ktCO2e 322 * 252 § 209 § Group Total Scope 1 and 2 ktCO2e 2,371 * 4,484 § 6,505 § Proportion of Group emissions within the UK % 93.2 96.5 98.5 Biologically Sequestered Carbon Emissions (Biomass Combustion) Biologically sequestered carbon4 ktCO2e 12,795 13,019 12,212 Total Energy Consumption Group total energy consumption kWh 46,025,306,198 50,269,781,751 – Group total energy consumption within the UK kWh 43,852,816,521 48,075,425,472 – Notes Greenhouse gas emissions (GHGs) are reported against a criterion of operational control. This means emissions from all sites that are wholly owned by Drax or where Drax has operational control of the emission pathway through the opportunity to select and manage its own suppliers. GHGs are reported in units of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e). Conversions from non-CO2 GHGs use the most up-to-date published IPCC global warming potentials for a 100-year period without climate carbon feedbacks. A materiality threshold of 75 tCO2e/year has been applied. (1) Generation emissions covers all direct emissions from our own business operations that fall under the scope of the European Union Emissions Trading System (EU ETS) (2) Scope 1 covers all direct emissions from our own business operations, across all sites (3) Scope 2 covers all indirect emissions associated with our electricity and heat consumption, across all sites (4) The biogenic CO2 emissions resulting from generation are counted as zero in official reporting to both UK authorities and under the European Union Emissions Trading System (EU ETS) as the use of sustainable biomass is considered to be CO2 neutral at the point of combustion. This methodology originates from the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change § 2017 and 2018 data has been recalculated to reflect an update to the materiality threshold applied * Limited external assurance using the assurance standard ISAE 3000 for 2019 data as indicated. For assurance statement and basis of reporting see www.drax.com/sustainability Carbon Intensity Performance The expansion and diversification of our generation portfolio to include hydro, pumped storage and gas, alongside reduced coal generation and increased biomass generation, has reduced the carbon intensity of our total generation by 50% in 2019 compared to 2018. Unit 2019 2018 2017 Carbon Intensity Generation5 GWh 17.3 18.3 20.0 Generation emissions per GWh of electricity generation tCO2 /GWh 113 226 311 Group emissions per GWh of electricity generation tCO2e/GWh 137 245 325 (5) Excluding Cruachan Power Station which utilises electricity import for pumping to balance the grid Zero Carbon Energy Supply Generation6 Emissions Intensity (tCO2 /GWh) Our Customers business is committed 1000 to sourcing the renewable power that our customers want. We provided over 800 150,000 UK businesses with 100% renewable electricity, making our 600 Customers business the largest renewable electricity supplier to 400 UK business in the Ofgem compliance period ending in 2019. 200 Our Customers business fuel mix 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 disclosures are available at www.drax.com/opus-sources Notes: (6) Generation emissions covers all direct emissions from our own business operations that fall under the scope of the www.drax.com/haven-sources European Union Emissions Trading System (EU ETS) Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 39 Building a sustainable business continued Environmental Impact Unit 2019 We are committed to managing, Thermal Generation Emissions to Air by Fuel Type monitoring and reducing the Biomass Generation1 environmental impact of our operations Nitrogen Oxides t 7,104 and the Group environment policy Sulphur Dioxide t 986 outlines our approach. Particulates t 415 The Environmental Management Systems Coal Generation2 (EMS) at our Generation sites in the UK Nitrogen Oxides t 746 are certified to ISO 14001. The EMS at Sulphur Dioxide t 601 our Pellet Production sites in the US Particulates t 35 are based on the principles of, but not Gas Generation3 certified to, ISO 14001. Nitrogen Oxides t 625 Carbon Monoxide t 71 We self-reported one environmental permit breach at Drax Power Station (1) Biomass Generation covers units 1,2,3 and 4 at Drax Power Station (2) Coal Generation covers units 5 and 6 at Drax Power Station in 2019. The regulator categorised it (3) Gas Generation covers Blackburn, Damhead Creek, Rye House and Shoreham Power Stations as having no impact on human health, quality of life or the environment. Unit 2019 UK Biomass Production4 Emissions to Air Emissions to Air Nitrogen Oxides t 4.76 Our work in 2019 focused on future compliance with the requirements of the Sulphur Dioxide t 1.68 EU Best Available Techniques reference Carbon Monoxide t 1.76 documents (BREFs), which will further Particulates t 0.04 reduce emission limits, entering into (4) UK Biomass Production covers Daldowie Fuel Plant force in 2021. Unit 2019 At Drax Power Station, emissions of nitrogen oxides, sulphur dioxide and Thermal Generation5 Water Use particulates continued to trend Total water abstracted m3 177,215,811* downward. This can be partially attributed Total water discharged m3 167,953,231* to a reduction in total generation, as well (5) Thermal Generation covers Blackburn, Damhead Creek, Drax, Rye House and Shoreham Power Stations as the first full year of operation of Unit 4 since its conversion to biomass from coal. Unit 2019 Hydro Generation6 Water Use Our UK gas generation and biomass production sites are also permitted for Total water abstracted m3 3,370,272,574* releases to air by the Environment Agency (6) Hydro Generation covers Galloway and Lanark Hydro Scheme and Scottish Environment Protection Agency respectively. 2019 emissions to Unit 2019 air were in line with expectations for the Pumped Storage7,8 Water Use generation and production levels achieved. Total water abstracted from reservoir m3 263,015,328* Total water abstracted from Loch Awe m3 207,277,224* Water Use Water is utilised at our thermal generation (7) Pumped Storage covers Cruachan Power Station sites for operational and cooling (8) Excluding volume of water collected via the aqueduct system processes, and losses occur through steam and ancillary processes. Procedures Notes: ‘Total water abstracted’ covers water data reported to the Environment Agency and Scottish Environment Protection are in place to manage water system Agency as abstraction. efficiency and usage and to ensure that * Limited external assurance using the assurance standard ISAE 3000 for 2019 data as indicated. For assurance all discharge consent limits are met. statement and basis of reporting see www.drax.com/sustainability The Galloway and Lanark Hydro Scheme utilises abstracted water that is returned to the environment immediately. At Cruachan Power Station, water abstracted from the upper reservoir is used for generation and water abstracted from Loch Awe is used for pumping. 40 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Sourcing Sustainable Biomass The Responsible Sourcing policy outlines Independent Advisory Board At Drax we use wood pellets sourced our forest biomass sustainability During the year, we established an from sustainably managed working commitments: Independent Advisory Board (IAB) forests and residues from forest of scientists and leaders in the field industries to generate low-carbon, 1. We will reduce carbon dioxide of sustainability to provide impartial renewable electricity. We ensure our emissions advice and guidance. The IAB will biomass is sustainable and compliant We are committed to ensuring the advise on feedstock options, forest with appropriate legislation through a biomass we use makes a positive science and how Drax can optimise combination of proactive supplier contribution to tackling the climate carbon benefits. It will also give engagement, third-party certification change crisis and fulfilling the UK’s advice on the role of sustainable schemes and our own audits and checks. Paris Agreement targets. biomass in Drax’s climate change mitigation activities and in The Group Sustainability policy outlines 2. We will protect the natural environment supporting the transition to a our requirements and it is evidenced and We recognise our duty to keep forests net zero energy system. included in biomass supplier contracts. thriving and to respect the many benefits Details of our due diligence process are they bring, including carbon storage, The advice from the IAB means our available at www.drax.com/sustainability. protection of soil and water quality, stakeholders can be assured that supporting biodiversity and provision Drax will keep our Sustainability and Responsible Sourcing Policy for Biomass of habitat. Responsible Sourcing policies under review and that the biomass we use 3. We will support people and follows the latest scientific research communities and best practice. From state-owned forests to smallholdings, and from the US Southeast The independent group is chaired to the Baltic states, forest owners, forest by Professor Sir John Beddington, workers and communities in our sourcing former UK government Chief areas are bound by their common reliance Scientific Adviser. It will meet twice on forests for employment, wellbeing and a year and will provide feedback and quality of life. make recommendations on Drax’s sustainable biomass approach and 4. We will invest in research, performance, which will be published outreach and intervention on our website. The strength of our collaboration with others will improve the sourcing choices we make. We are committed to working with governments, nongovernmental organisations, academia and other stakeholders to continually As the science improve biomass sourcing and develop best practice. In 2019, we published Responsible Sourcing: A policy for biomass from evolves, we sustainable forests, available at www. drax.com/sustainability/responsiblewill make sourcing/. This Responsible Sourcing policy for biomass strengthens our recommendations approach in line with recommendations to ensure that made by a report commissioned by the European Climate Foundation. This is the biomass to provide further assurance that the sustainable biomass we source makes used at Drax a net positive contribution to climate change, protects and enhances makes a positive biodiversity and has a positive social impact on local communities. contribution to our climate and the environment.” Sir John Beddington, IAB Chair Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 41 Building a sustainable business continued Our Sustainable Biomass Sourcing Requirements At Drax, all our biomass suppliers must demonstrate that all necessary sustainability and legal requirements are met. Supplier compliance is evidenced either by our own checks and third-party audits or by Sustainable Biomass Program (SBP) certification. Drax was instrumental in the creation of SBP, which is a certification system for woody biomass. We encourage our suppliers to progress from our own checks and third-party audits commissioned by Drax towards SBP certification. In 2019 93% of the woody biomass we sourced was SBP certified, Maintaining Forest Carbon Stocks Morehouse Bioenergy Plants in the an increase compared to 86% in 2018 We are committed to sourcing US South and also for our suppliers and exceeding our target of 92% for 2019. sustainable biomass that in Estonia. These reports are contributes to the long-term available on the Drax website. The No concerns regarding biomass supplier maintenance of growing stock aim of this analysis is to evaluate sustainability compliance were raised and productivity and that helps to the trends occurring in the forestry or escalated to the Group Ethics and improve the health and quality of sector around the plant and to Business Conduct Committee or the forests at a local and regional level. determine what impact the pellet Executive Committee in 2019. mill may have had in influencing We monitor forest inventory those trends, positively or Average % SBP-certified material data and local industry trends, negatively. This includes the impact 100 in addition to certification and on harvesting levels, carbon stock, our auditing process, to determine growth rate, wood prices and the 80 whether biomass demand is having production of all wood products. an impact on regional forest 60 industries. This allows us to make The “total growing stock” is the informed sourcing decisions. amount of wood stored in the 40 forest. Between 2006 and 2018 Drax audit Drax has recently completed the the total growing stock surrounding 20 process first phase of our planned the Drax Biomass Morehouse material Catchment Area Analysis reports Bioenergy Plant increased by 0 SBP-certified at the Drax Biomass Amite and 68 million metric tonnes. 2017 2018 2019 material Biomass Sources in 2019 In 2019 our biomass was sourced from established, responsibly managed working forests in the US South, Europe, Canada, South America and Russia. To enhance our biomass supply chain transparency, we provide detailed supply chain information at Drax ForestScope http://forestscope.info. Drax Power Station Biomass Pellet Feedstock Sources in 2019 Sawmill Branches, Tops End of Life Thinnings Low Grade Short Rotation Agricultural Total Country Residues (t) and Bark (t) Timber (t) (t) Roundwood (t) Forestry (t) Residues (t) (t) USA 1,345,906 710,231 231 1,393,377 1,126,435 – 32,625 4,608,805 Canada 956,170 127,996 – – 31,034 – – 1,115,199 Latvia 273,081 106 – 3,535 343,592 – – 620,315 Portugal 19,144 5,465 3,450 44,600 91,500 2,524 – 166,684 Estonia 55,267 4,280 – 61,261 14,210 – – 135,018 Russia 45,715 7 – – – – 88,776 134,498 Brazil – – – – 115,700 – – 115,700 Belarus 71,387 <1 – – 5,047 – – 76,434 UK – – – – – – 30,920 30,920 Lithuania 17,524 <1 – 954 – – – 18,478 Other European 5,902 <1 – – – – 22,761 28,665 Total 2,790,096 848,087 3,681 1,503,728 1,727,518 2,524 175,082 7,050,717 42 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Biomass Supply Chain Emissions Obligation and Contract for Difference Additional information on our We monitor each step in the supply chain schemes. The current limit is 285 biomass sourcing is available at to ensure our requirements are met and kgCO2 -eq/MWh of electricity, reducing to www.drax.com/sustainability greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 200 kgCO2 -eq/MWh of electricity in 2020. associated with producing our biomass In 2019, our average biomass supply chain are calculated according to regulatory GHG emissions amounted to 124 kgCO2 requirements. eq/MWh* of electricity. This is lower than our 2018 average biomass supply chain The UK Government has set a limit on GHG emissions and 56% less than the biomass supply chain GHG emissions UK Government limit. which must be met by generators to be eligible for support under the Renewables * Limited external assurance using the assurance standard ISAE 3000 for 2019 data as indicated. For assurance statement and basis of reporting see www.drax.com/sustainability Drax Power Station Average Biomass Supply Chain GHG Emissions Unit of Measure 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Average Biomass Supply Chain kgCO2 GHG Emissions eq/MWh 124 * 131 130 122 114 Drax Power Station Average Biomass Supply Chain GHG Emissions in 2019 (%) 50% 20% 12% 8% 4% 3% 2% 1% <1% Cultivation Harvesting Chipping Transport to Drying Pelletising Transport Shipping Rail to Drax in forest pellet plant to port Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 43 Building a sustainable business continued Healthy Forest Landscapes source catchment metrics to be used the approach with other purchasers Our Partnership with Earthworm as common indicators across all our of wood products derived from the Drax has partnered with Earthworm sourcing geographies. These are: forest same geographies to test the appetite Foundation (formerly The Forest Trust) cover, biodiversity, carbon stock and for broader collaborative adoption. to support our approach to responsible socio-economic wellbeing. biomass sourcing. Earthworm are Over the next four years, we aim to not-for -profit, responsible sourcing Looking Ahead roll out the Healthy Forest Landscapes experts, experienced in working with During 2020, we will continue piloting programme for all our wood source corporate entities developing landscape technology options in other geographies catchment areas. Ultimately Drax will scale approaches in similar commodity with third party providers. We aim to be able to track and report these key supply chains. be in a position to share more widely metrics for our specific and aggregate the selected technology, programme impact on key dimensions of forest The core programme we are jointly challenges and more detailed output landscape health in a very timely pioneering has been called Healthy during 2020. We expect to socialise and accessible way. Forest Landscapes. Healthy Forest Landscapes Programme Piloting Technology Options The mapping captures the changes At Drax, our approach to sourcing In 2019, we began to pilot technology in forest cover across the Amite source biomass responsibly is governed by options to establish how best to gather catchment area from 2010, before environmental regulation, our the data needed to provide credible the Amite BioEnergy Plant was Sustainability and Responsible Sourcing and replicable measures for our commissioned in 2015, until 2018. policies, our own checks and third-party identified metrics. Analysis then shows forest cover, audits or Sustainable Biomass Program in aggregate, modestly increasing (SBP) certification. We piloted the use of big data over the time series – supporting and remote sensing in the source our commitment and other publicly We recognise such traditional catchment area of our Amite available data that there has been approaches and certification audits BioEnergy Plant in Mississippi, USA. no deforestation in the catchment. are detailed and, although we publish Big data and automated interpretation Detailed analysis shows a working summaries of the output, are not readily of satellite imagery was applied to landscape where forests are harvested digestible by a wide, interested audience. develop a time series from before our and replanted, as we’d expect, in The Healthy Forest Landscapes plant started operation of forest cover, a continuous cycle. Satellite data programme aims to provide further biodiversity and carbon stock metrics. supports on the ground analysis objective and quantified transparency (Forest Inventory and Analysis data) and assurance on our ecological, social Forest Cover Maps that also indicates an increase in and economic impacts in our supply The forest cover analysis is arguably forest cover of 1% (4,000 ha) since catchment areas. The programme is the simplest, of the metrics. the plant opened. piloting an approach to capturing remotely sensed data, and other credible Land Cover origin publicly available information, Classification for and sharing the arising metrics that the Amite BioEnergy consider the entire source catchment fibre catchment 2018 area we are operating in – albeit that the Drax demand is only one small part of a larger, dynamic market for wood in each catchment. Land cover Alongside this, we are looking for Coniferous opportunities to proactively intervene, Deciduous as appropriate and feasible, in those Low Open instances where changes in our sourcing landscapes have been identified. Hydrology Watercourse Developing our Programme Approach Waterbody During the year, we undertook a Data Sources: stakeholder engagement process with a) L  and cover classification is Earthworm in the source catchment based on Sentinel-2 imagery using random forest area around one of our pellet mills and classification, Hatfield, 2019. with other stakeholders. We identified b) Background Topographic and confirmed four key forest biomass Map, Esri Online Service. 44 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Social Employment contracts* People and Culture Diversity and Inclusion We work to maintain consistently high Drax Group is fully committed to the standards in our employment practices elimination of unlawful and unfair Full time 92% and all our colleagues benefit from discrimination and we value the benefits Part time 8% policies to support them in the workplace. that a diverse workforce brings to the These include policies designed to enable organisation. Our goal is to create and different work and lifestyle preferences, maintain a working environment that is processes for employees to raise both safe and supportive of all our people grievances or concerns about safety, and where every employee has the along with supporting a diverse and opportunity to realise their potential. inclusive workplace. Our people strategy Employees per country* focuses on valuing our people, driving Our Diversity and Inclusion Steering business performance and developing Group meets monthly to consider and talent to deliver our strategic and recommend plans to increase diversity UK 91% operational objectives. and inclusion. The Steering Group is USA 9% co-sponsored by the Chief During 2019, we focused on the Transformation Officer and Director integration of our new Generation of Corporate Affairs, both of whom are colleagues following the acquisition members of the Executive Committee. of hydro and gas generation assets in December 2018. We reorganised our Our 2019 progress included the roll out structure to align with our business of eLearning training to all managers, to Employees per business unit* strategy. We are centralising Finance, understand and promote appreciation to Procurement, HR and Internal correct unconscious bias. We introduced Communications in order to deliver core a voluntary keep in touch days process Customers 45% services consistently across the Group. for colleagues on parental leave and Generation 37% reviewed internal data on gender pay. Pellet Investing in the development of our We also focused on recruitment and Production 9% Corporate 9% people is essential to the delivery of added a diversity and equality statement our business strategy. Our Potential to our careers webpages. We hosted and Succession processes enable senior around 100 female students from our leaders to identify individuals with the partner schools at Drax Power Station skills and capability needed for critical in November to meet female colleagues Employment gender* roles. Individuals identified can be and understand the diverse career nominated for our Future Creators opportunities in our sector. programme. Launched in 2019, the Male 68% programme is designed to develop and Going forward we will set diversity and Female 32% retain 22 high-potential individuals inclusion objectives for all managers and and grow our leadership pipeline. Each include diversity training in our leadership individual has a personal development and management development plan and an Executive Committee mentor programmes. In our recruitment with whom they meet regularly practices, we will provide gender ratio throughout the year. A One Drax award guidance for interview lists and more may also be awarded for those identified broadly seek to improve the gender and * Limited external assurance using the assurance as having potential to add significant diversity balance for our apprentice and standard ISAE 3000 for 2019 data as indicated. value to Drax. graduate recruitment. Through our My For assurance statement and basis of reporting see www.drax.com/sustainability Voice Forums we will also seek colleague views on establishing diversity networks. Further information on gender In our 2019 annual survey, we included diversity is available in the questions on diversity and inclusion and Corporate Governance Report we will continue to track our performance on page 69 in this area. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 45 Building a sustainable business continued Employee Representation Health, Safety and Wellbeing and Engagement As explained by our CEO Will Gardiner We have two main sets of arrangements (see page 12), the health, safety and to engage colleagues and provide them wellbeing of our employees and with representation across the Group. contractors is vital to the success We engage with colleagues who are of the Group and remains our priority. represented by trade unions (22% of our workforce is covered by collective In 2019, we established our vision for bargaining) and we have employee health and safety with One Safe Drax: representative consultation and everyone, every day, safe and well. information arrangements in place The building blocks to this are Safe for employees with individual People, Safe Systems & Process, and Women of the employment contracts. Safety Assurance. Future Event Inspires We communicate with our workforce Safe People through channels including our intranet, Next Generation quarterly newsletter and Open Forum Suitably trained, qualified and experienced people who know meetings. Colleagues can ask our Group In November 2019 we hosted our first what’s expected of them and choose CEO questions through a weekly online Women of the Future event at Drax to do the right thing. question and answer portal, with the Power Station. Around 100 girls from CEO’s responses shared across the Group. local schools and colleges, aged During the year, we established My Voice between 14 and 18, attended the Forums, one for each business unit event, as part of our ongoing efforts and each with up to 12 colleague to encourage young women to study representatives. The Forum Chairs meet science, technology, engineering and maths (STEM) subjects, increase quarterly with our Group CEO and Group Safe Systems and Process Chair to provide feedback on topics raised Fit for purpose plant, operations and diversity in our workforce and support by colleagues. For more information maintenance activities. Robust the communities where we operate. on our workforce engagement, please management systems. Female colleagues ran group activities, see the case study on page 28. games and mini workshops to illustrate the skills they use in their daily jobs We track employee engagement through and explained their own career stories. our annual survey and in 2019 this was completed by 67% of employees. Key themes highlighted included colleague careers, manager development and the wellbeing of our colleagues. Responding Safety Assurance to themes raised in our 2018 survey, The checks and balances put in place we introduced employee volunteering to ensure things are working as days and established the My Voice intended and to provide continual Forums as an additional colleague improvement. feedback mechanism. 46 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Read more on ethics and integrity and our social impact at www.drax.com/sustainability Health and Safety Performance In 2019, our Group TRIR was 0.22 per 100,000 hours worked (2019 target: 0.18) (2018: 0.22 per 100,000 hours worked). Our LTIR in 2019 was 0.08 per 100,000 hours worked (2018: 0.09 per 100,000 hours worked). This represents an improvement compared with the previous year. 2019 Actual 2018 2017 Drax Group Health and Safety LTIR1 0.08 0.09 0.13 TRIR2 0.22* 0.22 0.27 RIDDOR 5 9 7 (1) LTIR is the total fatalities and lost time injuries per 100,000 hours worked (2) TRIR is the total fatalities, lost time injuries and medical treatment injuries per 100,000 hours worked * Limited external assurance using the assurance standard ISAE 3000 for 2019 data as indicated. For assurance statement and basis of reporting see www.drax.com/sustainability We have Safety Management Systems within the business. The Committee also Process safety is a key focus for the (SMS) in place to ensure safe workplaces establishes standards for relevant health, operational business units. Drax for all our people. At Drax Power Station, safety, environmental and wellbeing implemented lessons learned from the the SMS is certified to OHSAS 18001 and issues. It oversees the implementation fire at Drax Power Station pellet handling subject to regular audits. Our hydro and of relevant policies and principles across system in 2017 to make the plant more gas generation assets have an integrated the business, reflecting Group philosophy, robust to potential ignition events by management system covering Safety, best practice and regulatory and installing additional fire detection and Environment & Quality and the safety statutory requirements. It also oversees suppression equipment. Work on the component will transition to ISO 45001 governance arrangements across the installation will complete in 2020. in 2020. Our Pellet Production sites in business. Key risks and mitigation Incoming fuel quality and metallic the US meet the requirements of OSHA associated with health, safety, contamination in fuel are key 1910 and the SMS is aligned with, but environment and welfare are routinely performance measures, since these not certified to, OHSAS 18001. At our reported to the SHEWLEC. The factors can influence levels of dust, Customers and Core Services sites in the Committee also receives a summary potential for fuel line blockages or UK, we began implementing a Health and of results of internal and external audits ignition events. In 2019, there was greater Safety Management System in 2019, to where the scope falls within the remit collaboration with the supply chain and create a health and safety culture which of the Committee. In addition, the our UK port operators. Drax held a prevents accidents and promotes both Committee receives and considers conference in April to share best practice. physical and mental wellbeing. potential implications for the Group of information regarding any significant Following a major safety incident in Safety performance is reported and changes in regulation or legislation December 2018 at our Pellet Production reviewed regularly by each local and oversees how business units amend site LaSalle in the US, we identified 42 management team. Incidents and their arrangements accordingly. action items. In 2019, we implemented findings are shared across the Company and closed these corrective action items via safety bulletins, enabling preventative Key issues raised in 2019 include: and focused on supervisor training and action to be taken to mitigate the risk management of dust at relevant locations, improving safety culture. of future occurrences. Each business tracking of findings from third-party unit reports monthly on Key Performance audits, development and implementation In 2019, multiple assurance audits were Indicators (KPIs), including Total of a Group-wide Wellbeing policy and completed across the Group. Drax Power Recordable Incident rate (TRIR), Lost framework and standardisation of a set Station was externally audited to OHSAS Time Incident Rate (LTIR). Business units of group-wide minimum standards for 18001 with no major findings and the also report Reporting of Injuries, Diseases safety Golden Rules. Health and Safety Executive completed and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations a scheduled control of major accident (RIDDORs) to regulators in the UK. The In 2019, Drax introduced Intelex as our hazards (COMAH) audit with no major Board receives monthly reports. Group reporting tool for Safety, Health, findings. Environment and Production incidents. In 2019, we established the Safety, The system went live at our Pellet Health, Environment and Wellbeing Production sites in July and at Drax Leadership Executive Committee Power Station, our Customer sites and (SHEWLEC). The Committee is chaired by our Head Office in November. We are the CEO Generation and meets quarterly considering plans to align all Drax sites to receive reports regarding significant to a common integrated incident safety, health, environmental and management system. wellbeing aspects that are prominent Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 47 Building a sustainable business continued Internal Audit commissioned Turner & Positive Social Impact Townsend to complete a Group-wide We provide jobs, support economic Great Place ga to audit of health and safety which growth, pay tax responsibly and deliver tin k confirmed that the control framework charitable and employee volunteering Crea Wor is generally designed and operating initiatives in the communities where effectively, and effective health and we operate. Healthy Healthy safety management systems were in Body Mind place. The audit made recommendations Our social strategy focuses on improving to help advance the management of opportunity and social mobility by health and safety across the Group promoting education, science, Healthy as it evolves and an action plan to technology, engineering and maths k Cr Workplace or implement the recommendations (STEM) skills and employability. We signed ea W has been put in place. the UK cross-party Social Mobility Pledge, in to t g demonstrating our commitment to aG c e re at Pla Wellbeing accessing and progressing talent from We recognise the importance of all backgrounds. In 2019, we recruited promoting the physical and mental 18 apprentices and 6 graduates. This wellbeing of all our colleagues. In 2019, included expanding our apprenticeship Wellbeing at Drax we began implementing a holistic scheme to Drax’s Scottish sites where Wellbeing programme across Drax, we recruited 5 new apprentices. Our The Drax-wide Wellbeing programme covering the three areas of Healthy Body, partnership with Teach First enabled the encompasses three areas and focuses Healthy Mind and Healthy Workplace. recruitment, placement and training of on building resilience. To oversee the programme and measure eight STEM teachers in 2019, improving • Healthy Body – A healthy body progress, we set up a Wellbeing Steering the STEM education of 1,000 students. means looking after yourself first – Committee. The Committee represents finding ways to incorporate a all business units across Drax and meets We pledged £100,000 support over healthy diet, an active lifestyle and monthly to ensure effective four years to support the Galloway Glens healthy habits into the routines of implementation. Landscape Partnership where our work and home. Galloway Hydro Scheme operates. • Healthy Mind – A healthy mind is In 2019, we introduced a single private The funding will be used to promote about colleagues being able to focus medical insurance and reward the region’s heritage, boost the local on what’s important at work. programme to our UK colleagues. We aim economy and support sustainability • Healthy Workplace – We believe to achieve complete coverage for UK initiatives in local communities. that a healthy workplace at Drax colleagues in 2020, after the roll out to supports and encourages healthy our hydro and gas generation sites. In Community and Charitable Giving behaviours in our colleagues, addition, all colleagues have access to an During the year, we launched our making healthy choices easy. Employee Assistance Programme. new Community and Charity policy, strengthening our charitable giving Our Customers business continued to across the business and enabling expand their workplace wellbeing colleagues to volunteer one working education programmes in 2019. We have day annually. In 2019, Drax colleagues trained nearly 200 Customers colleagues volunteered over 2,000 hours and over 2018 and 2019 on the topics of we contributed £290,000 through mental health and emotional resilience. community partnerships, employee match funding, payroll giving, our community fund and national fundraising days. Drax Power Station welcomed 9,763 visitors in 2019. Our tours are focused on learning outcomes and tailored for visitors of all ages. Cruachan Power Station in Scotland received 36,646 visitors in 2019 and offers free tours to school children and academic institutions. 48 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Ethics and Integrity At Drax Group, we are committed to conducting business ethically and in on ethical matters and supporting teams to apply our ethical principles, set out At Drax Group, we compliance with all relevant laws and in our Doing the right thing booklet, are committed to regulations. We do not tolerate any form and business ethics policies. of bribery, corruption or other unethical conducting business business conduct. Our Group Business Ethics team manages our various business ethics programmes, ethically and in Our compliance framework consists of principles, policies and guidance. taking steps to understand our risk profile, developing policy and procedures, compliance with The principles are set out in our ethics handbook, Doing the right thing, which awareness raising and training, as well as investigating any potential breaches of all relevant laws identifies the behaviours expected from policy, and administrating our external and regulations. colleagues and contractors on topics Speak Up (Whistleblowing) service. Our including human rights, ethical business Internal Audit team provides assurance conduct and integrity. The Doing the on the robustness of our business ethics approved escalation protocol. Depending right thing principles form part of our programmes and any recommendations on the nature of the flagged issue, we terms of employment and have been for improvement are duly considered and may decide not to engage with a new converted into a series of training videos as appropriate, implemented. third party, to engage on a conditional used in our new starter induction basis, to collaborate on remedial action programme. The scope of Doing the The Group Business Ethics team conducts or to end an existing business relationship. right thing will be expanded with the annual risk assessments of each of its implementation of a new Group Code programmes, which relate to areas In 2019, we enhanced our due diligence of Conduct in 2020. including anti-bribery and corruption, process, which assesses for risks conflicts of interest, data protection, associated with financial crime, conflicts Our policies and guidance documents fair competition, and human rights in of interest, anti-competitive behaviour, provide further instruction. These include the supply chain. This is to ensure policy trade sanctions and other improprieties, our Group Corporate Crime policy and and procedures remain fit for purpose such as modern slavery. We centralised Gifts and Hospitality, Conflicts of Interest and to recommend any further mitigation these across the business. and Due Diligence guides. In 2019, we measures. Our annual review timetable published board-approved updates to our also includes a review of the Group gifts Anti-bribery and Anti-corruption Group Corporate Crime policy, Fair and hospitality record and a colleague Our internal processes ensure Competition policy and associated guides. business ethics declaration. Results of consistency with our zero-tolerance annual reviews, details of investigations approach to bribery and corruption. In 2019, we established and deployed new conducted, whistleblowing reports, and Geographic risk is factored into our eLearning across the Group, including audit outcomes are reported quarterly to third-party due diligence system. Data Protection and Anti-Bribery and both the EBCC and the Audit Committee. Conducting business in higher risk Corruption training for all colleagues. countries must receive prior approval Targeted training on Supply Chain Human Working with Others from the Group Ethics and Business Rights, the Criminal Finances Act and Fair We are a signatory to the UN Global Conduct Committee. Competition was provided for managers Compact (UNGC) and maintained our and teams in higher risk areas. Refresher representation on their Modern Slavery Following country approval, third parties training was also provided on Market Working Group in 2019. This enables us to are then put forward for our due diligence Abuse Regulation for the Board, benchmark our compliance programmes process. Suppliers in higher risk countries Executive Committee and relevant and exchange experience with peers, receive a higher level of initial due management and employees. with a particular focus on our response diligence and ongoing monitoring. to modern slavery. We also screen the affiliates (directors, Responsibility for Ethics shareholders) of these suppliers and Governance of our framework is overseen We seek to work with suppliers, partners, refresh their information on a more by the Group Ethics and Business agents, intermediaries, contractors, frequent basis, compared to our lower risk Conduct Committee (EBCC). The EBCC consultants and counterparties whose suppliers. Third parties with operations comprises of senior leaders, meets standards are consistent with our own. in, or linked to, higher risk countries are quarterly and is chaired by the Group Third parties are subject to our escalated to the EBCC for review prior CFO. EBCC activities are reported precontract due diligence checks and to engagement. Ongoing monitoring is annually to the Audit Committee. regular monitoring through the lifecycle performed with new information provided Management across the Group is of the contract, via our third-party due to the Group Ethics and Business responsible for demonstrating leadership diligence system. In cases where a red Conduct Committee, as appropriate. flag is raised, we follow an EBCCDrax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 49 Building a sustainable business continued With the implementation of a Supplier We maintain risk-based security controls Code of Conduct in 2020, we will to protect our employee and customer emphasise our requirement for our data, by detecting and preventing threats suppliers and contractors working on our and security breaches. In addition to behalf to challenge unethical behaviour traditional security measures, we and promote a “speak up” culture. We undertake advanced threat monitoring will provide the details of our Speak Up and analytics measurement intended to service for their use. detect, identify, respond to and resolve cyber threats and attacks. We are Data Privacy and Security conscious that such threats continue We take seriously the privacy and security to change. Accordingly, our security of the personal data we control. We are programme seeks to evolve our controls committed to maintaining effective and response to cyber threats. privacy and security programmes to ensure our people, customers and the Speak Up (Whistleblowing) third parties we engage with have As part of our commitment to confidence in our data handling practices. transparency and openness, we encourage those working for or on behalf Modern Slavery The EBCC supports and oversees the of Drax to raise genuine concerns about Group privacy programme and reviewed practices which could breach laws, Our Modern Slavery Working Group, the first formal programme risk regulations or standards. This is chaired by a member of the Business assessment and risk register in 2019. In supported by our Doing the right thing Ethics team, oversees a three-year addition, policies, guides, privacy notices, handbook and Speak Up (Whistleblowing) rolling programme and reports third party due diligence questionnaires policy. Colleagues can either raise quarterly to the EBCC. and contractual terms were updated and concerns internally, through line our first eLearning refresher training management, a member of the Group In 2019, we published our third (“Overview of Data Protection”) was Business Ethics team, the Group board-approved modern slavery developed and deployed across the Company Secretary (Whistleblowing statement in accordance with the UK Group. Internal Audit completed an Officer), directly with a member of the Modern Slavery Act (www.drax.com/ audit of our privacy programme and EBCC or externally through our modern-slavery-act/). It describes the no red-rated findings were identified. anonymous third-party Speak Up service. steps we are taking to reduce the risk We continue to monitor and adapt our of modern slavery in our supply chain. compliance with the requirements of the The Group Business Ethics team manages General Data Protection Regulation, the the Speak Up (Whistleblowing) We keep our programme and UK Data Protection Act 2018, regulatory programme. The team maintains relevant statement under review to ensure it guidance and other associated legislation records and investigates ethical-related reflects our activities, global presence such as the e-Privacy & Electronic matters under the supervision of the and wider evolving practice. Communications Regulation. Whistleblowing Officer and governance of the EBCC and Board. Where required, Security risk management has continued relevant senior leadership are consulted, Labour and Human Rights to mature through 2019, with a and a course of action agreed. Drax has a Our commitment to the protection of comprehensive improvement plan zero tolerance of retaliation and considers human rights includes not tolerating the implemented and intended to enable it a disciplinary matter to victimise or use of underage workers or forced labour. key IT Security control effectiveness retaliate in any way against someone This is set out in our Corporate Crime to achieve best practice. The plan was who has raised a genuine concern. policy and our Corporate Responsibility initiated in 2019 and work will continue (CR) statement. through 2020. In addition, a security During 2019, communications on governance structure was put in place speaking up were rolled out to all Our CR statement outlines the standard to assess and communicate the evolving colleagues, temporary colleagues and of ethical business conduct we expect threat landscape and identify appropriate certain contractors as part of the 2019 from suppliers. Businesses in our supply responses. An ongoing security Business Ethics policy deployment and chain should offer a safe workplace for assurance programme is in place. eLearning programme. In 2019, six their employees that is free from harm, concerns were reported via internal intimidation, harassment and fear. We channels and two via our anonymous have incorporated further provisions in third-party Speak Up service. This is an our statement template to manage these increase from zero reports in the previous risks within our procurement contracts year and demonstrates the effectiveness and further advanced this effort in 2019 of our efforts to increase awareness with the drafting of a Code of Conduct of our reporting channels and promote and a Supplier Code of Conduct. an open, “speak up” culture. 50 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Non-Financial Information Statement We have summarised in this Annual Report and Accounts our policies, standards and disclosures in relation to non-financial matters in line with the Non-Financial Reporting (NFR) requirements of the Companies Act 2006. This report forms our UN Global Compact (UNGC) Communication on Progress and we have mapped the NFR requirements to the four issue areas of the Ten Principles of the UNGC. UN Global Compact Non-Financial Reporting Requirement Policies, due diligence processes and outcomes Page reference Environment Environmental matters Environmental policy Sustainability policy Page 41 Responsible Sourcing policy Page 41 Carbon Emissions Page 38 Environmental Impact Page 40 Sourcing Sustainable Biomass Page 41 Healthy Forest Landscapes Page 44 Labour Employees Health and Safety policy Doing the right thing handbook Gender Pay Reporting People and Culture Page 45 Diversity and Inclusion Page 45 Health, Safety and Wellbeing Page 46 Social matters Community and Charity policy Positive Social Impact Page 48 Human Rights Respect for human rights Corporate Responsibility (CR) statement Corporate Crime policy Modern Slavery Act statement Ethics and Integrity Page 49 Anti-corruption Anti-corruption and anti‑bribery matters Doing the right thing handbook Corporate Crime policy Ethics and Integrity Page 49 A description of the company’s Business Model Page 04 business model A description of the principal risks Principal Risks and Uncertainties Page 54 (Climate Change, People, Environment, Health & Safety risks) A description of the non‑financial Remuneration Report (Total Recordable Page 86 key performance indicators Incident Rate Group KPI) Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 51 Viability statement In accordance with the UK corporate governance code, the Directors have assessed the prospects of the Group over a period significantly longer than the 12 months required by the going concern provision. The assessment of viability was led by the Review of principal risks Review of financial forecasts Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial The Group’s principal risks and The Plan considers the Group’s financial Officer in conjunction with divisional uncertainties, set out in detail on pages position, performance, cash flows, credit and functional management teams and 54 to 61, have been considered over metrics and other key financial ratios and presented to the Board as part of the the period. was most recently updated to reflect annual planning process. In reviewing current market and external environment this assessment, the Board has The principal risks with the potential to conditions in December 2019. It is built considered the principal risks faced by exert significant influence on viability are: by business and segment and includes the Group, relevant financial forecasts commodity price changes, political and growth assumptions appropriate to the and sensitivities, the availability of regulatory changes, and plant operating markets each business serves. adequate funding and the strength failures. A significant adverse change to of the Group’s control environment. the status of each risk has the potential The Plan includes certain assumptions, to place material financial stress on the most material of which relate to Assessment period the Group. commodity market price curves and The Board conducted this assessment levels of subsidy support available to over a period of three years, selected for The risks were evaluated, where possible, the Group through the generation of the following reasons: to assess the potential impact of each biomass-fuelled renewable power. on the viability of the Group, should It is underpinned by the stable revenues • The Group’s Business Plan (Plan) which that risk arise in its unmitigated form. available through the generation of is prepared annually, updated twice The potential inputs were included, CfD-backed electricity and contracted during the year and also used for where appropriate, as sensitivities to sales from the Customers business. strategic decision-making, includes the Plan and considered by the Board a range of financial forecasts and as part of the approval process, in The Plan is subject to stress testing, associated sensitivity analysis. January 2020, before the Plan was which involves the construction of This Plan covers a three-year period adopted by the Group. reasonably foreseeable scenarios, in detail, before extending into the including those aligned to the principal medium term. The Group has a proven track record of risks, which test the robustness of the • Within the three-year period liquid adapting to changes to its environment Plan when key variables are flexed both commodity market curves and and deploying innovative solutions to individually and in unison. Where such established contract positions are used protect its financial performance. a scenario suggests a risk to viability, in the forecasts. Liquid curves typically Previous adverse events have arisen and the availability and quantum of mitigating cover a one to two-year window and provided challenges which tested the actions is considered. contracts cover periods between one ability of the Group to deliver on its and ten years. In particular, the Group targets but, on each occasion, it has been The Board considers the most material benefits from the stable and material able to respond positively and manage scenario in the assessment period to be earnings stream available from the the impact. This provides the Board with a significant deterioration of commodity CfD until 2027. Selecting a three-year confidence that risks can be sufficiently market prices, leading to a fall in the period balances short-term market mitigated, and viability can be maintained, available price for power and thus a fall liquidity against longer-term during the assessment period. in the margins available to the Group from contractual positions. power generation and supply activities. • There is limited certainty around This impact would however be partially the Group’s markets and regulatory mitigated through the earnings stability regimes. However, in selecting a provided by the CfD, the Group’s ability three-year period the Board has to trade effectively in volatile power assumed no material changes to the markets and reductions to discretionary medium-term regulatory environment expenditure. and associated support regimes beyond those already announced at the date of this report. 52 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Based on its review, the Board is satisfied The Board is confident that the Group the viability of the Group would be has access to a range of options to preserved in a range of scenarios, with maintain a diverse and well-balanced various mitigating actions available, capital structure. sufficient to manage the risk, including significant deterioration of commodity Expectations market prices. The Directors have considered a range of factors in their assessment of viability Availability of adequate over the next three years, including the funding latest Plan, scenario analysis, levels of The sources of funding available to the funding, the control environment and Group are set out in note 4.3 to the the principal risks and uncertainties consolidated financial statements (page facing the Group. The Directors have 163). The Board expects these sources, also considered the availability of actions along with stable cash flows generated within their control in the event of by the Group from its normal operations, plausible negative scenarios occurring. to provide adequate levels of funding to The Directors have a reasonable support the execution of the Group’s Plan. expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its During the year the Group drew down and liabilities as they fall due over the subsequently restructured £550 million three-year period of their assessment. of its £725 million acquisition bridge facility that was used to partially fund the acquisition of the hydro and gas generation assets. In May 2019 an additional $200 million of the existing 2025 6.625% USD loan notes was issued, the proceeds of which were used to repay £150 million of the acquisition bridge facility. In July 2019 the refinancing of the remaining £400 million was concluded in the form of two new facilities with combined proceeds of £500 million, a £375 million UK infrastructure private placement and an environmental, social and governance facility of £125 million. These arrangements both reduced the overall cost of debt and extended the maturity profile to 2029 to further strengthen the balance sheet. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 53 Principal risks and uncertainties The effective management of risk supports the delivery of our strategy Identifying, assessing and managing risks • Put in place appropriate mitigating The risk management committees receive across the Group is an integral part of the controls intended to manage identified reports from business units and risk delivery of our strategy. We manage the risks to an acceptable level. owners. The Executive Committee commercial and operational risks faced • Escalate and report information on the receive reports from the risk management by the Group in accordance with policies potential risk and the effectiveness of committees and principal risk owners and approved by the Board. the mitigations and controls to support undertake deep dive reviews of the management decision making. management of principal risks. The Board is responsible for determining • Regularly monitor changes within and risk appetite and ensuring the outside our business, review the In addition, the Audit Committee review effectiveness of risk management and Group’s principal risks against such the suitability and effectiveness of risk internal controls across the Group. The changes to ensure our analysis remains management processes and controls Group has a comprehensive system of accurate and up-to-date and review on behalf of the Board. governance controls to manage key risks. the effectiveness of mitigation strategies and the application of the Internal control Group approach to risk risk framework. The Group has a well-defined internal management The approach manages, rather than control system established through The risk appetite determined by the policies and procedures, documented eliminates, the risk of failure to achieve levels of authority which support decisionBoard varies depending on the risk, and business objectives, and provides making and accountability for day-to-day guides the principles of the Group’s reasonable, not absolute, assurance management across the Group. culture, behaviour and the intensity of against material misstatement or loss. risk management activities in achieving our business objectives. We consider a The Board has adopted a schedule of range of risk categories including Risk management governance matters which are required to be brought environment, health, safety, strategic, The risk management governance to it for a decision, below which authority financial, political, regulatory and structure includes Executive Committee is delegated through the Executive operational. The Group has a Risk level principal risk owners and risk Committee to a combination of subManagement Policy, approved by the management committees whose committees and individuals enabling Board, which defines the Group’s responsibilities include: them to make decisions on behalf of the approach to risk management. The key Group and its businesses for its day-to• Ensuring that risks are identified, elements of the policy are to: day activities. The internal control system assessed and managed effectively is designed to ensure that the directors • Identify risks that have the potential to within risk appetites and limits. and executive maintain effective threaten the achievement of our • Including new and emerging risks. oversight and direction for all material strategic objectives. We then assess • Demonstrating robust governance of strategic, operational, financial and the likelihood of the risk occurring and risk management by reviewing and organisational issues. possible impact to the business in the challenging risk management across event it should arise. This assessment the Group and driving the completion is based on a risk scoring matrix to of actions to manage risks within risk ensure we take a consistent approach. appetites and limits. • Assign responsibility and define • Driving an appropriate risk accountabilities for the identification, management culture and an assessment and management of risk environment that promotes and and provide resources to enable creates balanced risk-taking behaviour appropriate measures to be taken. and clear accountability. 54 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Under authority delegated by the Board, External audit the Audit Committee, implements a Drax Group plc Board Audit Committee programme of internal audits of different aspects of the Group’s activities. The programme is developed based on an Group Executive Committee assessment of the key risks of the Group, the existing assurance and controls in place to manage the risks and the core 1st line of defence 2nd line of defence 3rd line of defence financial control framework. The programme is reviewed quarterly and refreshed to reflect developments within Management Risk management Internal Audit the Group as well as changes in wider controls practices, informed by the experience of internal and external personnel. Policies and Compliance Internal audits are performed either procedures by the in-house team members of the internal audit function or by external Understanding of Oversight by parties where their appointment has Risk management management first been considered and approved by committees the Audit Committee. The findings and recommendations from each internal audit are documented in a report for internal distribution and action. A full copy of the report is distributed to the Executive Committee and the Audit Principal risks and Current Principal Risk Committee. Each report includes uncertainties categories management responses to the findings Risks are reported to the Board and 1. Environment, Health and Safety and recommendations and details of disclosed in the Annual Report and 2. Political and Regulatory the actions that management propose Accounts under nine principal risk 3. Strategic to take. headings. The Board has assessed 4. Biomass Acceptability the principal risk categories. These 5. Plant Operations Based on the reporting from the are broadly unchanged from 2018 6. Trading and Commodity Executive Committee and the Audit with two exceptions: Transaction risks, 7. Information Systems and Security Committee undertaken during 2019 which was included in 2018 to reflect 8. People and considered at the meeting of the the risks associated with the acquisition 9. Climate Change (new) Board held in finalising the annual report of hydro and gas assets. The risk category and financial statements, the Board has been removed as these assets have determined that it was not aware of been integrated successfully into our any significant deficiency or material operations during 2019. A new category weakness in the system of internal entitled Climate Change has been control. For further information on the created. This reflects the increasing work of the Audit Committee, please see focus on such risks, given the nature of the Audit Committee report on page 78. our sector and operations, and our work to implement the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 55 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Principal Risk Category Key Mitigations Changes in factors impacting risk in 2019 Environment, health and safety Context • Maintaining robust management • Good personal safety The health, safety and wellbeing of all our employees, systems designed to mitigate risk. = performance for the year with contractors and visitors is of paramount importance • Training staff to a high level of TRIR and LTIR, continuing in to us. We believe that a safe, compliant and sustainable competence, to appreciate and line with industry benchmarks. business model is critical to the delivery of our strategy manage environment, health • Hydro and gas asset health and and crucial for sustained long-term performance. and safety risks. safety management systems • Continuously reporting events integrated. Safety is at the heart of our operational philosophy and and prompt implementation • Introduction of a Group-wide we continue to work across the Group to maintain high of corrective actions. reporting tool for environment, standards and a culture of safe working. Compliance • Continuously monitoring health and safety incidents. with environmental legislation and our environmental processes to identify trends • Installation of further fire permits and consents is essential to ensure the longin performance. suppression devices in our term future of the business. • Rigorous auditing of compliance biomass conveying systems. Risk and impact against standards, policy and • Our operations involve a range of hazards to personnel procedures. and the environment, that arise from the processes • Engaging with regulators and we perform and the equipment which we use. This stakeholders to identify includes heavy plant and machinery at our sites in improvements to our systems the US and UK. and operations. • The biomass that we use to generate electricity is by • Investigating the underlying its nature combustible and the production, preparation reasons for events and and transportation (whether within our sites or in implementation of any necessary transit between sites) requires careful management to changes in the management minimise the risk of fire or explosion. For example, in system and culture. the US we produce pellets using a combination of high • Timely identification of future temperature and high-pressure plant, and in the UK we legislation and appropriate operate plant which involves very high temperatures investment to optimise and pressures for the generation of electricity at performance. 400KV for transmission onto the National Grid. • Effective governance framework including an executive level Safety, Health, Environment and Wellbeing Leadership Executive Committee, to oversee governance, review and challenge the management of safety, health, environment and wellbeing risks across the Group. 56 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Movement key Up/increasing < >Down/reducing = No change Principal Risk Category Key Mitigations Changes in factors impacting risk in 2019 Political and regulatory Context • We remain alert to changes in government policy at UK • Engaging with politicians across the political spectrum and = • Brexit continues to create uncertainty. Weakened sterling and EU level. The energy sector is subject to detailed Government officials, to and difficulties in cross border legislation and regulation that is frequently changing understand and influence trade could influence fuel costs as the economic and industrial trends towards perception, and communicate our and/or lead to customers going decarbonising and decentralising become stronger. socioeconomic value in supporting into financial distress. Delays at In addition, the wider regulatory and compliance the UK’s ambition to achieve net ports could affect our supplies environment applicable to businesses is also zero by 2050. of fuel and components though increasing with growing requirements in transparency • Working with stakeholders to the nature of our dedicated and accountability. maintain Drax as a thought leader supply chain mitigates this risk. on priority policy and regulatory • Many ancillary services require Risk and impact issues. policy, regulatory and market • Changes to UK policy, regulations or tariffs may • Engaging with regulators and change to ensure generators increase the costs to operate, reduce operational industry bodies to influence are suitably compensated for efficiency and affect our ability to realise our strategy, strategic direction of, and ensure these services. which may adversely affect our financial and compliance with, regulatory • Ofgem is reviewing the way in operational performance, results and cash flows. requirements. which network businesses are Issues include reform to: legal framework following • Working with Energy UK to identify remunerated and user access Brexit; data privacy regulation; network access and market improvements, enhance is procured/costs allocated, charging arrangements; environmental regulation; competition and develop voluntary which will impact the cost base and consumer service and affordability requirements. codes of practice. of generators and retailers. • A more complex and challenging regulatory • Maintaining regulatory and • The Government has environment increases: the costs to operate, the compliance control frameworks to introduced a price cap for threat of regulatory investigation, the risk of nonmitigate the risk of nondomestic power retailers; compliance, and penalties/sanctions. Brexit may compliance covering: risk we remain vigilant to the risk create uncertainty and additional costs associated assessment; policy development; that this could be extended with changes in regulatory reporting. adequate process; training; audit; to some SMEs. • Biomass represented 77% of our generation in 2019 and continual improvement. • The Smart meter roll out and, longer term, we intend to increase our biomass continues and the obligation to self-supply to 5m tonnes per annum. The regulatory install a smart meter for every environment is evolving which could increase costs customer by the end of 2020 and mean anticipated returns are significantly lower (where reasonable steps have than expectations. been exhausted) remains. • The future of carbon pricing in the UK is linked to • Further failures of small energy the UK’s withdrawal from the EU and the negotiations suppliers (and resulting cost on the future economic partnership. For the period mutualisation across the beyond 2020, the Government has set out its industry). preference to create its own Emissions Trading • The Government has confirmed Scheme (ETS), linked to the EU ETS. This outcome that the Carbon Price Support would be preferable, causing minimal disruption to (CPS) is set at approximately the market, compliance regimes and to the prevailing the right level, although the carbon price. However, there is a risk that this longer-term level is dependent preference changes or that the UK and EU cannot on how the UK exits the EU and agree a linking negotiation in time. This would result prevailing commodity prices. in the UK having to transition its carbon pricing system to a carbon tax system or other interim mechanism. Significant fluctuation in the carbon price, due to liquidity issues for example, could occur. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 57 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Principal Risk Category Key Mitigations Changes in factors impacting risk in 2019 Strategic Context • Develop a diversified generation • Acquisition of a portfolio of The Group’s purpose is to enable a zero carbon lower capacity with a portfolio of = flexible, low carbon hydro and cost energy future, with an ambition to become a carbon biomass, pumped storage, hydro, gas generation assets from negative company by 2030. This is underpinned by the gas-fired and coal generation ScottishPower provides three pillars of the Group’s strategy: 1) to build a longassets. significant diversification term future for biomass; 2) to be the leading provider • Development of a plan to expand of long-term earnings and of power system stability, and 3) to give our customers biomass self-supply capability expansion of our renewable control of their energy – delivering long-term growth and reduce the cost of biomass generation model. opportunities, including investment in new and emerging for generation to create an • UK Capacity Market payments technologies for alternative fuels, which we believe have economically sustainable biomass and auctions reinstated the potential to support earnings beyond 2027. generation business without following ruling by the subsidy by 2027. European Court of Justice. The Group aims to deliver higher quality, diversified and • Working on reducing project costs • Development of a plan to sustainable earnings, whilst also reducing our exposure to increase competitiveness in expand biomass self-supply to volatility in the commodity market and supporting the Capacity Market auction; a capability and reduce the cost the UK’s ambition to achieve net zero by 2050. disciplined approach to the auction of biomass for generation to Risk and impact means such projects will only create an economically • The vast majority of our business relies on subsidies go forward upon obtaining a sustainable biomass generation for generating electricity using renewable sources. suitable contract which meets business without subsidy by In 2019, Drax received subsidies amounting to £790m. our hurdle rate. 2027, including in 2019: Presently, subsidies are expected to continue until • Implementing a programme of −− LaSalle pellet facility now 2027. The date or the scale of the subsidies could targeted investment to: fully operational supporting change which could have a material effect on our −− Incubate new products and self-supply target. performance and business prospects. energy services to bring to −− Turbine upgrade programme • Post-2027 biomass generation is dependent upon the market. commenced at Drax Power cost of generation relative to market prices. Delivering −− Research, develop and pilot new Station, improving efficiency on our objectives to increase biomass self-supply to technologies. and reducing maintenance 5m tonnes per annum and reduce the cost of costs. In 2019 the Group implemented generation to £50 per MWh depends on the availability an evolved approach to capital of feasible expansion opportunities and successfully allocation. This provides rigour reducing the current cost of biomass. Biomass is and consistency in assessing the accepted by governments as a renewable resource; technical, financial and strategic there is a risk that this opinion could change. justification of new projects across • The energy markets in which we operate are evolving the Group; in particular for at a rapid pace. New entrants and new technologies investments in new and emerging compete throughout power generation, system technologies. services and B2B energy supply and services markets. Such competitors may develop more cost effective • Development and delivery of plans and efficient services than those which Drax is able to implement bio-energy carbon to supply. capture and storage (BECCS). • The technologies and materials that we are evaluating including BECCS and viable, alternative fuels are new and unproven. Any one of the technologies and materials that we evaluate could prove technically or commercially unfeasible or flawed. We may invest in the wrong technologies which are inadequate, the time taken to develop them could be longer than expected or the costs may be higher or levels of expected return lower than we expect (relative to the government support that is required to make the technologies feasible) • The Capacity Market ensures security of electricity supply by providing a payment for reliable sources of capacity. We bid for contracts to supply electricity in the Capacity Market auctions. Outcomes from the auctions are inherently uncertain. The development of new, flexible OCGT and CCGT are also dependent on winning contracts with acceptable returns. 58 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Movement key Up/increasing < >Down/reducing = No change Principal Risk Category Key Mitigations Changes in factors impacting risk in 2019 Biomass acceptability Context Sustainability legislation at EU and UK level and in other • Increased transparency in how we evidence sustainability. = • BEIS commissioning a major new piece of work looking countries from which we operate and source biomass, • Working with academics, think at our supply chains and and public understanding of the benefits of the supply tanks and specialist consultants counterfactuals. chain and technology are evolving. Attitudes to the to improve understanding and • Implementation of our new benefits of biomass as a renewable source may not analysis of the benefits of biomass. forest biomass sourcing align with our strategy and investment case, which may • Engaging with key ENGOs to commitments. impact our plans and mean that actual returns differ discuss issues of contention. • Legal case against EU has been from those we expected. • Forging closer relationships with brought by environmental NGO, suppliers on sustainability through fern, challenging the carbon Risk and impact the supplier relationship neutrality of biomass. • Sustainability policy changes on the sourcing and use programme. • Established an Independent of biomass in the UK, EU or other countries in which • Maintaining strong processes to Advisory Board (IAB) of we operate or from which we source biomass could be ensure compliance with regulation. scientists, and leaders in the unworkable and make it difficult for us to comply with • Increased engagement across all field of sustainability to provide policy requirements and claim subsidy in support of European Institutions (Commission, impartial advice and guidance. economic biomass generation. Changes in policy could Parliament, Council), and relevant increase costs, make it difficult to source biomass, or UK Government departments. reduce the current support for the benefits of • Developing and maintaining strong biomass. relationships with policymakers. • Detractors and some environmental nongovernmental organisations (ENGOs) may influence policymakers against biomass use resulting in reduced support for the benefits of biomass. Plant operations Context The reliability of our operating plants is central to • Implementing a comprehensive plant investment and maintenance = • Completion of largest ever maintenance outage on Unit 2 our ability to create value for the Group. Some of our programme, that is risk-based and at Drax Power Station and plants are old, for example, Drax Power Station was built reflects the challenges of installation of a new highapproximately fifty years ago and our hydro plants nearly operating complex equipment, pressure turbine unit. one hundred years ago. The plants are highly complex some of which is old, supported • Hydro and thermal assets and require careful management to operate, with by engineering excellence. provide greater flexibility to many running flexibly to respond to the demands of the • Ensuring plant is designed to the portfolio in the event of electricity system. For Drax Power Station specifically, prevent and control major hazards. a plant failure. the plant was originally constructed to generate • Maintaining robust management • Major gas turbine outage electricity from coal, and we have converted four of systems, designed to mitigate risk. and steam turbine overhaul the six units to use biomass, rather than the fuel for • Maintaining the stringent safety completed at Shoreham. which they were originally designed. procedures in place for handling • LaSalle rail spur and co-located biomass and dust management. sawmill are fully operational. Risk and impact • Managing the plant as a portfolio • Baton Rouge rail chambering • As plant ages, the operational reliability and integrity to ensure losses are minimised. yard commissioned. could reduce. Single or multi point failures of plant • Undertaking significant research across our portfolio, and incidents arising from the and development on the production handling and combustion of biomass, could result of wood pellets, as well as the in forced outages in our generation or pellet handling and burning of biomass. production plants. • Full testing of all biomass supplies • Successful generation using biomass requires prior to acceptance, and the use stringent quality to be maintained throughout the of contractual rights to reject out supply chain, which continues to evolve and mature. of specification cargoes. Our suppliers may experience operational or financial • Sampling and analysis through difficulties which impair their ability to sustain the supply chain, to increase continued compliance or result in inadequate understanding of causes of fuel standards being met. Poor quality could result in quality issues. additional costs (as we may be required to source • Maintaining adequate insurance material from other suppliers) or inadequate volume in place to cover losses from plant of materials, leading to loss of generation which could failure where possible. adversely affect financial performance and results. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 59 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Principal Risk Category Key Mitigations Changes in factors impacting risk in 2019 Trading and commodity Context Sales of power and Renewable Obligation Certificates • Ensuring high levels of forward power sales for 2020/21 and the = • Sterling exchange rates against the US Dollar, Canadian Dollar (ROCs) represented £2,099m of our revenue in 2019 in Contract for Difference (CfD) for and Euro remain weak. our Generation business and our Customers business one biomass generation unit could • Power prices are lower with low made sales of £2,226m of electricity and gas. reduce our exposure to volatility. market liquidity and increased • Additional value is provided volatility in short-term prices. The margins derived from our Power Generation and through the increased flexibility • Generation running regimes Customers businesses are influenced by the liquidity of and optimisation capabilities optimised with managed the commodity markets and our ability to secure desired provided by the hydro and gas positions and scenario prices in a volatile market. Non-commodity costs are also assets. planning. volatile and inherently difficult to hedge. • Hedging energy supply commodity • The Thermal plants have The value delivered from ROCs in 2019 was £528m. The price exposures when fixed price brought a natural hedge to value which we derive from ROCs may be lower than prior sales are executed with third falling gas prices. years, or our forecast, if demand increases for generation parties. • Prices for wood pellets from alternative renewable sources at the expense of • Operating three biomass units decreased. demand for generation from our own assets. under a single ROC cap for Drax • Biomass production shortages Power Station provides increased and supply constraints caused Risk and impact opportunities for greater flexibility primarily by adverse weather • Liquidity and volatility in trading conditions and of generation. in the US in early 2019. unexpected changes in commodity prices could result • Purchasing wood pellets under in lower margins and a reduction in cash flow in our long-term contracts with fixed Generation business. pricing. • The Generation business may fail to secure future • Hedging fluctuations in ROC system support services contracts which are a source generation from wind farms of revenue diversity for the Group. through weather derivatives. • Delivery of commercial value from the flexibility of our • Significant hedging of forward portfolio and leveraging a complicated supply chain with foreign exchange. uncertain running regimes requires effective execution • The burn profile of the coal units of our trading strategy and opportunities to trade being has been adjusted to optimise available in a liquid market. coal stocks. • The value of ROCs generated may be lower than forecast, for example if the recycle value outturns are below our projections due to higher than anticipated renewable generation. • Some new entrants to the electricity supply market have failed. Further supplier failures could lead to more supplier mutualisation processes (whereby their costs and commitments are shared among other suppliers) being invoked, notably for ROCs, resulting in increased costs. • Falling power prices, rising coal/carbon prices or changes to regulation could mean that we do not use all our stocks of coal. Information systems and security Context Our IT systems and data are essential to supporting the • Maintaining business continuity, disaster recovery and crisis = • The enforcement of key compliance regulations such delivery of the day-to-day business operations of the management plans. as the NIS Directive have Group and make sure our financial, legal, regulatory • Maintaining cyber security increased the potential and compliance obligations are met. Our systems must measures, including a protect, regulatory and financial impact. also evolve in order to contribute to the delivery of our detect, respond and recover • Hydro and gas asset systems strategy. The systems need to be fit for purpose and the strategy. have been integrated where confidentiality, availability and integrity of the systems • Implementing a Group IT Strategy applicable. and data needs to be ensured. and identifying key projects to • The IT Operating model has deliver Group-wide services, been redesigned and is being Risk and impact improving security, resilience and embedded to better support • Absence of key IT systems transformation affecting performance. The new IT Board, a strategic objectives of the our ability to deliver our strategy. sub-committee of the Executive Group and improve efficiency • Reduced performance or reduced availability of Committee, will provide oversight of technology processes. IT systems, data and facilities affecting our operations and governance. • Programme of ongoing adversely. For example interrupting supply of improvement to security, electricity or impeding the accurate recording of monitoring of key IT controls electricity supplied to and used by our customers. and IT and Security Risk • Security compromise of our systems and data management. including personal data; causing operational and financial impact and regulatory non-compliance. 60 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Principal Risk Category Key Mitigations Changes in factors impacting risk in 2019 People Context We need to ensure we have the right people in place • Conducting a comprehensive and systematic assessment of = • We reviewed our HR strategy, including “Creating a great with the leadership, management, specialist skills and our talent bench strength and place to work”, and reshaped engagement to help the Group to compete, innovate succession plan. our priorities putting together and grow. • Maintaining consistent Group-wide a comprehensive two-year HR performance management, plan centred around: Risk and impact potential assessment and career −− valuing people and focusing • Our performance and the delivery of our strategy development frameworks. on talent; is dependent upon having high-quality, suitably • Workforce engagement forums −− raising business performance experienced leaders and engaged and talented provide a formal way for colleagues and building capability colleagues at all levels of the organisation. and management to communicate, through our people; • Whilst we continue to invest in our people, including gain feedback and exchange −− developing and building a supporting them in the development of their information and views on any sustainably high performing capabilities, we may be unable to recruit and retain business related issue organisation; and people with the necessary skills and experience which • Conducting regular colleague −− supporting the delivery could in turn affect our ability to execute our strategy. surveys to monitor engagement of Drax plans, purpose and Examples include our ability to recruit people levels and alignment of people operational excellence as supporting work on new technologies such as BECCS with Group values. part of BAU. and alternative fuels. • Investing in development for all. • Introduction of new workforce • The Group is undertaking significant change • Ensuring regular colleague engagement forums associated with implementing our strategy and communications. • Making the organisational and improving operational effectiveness. Examples • Maintaining reward packages that people changes to align with Fit include acquisition of hydro and gas generation aid recruitment and retention. for the Future thinking, driving assets, proposed expansion through investment consistency, efficiencies, in our US operations and ongoing changes to our improvements in decision operations where we generate electricity as we making and reduction in cost. transition away from fossil fuels. Climate Change Context • Working with Energy UK on a This risk was not included in the According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate framework to better manage the previous annual report Change, global warming is likely to reach 1.5°C as early physical impacts of climate change as 2030, causing changes in the climate system with on thermal generating facilities. associated impacts. It is important we assess the • Funding work at Strathclyde impact of climate change on our business and our University to understand the preparedness to manage risks related to both the potential changes in long-term physical impacts of climate change and the transition weather patterns at Cruachan to a low carbon economy. Dam. Results show that current predicted extremes are Risk and impact manageable. • Physical impacts of climate change to our operations, • Physical impacts of climate change for example increased incidence of extreme weather on new installations are covered events. In early 2019 production at our US pellet under planning laws. production business was restricted following weather• Business strategy robust to future related events in the southern states of the US. climate policy. • Climate change policy, innovation and technology do • Investor confidence increased not develop as expected impacting delivery of net zero and reputational impacts mitigated ambition and our strategy. by establishment of a net zero • Reduced investor confidence, increased activity ambition, demonstrating a by protestors and challenges with staff recruitment business strategy consistent and retention. with UK government climate change policy. • Strong innovation team tracking technology advances. Strategic report The Strategic report is set out on pages 1 to 61 of this document and was approved by the Board of Directors on 26 February 2020. Will Gardiner Group CEO Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 61 Corporate Governance Report: Letter from the Chair Strong governance underpins our ability to deliver a sustainable and successful business.” Philip Cox CBE Chair Our values Dear shareholders I am pleased to present our Corporate Honest Governance Report for 2019. We believe We say what we mean and do what we say, we’re that good governance is essential in creating and sustaining a high-performing genuine and true to our word business which delivers our strategy and creates sustainable long-term value for Energised the benefit of our stakeholders. We’re passionate about our daily activities and have Maintaining the highest standards of the drive to turn ideas into action corporate governance across the Group remains a top priority for the Board. Achieving We’re focused on our goals and determined to We are now the fourth largest generator in the UK and the largest renewable succeed. We work hard to deliver innovative power generator, with multiple generation solutions to help us do things better, for the benefit sites using a variety of fuels. We are the of the Group largest supplier of business-to-business renewable power in the UK, and the Together fourth largest producer of wood pellets globally. We are also operating in a world We work collaboratively with our colleagues, that is more focused than ever before on customers and stakeholders with a friendly approach the challenges of climate change. and recognise the value each of us brings to achieving our Group vision We have a talented and engaged workforce, an executive team that has been strengthened during the year, and an experienced and supportive Board, all committed to helping Drax deliver its purpose of enabling a zero carbon, lower-cost energy future. Fit for the future Good governance requires sound decision-making taken on high quality, transparent information conveyed in a timely manner and which takes account of relevant stakeholders. In 2019 we continued to develop our governance structures to ensure that they support the enlarged business and the delivery of the 62 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information strategy. As part of this we successfully climate change. Such engagement recognise the challenges associated launched a new governance structure, broadens our understanding of the issues with diversity in recruitment and career including five new committees below the we take into account, informs our progression, particularly in the energy Executive Committee. This structure will decision-making and helps to protect and engineering sectors. We do, however, ensure a better flow and evaluation of the long-term interests of stakeholders. remain determined to make Drax a great information, support timely decisionplace to work for everyone at all stages making and clearer accountability, In 2019 we conducted an investor audit of their career. In order to address these enabling us to realise our purpose and to evaluate shareholder and investor challenges, we have established a deliver our strategy. perceptions of the Group’s strategy. Diversity and Inclusion Working Group, This independent study by KPMG provided led by Clare Harbord, a member of the We also developed a new Remuneration valuable feedback from investors, which Executive Committee, which is developing Policy, to reflect the evolution of the was broadly supportive, on the Group’s plans to support a more diverse talent business, which will be put to a strategy, management and approach to pipeline. You can read more about this shareholder vote at the 2020 AGM. Our communications. on pages 45 to 46. new policy underpins our purpose, which links executive pay to sustainable Group Our colleagues have a critical role to play We undertake regular reviews of our performance aligning reward with in the success of our business. In 2019, succession planning for senior delivering the strategy. Nicola Hodson, the Board worked on the development management and the talent pipeline, the Remuneration Committee Chair, led of the MyVoice workforce engagement making sure it is aligned to the Group’s the engagement with shareholders on the forums (see case study on page 28). My strategy. During 2019 we strengthened proposed new Policy. You can read more Board colleagues and I welcome this the Executive Committee with the about this on page 88. opportunity to work with the forums, to appointment of three new members, listen and understand, communicate the two of whom (Jason Shipstone and Paul Culture and governance Board’s position on key issues and hear Sheffield) were promotions from our Our aim is to maintain an open and their views and proposals for Drax. Will talent pipeline. collaborative culture across the Group Gardiner and I have begun to meet all the in which our people are respected and Chairs of the forums. We see this as an Board changes contribute fully. Setting the right evolving, two-way conversation and will The Board consists of a strong team with standards helps to protect the business be closely monitoring progress in 2020, a wide range of experience across various and the interests of our stakeholders. In both to ensure that it delivers the right industries. The Nomination Committee assessing Group performance, the Board engagement and also to explore effective regularly reviews composition, and during routinely considers culture, such as ways to engage. the year we continued to refresh our workforce engagement and reward, and range of skills and experience. Andy how this underpins behaviours across You can read more about our stakeholder Skelton joined as CFO in January 2019. the Group in addition to financial engagement, and the factors we consider Our three longest-serving Non-Executive performance. We place particular in decision-making, on pages 24 to 29. Directors (David Lindsell, Tony Thorne emphasis on the safety of our people. and Tim Cobbold) retired from the Board The CEO updates the Board on safety Board evaluation as part of our planned succession. at every meeting, including absolute In 2019 we ran an externally facilitated measures such as injury rates as well as evaluation for the Board to assess its During 2018 and into 2019 Vanessa the prevailing safety culture and process effectiveness. We were pleased to note Simms worked closely with David Lindsell, safety around the business. that the evaluation felt the Board while Nicola Hodson worked closely with exhibited good dynamics, an open and Tony Thorne, as part of the managed Board member engagement with transparent culture with constructive transition of them taking over as Chairs of different areas of the business provide challenge and debate, and an appropriate the Audit Committee and Remuneration directors with a deeper understanding focus on the long term. More details of Committee respectively in April 2019. of the culture of the organisation. In 2019, our evaluation, including areas for John Baxter visited 12 sites as part of his development, are set out on page 74. Finally, I am delighted to welcome induction and David Nussbaum visited six John Baxter to the Board who joined as newly acquired sites. Succession planning and diversity a Non-Executive Director in April 2019. We recognise the importance of diversity John brings valuable operational Stakeholder engagement within the Group and we report on Board experience and knowledge of the We have a well-established programme and Executive Committee composition energy sector, particularly in safety of engaging with a wide range of and diversity on page 76. To build a more and engineering, which will be of stakeholders, including shareholders, diverse and inclusive business, we set huge benefit to Drax. government, regulators, environmental an ambitious target to increase female bodies and trade unions. We know that representation in senior leadership roles Philip Cox CBE actions taken today will shape the across the Group to 40% by the end of Chair performance of Drax in the future and will 2020. We have not yet progressed as determine our impact on the wider world, much as we would have liked and including our contribution to action on Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 63 Corporate governance report: Board of Directors The Board provides strong stewardship of the Group, shaping our purpose and strategy to generate sustainable long-term value. Gender diversity Philip Cox CBE N R As at 31 December 2019 Chair Philip has extensive experience in both executive Female 25% and non-executive roles, and in the energy sector. Male 75% His responsibilities at Drax include Board composition and succession, Board governance and stakeholder engagement. Philip has a strong track record of leadership and has an open, collegiate style, ensuring that all voices are heard, and all Board members contribute fully. He was previously Chair of Kier Group plc and CEO and formerly CFO of International Power plc. Prior to this he held a senior operational position at Invensys plc and was CFO at Siebe plc. As a non-executive he was previously the Senior Independent Director at Wm Morrison Supermarkets plc, Chair of Global Power Generation and a member of the boards of Talen Energy Corporation, PPL, Meggitt plc Composition and Wincanton plc. As at 31 December 2019 Appointment to the Board: January 2015. Non-executive 50% Appointment as Chair: April 2015. Executive 37.5% Chair 12.5% Tenure in years David Nussbaum A N R As at 31 December 2019 Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 0-2 62.5% 3-4 25% David’s wealth of experience in international development and environmental matters, as well 5-6 12.5% as his experience as Finance Director of a listed 7+ 0% industrial company, is of huge value to Drax and contributes significantly to the Board’s discussion, and understanding, of the stakeholder landscape. David is CEO of The Elders, a group of independent global leaders working to promote peace and human rights, Deputy Chair of the International Integrated Reporting Council, and Member of The Ethical Investment Advisory Group of the Church of England. He was previously CEO of WWF-UK, CEO of Transparency International, Finance Director and Deputy CEO of Oxfam and Finance Director of Field Group plc. In a non-executive capacity, David was Vice-Chair of Shared Interest Society, Chair of Traidcraft plc and a non-executive director of Low Carbon Accelerator Limited. Appointment to the Board: August 2017. 64 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Key to Committees A Audit Committee N Nomination Committee R Remuneration Committee Chair of Committee Will Gardiner Andy Skelton Andy Koss Group CEO Chief Financial Officer CEO, Generation Will joined Drax in 2015 as CFO and was appointed Andy joined Drax as CFO in January 2019, bringing Andy has a wealth of experience of the business. as CEO in January 2018. He has a wealth of strong finance and commercial skills, alongside He joined Drax in 2005 and has held a number of experience in finance and technology, having substantial experience in the technology sector. senior roles including Director of Strategy, Head held CFO and divisional Finance Director roles at He has played a major role in developing the new of Investor Relations, Group Treasurer and Head a number of major companies, including CSR plc “Fit for the Future” strategy, driving efficiency and of Risk. He has also held several senior treasury (acquired by Qualcomm, Inc in 2015) and Sky. Will operational excellence across the Group. Andy and investment banking roles with various major has a track record of creating value and building was previously CFO at Fidessa Group plc and has institutions. Andy is responsible for the safety, well-managed companies. He has been a key held a number of senior finance positions at CSR sustainability, operational excellence and architect of our purpose and strategy, driving plc, Ericsson and Marconi, including two years as expertise within Drax’s power generation sites the sustainability agenda from the top, including CFO of Ericsson Nikola Tesla. Andy has a BA in in the UK. Andy is a board member of the Northern Drax’s response to the climate change crisis, accounting and finance and qualified as a Powerhouse Partnership and Regional Councillor and ensuring that we are delivering for our chartered accountant in 1994. Andy is responsible for the CBI, Yorkshire and Humber region. stakeholders. He provides leadership of the for financial control and planning, corporate Appointment to the Board: January 2016. executive team and takes responsibility for finance, investor relations, tax, IT, procurement, important external relationships and stakeholder risk and internal audit and is Chair of the Group management. Will is also a non-executive board Ethics and Business Conduct Committee (EBCC). member of the Sustainable Biomass Program. Appointment to the Board: January 2019. Appointment to the Board: November 2015. Vanessa Simms A N R Nicola Hodson A N R John Baxter A N R Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Vanessa has extensive experience in senior Nicola brings valuable technology expertise, as John brings to Drax highly valuable engineering finance roles across several different industries, well as having extensive digital transformation, and safety experience, with over 45 years working including real estate, telecommunications and sales and IT experience in leading global across the nuclear, electricity and latterly oil and medical devices. She is currently CFO of Grainger companies. She is currently Vice-President, gas sectors. John was previously at BP plc, most plc and has worked in finance for 20 years, holding Global Sales and Marketing, Field Transformation recently as Group Head of Engineering & Process a number of senior positions within Unite Group at Microsoft, and was Chief Operating Officer Safety, prior to which he worked at the UK utility plc, including deputy chief financial officer. Prior of Microsoft UK. Previously she had P&L and sales Powergen plc as Group Engineering Director, to that Vanessa was UK finance director at SEGRO roles at Siemens, CSC (now DXC) and Ernst & as well as roles as a UKAEA Board member and plc. Vanessa is a Fellow Member of the Association Young. Nicola is Chair of the Remuneration also as Director of Nirex Ltd. He is a Chartered of Chartered Certified Accountants. Her broad Committee and brings to the role a wide range of Engineer, Fellow of both the Royal Academy of and varied experience in finance is invaluable experience of international business, government Engineering and the Royal Society of Edinburgh in her role as Chair of the Audit Committee. organisations, and dealing with a variety of and chairs the Sellafield Board Committee on stakeholders. Nicola is a Non-Executive Director Environment, Health, Safety & Security. Appointment to the Board: June 2018. of Beazley plc. Appointment to the Board: April 2019. Appointment to the Board: January 2018. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 65 Corporate governance report: Executive Committee Role of the Executive Committee The Executive Committee focuses on the Highlights of the Executive Committee’s 2019 activities delivery of the Group’s strategy, financial Health, safety and wellbeing Stakeholders structure, planning and performance, • Considered regular updates from • Reviewed the stakeholder organisational development, and the business units, including on process engagement strategy and delivery of change. This is enabled by and behavioural safety and culture developed a more transparent engagement with the workforce, with other • Introduced a new Group-wide process for identifying and stakeholders, and by developing policies incident management reporting considering wider stakeholders and procedures that provide an effective system when making decisions framework for operating in line with • Reviewed the governance process • Considered the political landscape required standards, laws and regulations. regarding health, safety and and implications for future wellbeing reporting across the Group investments and execution of The Executive Committee receives regular • Considered feedback from the strategy reports on business performance. The MyVoice forums and used input • Implemented and received feedback safety and wellbeing of our workforce is of from the forums to develop plans to on a new workforce engagement primary importance. The opening agenda address wellbeing across the Group strategy (MyVoice forums) and their item for each meeting considers safety interaction with the Board updates from executives responsible for Governance • Met with the chairs of the MyVoice our business units. Ethics and values is also • Developed a new, formal forums to discuss progress of a standing agenda item. The performance governance structure of subengagement during the against the Business Plan is reviewed committees with responsibility for implementation phase and agreed across financial and non-financial metrics. operational performance; capital additional support allocation; risk management; IT • Considered Group-wide reward Each meeting reviews risks, focusing more and security; and health, safety and recognition structures, ensuring closely on a specific principal risk at each and environment alignment with culture meeting. Stakeholder engagement is • Reviewed updated Corporate • Considered gender pay gap considered, with particular focus on the Crime and Fair Competition policies reporting political landscape which could impact • Considered diversity and inclusion Drax’s ability to execute its strategy. Operations issues and initiatives and Examples during 2019 include the • Monitored the integration of the established the Diversity and Capacity Market, the commitment to hydro and gas generation assets Inclusion working group meeting zero carbon targets and • Considered the future of flexible • Reviewed the 2018 workforce investment in technologies to reduce generation, including options for engagement survey results carbon emissions. The Committee flexible gas generation and action plans monitored business integration, following • Considered the challenges in pellet • Considered the engagement with the acquisition of the hydro and gas supply following extreme weather the trade union on pay and the generation assets. Papers are distributed conditions in the US and developed implementation of changes to ahead of meetings to brief Committee mitigation strategies working practices members on matters to be discussed. • Reviewed biomass supply chain and Members also receive presentations on procurement and developed Finance and capital various business issues by senior managers investment proposals to increase • Considered the refinancing of within the business units. production capacity and self-supply the debt facility for the acquisition • Considered options for alternative of the hydro and gas generation The Executive Committee has 11 scheduled fuel supplies, such as woodchips assets meetings each calendar year and arranges and other forms of agricultural • Conducted an in-depth review additional meetings if needed. residues of Treasury and financing • Monitored progress of the planned • Reviewed capital allocation plans Biographies of the Executive Committee outage of Unit 2, which successfully and processes for approval members can be found on the website completed in the fourth quarter drax.com/about-us/corporate-governance/ Risk • Developed a new risk management framework, with in-depth reviews and assessments of the Group’s principal risks • Focused on one principal risk in detail at each committee meeting 66 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Corporate governance report A sound governance framework underpins our purpose, supports effective decision making and the delivery of our strategy Drax Group plc Board Responsible for setting the Group’s purpose and values, setting and overseeing the Group’s strategy and risk appetite, monitoring performance, ensuring that the necessary controls and resources are in place to deliver the Group’s plans and ensuring that the Group meets its responsibilities to its various stakeholders Audit Nomination Remuneration Executive Committee Committee Committee Committee Oversees financial Makes recommendations Oversees the Group’s Focuses on the Group’s reporting, internal controls on the size, diversity and approach to remuneration strategy, financial structure, and risk management composition of the Board and sets key performance planning and performance, systems, whistleblowing and succession planning measures for the governance framework, and fraud, internal and for the Directors and Executive Directors and succession planning and external audit senior executives members of the Executive organisational development effectiveness Committee, and considers below Board level reward across the wider business Page 78 Page 73 Page 86 Page 66 Executive Committee Ethics and Capital Financial Risk IT Board Operating Safety, Health, Business Allocation Management Provides Review Environment Conduct Process Committee oversight and Committees & Welfare Committee Committee Provides coordination of (Generation Committee Monitors ethical Provides oversight and IT activities and and Reviews and behaviour and oversight, challenge of the strategy, Customers) challenges practices across coordination effective information Reviews the management the business and approval management of systems and operational of process and for capital all financial risks, security risk and financial people safety, deployment including trading, performance health, proposals commodity, of the business environment and treasury and units. wellbeing risks. currency. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 67 Corporate governance report continued Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The core activities of the Board and its Committees are 2018 (Code) documented and planned on a forward agenda, with a list of The new Code, which can be found on the Financial Reporting matters arising from each meeting maintained and followed up Council website at www.frc.org.uk, took effect from 1 January at subsequent meetings. 2019. During 2019 the Board conducted a full review of its governance practices and alignment with the new Code, The Group Company Secretary advises the Board on including a review of appropriate actions to ensure that, by governance matters, ensuring good information flows within the end of 2019, the Company was able to confirm that it had the Board, its committees, the Executive Committee and senior applied the principles and provisions. It is the Board’s view that management. The Group Company Secretary ensures that the Company had applied the principles and complied in full Board processes are complied with and is also responsible for with the provisions of the Code by the end of 2019. Examples assessing compliance with the Listing, Prospectus, Disclosure of actions undertaken during 2019 include the development Guidance and Transparency Rules, the Corporate Governance of new workforce engagement forums and a new policy for Code and the Companies Act. An important part of this is post-employment shareholding requirements for Executive effective collaboration with other parties across all Group Directors. More details are contained below. functions, through good training, regular discussions on key issues, and support from those in areas of critical operational Role of the Board risk in evaluating areas for change. The Board determines: the Group’s purpose and strategy; appetite for risk; risk management policies; annual plan and key All Board Committees are authorised to obtain legal or other performance indicators; stakeholder engagement; acquisitions professional advice as necessary, to secure the attendance of and disposals, and other transactions outside delegated limits; external advisers at their meetings and to seek information material changes to accounting policies or practices; significant required from any member of the workforce of the Group in financial decisions; capital structure and dividend policy; order to perform their duties. shareholder communications; prosecution, defence or settlement of material litigation; Directors’ Remuneration The Company’s Articles of Association (the Articles), give the Policy; the terms of reference of Board committees; and the Directors power to authorise conflicts of interest when such Board structure, composition and succession. matters are presented for their review. The Board has an effective procedure to identify potential conflicts of interest, Terms of reference consider them for authorisation and record them. The Articles The Board has a schedule of matters reserved for its decisions also allow the Board to exercise voting rights in Group and formal terms of reference for its Committees. These are companies without restriction (for example to appoint a director reviewed periodically and the terms of reference are available to a Group company). The Articles are available on the Group’s to view on the Group’s website at www.drax.com. website at www.drax.com. Matters which are not specifically reserved to the Board and its Culture Committees under their terms of reference, or for shareholders The Board routinely monitors and assesses culture. Health and in General Meeting, are delegated to the Executive Committee safety, as a standing Board agenda item, is one of the first items or otherwise delegated in accordance with a schedule of to be considered at each meeting and includes discussion on delegated authorities approved by the Board. underlying safety culture. The Board considers workforce engagement, performance and reward as well as financial How the Board functions performance when it discusses progress of business units Prior to each Board meeting the Chair and the Non-Executive against plans. Directors meet in private without management being present. This allows the Chair and Non-Executive Directors to exchange The Group Ethics and Business Conduct Committee (EBCC), views and share any concerns before the meeting starts. At which is a sub-committee of the Executive Committee and each Board meeting, the Group Chief Executive gives a report meets quarterly, monitors and supports initiatives to improve on key business, operational and safety matters and the Chief ethical behaviour and practices. The EBCC supports the Group’s Financial Officer reports on the Group’s financial performance. commitment to doing the right thing by ensuring that training The Board also receives regular reports on performance against is conducted that informs behaviours in accordance with the the Business Plan, operational and financial performance, Drax values and ethical principles set out in the “Doing the right periodic business reports from senior management across the thing” handbook. The EBCC conducts an annual review and Group, and updates on investor relations and wider stakeholder risk assessment of each compliance programme, which include engagement. The Board receives regular industry, regulatory Anti-Bribery and Corruption, privacy, and supply chain human and topical updates from internal specialists and from external rights. The EBCC reports quarterly to the Audit Committee on experts and advisers. Papers are distributed in advance of investigations and key matters, and annually on EBCC activities Board and Committee meetings to allow adequate preparation. for the year. Members of the EBCC include two Executive Directors (the CFO, who is Chair of the EBCC, and the CEO Generation), and one Executive Committee member (Director 68 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information of Corporate Affairs), which informs understanding of business in decision-making. For more detailed information on our culture and attitudes, informing Board and Executive stakeholders and how we engage with them please refer Committee discussions. Ethics and values is a standing agenda to our “Stakeholder” section on pages 24 to 29. item for the Executive Committee, with the CFO responsible for raising such matters as Chair of the Group Ethics and Business Succession planning Conduct Committee (EBCC). The Group Company Secretary Good succession planning contributes to the delivery of the is the Whistleblowing Officer. Updates on whistleblowing Group’s strategy by ensuring the desired mix of skills and incidents are provided to the Executive Committee, Audit experience of Board members now and in the future. As noted Committee and Board as appropriate, which during the 2019 on page 69, in 2019, our three longest serving Non-Executive financial year included training for Directors. A number of Directors (David Lindsell, Tony Thorne and Tim Cobbold) whistleblowing related matters remained under investigation stepped down at the end of their tenure. at the date of this report. In line with existing succession plans, John Baxter was The Company ensures that employees receive appropriate appointed as a Non-Executive Director in April 2019. Further communications and training on, and regularly reviews its suite details on John’s appointment and induction can be found of policies for key matters which underpin ethical behaviours, in the Nomination Committee Report on pages 74 and 77. such as Corporate Crime (including Anti-Bribery and Corruption, Conflicts of Interest and Supply Chain Human Rights), Privacy, Vanessa Simms, who is CFO at Grainger plc and joined Drax Fair Competition and Whistleblowing. More information on our in June 2018, was appointed Chair of the Audit Committee in approach to the management of ethics and integrity, can be April 2019 after David Lindsell stepped down. Nicola Hodson, found in the Sustainable Business section page 49. who joined Drax in January 2018, was appointed Chair of the Remuneration Committee in April 2019 after Tony Thorne Non-Executive Directors regularly visit company locations stepped down as Chair (ahead of his stepping down as a director and meet with local management and the workforce to in June 2019). Nicola had served on the Committee for 15 better understand operations and underlying culture. In 2019 months before she became Chair. Each of Vanessa and Nicola John Baxter visited 12 sites as part of his induction and David had worked closely with, and been mentored by, their Nussbaum visited six of the newly acquired sites following predecessors as part of a structured induction programme the acquisition of hydro and gas generation assets in to help with a smooth transition into the respective roles. December 2018. David Nussbaum succeeded David Lindsell as Senior Our One Drax Awards, which were first introduced in December Independent Director in April 2019. 2018, reward employee behaviours and performance that reflect delivery of objectives and positive contribution to Further details on wider succession planning can be found on company values and culture. page 76. Diversity Directors’ development and induction We explain our work promoting diversity on page 76. The table To assist the Board in undertaking its responsibilities, a below shows the gender diversity split in the Board and the programme of training and development is available to all wider workforce at 31 December 2019. Directors. Training needs are assessed as part of the Board evaluation procedure. The Board programme includes regular Male Female Total presentations from management and informal meetings to build Gender No. % No. % No. % understanding of the business and sector. Board Members 6 75 2 25 8 100 Senior Managers(1) 23 79 6 21 29 100 During the year, as well as Board meetings in London a meeting All employees(2) 2,015 68 932 32 2,947 100 took place at the power station in Selby to give the NonNotes: Executive Directors the opportunity to develop a deeper (1) Direct reports of the Board (i.e. Executive Committee) and their direct reports understanding of, and insight into, the operations of the (2) Excluding Board Members and Senior Managers Generation business. During the year, Directors had access to the advice and services Stakeholder engagement of the Group Company Secretary. Directors may take Drax has a wide range of stakeholders and takes care to ensure independent advice at the Company’s expense when it is judged that the Group and the Board, has an effective strategy to necessary in order to discharge their responsibilities effectively. identify and engage with those stakeholders. No such independent advice was sought in 2019. Supporting the Board’s duty to promote the success of the All new Directors receive a comprehensive and tailored Company as set out in Section 172 of the Companies Act 2006, induction programme, including meetings with key managers, Board discussions include stakeholders likely to be affected by site visits, and briefings on key operational matters, Board items under discussion and the potential impact. This ensures procedures and governance matters. that the interests of all relevant stakeholders are considered Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 69 Corporate governance report continued Number of meetings held The Board and its Committees have regular scheduled meetings Case study and hold additional meetings as required. The Board has eight scheduled meetings each year, with the Board meeting at The Board’s role in the refinancing of debt least annually to specifically consider strategy. Directors are In 2019, the Board considered options for refinancing expected, where possible, to attend all Board meetings, relevant the acquisition bridge facility, secured to support the Committee meetings, the Annual General Meeting (AGM) and acquisition of the hydro and gas generation assets in any other General Meetings. December 2018. The refinancing approach was considered before the acquisition. The key considerations Board roles were the credit rating of the Group; the impact to net The key responsibilities of members of the Board are as follows: leverage and ability to access credit; the strength and depth of liquidity sources, and the strength of Drax’s Position Role near-term earnings and cashflows; ensuring that any Chair Responsible for leading and managing the acquisition debt facility was structured to allow flexibility Board, its effectiveness, and governance. to refinance through 2019; assessment of existing and Ensures Board members are aware of and new routes to market ensuring a good breadth of options understand the views and objectives of were considered. major shareholders and other key stakeholders. Helps to set the tone from In 2019, there were two tranches of refinancing. The first the top in terms of the purpose, goal, vision was a $200m US Bond, concluded in May 2019, and the and values for the whole organisation. second was for a total of £500m agreed in July 2019, Group CEO Responsible for the day-to-day management £375m of which was an infrastructure private placement of the business, developing the Group’s facility. Consistent with our continued strategic focus on strategic direction for consideration and reducing our carbon emissions, and demonstrating our approval by the Board and implementing commitments to wider stakeholders, the Board discussed the agreed strategy. and agreed that the remaining £125m should be Chief Financial Supports the Chief Executive in developing refinanced by way of an Environmental, Social and Officer and implementing strategy, in relation to Governance (ESG) loan facility. The ESG loan includes the financial and operational performance a mechanism that adjusts the margin based on Drax’s of the Group. carbon emissions per GWh of electricity generated by CEO, Generation Responsible for leading and developing fossil fuel combustion against an annual benchmark, the operation of the Power Generation rewarding or penalising our environmental performance and Pellet Production businesses. in this area. Senior Independent Acts as a sounding board for the Chair and Non-Executive The Board was updated in the spring 2019 with an a trusted intermediary for other Directors. Director indicative route to refinance the acquisition facility, Available to discuss any concerns with exploring multiple routes to enable a more successful shareholders that cannot be resolved outcome. The CFO, Group Treasurer and legal and through the normal channels of financing advisers briefed the Board, with the CFO communication with the Chair or the providing monthly updates on the progress of refinancing, Executive Directors. including any risks to execution. A working group Independent Responsible for bringing sound judgement Non-Executive comprising the CFO, Company Secretary, and senior and objectivity to the Board’s deliberations Directors managers from the Treasury, Legal, Investor Relations and decision-making process. and IT teams, was created to oversee delivery of the plan, Constructively challenge and support the monitor and assess the adequacy of procedures under Executive Directors. Monitor the delivery the Market Abuse Regulations. of the strategy within the risk and control framework set by the Board. For each tranche of refinancing, the Board was provided with a comprehensive briefing. Following review and approval of approach, the Board then delegated authority to a subcommittee to undertake the necessary steps to effect the refinancing. Throughout the process, advice was sought from financial and legal advisers, and if any substantive updates were received, this was fed back to the Board via the CFO. 70 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Time commitment In April 2019 Nicola Hodson was appointed as a Non-Executive Directors’ commitments outside of Drax are kept under review Director of Beazley plc. The Board considered and approved to ensure that they have sufficient time to dedicate to the in advance her taking on this additional commitment. business and effectively perform their role. Under the terms of his letter of appointment, the Chair is expected to commit Board composition and independence between 50 and 70 full days a year to this role. Under the The Board has reviewed the independence of each NonNon-Executive Directors’ letters of appointment, each is Executive Director. None of the Non-Executive Directors expected to commit 12 to 15 full days a year. That includes who served during the year had any material business or attendance at Board meetings, the AGM, one annual Board other relationship with the Group, and there were no other strategy off-site event and at least one site visit per year. matters that were likely to affect their independence of character and judgement. The Board recognises that in view In addition, they are expected to devote appropriate preparation of the characteristics of independence set out in the Code, time ahead of each meeting. The time commitment expected length of service is an important factor when considering in respect of their membership of the Audit, Nomination and the independence of Non-Executive Directors and that Remuneration Committees is an additional three to four full days directors who have served more than nine years may not a year in each case. However, in practice considerably more time be considered independent. is devoted, particularly by the Chairs of the Committees. As notified in the 2018 Corporate Governance Report, Tony Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to undertake visits Thorne and Tim Cobbold stepped down as directors during to Drax operations, and spend time with management and 2019, after each served nine years and David Lindsell stepped the workforce, to maintain their knowledge of the developing down as a director after serving 10 years (having served an business and to understand the operational challenges. additional year in order to manage the orderly transition for a new CFO and a new Audit Committee Chair). Between 22 January 2019 and 15 April 2019, Philip Cox took on the role of Executive Chair at Kier Group plc (“Kier”), on an The Board considers all the Non-Executive Directors to be interim basis, during the search for a new CEO at Kier. The Board independent. had considered and approved in advance his taking on of this additional interim commitment. During this interim period he continued to devote the appropriate time to his role as Chair of the Board. In September 2019, Philip Cox announced his intention to step down as Chair and director of Kier once a successor had been appointed, and on 1 January 2020, he duly stood down as Chair and director. Board attendance 2019 The table below shows the number of meetings held and the director’s attendance during 2019. Date appointed as a director and member Scheduled No. of meetings % of meetings Director of the Board meetings(1) attended attended John Baxter 17 April 2019 5 5 100% Tim Cobbold(2) 27 September 2010 7 6 86% Philip Cox 1 January 2015 9 9 100% Will Gardiner 16 November 2015 9 9 100% Nicola Hodson 12 January 2018 9 9 100% Andy Koss 1 January 2016 9 9 100% David Lindsell 1 December 2008 4 4 100% David Nussbaum 1 August 2017 9 9 100% Andy Skelton 2 January 2019 9 9 100% Vanessa Simms(2) 19 June 2018 9 8 89% Tony Thorne 29 June 2010 5 5 100% Notes: (1) The scheduled meetings that each individual was entitled to, and had the opportunity to, attend. (2) Vanessa Simms and Tim Cobbold were each unable to attend one meeting as a result of pre-existing commitments. However, they both received the meeting papers and provided comments in advance of the meeting in order for their views to be considered. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 71 Corporate governance report continued Summary of the Board’s activities in 2019 In October 2019 a two-day review of strategy was undertaken, which discussed progress made during the year to date in delivering on strategic imperatives, and considered investment opportunities and objectives over a fiveto ten-year horizon. This included investment in the current business and emerging technologies, emerging and projected trends, the developing environmental landscape and Drax’s contribution to addressing climate change. Strategy Operations • Approved the 2020 Business Plan and the Strategic • Considered proposals for the repowering programme Plan to 2023 • Considered the future of flexible generation • Considered and adopted the Company’s corporate • Approved the Group’s trading strategy purpose • Reviewed initial tenders for construction of OCGT plants • Monitored the ongoing integration of the hydro and gas generation assets Health and safety • Considered and approved the future of flexible • Received regular updates from the CEO generation, including options for flexible gas generation; • Received updates from Safety, Health, Environment • Monitored business performance against the business and Wellbeing Leadership Executive Committee plan • Considered safety processes and implementation • Considered and monitored the Customers’ technology transformation project • Conducted a post-acquisition review of the hydro and gas generation assets Governance • Approved investments in the pellet plants to increase • Approved a new target operating model and a new production capacity and invest in additional equipment formal governance structure of sub-committees to improve environmental management on site • Strengthened the Executive Committee with new • Approved the updated biomass sourcing policy appointments • Considered and approved the revised Modern Slavery Act statement • Completed a full review of the Company’s compliance Finance and capital with the Code • Conducted an in-depth review on Treasury, led by the • Considered and approved updated Corporate Crime Head of Treasury, covering liquidity, working capital and policy and Fair Competition policy debt. This was a stand-alone meeting outside of normal business. • Approved the proposed refinancing of the acquisition bridge facility Stakeholders • Reviewed the dividend policy • Considered the Group’s key stakeholders and • Approved the final and interim dividends approved a framework for ensuring due consideration • Approved the 2018 annual report and accounts in decision-making • Approved the 2019 half-year report and accounts • Engaged with the workforce through the newly created MyVoice Forums and considered feedback • Considered the outcomes of the Employee Voice Risk Survey and agreed follow up actions • Considered the Group’s risk appetite and approach • Approved the Group Diversity Policy to risk management • Received regular updates on Investor Relations • Reviewed the Group’s principal risks, adding a new programmes, including an Investor Relations audit principal risk on climate change report presented in the autumn • Considered the finance and risk update • Approved a response to the 42% vote against the political donations resolution, including a new policy for political expenditure (see page 27 for more details) 72 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Nomination Committee report We continue our work to ensure that the Board, management teams and the wider business, has the mix of skills, experience and diversity to best position the Group in the delivery of its strategy.” Philip Cox CBE Chair Committee members Role of the Committee John Baxter (appointed 17 April 2019) The Committee’s principal responsibilities are to: Nicola Hodson • keep under review the Board’s structure, size and composition David Nussbaum (including requisite skills, diversity, knowledge and Vanessa Simms experience) • conduct the search and selection process for new directors, Attending by invitation taking advice from independent search consultants as Group Chief Executive appropriate • ensure a succession planning process for the directors Number of meetings held in 2019: two and other senior managers, including the identification of candidates from both within and outside Drax that align The Group Company Secretary is Secretary to the Committee. with the objectives of the business and Group • report on Board evaluation Attendance in 2019 Maximum No. of % of Date appointed possible meetings meetings Nomination Committee activities in 2019 Committee member a member meetings attended attended • Appointed John Baxter as a Non-Executive Director John Baxter 17 April 2019 1 1 100% • Reviewed Executive Committee succession planning Tim Cobbold* 27 September 2010 1 1 100% Philip Cox 22 April 2015 2 2 100% Introduction Nicola Hodson 12 January 2018 2 2 100% I am pleased to present the Nomination Committee Report David Lindsell* 1 December 2008 1 1 100% for the year ended 31 December 2019. David Nussbaum 1 August 2017 2 2 100% Vanessa Simms 19 June 2018 2 2 100% 2019 saw significant change for our Board as three experienced Tony Thorne* 29 June 2010 1 1 100% Non-Executive Directors stood down each having served on the Board for nine years or more. As reported in the 2018 annual *retired in 2019 each having served for nine years or more on the Board report, in preparation for these retirements, the Nomination Committee conducted reviews which culminated in the appointment to the Drax Board of two new Non-Executive Directors, Nicola Hodson (appointed in January 2018) and Vanessa Simms (appointed in June 2018). On the conclusion of the 2019 AGM, Nicola assumed the role as Chair of the Remuneration Committee and Vanessa assumed the role of Chair of the Audit Committee, following a period of time in which the outgoing Chairs supported a managed handover. As Chair of the Nomination Committee, I am responsible for overseeing the progress made to improve diversity in appointments to the Board and to support an effective Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 73 Nomination Committee report continued succession plan for senior management that is consistent not normally extend the aggregate period of service of any with the long-term strategy of the Group. The Committee will independent Non-Executive Director beyond nine years and continue to monitor the balance of the Board to ensure will rigorously review any proposal to extend a Non-Executive sufficient breadth and depth of expertise is available from the Director’s aggregate period of office beyond six years. existing members and will recommend further appointments to the Board as appropriate. The Committee also takes an active Board and Committee evaluation interest in the quality and development of talent and capabilities The Board recognises that it needs to regularly monitor below Board level, ensuring that appropriate opportunities are performance. This is achieved through the annual performance in place to develop high-performing individuals and to build evaluation, full induction of new Board members and ongoing diversity in senior roles across the business. Board development activities. Selection of new Non-Executive Director – process For 2019 it was determined that an external Board performance The Committee follows an established and formal process evaluation would be conducted, in line with the Code which considers the skills, knowledge, diversity and experience requirement to hold an externally facilitated evaluation at least that support the Company in delivering its strategic goals. every three years. Board Alchemy was chosen to facilitate and This includes seeking to provide the Board with an appropriate conduct the evaluation. Board Alchemy does not have any balance and mix of skills required for now and in the future. other connection with the Group or individual Directors. In conducting the evaluation, Board Alchemy interviewed all In 2019 we were delighted to announce the appointment to Directors during the Autumn of 2019, including former Director the Board of John Baxter, CBE. Tim Cobbold. Ahead of this, each of the Directors completed a detailed questionnaire providing information about how During our search for a new Non-Executive Director, the they viewed the role of the Board and how it functions. Committee initiated and oversaw a rigorous recruitment process. It appointed Egon Zehnder to ensure a comprehensive As part of the evaluation, Board Alchemy also met with the search of the market. Egon Zehnder is signed up to the Group Company Secretary and members of the Executive Hampton Alexander voluntary code of conduct on gender Committee. Board Alchemy also observed the September Board diversity and, aside from assisting with recruitment, has no meeting, including the agenda discussion without Executive connection with the Group or individual directors. Egon Zehnder Directors, and reviewed recent Board papers to assess the did not provide any services to the Board in 2018. quality of Board information. As the Chairs of the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee were relatively new Reflecting our commitment to gender diversity, the candidate in post, the primary focus was on the Board and the Committees selection process initially focused on potential female were not evaluated in detail. A formal, externally-led, review candidates. Due consideration was given to a range of of the Committees of the Board will be undertaken in 2020. capabilities that the Committee felt was required for our Board. These included technical and engineering experience, sector The evaluation concluded that the relevant key skills were specific knowledge relevant to our Group, experience of represented on the Board; the Chair showed good leadership operating multinationally and the candidates’ existing time and invested the necessary time; there were good dynamics commitments. In considering time commitments, particular and an open and transparent Board culture, with Non-Executive consideration was given to prevailing listed company Directors challenging constructively and Executive Directors directorships with regard to the need to avoid “over-boarding”. responding without defensiveness; the Board maintained an Following a balanced assessment of these factors and the appropriate focus on the long term. outcome of interviews, the Committee decided to proceed with a further search. Recommendations for the future included a focus on improving the quality of Board papers; regularising the programme of The search culminated in the appointment of John Baxter. Board development, with deep dives on specific subjects John is a Chartered Engineer and Fellow of both the Royal (including bringing in external expert perspectives to the Academy of Engineering and the Royal Society of Edinburgh, sessions), maintaining focus on understanding stakeholder with experience in running multinational operations, including perspectives and considering how the Board can engage more in businesses undergoing significant change. John’s skills, deeply on safety, engineering and technology governance combined with his interests in operational excellence, safety enabling the significant expansion in Drax activities in the and people from working in generation and the energy sector next decade. Actions already taken include a presentation to are a valuable addition to our Board. John’s biography is set out the Board on cyber risks by the National Cyber Security Centre on page 65. in November 2019 and rolling out guidance on producing more focused board papers that also include identification of Non-Executive Directors: terms of appointment stakeholders who may be affected by any major decisions. Under the Board’s policy, each Non-Executive Director will be appointed for an initial term of three years. The term can be A review of my performance as Chair was facilitated by the renewed by mutual agreement if the Board is satisfied with the Senior Independent Director, incorporating input from Board director’s performance and commitment and a resolution to Alchemy, with feedback provided to me. A discussion of the re-elect at the appropriate AGM is successful. The Board will Board evaluation was held at the November Board meeting and I have followed up with individual Directors. 74 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Terms of reference The Committee’s terms of reference are reviewed annually by the Committee and then by the Board, most recently in November 2019. The terms of reference are available on the Group’s website at www.drax.com/governance. Board and Committee evaluation – actions taken Our targets for 2019 What we did People and strategy • Established a Diversity and Inclusion Working Group, led by The Board will: a member of the Executive Committee, which is developing plans to support a more diverse talent pipeline. You can • continue to focus on diversity in its widest sense read more about this on page 45 in considering new appointments to the Board • The Executive Committee was refreshed to ensure and at senior management level effective leadership with the right skills and experience • build on recent initiatives to improve diversity in place to deliver the strategy in the senior leadership pipeline • The Executive Committee continued to review succession • closely monitor the implementation of initiatives plans and the talent pipeline, focused on key skills required to improve people leadership, talent development for the future and succession planning • enhance strategy review by wider thinking on skills required for the future Oversight of risk and security • Group Security conducted benchmarking and maturity • The Board will continue with its high level of focus on assessments, which were submitted to the Audit Committee cyber security risk with periodic independent reviews • Conducted a Group Security Maturity Assessment with of cyber security PwC to assess and measure the progress of the Group Security function since the last review (2017) and inform security strategy and business plan for 2020+ to address gaps and findings • Undertook an independent Health Check and Industry Benchmark for our core IT environments with the Information Security Forum • Two senior representatives from the National Cyber Security Centre gave an update to the Board in November 2019 Workforce engagement, health, safety and wellbeing • The Board continues to receive updates on health and • The Board will continue its detailed focus on safety and safety at the start of every Board meeting monitor the development of a new approach to safety • A new Drax-wide online safety incident management reporting for process safety system was rolled out, including associated mandatory training, a “champions” network and a colleague engagement campaign • At a meeting in September 2019 with the Chair and CEO, the views of the MyVoice forum chairs were sought regarding safety and wellbeing and areas to improve. These were subsequently considered by the Executive Committee and Board with plans developed for further discussions with the MyVoice forums Stakeholder engagement • Relevant stakeholders were taken into account by the • The Board will focus on the issue of stakeholders, Board when considering major decisions especially in light of the acquisition of the hydro • In 2019 the Board considered the debt refinancing – see and gas generation assets page 70 – and approved an ESG loan with specific carbon• All major projects will be reviewed for impact on related metrics, to support the Group’s purpose and the all stakeholders Board’s commitment to wider stakeholders • The Board received regular updates on stakeholder engagement activity You can read more about this on pages 24 to 29 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 75 Nomination Committee report continued Succession planning and diversity The Board also embraces diversity in its broadest sense, The Board recognises that effective succession planning is believing that a wide range of experience, background, key to the Company’s ability to achieve its strategic objectives. perspective, skills and knowledge is the foundation of a high It is also integral to maintaining an effective Board. Selecting performing and effective team. As part of our commitment and supporting the right individuals is an essential role of the to this, the Board’s Diversity Policy was reviewed and updated Committee. For example, during 2019 two appointments to by the Committee and subsequently approved by the Board the Executive Committee (Jason Shipstone and Paul Sheffield) in February 2019. The review included aspects of new and were promotions from our talent pipeline. emerging best practice and regulatory developments in the area of senior management and Board diversity. The policy now Each year the Committee reviews the Group’s succession plan, covers race, gender, disability, educational and professional identifying those colleagues who have the potential to step into background. leadership roles across a timeframe of one to five years. The review focuses on various aspects, such as technical skills and Skills and knowledge of the Board experience and also behaviours and attitudes, to ensure that A key responsibility of the Committee is to ensure that the the business has the right leaders in place to deliver our purpose Board maintains a balance of skills, knowledge and experience and strategy in a collaborative and transparent way. appropriate to the long-term operation of the business and delivery of the strategy. As in past years, the Nomination In our 2018 annual report, we outlined our desire that by the end Committee has reviewed the composition of the Board and of 2020, the Group would have 40% of senior leadership roles as part of this review the Committee considered whether the: held by women. This reflects our belief that all organisations • Board contains the right mix of skills, experience and diversity should be prepared to set stretching targets, but transparency • Board has an appropriate balance of Executive Directors and is also important and our progress to date is not yet sufficient to Non-Executive Directors achieve the ambition we set ourselves. This is disappointing, but • Non-Executive Directors are able to commit sufficient time we remain committed to making Drax an inclusive place to work to the Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively which respects, values and supports individual difference, at all levels of the business. Following the review, the Committee was satisfied that the Board continues to have an appropriate mix of skills and We report on page 45 on our wider work in the organisation experience, both now and for the future, to operate effectively. which is focused on realising these changes. Part of this has All the Directors have many years of experience, gained from a to be driven by not only the recruitment processes but also broad range of businesses and they collectively bring a range of support for programmes which encourage women to pursue expertise and knowledge of different business sectors to Board careers and qualifications that fit with the opportunities which deliberations, which encourages constructive, challenging and Drax offers. Support from companies such as Drax through innovative discussions. apprenticeship schemes, training programmes, experience days where young people are given the chance to learn about what we do and the exciting roles they can take on is important. Creating such interest through engagement in the wider community must play a part in this, as well as listening to young people from diverse backgrounds about what would encourage them to join a business such as Drax. Such work is a longer-term endeavour, but we consider Drax has a role to play. 76 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Board induction Operational review Visits to key sites Financial review Meetings with shareholders (as appropriate) Strategic overview Meetings with external advisers (as appropriate) Directors’ duties and responsibilities Review of previous minutes and meeting papers Additional specific training with internal specialists as Meetings with other Board members appropriate to the individual Non-Executive Director’s experience and training requirements Governance structure Other key documents including strategy and business plan Induction of new Directors Following the evaluation and review of the Board described All new Directors receive a comprehensive, tailored, induction. above, I concluded that the Directors offering themselves for During the year, John Baxter was appointed as a Non-Executive election and re-election continue to demonstrate commitment, Director. As part of his induction, John Baxter visited 12 Drax management and business expertise in their particular role and sites, including a four-day trip to the US where he visited the continue to perform effectively. The election and re-election port facility at Baton Rouge, and the pellet sites at LaSalle, respectively of each director is recommended by the Board. Amite and Morehouse, meeting with local management and Further information of the service contracts for the Executive discussing a range of matters, in particular health and safety Directors and letters of appointment for the Non-Executive and plant management. John reported to the CEO and Chair Directors are set out in a table on page 111. after each visit and also provided a reflection on his visits to a meeting of the Board held in November 2019. The Executive Directors’ service contracts and Non-Executive Directors’ letters of appointment are available for inspection Renewal and re-election by prior arrangement during normal business hours at the If the Board appoints a Director, that Director must retire at the Company’s registered office. They will also be available for first AGM following their appointment. That Director may, if they inspection at the venue of the AGM, prior to that meeting, so wish, put themselves forward for election. John Baxter was details of which are contained in the Notice of Meeting. appointed by the Board after the 2019 AGM and therefore will retire and offer himself for election by shareholders at the During the year, I held regular meetings with the Non-Executive forthcoming AGM. Directors in the absence of the Executive Directors, and, separately, the Senior Independent Director held a meeting The Articles provide that one-third of directors shall retire by with the Non-Executive Directors without me being present, rotation each year and are eligible for re-election by as required by provision 12 of the Code. shareholders at the AGM. In accordance with the Code, the Company will continue its practice to propose all directors for This report was reviewed and approved by the Nomination annual re-election. Accordingly, Philip Cox, Will Gardiner, Nicola Committee. Hodson, Andy Koss, David Nussbaum, Andy Skelton and Vanessa Simms will all retire at the forthcoming AGM and, being Philip Cox CBE eligible, will offer themselves up for re-election. Chair of the Nomination Committee 26 February 2020 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 77 Audit Committee report Terms of reference The Committee’s terms of reference are reviewed annually by the Committee and then by the Board. The terms of reference are available on the Group’s website at www.drax.com. We are focused on ensuring a robust system of internal control and fair and balanced performance reporting are in place.” Vanessa Simms Chair Committee members Role of the Committee David Nussbaum The role of the Committee is to assist the Board to fulfil John Baxter its oversight responsibilities which includes undertaking Nicola Hodson the following: The Board is satisfied that the Committee’s membership has • monitoring the integrity of the financial statements the appropriate level of independence, skills and recent and and other information provided to shareholders relevant financial experience. Vanessa Simms, a chartered • reviewing significant financial reporting issues and certified accountant, is CFO of Grainger plc. David Nussbaum judgements contained in the financial statements is a chartered accountant who has served in a number of • advising the Board on whether the Committee believes senior financial roles. Details of the skills and experience of the Annual Report and Accounts are fair, balanced and the Committee members can be found on pages 64 to 65. understandable Attending by invitation • maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Group’s Chair of the Board, Group Chief Executive, Chief Financial external auditor and reviewing the effectiveness and Officer, Group Financial Controller, Group Finance Manager, objectivity of the external audit process Head of Group Risk and Internal Audit, External auditor • reviewing the systems of internal control and risk (Deloitte LLP). management • monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal Number of meetings held in 2019 audit function Four. In addition to the below, Vanessa attended a number • making recommendations to the Board (to put to of planning meetings to consider key agenda items. shareholders for approval) regarding the appointment of the external auditor The Group Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee. The Chair of the Committee reports on the Committee’s activities and considerations at each Board meeting following Attendance in 2019 the Committee’s meeting. The minutes of each Committee Maximum No. of % of meeting are circulated to all members of the Board. Date appointed possible meetings meetings Committee member a member meetings attended attended In undertaking its duties, each member of the Committee has John Baxter 17 April 2019 2 2 100% access to the services of the Chief Financial Officer and the Tim Cobbold(1) 27 September 2010 3 3 100% Group Company Secretary and their resources, as well as access Nicola Hodson(2) 12 January 2018 4 2 50% to external professional advice. In addition, the Chair holds David Lindsell(3) 1 December 2008 2 2 100% meetings with the Chief Financial Officer out of cycle from the David formal meetings and also attends planning meetings with those Nussbaum 1 August 2017 4 4 100% preparing for forthcoming meetings of the Committee in order Vanessa Simms(4) 19 June 2018 4 4 100% to be briefed on papers and key matters. Tony Thorne(5) 28 June 2010 2 2 100% (1) Stood down as a director on 27 September 2019 (2) Nicola was unable to attend two meetings in 2019, one of which was due to significant travel disruption involving delayed flights and the other was a commitment entered into prior to joining the Company. On the latter occasion Nicola received the meeting papers and provided comments to the Chair of the Committee in advance so that her views could be taken into account in the meeting (3) Stood down as a director, and Committee Chair, on 17 April 2019 (4) Appointed as Committee Chair on 17 April 2019, having worked closely with David Lindsell, previous Chair, over the previous ten months (5) Stood down as a director on 28 June 2019 78 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Meeting February April July November Item under review • The 2018 year-end • Management update • The 2019 interim • Management update on review of accounting on accounting issues review of accounting accounting issues and issues and judgements and judgements issues and judgements judgements, and focus • Consideration of the • The external auditor’s • Review of Group’s areas affecting the 2019 2018 annual report, management letter approach to IFRS 16 financial statements financial statements for the 2018 audit (Lease Accounting) • Planning report from and preliminary results • Update on the internal • Report from Deloitte Deloitte on the 2019 announcement control environment on their 2019 interim audit and proposed • The internal control review findings audit fees • Review of activity and environment and matters addressed by • Consideration of the • Review and approval update on the Ethics and Business 2019 half-year financial of the external auditor’s effectiveness of Conduct Committee report and results 2019 terms of internal controls announcement engagement • Review of the • Final report from whistleblowing policy, • Update on the internal • Update on the internal Deloitte on their including incidents control environment control environment 2018 audit findings reported and • Review of independent • Review of the risk • Internal audit reviews investigation outcomes assurance report on management framework summary and audit • Update on Risk and biomass sustainability • Consideration of the planning Controls in the Haven whistleblowing report • Progress of internal • The effectiveness of and Opus Customers audit plan, recent and details of the recent the 2018 external business reports and incidents audit process • IT internal controls outstanding actions • Update on Risk and • The Audit Committee’s review including • The Audit Committee’s Controls in Generation effectiveness – Cyber Security terms of reference and Pellet Production feedback arising from • Progress of the internal • The Auditor • Internal audit plan 2018 internal audit plan, outstanding for 2020, assurance Independence Policy evaluation actions and recent mapping, charter, reports recent reports and • Senior Accounting outstanding actions Officer reporting • Review Internal Audit to HMRC performance and effectiveness The Committee allows time at each meeting to speak in the The Committee identified areas where it would be helpful absence of management with each of the external auditor and to allow additional time to discuss matters considered by the the Head of Group Risk and Internal Audit. The Committee’s Committee members. During 2019, following a recommendation understanding with both the external and internal auditor is by the Committee, an additional meeting was held, attended that, if they should at any time become aware of any matters by all members of the Board to discuss the Group Treasury giving them material concern, they should promptly draw it activities to coincide with the review of the refinancing of to the Committee’s attention via the Chair of the Committee. the acquisition bridge facility. No such issues were raised in 2019. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 79 Audit Committee report continued Reviewing the effectiveness of the system The Committee reviewed the categories used to report to of risk management and internal controls shareholders and other stakeholders the Principal Risks and The Committee received updates on the Group’s internal control Uncertainties explained in the report (see pages 54 to 61). environment and reviewed internal audit reports at each of The review included discussion of retaining a disclosure the four meetings held during 2019. In addition, the Committee associated with ongoing uncertainty from Brexit as well as received updates on the financial risks and financial controls the extent to which the newly acquired generation assets had from each of the Group’s primary business units. During 2019, a material bearing on the explanation of risks affecting the management from Drax Power (the Generation business), Haven Group as a whole. The Transaction Risk included in the 2018 Power, Opus Energy (jointly the Customers business) and Drax annual report associated with the acquisition of the hydro and Biomass (the Pellet Production business) attended Committee gas generation assets has been removed. The Committee agreed meetings to report on areas of their responsibility and to allow that a new category of Climate Change risks should be included the Committee an opportunity to consider and comment on to reflect new emerging challenges on disclosure of climateprevailing issues and priorities. One example of a topic related risks. The explanation of the principal risks also reflects considered when discussing the Customer business unit was the review by the Committee and separate evaluations by the actions being taken to strengthen payroll systems and Executive Committee, supported by a presentation by the associated reporting through integration into a common IT Head of Group Risk and Internal Audit. platform (including associated procedures and staff training). The work on this project was completed in Q1 of 2020. The The Committee also reviews information arising from Committee also received regular updates and reports on the Whistleblowing reports as appropriate to the circumstances integration of the newly acquired generation assets into the and matters under review. The Committee considers the scope Drax Power financial systems. Matters considered as part of of investigation and the appropriateness of the steps being that discussion was the degree to which financial and business taken. The Board also is updated on the reviews. systems have been fully integrated into common platforms and the progress in terminating (to schedule) of transitional service Reviewing the 2019 Annual Report and Accounts arrangements which had been entered into with the previous At its meeting held in November 2019, the Committee received owner of the acquired assets. The Committee was also reports from management on its planning for the various appraised of and considered how as a result of the acquisition, elements of the 2019 annual report, including a timetable the increase in the asset base and the associated differing for preparation of drafts and the contributions being made economics has added complexity to the monitoring of by members of the wider management and executive teams Impairment and Useful Economic Lives, and how management in drafting, peer review and comment on the sections. That had responded to this matter. meeting also discussed how such review would support ensuring the annual report was fair, balanced and The various updates, reviews and reports allowed both control understandable. In addition, at the same meeting the Committee and audit issues to be discussed directly with management. reviewed a reclassification of the Group’s US Dollar fixed asset Risk mitigations and progress with previously agreed actions translation balances and approved the approach and disclosure were also monitored and progress discussed. proposed by management. Areas for improvement identified from an internal audit of cyber Between the year-end date and the date of the approval of security operational controls and mentioned in the 2018 annual the Annual Report and Accounts, the Committee met on 24 report were addressed during 2019. It was recognised that the February 2020 principally to review the draft 2019 Annual report nature of cyber-related threats continues to evolve. The Board and accounts and the external auditor’s findings. The Committee as a whole received a presentation on cyber risks from senior reviewed papers prepared by management on accounting issues representatives of the National Cyber Security Centre in and judgements affecting the accounts and a report from November 2019. Deloitte LLP (“Deloitte“) setting out their audit findings. No material issues have arisen with the operation of controls Also reviewed were internal controls, forecasts and relevant in individual business units, but internal audits of Procurement assumptions made in preparing the Viability Statement, and and Health and Safety undertaken in 2019 identified that considering the appropriateness of adopting the going concern Group-wide controls should be enhanced to ensure consistency basis in preparing the financial statements. Having challenged across the expanded Group. Management are taking action to the assumptions around availability of finance and covenant put in place Group-wide policies and control frameworks and compliance made in the process and considered the bring together operational support and review mechanisms appropriateness of the three-year period of assessment, which should be established in H1 2020. A new Group-wide the Committee concluded that the Viability Statement online safety incident management system has been rolled disclosed on page 52 was robust and that the Statement out with associated mandatory training in conjunction with a was fair and balanced. “champions” network and a colleague engagement campaign. In addition, during 2019 a new incident reporting tool was The Committee considered and reviewed management’s adopted to enhance the reporting and analysis of incidents. disclosure on exceptional items and the adjustments which were taken through the middle column on the presentation of the three-column income statement, (which can be found on page 133 referring where necessary to the agreed accounting policy). 80 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Committee activities in 2019 feedback from members of the Finance and wider management The Committee follows a programme of work designed to team. Views were sought on such matters as the quality of work ensure that sound risk management processes, a robust system and engagement in the course of planning and undertaking of internal control and fair and balanced performance reporting their audits and reviews at both Group and Subsidiary level. are in place. The Committee also assessed the oversight of the financial reporting process, in particular the Committee’s own The Committee undertakes its duties reflecting an annual work discussions with the auditors of the audit work performed plan, which is agreed each November for the following calendar on areas of higher audit risk and the basis for the auditor’s year. In addition, where appropriate to activities in the Group or conclusions on those areas, as well as the depth of the auditor’s to reflect changes in applicable regulations, additional agenda understanding of the company’s business. items are incorporated to ensure members of the Committee have the opportunity to consider and contribute to an analysis In addition, this year the Committee included a detailed review of material issues. One such example was review during the and consideration of the report issued by the FRC’s Audit year of how the Group should respond to IFRS 16 (Leasing). Quality Review (AQR) team regarding Deloitte’s audit of the A rolling 12-month plan is also reviewed at each meeting, Group’s 2018 financial statements as set out below. ensuring appropriate and timely consideration is given to relevant subjects as and when they arise. The main areas of The final AQR report and findings was received on 31 January work undertaken by the Committee during 2019 at its routinely 2020 by the Chair and the full Committee has considered in scheduled meetings are set out in the table on page 79. detail the findings of the FRC’s review. In advance of the Audit Committee meeting held in February 2020 the Chair and Audit Explanations of the critical accounting judgements, estimates Partner discussed the findings and in addition the Chair met and assumptions are set out in detail throughout the notes to with the Acting Director of the FRC responsible for the AQR the consolidated financial statements, with a summary on page report. A further discussion on the full report was led by the 129. The Committee reviewed these aspects of the financial Chair with all members of the Committee as part of the agenda statements, paying particular attention to those issues that at the meeting held on 24 February 2020. involved the most subjective and complex judgements, namely impairment of fixed assets, valuation of derivative financial The Committee noted three areas recommended for instruments and accuracy of unbilled revenue, which are improvement in relation to the work performed on testing the discussed on page 82. rebasing of certain financial instruments, the documentation of the acceptable range applying to the valuation of power Fair, balanced and understandable contracts and the estimation of unbilled revenue in one of the As a result of its review of the annual report and accounts, components. A fourth area related to the work completed on the underpinned by its discussions with operating and finance purchase price valuation disclosed appropriately as provisional management regarding the strategic report, and with the Group in 2018 and finalised in the 2019 financial statements. finance team regarding the financial statements, the Committee advised the Board that, in the Committee’s view, the Annual Having discussed the report the Committee noted Deloitte’s Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and confirmation of improvements to the work completed in the understandable and provides the information necessary for 2019 audit in these areas. The Committee also requested shareholders to assess the Company’s position and performance, Deloitte ensure the responses to the FRC’s findings are business model and strategy. evidenced in all future audits when relevant. The Committee noted that no adjustments to the financial statements were External auditor effectiveness required as a result of this review. The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the external auditor in February 2019 and does so annually. Deloitte LLP Having considered the results of the review, the actions taken, (Deloitte), who have performed the role of external auditor and improvements made by Deloitte to address the areas continuously since the Company’s listing in 2005, were identified, the Committee concluded that there were no matters reappointed in 2017 following a competitive tender process. which cast doubt on the fundamental quality of the audit. On finalisation of the audit in respect of the 2018 Group annual report and financial statements, James Leigh had completed Based on its overall review of effectiveness of the external his five-year term as audit partner. He was replaced by Anthony audit and auditor discussions, feedback from management, Matthews who has significant listed company auditing interactions and satisfactory consideration and response experience working within the energy and resource sector to the FRC’s AQR, the Committee concluded it was satisfied and had previously led the Group’s Customer business audit. that the external auditor and audit was effective and agreed that their work demonstrated an ongoing commitment to The Committee’s review primarily considered the independence audit quality. The Committee was satisfied the audit process and objectivity of Deloitte, their professional competence, past was robust and Deloitte had shown strong levels of technical performance and the robustness of the audit process. knowledge and provided appropriate professional scepticism. The full assessment in 2019 by the Committee considered Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 81 Audit Committee report continued The significant issues in relation to the financial statements were as follows: Matter Issue and key judgements Factors considered and conclusions reached Valuation of derivative The Group makes extensive use of derivative The Committee reviewed the Group’s derivative financial instruments financial instruments in order to manage key position in February, July and November 2019, risks facing the business. The balance sheet having regard in particular to the critical judgemental includes significant assets and liabilities arising areas described in note 7.2 to the financial from derivatives which are stated at their fair statements. The Committee considered the position value. In particular the asset values of forward as at 31 December 2019 at its meeting on 24 foreign currency purchase contracts reduced February 2020. substantially in the financial period following At each meeting, management provides updates the recovery of Sterling against US Dollar, which on movements in market prices that underpin was partially offset by an increase in the value changes in the fair value of the derivative portfolio of forward power sales contracts as a result and highlight the treatment applied to any new of falling power prices. types of derivative instrument for the Committee’s The fair values for derivative financial consideration. instruments are determined using forward price The Committee has concluded that the fair value curves and where an instrument incorporates an calculations had been performed in a reasonable element of optionality, an option pricing model. and consistent manner, that the disclosure in the The inputs to these calculations include financial statements was appropriate and overall assumptions regarding future transactions and the key controls underlying the calculations were market movements, as well as credit risk, and are fit for purpose. therefore subjective. Impairment of fixed The Group reviews its fixed assets (or, where The Committee reviewed management’s assets appropriate, groups of assets in CGU’s) for the assessment of CGU’s, the process undertaken purpose of impairment. Impairment reviews are to analyse for any indicators of impairment, key conducted on an ongoing basis and are triggered assumptions used in all impairment reviews and by the existence of potential indicators of the sensitivity analysis applied. In particular, at impairment or, in the case of goodwill and other its meeting on 24 February 2020, the Committee intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, considered in detail managements impairment conducted at least annually. review of the OCGT development assets, the defining of the CGU’s and the disclosure made in the The Customers and Pellet Production businesses financial statements around the sensitivity analysis. generate independent cash flows to be The Committee concluded that key assumptions equivalent to the operating entities within those and judgements made were reasonable and businesses resulting in three CGU’s for Haven consistent. It was concluded that based on the Power, Opus Energy and Drax Biomass. The review performed no impairment charges were Generation business considers its assets that required as at 31 December 2019; however key generate independent cash flows to be the eight sensitivities in respect of the OCGT development individual sites that share common infrastructure assets were appropriately disclosed. and control functions. The Group’s four OCGT development assets are treated as a single CGU for impairment purposes. If an indication of potential impairment exists, the recoverable amount of the asset or CGU is assessed with reference to the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from its value in use or its expected fair value. Assumptions that underpin the assessment of value in use for each CGU are based on the most recent approved business plan, and includes all of the necessary costs expected to be incurred to generate the cash inflows from the CGU’s assets in their current state and condition. Impairment reviews rely on assumptions and management key judgements regarding future market prices, cashflow forecasts, discount rates and the use of appropriate sensitivities. 82 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Matter Issue and key judgements Factors considered and conclusions reached Accuracy of unbilled Revenue from electricity and gas supplied The Committee reviewed with management the Customers revenue to customers between the date of the last process for and assumptions applied in determining meter reading and the financial year end is the calculation of unbilled receivables, noting based on estimates in relation to the volume that historically, financial settlements had been of energy consumed and the valuation of that closely in line with the amounts accrued in the consumption. consolidated financial statements. The Committee also reviewed the approach for calculating the expected credit losses associated with Customers sales, as described in more detail in note 3.6 to the financial statements. It was noted that management proposed a change from a fixed percentage allowance based on historic experience of collection rates to a Systems of Intelligence (SOI) machine learning algorithm which has been tested on live historic data and over time will become consistently more accurate at predicting default rates on aged debts. The Committee reviewed with management the key assumptions applied in determining the calculation of unbilled receivables noting the reliance of third party data for estimates and actual usage volumes from meter readings and the external auditors testing assurance that confirmed the models work appropriately while noting recommendations for increased oversight at Opus on unbilled electric and gas models. The Committee concluded that the change in calculating credit losses going forward using SOI methodology was more appropriate and relevant and that disclosure in the financial statements detailing the changes had been updated appropriately. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 83 Audit Committee report continued Independence of the external audit Details of the amounts paid to the external auditor during the The Group has an Auditor Independence Policy (“AIP”) which year for audit and other services are set out below and in note defines procedures and guidance under which the Company’s 2.3 to the consolidated financial statements on page 143. relationship with its external auditor will be governed, and forms Year ended part of the means by which the Committee is able to satisfy 31 December itself that there are no factors which may, or may be seen to, 2019 impinge upon the independence, objectivity and effectiveness Schedule of fees paid to Deloitte LLP £000’s of the audit process. The AIP was reviewed by the Committee Audit fees: in July 2019. Within its most recent review the Committee Statutory audit of Drax Group 863.9 considered areas of development in practice and guidance in Statutory audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 36.0 the factors which the Committee should consider in evaluating Total audit fees: 899.9 the key tenets of independence, objectivity and effectiveness. Interim review 96.2 The main features of the AIP are: Other assurance services 2.0 • review the quality and cost effectiveness of the audit and Corporate refinancing fees 100.0 the independence and objectivity of the external auditor GOO & FITS compliance audit 70.0 • a requirement to rotate the lead audit partner every five BEIS assurance report 10.0 years, and processes governing the employment of former Total non-audit fees: 278.2 external auditor employees Total auditor’s remuneration 1,178.1 • a policy governing the engagement of the auditor to conduct non-audit work, under which the general principle will be that no non-audit services are undertaken by the incumbent audit Certain non-audit services were performed by Deloitte during firm, unless the work to be allocated requires a certificate or the year. The external auditors should not provide non-audit other assurance of the Company’s appointed auditor, the services where it might impair their independence or objectivity services provided relate to interim review and the reporting to do so. To ensure this principle is followed, the engagement accountant activity or exceptional circumstances warrant it, for the provision of any non-audit services requires prior and only then where the Committee is satisfied the approval from the Committee Chair or Committee. Agreement to engagement of the audit firm is justified on merits which allow the audit firm to perform additional services is taken after are clearly articulated by management and agreed in advance considering that the non-audit services policy has been fully by the Committee. applied and that any engagements were in the best interests of the Group and its key stakeholders. During the year there was The balance between the fees paid to the external auditor a decrease in the level of non-audit services provided by Deloitte for audit and non-audit work is monitored by the Committee. which in total amounted to £278,000 of which £96,000 covered the Group’s Interim review. The Committee was satisfied that The AIP is available on the Company’s website: www.drax.com. the overall levels of audit and non-audit fees were not of a material level relative to the income of Deloitte as a whole. The Committee also receives reports from the external auditor on its own processes and procedures, to ensure its Auditor reappointment independence and objectivity and to ensure compliance with The Group has fully complied with the provisions of The the relevant standards. Statutory Audit Services for Large Companies Market Investigation (Mandatory Use of Competitive Tender Processes and Committee Responsibilities) Order 2014. The Committee recommended to the Board that a resolution to reappoint Deloitte as the Company’s external auditor should be put to shareholders at the AGM in April 2020 following discussions at its meeting held on 24 February 2020. 84 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Review of Committee effectiveness by members In addition, at each of its scheduled meetings, the Committee In line with the FRC’s Guidance on Committees, the Committee received reports detailing progress with implementing periodically reviews its own effectiveness. The scope of the recommendations previously raised by internal audit to assess externally facilitated review of the performance of the Board the extent to which management had taken appropriate steps performed in 2019 was tailored mindful of the changes to the to implement the recommendations raised. The Chair of the composition of the Board and the fact that during 2019 new Committee, independent of management, maintains direct Chairs respectively of the Committee and the Remuneration contact with both the internal and external auditor, allowing Committee commenced in role in spring 2019. Accordingly, open dialogue and feedback. the Board determined at its discussion in February 2019 that the scope would be specific to the performance of the Board, The Committee has considered the effectiveness of internal with a more detailed formal evaluation of the Committees to audit, based on the quality of its plan and the information be deferred into a subsequent period. provided in its reporting, and is satisfied that the co-sourcing model described above remains appropriate for the Group and Notwithstanding this decision, a review of the performance that on this basis the quality, experience and expertise of the of each member of the Board in their respective roles was function is appropriate for the Group and its business. In reaching undertaken, led by the Chair. The outcome of that review was this conclusion, the Committee considered the views of the that each member of the Board was performing satisfactorily. Head of Group Risk and Internal Audit, the external auditors and management as well as its own assessment of the quality Internal audit of reports and support provided by the internal audit function. The Group operates a co-sourced model for its internal audit function. Under this model, the internal team conducts core At its meeting held in November 2019, and supported by a report financial and operational controls reviews. Reviews of specialist provided by Deloitte, the Committee discussed the Institute of technical areas, including controls over regulatory compliance, Internal Auditors’ draft Code of Practice (“the draft Code”) for are outsourced to firms with appropriate experience and Internal Audit. The Committee believes the development of a qualifications, primarily KPMG, following consultation with code will be an enabler to continuous improvement in standards the Committee. across listed companies for internal audit. The Committee considered the key areas associated with the draft Code, The Committee reviews and approves the internal audit plan including the focus on the quality of information provided in for the year. Its review is designed to ensure that priority is given enabling the Board, Audit Committee and executive to the areas of highest risk for the Group and that the audit work management to identify key risks, risk appetite (and how these focuses on key controls, to optimise the level of assurance are monitored) and contribute to effective oversight of the risk provided to the Committee and to management. The Committee and control environment of organisations. The Committee receives reports at each meeting regarding the internal audit believes these areas are an integral part of the work of the programme and reviews undertaken. internal audit function for the Group. Further discussions on how the draft Code can support work of the Internal Audit Recommendations are made to management for control function will be undertaken in 2020. improvements as appropriate. Topics dealt with by internal audit reports reviewed by the Committee during 2019 included: This report was reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee on 26 February 2020. • Procurement • Accounts Receivable Vanessa Simms • Payroll Chair of the Audit Committee • IFRS 16 • Opus Energy business unit key financial controls • ROC and CfD claims • Modern Slavery Act compliance (undertaken by KPMG) • Cyber security operational controls (undertaken by KPMG) • Health and Safety (undertaken by Turner & Townsend) • IT incident and problem management • IT change control management • Finance consolidation project Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 85 Remuneration Terms of reference The Committee’s terms of reference are reviewed regularly by Committee report the committee and thereafter by the Board. The most recent review was in March 2019 and terms of reference are available on the Group’s website at www.drax.com/governance. We are proposing a new Remuneration Policy which has evolved in line with changes to the strategy, scale and potential of Drax and which rewards sustainable long-term performance.” Committee members Nicola Hodson Nicola Hodson (Chair) Chair John Baxter (appointed 17 April 2019) Philip Cox Principal responsibilities of the Remuneration David Nussbaum Committee Vanessa Simms • Keep under review the implementation of the Director’s Remuneration Policy Attending by invitation • Determine the remuneration strategy and framework for the Group Chief Executive Executive Directors and senior management (members of the Chief Transformation Officer Executive Committee and the Company Secretary), ensuring Group HR Director that executive remuneration is aligned to the Group’s Group Head of Reward purpose, culture, values and strategy External remuneration advisers • Within that framework, determine the individual remuneration packages for the Executive Directors and The Group Company Secretary is Secretary to the senior management Committee. • Approve the design of annual and long-term incentive arrangements for Executive Directors and senior Meeting governance management including agreeing the targets and payments This Directors’ Remuneration Report has been prepared in under such arrangements accordance with Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium-sized • Determine and agree the general terms and conditions of Companies and Groups (Accounts and Reports) Regulations service and the specific terms for any individual within the 2008, as amended (the Regulations) and the provisions of remit of the Remuneration Committee (“the Committee”), the Code. There were five formal meetings meetings in either on recruitment or on termination 2019. The table below summarises the meeting attendance • Determine the policy for, and scope of, executive pension by each Committee member. In the addition to the below, arrangements. Nicola attended several planning meetings to consider the • Oversee any major changes in employee benefit structures new Policy and key agenda items. throughout the Group and review remuneration trends across Maximum No. of % of the Group ensuring there is a consistency with the culture Date appointed possible meetings meetings and values of Drax Committee member a member meetings attended attended John Baxter(1) 17 April 2019 2 0 0% Key Remuneration Committee activities in 2019 Tim Cobbold(2) 27 September 2010 4 4 100% • Conducted a full review of the Remuneration Policy (“the Philip Cox 22 April 2015 5 5 100% Policy”), including a comparison of the Policy against the Nicola Hodson(3) 12 January 2018 5 5 100% requirements of the Corporate Governance Code, and David Lindsell (4) 1 December 2008 3 3 100% developed the terms of a new Policy and engaged with David Nussbaum 1 August 2017 5 5 100% shareholders for feedback Vanessa Simms 19 June 2018 5 5 100% • Considered and approved the annual report of the Committee Tony Thorne (5) 29 June 2010 3 3 100% on remuneration for 2018 • Considered and approved the remuneration of Executive (1) John was unable to attend two meetings in 2019 due to commitments made before his appointment as a director which he was unable to change. Directors and senior management John submitted his comments and views to the Committee Chair ahead of • Reviewed the salary increases and aggregate bonuses paid the meetings to ensure that these were taken into account by the meeting. in all businesses and corporate functions (2) Stood down as a director on 27 September 2019 (3) Appointed as Chair on 17 April 2019, having worked closely with Tony Thorne • Reviewed the design and progress in implementation over 15 months of the new Group‑wide employee benefits policies (4) Stood down as a director on 17 April 2019 (5) Stood down as a Chair on 17 April 2019 and stood down as a director on 28 June 2019 86 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual statement to the shareholders This score results in annual bonuses of 45% of the maximum being paid to Executive Directors. Further detail on this Dear shareholders outcome is set out on page 107. This score also forms part of the I am pleased to present my first Directors’ Remuneration Report performance assessment for the Performance Share Plan (PSP) as Chair of the Remuneration Committee (“the Committee”) for for the grants which complete their three-year vesting period in the 2019 financial year. I would like to thank Tony Thorne for his May 2020. stewardship of the Committee over the last six years and his support during my transition to Committee Chair in April 2019. Long-term assessment of performance Share awards made in 2017 under the Performance Share Plan The report is set out in the following sections: (PSP) were tested against performance over the period 2017 to 2019 through two measures: Relative Total Shareholder Return Section Page (“TSR”) which accounted for 50%, and the three-year average Annual statement to shareholders 87 to 88 of the Group Scorecard which accounted for 50%. The Group’s Remuneration at a glance 89 to 90 TSR over the period was below median, leading to 0% vesting Directors’ Remuneration Policy 91 to 102 for this element. The average Group Scorecard outcome over Annual report on remuneration 103 to 114 the same period was 0.93 leading to 36% vesting for this element. The overall vesting outcome for the 2017 PSP awards is therefore 18%. Annual assessment of performance in 2019 The Committee determines the remuneration of the Executive The Committee determined that the vesting outcome was Directors and members of the Executive Committee against consistent with the Group’s and Executive Directors’ the strategic objectives and priorities of the Group. For 2019, performance and so there was no need to apply discretion. this was principally achieved through an assessment of performance against a combination of business and financial Group CEO total remuneration measures comprising the Group Scorecard. A high proportion of At £1.2 million Will Gardiner’s 2019 total remuneration was less total remuneration is delivered through variable pay, rewarding than the £1.9 million of 2018. This is primarily due to a lower pay achievement of short-term and long-term targets. As was out from the 2017 PSP. A detailed breakdown of the single figure approved by shareholders at the 2018 AGM, there is no personal element in the determination of bonuses for Executive Directors can be found on page 103. and members of the Executive Committee. Therefore a bonus is only earned where this is merited by the Group’s performance Base pay increases for Executive Directors against pre-determined metrics set by the Committee. For the 2019 pay review, Will Gardiner and Andy Koss both received an increase in base salary of 2.8% which took effect As described by Will Gardiner on pages 8 to 12 the Group is in April 2019. This was in line with increases applied to the making good progress with the delivery of our strategy and wider workforce. Andy Skelton was appointed CFO on has performed well during 2019. The Committee is of the view 2 January 2019. As he had only recently joined the organisation that remuneration outcomes for 2019 represent a fair and when the 2019 pay review took place, Andy Skelton’s pay was reasonable reflection of overall business performance. not reviewed during the year. There is a detailed review of achievement against the core The Committee has reviewed the salaries of all Executive performance measures on pages 105 and 106. Together, Directors for 2020 and has determined that an increase of 3% these measures form a Group Scorecard, key features of which will be applied from 1 April 2020. This is consistent with the reflect the objectives set for our Pellet production, Generation salary increase for the wider workforce. and Customers businesses. Components within the Group Scorecard are scored between 0 and 2, with a score of 1 All-employee remuneration representing on-target performance. During the course of In 2018 an employee survey captured feedback from employees a year there are two formal reviews giving the Committee from all areas of the business on the coverage and level of the opportunity to discuss with and challenge management benefits provided by the Group. In response to this feedback, on the progress made and likely Group Scorecard outcomes. the Group implemented a new core benefit offering in 2019. The overall principle of the new offering is that all employees, The Committee determines the final Group Scorecard result irrespective of seniority in the organisation, have access to in the February following each financial year and reports to comprehensive health and risk benefits. This required a shareholders on the outcome in the annual report for the year significant investment, particularly in our Customers businesses. in which the bonus is earned. For the financial year 2019, the Committee determined the overall performance at a meeting held on 25 February 2020. The Committee assessed that this fairly reflected the Group’s performance and as such, the Committee did not apply discretion to the outcome of the Group Scorecard which was 0.90. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 87 Remuneration Committee report continued New remuneration policy Shareholder engagement In 2019 the Committee undertook a full review of the In developing this Policy, during the course of 2019 we Remuneration Policy (“the Policy”), taking into account evolving considered comments provided by shareholders on the previous market practice and feedback from our shareholders on the Policy and engaged with our largest shareholders and proxy existing arrangements. The key changes are: agencies to explain the proposed revisions to the Policy. I met with a number of shareholders, where valuable feedback • Annual bonus – has been simplified with payments linked was provided on the Policy. We appreciate the time taken by to a smaller number of financial and strategic goals shareholders to provide their feedback and the Committee • Long-term incentive – in the new LTIP the Group Scorecard has taken this feedback into consideration. As a consequence will be replaced with Cumulative Adjusted EPS (“EPS”) for 50% of this, EPS has replaced the Group Scorecard in the new LTIP of the award, whilst retaining TSR (against the FTSE-350) for and the shareholding requirement for the Group CEO will the remaining 50% of the award. This supports the Group’s increase to 250% (from 200%). In addition, to reflect shareholder purpose, strategy and the creation of long-term sustainable feedback and the requirements of the UK Corporate value, measured through TSR and EPS. The targets for the new Governance Code, we will align the pension contributions of EPS measure will be disclosed in March by release of an RNS existing Executive Directors with those available to new joiners • The shareholding requirement for the Group CEO will increase to the wider workforce, from 1 January 2023. The Policy will be from 200% to 250% of salary and will be 200% of salary for the subject to a shareholder vote at the AGM on 22 April 2020. other Executive Directors. A post cessation shareholding requirement, equal to the in employment shareholding The level of shareholder support at the 2019 AGM was 80.7% for requirement (or the shareholding on departure the Annual Report on Remuneration. This was a significant vote if lower) will be introduced for Executive Directors and in favour but down on the prior year. However, we believe based will apply for two years after cessation of employment on the feedback provided to us that our new policy will address • The incumbent Executive Directors have voluntarily agreed concerns previously raised by shareholders. to a reduction in their pension contributions to align with the contribution rate for new joiners to the wider workforce (currently 10% of salary) from 1 January 2023. Pension Workforce engagement The Committee is kept updated on remuneration policies and contributions for new Executive Directors will be aligned decisions for the wider workforce, including pension provisions, with this level on appointment pay reviews and gender pay gap reporting. Salary increases for Executive Directors and Executive Committee members are The emphasis of the new Policy will be on a greater made only after the Committee has reviewed increases for the performance-related element for achieving stretching targets, wider workforce. combined with more meaningful levels of equity which must be held for at least five years. In 2020, I will be meeting with the chairs of the new MyVoice Forums to explain the role of the Committee, how executive We are proposing an increase to the variable pay opportunity pay is set, how it aligns with wider workforce pay, and to answer for the Group CEO, increasing the overall maximum total directly any questions they have. Following this meeting, and remuneration equivalent to 25% of salary for target incorporating any feedback received, I will then write to all of performance (and 50% of salary for maximum). This is designed the workforce. to drive incremental longer-term performance and to reflect the strategic change in the direction, size and complexity of Employees can ask questions about any aspect of working for the Group. The Group CEO’s maximum annual bonus will be Drax, including pay, and receive answers directly from the Group increased from 150% to 175% of salary and the maximum CEO via the weekly “Ask Will” Group-wide email. Employees can annual LTIP award from 175% to 200% of salary, linked to the also raise matters via the MyVoice Forums, which are then introduction of a long-term deferral and more stretching communicated up to the Board through meetings between performance targets. As part of repositioning, the maximum the Forum chairs and the Board Chair and Group CEO. annual bonus for other Executive Directors will be increased from 140% to 150%, with no change to the maximum percentage of salary for the annual LTIP award. Summary Along with the other members of the Committee, I am satisfied This increase of variable pay opportunity will support an that the 2019 remuneration outcomes for the Executive overarching aim to outperform demanding KPIs, the attainment Directors fairly reflect the performance of the Group, provide a of which are a pre-requisite to achieving total remuneration at fair and consistent approach to remuneration across the Group, above median levels to the market. and remain in shareholders’ interests. We are also confident that the proposed Policy will underpin our purpose, the delivery The full policy appears on pages 91 to 102 with a summary of our strategy and reward long-term sustainable performance. of the key changes on pages 91 and 92. I hope that having read the information in this report you will vote in support of the Annual Report on Remuneration and the proposed Remuneration Policy at the 2020 AGM. 88 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Remuneration at a glance Below is a summary of the remuneration earned by each of our Executive Directors in 2019 and the remuneration earned in 2018 is provided for reference. Will Gardiner (Group CEO) £000s Total 2019 541 108 368 129 18 1,164 Total 2018 530 106 417 811 21 1,885 Andy Skelton (CFO) £000s Andy joined the organisation on 2 January 2019 and therefore has no PSP vesting due until 2022. Total 2019 355 57 224 23 659 2018 530 106 417 838 21 Andy Koss (CEO, Generation) £000s Total 2019 337 67 214 103 16 736 Total 2018 327 65 242 142 25 801 Base salary Pension Annual bonus LTIP Other benefits and ShareSave Bonus earned for 2019 The target bonus for the Group CEO was 75% of salary (maximum of 150%) and the target bonus for the other Executive Directors was 70% of salary (maximum of 140%). The bonus award for 2019 was based on a Group Scorecard outcome of 0.90 (Group Scorecard of 1.0 achieves a target bonus award). This resulted in a bonus outcome of 45% of the maximum. The table below sets out the bonuses earned and the split between cash and deferred elements. Of which Of which deferred paid in cash into shares 2019 bonus Bonus earned (65% of bonus) (35% of bonus) Executive Director (as % base salary) £000 £000 £000 Will Gardiner 67.5% 368 239 129 Andy Skelton 63% 224 145 78 Andy Koss 63% 214 139 75 The full list of performance measures and the outcome for each measure can be found on page 105. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 89 Remuneration Committee report continued Long-term incentive plan awards For PSP awards granted in May 2017, vesting was conditional upon two performance measures with up to 50% of shares vesting subject to TSR performance and up to 50% of shares vesting subject to Group Scorecard performance as below: Total Shareholder Return TSR (50%) Group Scorecard (50%) TSR performance over three years relative Group scorecard performance averaged over the three-year performance period to FTSE 350 as follows: as follows (capped at 1.5): • Below median = 0% vesting • Score 0.75 = 0% vesting • At median = 25% vesting (threshold) • Score greater than 0.75 and below 1.0 = straight line basis between 0% and 50% • Upper quartile = 100% vesting • Score 1 = 50% • Score greater than 1.0 and below 1.5 = straight line basis between 50% and 100% • Score 1.5 = 100% vesting The performance outcome for these awards is as follows: Score/ Vesting Overall PSP Weighting Outcome outcome vesting 2017 Group Scorecard 0.84 2018 Group Scorecard 1.05 2019 Group Scorecard 0.90 Average Group Scorecard (maximum 1.5) 50% 0.93 36% 18% Rank of 224 Relative TSR performance 50% out of 314 0% 0% PSP outcome as a % of maximum 18% The Committee considered the formulaic performance outcomes and was satisfied that this was appropriate and therefore no discretion was applied. The 2019 Group Scorecard included environmental, social and corporate governance metrics (ESG). The Committee were satisfied that the bonus structure and resulting outcomes for all employees did not raise any ESG risks by inadvertedly motivating irresponsible behaviour. 90 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors’ Remuneration Policy for approval at the 2020 AGM As reported in last year’s Remuneration Report, the Directors’ Remuneration Policy has been subject to a full review by the Committee in 2019. The Committee has considered the business strategy, shareholder feedback on the current policy, corporate governance developments and best practice. This has culminated in the formulation of a revised remuneration policy (“the Policy”) which will apply for three years from the date of the 2020 AGM, subject to shareholder approval. If approved, the Policy will be effective from immediately • Incentives are earned for the delivery of stretching after the AGM on 22 April 2020 and will be binding until the Group financial, strategic and operational targets close of the 2023 AGM. The core principles of the Policy are • Attracting and retaining the right talent through marketset out below: aligned incentive opportunity • Aligning executive reward with shareholder value, over • Making sure that executive remuneration is closely linked the longer term, primarily through the new Long-Term to the performance of the Group Incentive Plan (LTIP), approval for which will be sought • Simplifying the design and application of our executive at the 2020 AGM remuneration programmes Summary of key changes to the remuneration policy Element Change Rationale Salary No proposed changes to existing N/A approach. Pension The incumbent Executive Directors have Alignment of pensions with the wider workforce is in line voluntarily agreed to a reduction in their with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code pension contributions to align with the (“the Code”). contribution of new joiners to the wider workforce (currently 10% of salary) from 1 January 2023. Pension contributions for new Executive Directors will be aligned with those available to other new joiners in the wider workforce on appointment. Annual Bonus The maximum bonus opportunity for The proposed structure simplifies the bonus plan by reducing the Group CEO will increase from 150% the number of performance metrics. Splitting the bonus to 175% of salary and for other Executive into a financial cash element and a strategic deferred shares Directors from 140% to 150% of salary. element responds to shareholder concerns on the existing structure and clarifies the role each component plays Split between: in supporting the business strategy, whilst also providing 1. Financial element (105% of salary for a deferral in shares which contributes to a philosophy Group CEO, 90% of salary for other of driving long-term performance and growth in returns Executive Directors) – performance to shareholders. based on a smaller number of financial The maximum annual bonus opportunity will increase and operational metrics, paid in cash by 25% of salary for the Group CEO and by 10% for other 2. Strategic element (70% of salary for Executive Directors to reflect the increased level of deferral, Group CEO, 60% of salary for other as well as the longer vesting and holding period applicable Executive Directors) – performance to this deferred element. For example, the level of maximum based on a smaller number of strategic deferral for the Group CEO has increased from 52.5% of and other non-financial metrics, paid salary under the current Policy to 75% of salary under the in shares proposed Policy, and therefore the vast majority (22.5% of salary) of the increase in maximum opportunity is delivered At least 40% of the bonus will be deferred in shares which are subject to a five year combined vesting into shares (currently 35%), vesting after and holding period. The maximum cash bonus is broadly three years and subject to a two year unchanged. This change places a greater emphasis on holding period. If 40% deferral is not alignment with long-term shareholder value. attained by the strategic element, a proportion of the financial element will Malus and clawback provisions are in line with corporate be deferred into shares in order to governance best practice. achieve this minimum level of deferral. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 91 Remuneration Committee report continued Element Change Rationale LTIP The maximum opportunity to increase The increase in the Group CEO’s opportunity ensures from 175% to 200% of salary for the Group that where Group performance is strong then total CEO only. The maximum opportunity for remuneration levels will be competitive against the market. other Executive Directors will remain at At the 2017 Policy review, some shareholders expressed 175% of salary. concern at the use of the Group Scorecard in both the The Group Scorecard element is removed annual bonus and LTIP. We have responded to that feedback. from the LTIP. The proposed structure replaces the current 50% weighting on the Group Scorecard with Cumulative Adjusted EPS. Performance will be measured against This aligns with the general shareholder preference for the following metrics: financial-only metrics on long-term incentives. 1. Cumulative Adjusted EPS – 50% Introducing a Cumulative Adjusted EPS measure with weighting 50% weighting ensures Executive Directors are focused 2. Relative TSR (FTSE 350) – 50% on driving earnings performance of the business, which weighting is a major factor in delivering value to shareholders. The Committee is confident that the introduction of this metric The two-year post vesting holding period provides a greater link between reward outcomes and the will be retained. shareholder value over the longer term. Shareholding The shareholding requirement for the Increased shareholding requirement for the Group CEO Requirement Group CEO will increase from 200% to achieves greater alignment with shareholders. 250% of salary and will be 200% for Ensures that Executive Directors’ interests remain aligned the other Executive Directors. A postwith shareholders to implement a strategy which delivers cessation shareholding requirement, value for the longer term beyond their departure, in line equal to the in employment shareholding with the requirements of the Code. It also facilitates requirement (or the shareholding on implementation of clawback. departure if lower) will be introduced for Executive Directors and will apply for two years after cessation of employment. New Policy – Key components of remuneration Base salaries of all Executive Directors are generally The Policy has been designed to support the delivery reviewed once each year, with increases applying from of strong business performance and the creation of April. Reviews cover individual performance, experience, shareholder value. We set out below key components of development in the role, market comparisons and pay the Policy for Executive Directors, and in the notes following reviews for the wider workforce. the table we comment on differences between this Policy and that for the remuneration of employees generally. Maximum potential value The base salaries of Executive Directors in post at the Base salary start of the policy period, and who remain in the same role Base salary helps to attract, reward and retain the right throughout the policy period, will not usually be increased calibre of Executive Director to deliver the leadership by a higher percentage than the average annual percentage and management needed to execute the Group’s strategy increase in salaries of all other employees in the Group. and business plan. Exceptions to this, subject to performance and development, Practical operation are where: Base salary reflects the role, the executive’s skills and (i) An Executive Director has been appointed at below experience, and market level. To determine the market level, market level to reflect experience. Under this scenario, the Committee reviews remuneration data on executive increases will be capped at 5% above the average annual positions at companies which the Committee considers to percentage increase in salaries of all other Group be appropriate comparators. The comparator companies are employees selected, with advice from the Committee’s remuneration advisers, taking into account factors such as, but not limited (ii) An Executive Director has been promoted internally to, sector, size, and international presence. (or the scope or nature of their role has changed) and their salary is below market level. Under this scenario, On appointment, an Executive Director’s base salary is set increases will not be capped and the Committee can at the market level, or below if the executive is not fully increase base salary to the market level within an experienced at this level. Where base salary on appointment appropriate timeframe is below market level to reflect experience, it will be increased over time to align with the market level, subject to performance. 92 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual bonus The award of annual bonus will be based on annual performance against financial and operational measures linked to the business plan. The aim of the deferred portion of annual bonus is to further align executives to shareholders’ interests, by linking share-based reward to long-term sustainable performance. Practical operation Maximum potential value The maximum opportunity will be split between two Maximum opportunity elements: Role (% of base salary) Chief Executive 175% Financial element – performance is based on financial and Other Executive Directors 150% operational metrics. This element represents 105% of salary for the Group CEO and 90% of salary for other Executive Directors. Subject to the minimum level of deferral noted Performance measures below, this element will be paid in cash. The performance conditions applicable to the annual bonus awards are split between the two elements: Strategic element – performance is based on strategic and other non-financial metrics. This element will represent Financial element – performance measures based on annual 70% of salary for the Group CEO and 60% of salary for other financial and operational targets, which will be linked directly Executive Directors. This element will be paid in shares to the performance of the Group and determined by the deferred for a period of three years. Board. The Committee may amend the measures used each year in line with business strategy. A minimum of 40% of the total bonus outcome will be deferred into shares in the form of nil cost options under the Strategic element – performance measures based on nonDeferred Share Plan (DSP) , regardless of the pay outcomes financial and strategic targets, which will be determined of the financial and strategic elements. If this amount is annually by the Board and will be aligned with the business not attained by the strategic element, a proportion of the strategy. financial element will also be deferred into shares in order The weighting of the respective elements is 60% on financial to achieve this minimum level of deferral. elements and 40% on strategic elements. The Committee A two-year holding period applies to DSP awards posthas the discretion to vary the weightings from year to year. vesting, during which Executive Directors may not sell In exceptional circumstances such that the Committee the shares, except to pay any tax due. believes the original measures and/or targets are no longer Dividends or dividend equivalents (which may assume appropriate, the Committee has discretion to amend notional reinvestment) are paid on DSP awards. performance measures and targets during the year. There is no payment for below threshold performance. The outcome for threshold performance is 0% of maximum. The outcome for target performance is 50% of maximum. In certain circumstances, the Committee can apply malus and clawback to cash bonus awards, as set out in the notes to the policy table. Targets, outcomes and resulting payouts are published retrospectively in the Annual Report on Remuneration. The Committee will review the formulaic outcome of the bonus award and has the discretion to amend the final outcome to make sure that bonus payments reflect overall performance. The use of such discretion will be explained fully in the relevant Annual Report on Remuneration. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 93 Remuneration Committee report continued Long Term Incentive Plan (LTIP) The Group’s LTIP provides long-term alignment with shareholders based on the outcomes of Relative TSR and Cumulative Adjusted EPS metrics. Practical operation Maximum potential value Under the new LTIP, Executive Directors receive an annual Maximum opportunity grant of shares. Approval for the new LTIP will be sought Role (% of base salary) at the 2020 AGM. Chief Executive 200% Other Executive Directors 175% Shares vest on the third anniversary of the grant, subject to continued service or “good leaver” termination provisions, and the achievement of performance conditions over a three In exceptional circumstances the Committee may on year period determined by the Committee. Vested awards recruitment grant a percentage of salary in excess of these are then subject to a further holding period of two years for amounts. Further detail is provided on page 96. Executive Directors. Performance measures Dividends or dividend equivalents (which may assume Two performance measures will apply to LTIP awards made notional reinvestment) may be paid on LTIP awards. from April 2020 as follows: There is no payment for below threshold performance. (i) TSR performance over three years relative to the FTSE 350 The outcome for threshold performance is 25% of maximum. (50% of award), vesting as follows: The Committee will include an override provision in each Below Median = 0% of maximum grant under the LTIP. This will give the Committee discretion Median = 25% of maximum to determine that no vesting shall occur, or that vesting Upper Quartile = 100% of maximum shall be reduced, if there are circumstances (relating to the Group’s overall performance or otherwise) which make (ii) Cumulative Adjusted EPS performance over three years, vesting when calculated by reference to the performance (50% of award), vesting as follows: conditions alone inappropriate. Below Threshold = 0% of maximum In certain circumstances, the Committee can apply malus Threshold = 25% of maximum or clawback to unvested/vested awards, as set out in the Maximum = 100% of maximum notes to the policy table. Straight line vesting occurs between performance levels The Committee reserves discretion to: for both conditions. (i) amend the performance conditions/targets attached to outstanding awards granted under this Policy, in the Details of the EPS target for proposed grants in 2020 will event of a major corporate event or significant change be notified to shareholders via RNS in March 2020, ahead in economic circumstances, or a change in accounting of the 2020 AGM, and will be applicable in the event that standards having a material impact on outcomes; and the new Policy is approved by shareholders. (ii) adjust the vesting of LTIP awards and/or the number of shares underlying unvested LTIP awards, on the occurrence of a corporate event or other reorganisation. In the event of a change of control, the treatment of longterm incentives will be determined in accordance with the plan rules. 94 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Pension Pension provision is one of the components to attract, reward and retain the right calibre of executive, to ensure delivery of the leadership and management needed to execute the Group’s purpose and strategy. Practical operation Maximum potential value Executive Directors are entitled to a contribution to the Group’s Existing Executive Directors will receive the defined contribution pension plan, a cash payment in lieu of pension following pension contribution rates until (subject to normal statutory deductions), or a combination of pension 31 December 2022. contributions and cash in lieu of pension. • Group CEO – 20% of salary • Chief Financial Officer – 16% of salary • CEO Generation – 20% of salary From 1 January 2023, the contribution rates for existing Executive Directors will be aligned with the rate for new joiners to the wider workforce (currently 10% of salary). The pension contribution rate for new Executive Directors will be aligned with the wider workforce rate from the date of appointment. Performance measures No performance measures apply. Benefits Benefits are provided to be market competitive as an integral part of Executive Directors’ total remuneration. Practical operation Maximum potential value Executive Directors receive a car benefit, life assurance, income Benefits are set at a level appropriate to the protection, the opportunity to participate in all-employee share individual’s role and circumstances. plans on the same basis as other employees, annual private health assessment and annual private medical cover. Additional benefits The maximum opportunity will depend on the may be provided if the Committee considers them appropriate. type of benefit and cost of its provision, which will vary according to the market and individual Relocation expenses are paid, where appropriate, in individual cases. circumstances. Executive Directors’ relocation expenses are determined on a case-bycase basis. The Policy is designed to assist the Executive Director to Performance measures relocate to a home of similar standing. No performance measures apply. Shareholding requirement The shareholding requirement aligns the interests of Executive Directors with shareholders. Practical operation Maximum potential value The shareholding requirement for the Group CEO is 250% of salary N/A and for the other Executive Directors it is 200% of salary. This is to be achieved within a period five years after the date of the 2020 AGM Performance measures (or after the date of appointment for new Executive Directors if this N/A is later). Until this level is reached, Executive Directors who receive shares by virtue of any share plan award or who receive DSP awards are expected to retain 50% of the shares received net (i.e. after income tax and national insurance contributions). Shares which have not vested and are subject to performance conditions will not count towards the requirement. Unvested awards subject to service only (e.g. DSP awards) will count towards the guideline on a net of tax basis. Shares vesting in respect of awards granted after the 2020 AGM will be held in the Group’s Employee Benefit Trust until the shareholding requirement is met and all share disposals will be subject to the Company’s share dealing Code. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 95 Remuneration Committee report continued Post cessation shareholding requirement The Group’s post-cessation shareholding requirement aligns the interests of Executive Directors with shareholders over the longer term beyond their departure from the Group. Practical operation Maximum potential value A post-cessation shareholding requirement, equal to the employment N/A shareholding requirement (or the shareholding on departure if lower) applies for a two year period after cessation of employment. For clarity, Performance measures the post-cessation shareholding requirement is 250% of salary for the N/A Group CEO and for the other Executive Directors it is 200% of salary. In addition, shares vesting during this period will remain subject to the two-year post-vesting holding period, which may therefore extend beyond the two-year period for which the post-cessation shareholding requirement applies. Only shares relating to awards which are granted after the date of the 2020 AGM will be included for the purposes of this requirement. Shares purchased by the Executive Director (including those from all employee share plans), will not be included. Shares counting towards this requirement will not be released from the Employee Benefit Trust during the period in which the postcessation shareholding requirement applies, to support enforceability. Acceptance of the post-cessation shareholding requirement will be a condition of participation in all share awards granted after the 2020 AGM and will be included in the grant documentation for awards. Performance measures and approach to setting targets The measures for elements of variable pay will be: • Financial, strategic and operational measures consisting of targets set by the Committee each year in conjunction with the Board. The targets are aligned with key business goals determined at the start of each year • Relative TSR, which aligns Executive Director remuneration with creation of long-term shareholder value • Cumulative Adjusted EPS, which aligns Executive Director remuneration with the realisation of our earnings growth plans, which is a major determinant of shareholder value • The Committee sets targets for the performance measures each year, taking into account market conditions, the business plan and other circumstances as appropriate. A summary of the measures that apply for the following year are disclosed in the Annual Report on Remuneration Elements of previous policy that will continue Remuneration component and link Practical operation Performance measures to strategy Vesting is subject to achievement Vesting of conditional awards is subject Performance Share Plan awards of performance conditions and to relative TSR performance and average made in 2018 and 2019 link long-term continued service or “good leaver” Group Scorecard outcome over three share-based incentives to TSR and termination provisions. Further details years. to the achievement of Business Plan of the terms were included in the strategic targets. relevant Director’s Remuneration Report at the time of grant. DSP awards made in 2018, 2019 and Vesting is subject to continued service N/A 2020 until they vest three years later or “good leaver” termination provisions. or lapse, as applicable. Further details of the terms of the awards were included in the relevant Director’s Remuneration Report at the time of grant. 96 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Circumstances in which malus or clawback may apply Malus and clawback for the annual bonus – the Committee may reduce the performance outcome, or may require an Executive Director to repay any amount of cash bonus it considers appropriate, in circumstances of: • material financial misstatement • fraud or misconduct • material failure of risk management and corporate failure • if assessment of a performance condition is found to have been based on an error, inaccuracy or misleading information • in other circumstances that the Committee considers justifying the operation of the clawback provision The clawback period is two years. If a repayment of bonus is required, the Committee may reduce the number of shares that may vest under the DSP or LTIP arrangements by an appropriate amount. The Committee may also reduce the number of shares, or clawback shares for a two year period commencing on vesting under an LTIP and/or DSP awards in circumstances of: • material financial misstatement • fraud or misconduct • material failure of risk management and corporate failure • if assessment of a performance condition is found to have been based on an error, inaccuracy or misleading information • in other circumstances that the Committee considers justifying the operation of these provisions If a repayment of a share award is required the Committee may reduce the number of shares that may vest under the DSP or LTIP arrangements, and/or may reduce the amount of any annual bonus by an appropriate amount. Committee’s judgement and discretion In addition to assessing and making judgements on the meeting of performance targets and the appropriate incentives payable, the Committee has certain operational discretions it can exercise in relation to Executive Directors’ remuneration. These include, but are not limited to: • Reviewing the formulaic outcome of the cash bonus, DSP and LTIP awards and applying discretion to amend the final outcomes, to ensure that the outcomes reflect overall performance or an individual executive’s performance • Deciding whether to apply malus or clawback to an award • Determining whether a leaver is a “good leaver” Where such discretion is exercised, it will be explained in the relevant Annual Report on Remuneration. Remuneration scenarios The composition and value of the Executive Directors’ remuneration packages at below threshold (minimum), target and maximum performance scenarios under the Drax Group Policy are set out in the charts below. The assumptions used in the charts are provided in the following table: Description Fixed remuneration Annual bonus Long term incentive Minimum Base salary is the rate payable as None None determined by the Board following the annual review. Benefits and pension entitlement remain as disclosed in the Policy. Target 50% of the maximum 62.5% vesting (midpoint between opportunity. threshold and maximum). Maximum Maximum cash bonus and Maximum LTIP opportunity deferred shares (175% of salary (200% of salary for Group CEO and for Group CEO and 150% of 175% of salary for other Executive salary for other Executive Directors) with no allowance for Directors) share price appreciation or dividend equivalents. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 97 Remuneration Committee report continued Description Fixed remuneration Annual bonus Long term incentive Maximum Maximum cash bonus and Maximum LTIP opportunity (with 50% share deferred shares (175% of salary (200% of salary for Group CEO and price appreciation) for Group CEO and 150% of 175% of salary for other Executive salary for other Executive Directors) with allowance for Directors) 50% share price appreciation over the three-year performance period and no allowance for dividend equivalents. Will Gardiner Andy Skelton Andy Koss (Group Chief Executive) (Chief Financial Officer) (Chief Executive, Generation) £000 £000 £000 3500 £3,260 3500 3500 50% 3000 3000 3000 £2,715 2500 40% 2500 2500 2000 2000 £1,891 2000 £1,820 £1,761 £1,581 49% £1,524 49% 35% 1500 35% 29% 1500 39% 1500 39% £1,043 £1,010 1000 27% 1000 1000 £671 34% 34% 28% 33% 33% 28% 500 100% 38% 25% 21% 500 £427 26% 500 £422 25% 100% 41% 27% 23% 100% 42% 28% 23% 0 0 0 Minimum Target Maximum Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Maximum Minimum Target Maximum Maximum (with 50% (with 50% (with 50% share price share price share price appreciation) appreciation) appreciation) Fixed remuneration Annual bonus Long-term incentive Approach to recruitment remuneration The Committee will apply the components set out in the table on pages 91 to 97 to determine the remuneration of newly appointed Executive Directors. Base salary will be set at a level appropriate to the role and the experience of the Executive Director being appointed. Where this is below the market level, it will be adjusted over time to align with the market level, subject to good performance. The incentive provision for a new Executive Director will include an annual bonus of up to 150% of salary (175% of salary for the Group CEO), with financial and strategic elements as set out in the Policy table above, and an LTIP award of up to 175% of salary, 200% of salary for the Group CEO (in exceptional circumstances the Committee may on recruitment grant a percentage of salary in excess of these amounts but in such circumstances it would be capped at 300% of salary). The Committee may also determine it appropriate to honour prevailing contract commitments for an individual in the event they are promoted to an Executive Director position. In relation to Executive Directors appointed from outside the Group, where the Committee considers it to be necessary to secure the appointment of the Executive Director, the Committee may: • Pay compensation for loss of benefits on resignation from a previous employer, such as loss of long-term share incentives (subject to the right to phase any payment to reflect performance, the requirement to mitigate loss and the Group’s right to claw back any amount which is subsequently paid to the Executive Director by the former employer, and to claw back an appropriate proportion of the payment if the Executive Director leaves soon after appointment). Any compensation made will not exceed the value of the benefits lost as determined by the Committee acting fairly and reasonably • Agree a rate for employer pensions contributions, or salary supplements in lieu of pension contribution, which reflects the contribution rate for the wider workforce at the date of appointment • Make appropriate payments in circumstances where an Executive Director is relocated from outside the UK 98 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Service agreements and termination Executive Directors’ service agreements are of indefinite duration, terminable at any time by either party giving 12 months’ notice and are available for inspection at the Group’s registered office. Element Details Notice periods Executive Directors may be required to work during the notice period or may be provided with pay in lieu of notice if not required to work the full notice period. Under each of the Executive Directors’ service agreements, the Group has the right to make a payment in lieu of notice of termination, the amount of that payment being the salary and benefits that would have accrued to the Executive Director during the contractual notice period. For the avoidance of any doubt this excludes any performance bonus (or cash equivalent) for the relevant period of unworked notice. Compensation for If an Executive Director’s employment is brought to an end by either party, and if the Committee loss of office considers that it is necessary to pay the Executive Director a termination payment, the Committee’s policy, in the absence of a breach of the service agreement by the Executive Director, is to determine an Executive Director’s termination payment in accordance with his/her service agreement. The termination payment will be calculated based on the value of base salary and contractual benefits that would have accrued to the Executive Director during the contractual notice period. The Committee will seek mitigation to reduce the amount of any termination payment to a leaving Executive Director when appropriate to do so, having regard to the circumstances and the law governing the agreement. It may, for example, be appropriate to consider mitigation if the Executive Director has secured another job at a similar level. Mitigation would not apply retrospectively to a contractual payment in lieu of notice. In addition, the Executive Director may be entitled to a payment in respect of his/her statutory rights. The Group may pay reasonable fees for a departing Executive Director to obtain independent legal advice in relation to their termination arrangements and nominal consideration for agreement to any contractual terms protecting the Group’s rights following termination. No service agreement includes any provision for the payment of compensation upon termination. Any compensation payable in those circumstances would need to be determined at the time and in the light of the circumstances. Treatment of All bonus payments are discretionary. The Committee will consider whether a departing Executive annual bonus on Director should receive a cash bonus and deferred share award in respect of the financial year in termination which, and/or immediately preceding which, the termination occurs, pro-rated to reflect the period of the performance year completed at the date of termination. The Committee will take into account performance; the reason for termination; cooperation with succession; any breach of goodwill; adherence to contractual obligations/restrictions; and any other factors which they believe should be taken into account. The service contract for Will Gardiner as Group CEO, does not entitle him to any payment of bonus on termination of employment. If the employment ends in any of the following circumstances, the Executive Director will be treated as a “good leaver” and the Executive Director will be eligible for an annual bonus: • redundancy • retirement • ill-health or disability, proved to the satisfaction of the Group • death If the termination is for any other reason, an award will be at the Committee’s discretion and it is the Committee’s policy to ensure that any such award properly reflects the departing Executive Director’s performance and behaviour towards the Group. Therefore the amount of any such award will be determined, taking into account (i) the Executive Director’s personal performance and behaviour towards the Group and (ii) the Group performance. If an award is made, it will normally be paid/granted as soon as is reasonably practicable after the Group performance element has been determined for the relevant period. There may be circumstances in which the Committee considers it appropriate for the award to be made earlier, for example, on termination due to ill-health, in which case, on-target performance shall be assumed. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 99 Remuneration Committee report continued Element Details Treatment of The Committee will consider the extent to which deferred and conditional share awards held by the unvested long-term Executive Director under the DSP and LTIP should lapse or vest. Any determination by the Committee incentive and will be in accordance with the rules of the relevant plan. deferred share In summary, the rules of the proposed LTIP provide that awards will vest (pro-rated to the date awards on of employment termination) if employment ends for any of the following reasons (“long-term good termination leaver reasons”): • redundancy • retirement • ill-health or disability, proved to the satisfaction of the Company • death • change of control If employment ends for any other reason, the participant may be deemed a “good leaver” at the Committee’s discretion. In doing so, it will take account of all relevant circumstances, in particular, the Group’s performance; the Executive Director’s performance and behaviour towards the Group during the performance cycle of the relevant awards; and other relevant factors, including the proximity of the award to its maturity date. Awards which vest subject to satisfaction of the relevant performance conditions, will be time pro-rated, and will ordinarily vest on the normal vesting date subject to the post-vesting shareholding period. The rules of the DSP provide that deferred bonus awards will vest (in full) if employment ends for any of the good leaver reasons detailed above. If employment ends for any other reason, the participant may be deemed a “good leaver” at the Committee’s discretion. In doing so it will take account of all relevant circumstances, in particular, the Group’s performance; the Executive Director’s performance and behaviour towards the Group during the performance cycle of the relevant awards, and a range of other relevant factors, including the proximity of the award to its maturity date. The rules of the DSP and LTIP also provide that in circumstances where awards vest, they do so at the normal vesting date, unless the Committee exercises discretion to vest awards earlier. Outside Executive Directors may accept external Board appointments, subject to the Chair’s approval. Normally appointments only one appointment to a listed company would be approved. Fees may be retained by the Executive Director. Consideration of circumstances for leavers The Committee will consider whether the overall value of any benefits accruing to a leaving Executive Director is fair and appropriate, taking account of all relevant circumstances. Examples of circumstances in which the Committee may be minded to award a cash bonus, DSP award and/or permit the vesting of LTIP and/or DSP awards include: • The Executive Director’s continued good performance up to and following the giving of notice • The Executive Director accommodating the company in the timing of his/her departure and handover arrangements Conversely, the Committee may be minded not to allow such payments if the reason for the departure is (for example) due to poor performance or if the Executive Director does not continue to perform appropriately following notice. 100 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Remuneration of Non-Executive Directors and Chair Remuneration component and link to strategy Practical operation Maximum potential value Fees The Chair’s remuneration is determined Overall aggregate fees paid to all NonTo attract a Chair and by the Committee whilst that of the other Executive Directors will remain within the independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Directors is determined by limit as stated in the Company’s Articles Directors who, together with the Chair and the Executive Directors. (currently £1,000,000). the Executive Directors, form These are determined in the light of: a Board with a broad range of • Fees of the Chair and Non-Executive skills and experience. Directors of other listed companies selected for comparator purposes, on the same basis as for Executive Directors; • The responsibilities and time commitment; and • The need to attract and retain individuals with the necessary skills and experience. Non-Executive Directors’ fees are reviewed periodically against market comparators. Non-Executive Directors receive an annual base fee. Additional annual fees are paid: • To the Senior Independent Director (which includes the fee for chairing a Board Committee other than the Audit Committee); • To the Chair of the Audit Committee; • To the Chair of the Remuneration Committee; and • To the Chair of any other committee (this is not paid to the Chair of the Nomination Committee if he or she is also the Chair of the Board). Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to participate in any performance related remuneration arrangements. Expenses Reasonable travel and accommodation expenses are reimbursed as applicable. Non-Executive Directors do not receive any benefits in kind, nor are they eligible for any annual performance bonus, pension or any of the Group’s share-based reward plans. The Chair’s notice period is six months whilst the other Non-Executive Directors have a notice period of one month. Further information on the service agreements of the Non-Executive Directors can be found on page 111. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 101 Remuneration Committee report continued Differences between the policy and that of the remuneration of employees generally The following differences apply between the remuneration of Executive Directors and the policy on the remuneration of employees generally: • Executive Directors and a number of senior employees are eligible for LTIP awards, although there are differences in the quantum of the grants that are made • Annual bonus levels vary across the workforce, but deferral of bonuses into DSP awards applies only to Executive Directors • Employees in the collective bargaining unit have a contractual right to receive an annual bonus, subject to the Group’s performance and continued employment, whereas Executive Directors and all other UK-based employees participate in a discretionary bonus plan • Employer pension contribution (or salary supplement) are up to 10% of salary for new joiners from 1 July 2019, irrespective of seniority. There are legacy pension contribution arrangements which continue to be in operation for employees who joined prior to 1 July 2019. From 1 January 2023 the contribution rates for existing Executive Directors will be aligned with the rate for new joiners to the wider workforce (currently 10% of salary) • In some cases hourly paid employees qualify for overtime payments Context Wider employee population In determining Executive Director remuneration, the Committee also takes into account the level of general pay increases within the Group. Employees are not directly consulted on the Policy, however as referenced on page 88, there are a number of existing channels designed to capture the views of the workforce on remuneration, including the MyVoice forums. The Committee’s policy is that annual salary increases for Executive Directors should not exceed the average annual salary increase for the wider employee population unless there is a particular reason for a higher increase, such as a change in the nature or scope of responsibilities or if an Executive Director has been appointed at a salary below market level reflecting experience in the role. This is explained in more detail on page 92. The Committee also considers external market benchmarking to inform executive remuneration decisions. External market benchmarking is also considered in relation to remuneration decisions of the wider workforce. Environmental, social and governance issues The Committee is able to consider corporate performance on environmental, social and governance issues when setting the remuneration of Executive Directors. Specific measures can be included in the strategic element of the annual bonus. The Committee is also able to consider these issues in determining whether to exercise its discretion to adjust formulaic outcomes of the annual bonus and LTIP. Shareholder feedback As referenced on page 88, during 2019 the Committee engaged with a number of our largest shareholders and proxy agencies on the proposed changes to the Directors’ Remuneration Policy. The Committee considered their views, together with wider market practice and general investor sentiment on executive remuneration, and took these into account when determining the finalised Policy outlined in this report. 102 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual Report on Remuneration The relevant sections of this report have been audited as required by the Regulations and, in accordance with the Regulations, this part of the report will be subject to an advisory vote at the AGM to be held on 22 April 2020. Single total figure of remuneration for each Executive Director (audited information) The table below sets out the single figure of remuneration and the breakdown for each Executive Director for 2019, together with comparative earnings for 2018: Long Term Salary/Fees(1) Benefits(2) Bonus(3) Incentives Pension Other(6) Total (£000) (£000) (£000) (£000) (£000) (£000) (£000) Name 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019(4) 2018(5) 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Will Gardiner 541 530 18 21 368 417 129 811 108 106 – – 1,164 1,885 Andy Skelton(7) 355 – 15 – 224 – – – 57 – 8 – 659 – Andy Koss 337 327 16 19 214 242 103 142 67 65 – 6 736 801 Notes: (1) Base salary is the amount earned in 2019 (2) Benefits include car allowance, private medical insurance, life assurance and permanent health insurance (3) Bonus is the cash value of the annual bonus payable in respect of performance in the relevant year which is paid in March of the following year (e.g. 2019 bonus is paid in March 2020), including the value of bonus deferred and paid in shares after three years subject only to continued service (4) Represents the value of PSP awards vesting in May 2020, together with the dividend shares in relation to those vested shares. The value is calculated based on the average share price over the last quarter of 2019, which was £2.946 (5) 2018 numbers restated to reflect the actual share price on vesting of £3.732 on 8 March 2019 (6) Represents the value of the Sharesave Awards granted in 2019 based on the share price on grant (£3.786) less the exercise price (£2.975) (7) Andy Skelton joined on 2 January 2019 and therefore there are no entries for 2018 Base salaries The base salaries of the Executive Directors as at 31 December 2019, together with comparative figures as at 31 December 2018, are shown in the following table: Base salary as at Base salary as at 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 Percentage £000 £000 increase Will Gardiner 545 530 2.8% Andy Skelton 355 – – Andy Koss 339 330 2.8% The base salaries of Will Gardiner and Andy Koss were reviewed with effect from 1 April 2019, in line with Policy, and increased by 2.8%. This was aligned with the average increase for the wider workforce. As Andy Skelton joined the Board in January 2019, his base salary was not reviewed during the year. Annual fees for Non-Executive Directors Fees at Fees at 31 December 2019 31 December 2018 Percentage £000 £000 increase Chair 250 250 0% Non-Executive Director base fee 55 55 0% Senior Independent Director 10 10 0% Audit Committee Chair 10 10 0% Remuneration Committee Chair 10 10 0% Nomination Committee Chair (1) 7.5 7.5 0% Notes: (1) This is not paid if the Chair of the Nomination Committee is also Chair of the Board Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 103 Remuneration Committee report continued Single total figure of remuneration for each Non Executive Director (audited information) The table below sets out the single figure of remuneration and breakdown for each Non-Executive Director for 2019 together with comparative figures for 2018: Additional fee for Senior Additional fee Independent for chairing a Base fee Director committee Total £000 £000 £000 £000 Philip Cox 2019 250 – – 250 2018 250 – – 250 John Baxter(1) 2019 39 – – 39 2018 – – – – Tim Cobbold(2) 2019 41 – – 41 2018 55 – – 55 Nicola Hodson(3) 2019 55 – 7 62 2018 53 – – 53 David Lindsell(4) 2019 16 3 3 22 2018 55 10 10 75 David Nussbaum(5) 2019 55 7 – 62 2018 55 – – 55 Vanessa Simms(6) 2019 55 – 7 62 2018 29 – – 29 Tony Thorne(7) 2019 27 – 3 30 2018 55 – 10 65 Note: (1) Appointed on 17 April 2019 (2) Stepped down from the Board on 27 September 2019 (3) Became Chair of Remuneration Committee from 17 April 2019; appointed on 12 January 2018 (4) Stepped down from the Board on 17 April 2019 (5) Became Senior Independent Director from 17 April 2019 and since 1 January 2019 he has donated his gross fees to charity (6) Became Chair of Audit Committee from 17 April 2019; appointed 19 June 2018 (7) Stepped down as Chair of Remuneration Committee from 17 April 2019 and from the Board on 28 June 2019 104 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Details of annual bonus outcome (audited information) A summary of the Committee’s assessment in respect of the 2019 Group Scorecard is set out in the following table: Weighting Low target Target Stretch target Outturn Score Safety Total recordable incident rate 10% 0.24 0.18 0.12 0.22 0.3 Finance Group adjusted EBITDA (£m) 25% 375 417 459 410 0.8 Average net debt (£m) 5% (1,073) (975) (878) (950) 1.3 Strongly Strongly Progress on acquisition of ScottishPower assets 15% In line In line ahead ahead 2.0 Sustainability People, reputation & responsibility Approaching Ahead of (Performance vs plan) 10% Plan On Plan Plan On Plan 1.0 Pellet Production Fines at disport (%)(1) 5% 7.5 & 20 6.5 & 15 5.5 & 10 8.7 & 37 0.0 Cost of production ($/GJ) 5% 8.85 8.4 8.11 9.08 0.0 Power Generation Commercial availability (%) 7.5% ND ND ND 87.3% 0.0 Value from flexibility (£m) 7.5% 74 90 106 129 2.0 Customers Cost to serve customers (£/MPAN) 3.3% 212 202 192 208 0.4 Value created as gross margin (£m) (2) 3.3% 118.1 124.4 130.6 116.1 0.0 SMART meter installation 3.3% ND ND ND ND 1.0 Total weighting/Score 100% 0.90 Notes: The targets were aligned with the Group’s strategy and 2019 Business Plan and reviewed regularly by the Board as part of their ongoing scrutiny of business and executive performance ND – Not disclosed. It is considered that the targets and outcomes for these metrics are commercially sensitive and therefore they are not disclosed (1) Q4 average fines at disport (50% based on the average of each vessel and 50% based on the percentage of the sublots with greater than 10% fines content) (2) Bad debt is excluded from the calculation of this KPI Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 105 Remuneration Committee report continued Outlined below is a brief synopsis of the KPIs used and their strategic rationale: Group • Safety is a key priority for the business. The Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) is defined as the number of incidents per 100,000 hours worked • Financial performance metrics for 2019 were based on underlying adjusted EBITDA, average net debt and progress on the acquisition of the hydro and gas generation assets from ScottishPower. The weighting given to adjusted EBITDA, at 25%, reflects the priority given to a strong Group financial performance • Being a sustainable business means driving long-term, profitable growth while achieving a positive economic, social and environmental impact Ensuring that our staff are fully engaged and regard Drax as an employer they would recommend is an important part of this impact • Pellet quality impacts both Pellet Production and Generation. The “fines” metric is used to drive pellet quality, from our own supply, which in turn minimises downstream supply chain costs • Developing strong in-house pellet supply capability and lowering pellet production costs have a direct impact on gross margins available from Generation • The value available to the Group from biomass generation is a key driver of gross margins. Biomass unit commercial availability reflects the value that can be derived from maximising biomass unit output • The value from flexibility captures the value available from fully supporting the UK electricity grid The Committee made an in-depth review of the score for each of the performance measures, ensuring these were individually supportable, and then reviewed the overall outcome, to determine whether to exercise its discretion and adjust the final score. No such adjustment was made. Safety. The independently verified Total Recordable Incident Rate for the 2019 financial year was 0.22 which was the same as the score for the 2018 financial year. This was below target but above the minimum threshold, and the score achieved was 0.3, which was lower that the 2018 financial year (1.0). Finance. Adjusted EBITDA achieved for the 2019 financial year was £410 million, slightly below the target level. Average net debt was £950 million against a target of £975 million, reflecting management’s strong focus in this area. Acquisition of Assets. In respect of the progress on the acquisition of the hydro and gas generation assets from ScottishPower, the assets delivered above the stretch target set for EBITDA and the integration has been successful. The Committee determined an outcome of 2.0. Sustainability. In the three areas mentioned in the table, the Committee set specific objectives which constituted part of the Group’s 2019 sustainability plan. In determining performance, the Committee reviewed quantitative outcomes, (for example analysis included assessment prepared by an external agency tracking reputation). Collectively across the three measures an outcome of 1.0 was achieved. Pellet Production. Fines (a measure of wood pellet quality) and cost of production are key measures for assessing operational efficiency. Fines and cost of production failed to achieve the minimum threshold. Further information can be found on page 10. Power Generation. Biomass commercial availability is a key metric relating to our ability to operate when needed and is considered by the Board regularly as part of overall operational performance. It failed to achieve the minimum threshold. Value from flexibility is used by management to assess Drax’s support to balancing the UK electricity grid. It achieved the stretch target. Further information can be found on page 11 of the CEO report. Customers. Each of the three targets adopted by the Committee are used by management and reported to the Board as part of tracking business performance. Cost to serve customers was between the minimum threshold and target. Value created as gross margin was below the minimum threshold. SMART meters achieved a target outcome, the outturn of which included an assessment of performance against external benchmark data. The Committee approved the Group Scorecard result for 2019 at its meeting on 25 February 2020, subject to the final approval of the financial results and annual report and accounts by the Directors on 26 February 2020. 106 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Bonus earned for 2019 The table below sets out the bonuses earned and the split between cash and deferred elements. Of which deferred Of which paid in cash into shares 2019 bonus Bonus earned (65% of bonus) (35% of bonus) Executive Director (as % base salary) £000 £000 £000 Will Gardiner 67.5% 368 239 129 Andy Skelton 63% 224 145 78 Andy Koss 63% 214 139 75 No discretion was exercised by the Committee in determining the bonus outcome. Detail of PSP incentive outcomes (audited information) The vesting outcome for awards granted in 2017 under the PSP, which were subject to performance conditions and will vest in 2020, are provided in the tables below. Performance for Performance Proportion threshold vesting for maximum Performance measure of award (15%) vesting Actual performance Vesting Relative TSR vs FTSE 350 constituents 50% Median Upper quartile Rank of 224 0% out of 314 = below median Average Corporate Score for 2017, 50% Average score Average score 0.93 average = 18% 2018 and 2019 of 1 of 1.5 36% (Scores of 0.84, 1.05 and 0.90) 18% No discretion was exercised by the Committee in determining the PSP outcome. The table provides the awards due to vest based on this vesting result. Dividend Total shares Total value (1) Executive Director Awards granted Awards vesting shares earned due to vest £000 Will Gardiner 213,326 38,398 5,526 43,924 £129 Andy Koss 169,567 30,522 4,392 34,914 £103 Notes: (1) Based on the average share price over the last quarter of 2019 (£2.946). As the share price has fallen over the vesting period, there is no value attributable to share price appreciation. PSP awards granted during 2019 (audited information) The table below shows the conditional awards granted under the PSP to Executive Directors on 28 March 2019. Award as % Number of Face value of Executive Director of salary shares granted(1) Awards £000 Will Gardiner 175% 247,245 928 Andy Skelton 175% 165,607 621 Andy Koss 175% 153,863 577 Note: (1) The number of shares awarded was based on the average share price in the three-day period prior to grant, which was £3.7513. In accordance with the PSP rules, dividend shares are awarded at the time and in the event that awards actually vest. No dividend shares are awarded where the initial awards lapse. The performance conditions that apply to the PSP awards granted in 2019 are set out below. Performance Vesting at for 50% vesting Proportion Performance for threshold (Corporate Performance for Performance measure of award threshold vesting performance Scorecard only) maximum vesting Relative TSR vs FTSE 350 constituents 50% Median 25% – Upper Quartile Average Group Scorecard Score Average Average Average 50% score of 0.75 0% score of 1 score of 1.5 Straight line vesting occurs between performance levels for both conditions. Performance for both conditions is measured over three financial years to 31 December 2021. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 107 Remuneration Committee report continued DSP deferred awards granted during 2019 (audited information) The table below shows the deferred share awards granted under the DSP to Executive Directors on 28 March 2019 in respect of bonus earned for performance in 2018. Awards will vest after three years subject to continued service only. Value of deferred bonus Number of Executive Director £000 shares granted(1) Will Gardiner 146 38,941 Andy Koss 85 22,617 Note: (1) The number of shares awarded was based on the average share price in the three-day period prior to grant, which was £3.7513. In accordance with the DSP rules, dividends in respect of the deferred shares are reinvested in additional shares, which vest when the deferred shares vest Sharesave options granted during 2019 (audited information) A total of 10,084 Sharesave options were granted to Andy Skelton on 27 March 2019. The exercise price per share was 297.5 pence which represents a 20% discount to the prevailing share price at the time of offer. The face value of the awards was £38,178 which is based on the share price of 378.6 pence on 27 March 2019. The options will vest after five years subject to continued service. Total pension entitlements for defined contribution schemes (audited information) Executive Directors are entitled to receive a contribution to the Group’s defined contribution pension plan, cash in lieu of pension contributions or a mixture of these. The employer contribution for Will Gardiner and Andy Koss in 2019 was 20% of base salary, and the employer contribution for Andy Skelton was 16%. Will Gardiner’s employer contribution is delivered as cash in lieu of pension, whereas for Andy Koss and Andy Skelton it is delivered in part as contributions to Group pension plan and part as cash in lieu. No Executive Director was a member of a defined benefit pension scheme. Payments to former directors (audited information) As reported in the 2017 Remuneration Report, Dorothy Thompson (former Group CEO) is entitled to pro-rata vesting of a PSP award made in 2017. A total of 12,569 shares, including dividend shares, are due to vest in May 2020, based on performance vesting of 18%, and a two year holding period will apply to the net shares. Payments for loss of office (audited information) No payments in respect of loss of office were made during the year. Statement of directors’ shareholding and share interests (audited information) The shareholding guidelines under the current Director’s Remuneration Policy require Executive Directors who receive shares by virtue of share plan awards, or who receive deferred bonus share awards under the DSP, to retain 50% of the shares received net (i.e. after income tax and national insurance contributions) until the value held is equal to at least 200% of salary. Only shares that are not subject to performance conditions count towards the threshold. Awards subject to service only count towards the guideline on a net of tax basis. As at 31 December 2019, the shareholding guidelines had not been met, as detailed in the table below: Directors’ interests in shares Number Value at Shareholding as a Shareholding Name of shares(1) year end(2) percentage of salary guideline (3) Will Gardiner(4) 262,101 £822,997 151% 200% Andy Skelton(5) 31,250 £98,125 28% 200% Andy Koss(6) 77,870 £244,512 72% 200% Notes: (1) The number of shares also includes shares purchased in the open market by the Executive Director and those acquired through participation in Sharesave programmes (2) Based on the mid-market quotation on 31 December 2019 of £3.14 (3) Under the existing Director’s Remuneration Policy (4) 144,488 shares recorded for Will Gardiner are shares he bought from 2015 to 2018 (5) All shares recorded for Andy Skelton are shares he bought in 2019 on the open market (6) 15,000 shares recorded for Andy Koss are shares he bought in 2017 on the open market 108 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors’ interests under LTIPs (BMP, PSP AND DSP) Awards Awards Awards As at made vesting lapsing As at 1 January during during during 31 December Value Date of grant 2019 the year the year the year 2019 Date of vesting(1) of awards(2) Will Gardiner 2016 BMP Matching Award 02 March 2016 353,504 0 203,724 149,780 0 07 March 2019 £0 2016 BMP Deferred Award 02 March 2016 5,063 0 5,063 0 0 07 March 2019 £0 2016 Sharesave Option 05 April 2016 14,778 0 0 0 14,778 01 May 2021 £16,404 2017 PSP 15 May 2017 213,326 0 0 0 213,326 15 May 2020 £669,844 2017 BMP Deferred Award 28 March 2017 50,486 0 0 0 50,486 28 March 2020 £158,526 2018 PSP 05 March 2018 363,725 0 0 0 363,725 05 March 2021 £1,142,097 2018 DSP 05 March 2018 40,327 0 0 0 40,327 05 March 2021 £126,627 2019 PSP 28 March 2019 0 247,245 0 0 247,245 28 March 2022 £776,349 2019 DSP 28 March 2019 0 38,941 0 0 38,941 28 March 2022 £122,275 Total 1,041,209 286,186 208,787 149,780 968,828 £3,012,122 Andy Skelton 2019 PSP 28 March 2019 0 165,607 0 0 165,607 28 March 2022 £520,006 2019 Sharesave Option 27 March 2019 10,084 0 0 10,084 01 May 2024 £1,664 Total 0 175,691 0 0 175,691 £521,670 Andy Koss 2016 BMP Matching Award 02 March 2016 61,999 0 35,729 26,270 0 07 March 2019 £0 2017 PSP 15 May 2017 169,567 0 0 0 169,567 15 May 2020 £532,440 2017 BMP Deferred Award 28 March 2017 40,130 0 0 0 40,130 28 March 2020 £126,008 2018 PSP 05 March 2018 218,063 0 0 0 218,063 05 March 2021 £684,718 2018 DSP 05 March 2018 32,055 0 0 0 32,055 05 March 2021 £100,653 2018 Sharesave option 28 March 2018 8,551 0 0 0 8,551 01 May 2021 £8,850 2019 PSP 28 March 2019 0 153,863 0 0 153,863 28 March 2022 £483,130 2019 DSP 28 March 2019 0 22,617 0 0 22,617 28 March 2022 £71,017 Total 530,365 176,480 35,729 26,270 644,846 £2,006,816 Notes: DSP and Bonus Matching Plan (BMP) awards are not subject to performance conditions. The BMP is the legacy long-term incentive plan which preceded the PSP There are no awards which have vested but have not been exercised (1) The vesting date shown reflects the three-year anniversary but the Committee reserves the right to change the vesting date by a period not exceeding 30 days (2) Based on the mid-market quotation on 31 December 2019 of £3.14. For Sharesave options, this is the intrinsic value, e.g. based on the excess value at 31 December 2019 over and above the exercise price (3) Awards vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant or within 30 days of that date. The BMP awards vesting in 2019 vested shortly after the third anniversary on 7 March 2019. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 109 Remuneration Committee report continued Non Executive Director’s shareholdings There is no shareholding requirement for Non-Executive Directors. The table below shows the shareholdings of the Non-Executive Directors, former Non-Executive Directors and their connected persons and the value as at 31 December 2019, when the share price was 314 pence per share, or as at the date of retirement from the Board, as applicable. Number Value at of shares year end John Baxter 10,000 £31,400 Tim Cobbold (1) 1,000 £2,756 Philip Cox 60,000 £188,400 David Lindsell (2) 7,500 £27,570 David Nussbaum 0 £0 Nicola Hodson 0 £0 Vanessa Simms 0 £0 Tony Thorne (3) 7,500 £19,515 Notes: (1) Based on the share price on the date of stepping down – 27 September 2019 of £2.756 (2) Based on the share price on the date of stepping down – 17 April 2019 of £3.676 (3) Based on share price on date of stepping down – 28 June 2019 of £2.602 As at the date of this report there have been no changes to the shareholdings or share interests since 31 December 2019. Service agreements The following table shows, for each director of the Company at 26 February 2020, or those who served as a director of the Company at any time during the year ended 31 December 2019, the start date and term of the service agreement or contract for services, and details of the notice periods. Unexpired term Notice period by Notice period at the date of the Company by the director Executive Director Contract start date Contract term (years) publication (months) (months) Will Gardiner 16 November 2015 Indefinite term Not applicable 12 12 Andy Skelton 2 January 2019 Indefinite term Not applicable 12 12 Andy Koss 1 January 2016 Indefinite term Not applicable 12 12 John Baxter 17 April 2019 3 years 2 years and 2 months 1 1 Philip Cox 1 January 2018 3 years 11 months 6 6 Nicola Hodson 12 January 2018 3 years 11 months 1 1 David Nussbaum 1 August 2017 3 years 6 months 1 1 Vanessa Simms 19 June 2018 3 years 1 year and 4 months 1 1 Tim Cobbold 27 September 2016 3 years Retired 1 1 David Lindsell 1 December 2017 3 years Retired 1 1 Tony Thorne 29 June 2016 3 years Retired 1 1 Drax ten-year TSR data to 31 December 2019 The graph below shows how the value of £100 invested in both the Company and the FTSE 350 Index on 31 December 2009 has changed. This index has been chosen as a suitable broad comparator against which the Company’s shareholders may judge their relative returns given that the Company is a member of the FTSE 350 Index. The graph reflects the TSR for the Company and the index referred to on a cumulative basis over the period from 31 December 2009 to 31 December 2019. 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 Dec 12 Dec 13 Dec 14 Dec 15 Dec 16 Dec 17 Dec 18 Dec 19 Drax FTSE 350 110 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Group CEO’s pay in last ten financial years Year 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Group CEO’s total single figure (£000) 1,155 1,196 1,406 3,360 1,854 1,248 1,581 1,236 1,885 1,164 Bonus % of maximum awarded 100% 100% 100% 100% 73% 46% 88% 53% 53% 45% LTIP Awards % of maximum vesting – – – – 40.52% 21.66% 15.43% 0% 57.63% 18.00% Percentage change in the Group CEO’s remuneration compared with the wider employee population The table below shows how the percentage change in the Group CEO’s salary, benefits and bonus between 2018 and 2019 compares with the percentage change in the average of each of those components of pay for a group of employees. The Committee has selected all Group employees below Executive Director level based in the UK, as these are the vast majority of Group employees and provide the most appropriate comparator. Bonus Salary Taxable benefits £000 Percentage Percentage increase Increase 2018 2019 % increase Group CEO 2.8% -0.8% 417.4 368 -11.9% Average for UK employees 2.8% 30% 4.1 4.2 2.7% The investment in benefits provided to the wider workforce, particularly in the Customers business, and as referenced on page 87, increased spend on taxable benefits significantly in 2019. CEO pay ratio The pay ratios have been calculated using actual earnings for the Group CEO and UK employees. The Group CEO total single figure remuneration is given on page 101 of this report. 25th Percentile Median Percentile 75th Percentile Financial Year Methodology Pay Ratio (P25) Pay Ratio (P50) Pay Ratio (P75) 2019 Option A 42:1 25:1 16:1 The total remuneration of all UK employees of the Group on 31 December 2019 has been calculated on a full-time (and full-year) equivalent basis using the single figure methodology and reflects their actual earnings for 2019. The only exception is for employees with Defined Benefit (DB) pensions, where the employer contribution to the respective schemes has been used in the calculation (rather than the single figure methodology) to reduce the administrative complexity. This is likely to undervalue the DB pension value. No adjustments (other than to achieve full-time and full-year equivalent rates) were made and no components of remuneration have been omitted. Of the three options permitted to calculate the percentiles, the Committee has chosen option A (the calculation of the total pay and benefits for 2019 for all UK employees on an FTE basis), as they believe it is the most robust and most statistically accurate method of the options permitted and it is in line with the preference of BEIS. Set out in the table below is the base salary and the total pay and benefits for each of the identified employees. Element 25th Percentile (P25) 50th Percentile (P50) 75th Percentile (P75) Base Salary £24,562 £39,070 £51,539 Total Pay and Benefits £27,569 £45,833 £71,716 Base salaries of all employees, including Executive Directors, are set with reference to a range of factors including market practice, experience and performance in role. The Group CEO has a larger portion of his pay based on performance of the business than the individuals at P25, P50 and P75. The Committee believe that our senior executives should have a significant portion of their pay directly linked to the performance of the business, but that does mean that the pay ratios are likely to fluctuate each year depending on business performance and associated outcomes of incentive plans. The Group is comprised of various different business units and teams with different levels of pay, including call centre staff, support staff and engineers. The Committee reviews information about employee pay, reward and progression policies of the Group and is comfortable that the median pay ratio is consistent with these policies. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 111 Remuneration Committee report continued Relative importance of spend on pay The table below illustrates the relative importance of spend on pay compared to other disbursements from profit, namely distributions to shareholders and capital expenditure. These were the most significant outgoings from the Group in the last financial year, other than normal operating costs. Remuneration – 2019 £184.4m Remuneration – 2018 £145.7m Capital Expenditure – 2019 £172.1m Capital Expenditure – 2018 £142.5m Dividends – 2019 £63m Dividends – 2018 £56m 0 £50,000,000 £100,000,000 £150,000,000 £200,000,000 Statement of implementation of the remuneration policy in 2020 This section sets out the proposed implementation of the Directors’ Remuneration Policy in 2020, subject to its approval by shareholders at the 2020 AGM. Salary Below are the base salaries of the Executive Directors to take effect on 1 April 2020. This is an increase of 3% which is consistent with the salary increases for the wider workforce in accordance with the Policy. Base salary as at Base salary as at 1 April 2019 1 April 2020 Percentage £000 £000 increase Will Gardiner 545 561 3.0% Andy Skelton 355 366 3.0% Andy Koss 339 349 3.0% Benefits and pension There are no changes intended to the benefits provided to Executive Directors. Pension contributions for the existing Executive Directors will be unchanged compared to 2019, but will be aligned with the rate applicable for new joiners to the wider workforce (currently 10% of salary) from 1 January 2023. 112 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Annual bonus The Group Scorecard measures and targets for 2020 have been established for the Group and for each Group business. Details of performance against the measures will be disclosed in the 2020 Annual Report on Remuneration so far as possible, whilst maintaining commercial confidentiality. The following table sets out the categories and a description of the measures. Target Reason for use Financial Group adjusted EBITDA(1) Adjusted EBITDA is our principal financial metric, combining the underlying performance of each business to give a Group outcome. Cost of production(2) Reducing the cost of biomass production will make a positive contribution to the Group’s financial performance in the medium term and beyond 2027. Customers business Driving profitability is the key priority of focus for our Customers business, this will in part contribution(2) be achieved by increasing the efficiency and effectiveness of our energy supply operations. Average net debt(2) A structural reduction in debt is a key objective for the Group with progress assessed against weighted average net debt targets measured within the financial year Strategic Safety The same basis for assessing performance as in previous years, focused on reducing the number of safety related incidents, as measured by the total recordable incident rate Progress on strategic projects This element will assess progress against key strategic projects. The choice of projects included in this measure will be subject to approval of the Board. Environmental, employees and Sustainability and Environmental practices are a critical part of our values, vision and how Drax sustainability/ reputation (3) will create long-term sustainable returns for shareholders. We have adopted an environmental KPI which will be derived from the Group’s 2020 CDP rating, which supports our commitment around tackling climate change. This is combined with independent rating of how well we engage and support our employees, in addition to an independently determined rating of our reputation in sustainable business practices. Notes: (1) The outturn of this KPI is part of the Group’s independent financial audit (2) The outturn of these KPIs are independently reviewed (3) The outturn of these KPIs are derived from metrics assessed by external agencies LTIP The Committee intends to grant LTIP awards to Executive Directors of equal value to 200% of salary for the Group CEO and 175% of salary for other Executive Directors following the 2020 AGM, subject to shareholder approval of the Policy and the new LTIP. For the TSR element, performance will be assessed versus the constituents of the FTSE 350 with threshold vesting (25% of maximum) for performance in line with the median and maximum vesting for performance in line with upper quartile. The targets for the EPS element have not been determined but will be announced in March, prior to the AGM, by release of an RNS. Non-Executive Directors’ fees Non-Executive Directors’ fees will be reviewed by the Chair and Executive Directors in March 2020 and any changes will be disclosed in the 2020 Annual Report on Remuneration. Shareholder voting The table below shows the voting outcome for the Annual Report on Remuneration at the AGM on 17 April 2019, and the last voting outcome for the Remuneration Policy (at the AGM on 25 April 2018). For Against Total Votes withheld Name Shares % Shares % Shares % Shares Approval of the annual report on remuneration 242,114,746 80.67 58,033,489 19.33 300,148,235 100 4,792 Approval of the Remuneration Policy (2018 AGM) 343,764,260 93.62 23,420,963 6.38 367,185,223 100 5,601 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 113 Remuneration Committee report continued Committee activity and key decisions in 2019 Matters considered and decisions reached by the Committee in 2019 are shown in the table below: Reviewed the Directors’ Remuneration Policy to be put to shareholders for approval at the 2020 AGM and consulted with major shareholders on the key proposed changes Considered the 2018 balanced Group Scorecard outcome and determined that no adjustments to the formulaic outcome were required Adopted the 2019 Group Scorecard for the purpose of determining relevant aspects of 2019 remuneration Approved Executive Director and Executive Committee member annual bonus awards for 2018 Approved the vesting of the 2016 BMP awards Considered and approved the 2018 Annual Report on Remuneration Approved the operation of the all-employee Sharesave Share Plan in 2019 Approved the Deferred Share Plan and Performance Share Plan awards for 2019 Approved the Performance Share Plan awards for 2019 for senior management below Board Reviewed 2018 Gender Pay Gap reporting Noted the bonus awards to senior management below Executive Committee member level Approved a proposal for members of the Executive Committee and senior staff salary review Received an update on shareholder engagement Approved the remuneration package for the new Executive Committee members (MD Customers, EVP Capital Projects and EVP Innovation) Reviewed the fees paid to PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) as, the Committee’s remuneration adviser, together with fees paid by the Group to PwC for other matters, and reviewed PwC’s independence Approved in principle the operation of share plans in 2020 Reviewed year-to-date progress on the 2019 scorecard and likely impact on remuneration outcomes for Executive Directors and wider workforce (bonus and LTIP) In 2019, the Remuneration Committee was chaired by Tony Thorne until 17 April 2019 and Nicola Hodson thereafter. Tony Thorne remained a member of the Remuneration Committee until his retirement from the Board on 28 June 2019. Other members of the Remuneration Committee during the year were John Baxter (from April 2019); Tim Cobbold (until September 2019); Philip Cox; David Lindsell (until April 2019); David Nussbaum and Vanessa Simms, all of whom are independent Non-Executive Directors. The Group Company Secretary was secretary to the Committee. The Group CEO was invited to attend meetings of the Committee, except when his own remuneration was discussed, as was the Chief Transformation Officer, Group HR Director and the Group Head of Reward. Adviser to the Committee The adviser to the Committee for the year was PwC. PwC is an independent adviser appointed by the Committee in October 2010, following a competitive tender process, to advise on market practice and remuneration of Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors. PwC is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and a signatory to its Code of Conduct. In addition, the Committee has satisfied itself that the advice it receives is objective and independent as PwC has confirmed there are no conflicts of interest. From time to time the Group engages PwC to provide financial, taxation and related advice on specific matters. The Committee will continue to monitor such engagements in order to be satisfied that they do not affect PwC’s independence as an adviser to the Committee. PwC was paid £173,000, excluding VAT, during 2019 in respect of advice given to the Committee. Other matters Remuneration received from external appointments No remuneration was received by the Executive Directors for service as a Non-Executive Director elsewhere. This report was reviewed and approved by the Remuneration Committee. Nicola Hodson Chair of the Remuneration Committee 26 February 2020 114 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors’ report Directors’ report This report contains information which the Company is obliged to disclose and which cannot be found in the strategic, financial, sustainability or corporate governance reports of this document. The Directors present their annual report on the affairs of the Group, together with the financial statements and auditor’s report for the year ended 31 December 2019. The Directors’ report required under the Companies Act 2006 is comprised of this Report, the Corporate Governance Report and the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committee Reports. Information about the use of financial instruments by the Company and its subsidiaries is given in note 7.1 to the consolidated financial statements. Directors The following Directors held office throughout the year: Philip Cox David Nussbaum Will Gardiner John Baxter (from 17 April 2019) Andrew Skelton (from 2 January 2019) David Lindsell (until 17 April 2019) Andrew Koss Tony Thorne (until 28 June 2019) Vanessa Simms Tim Cobbold (until 27 September 2019) Nicola Hodson The appointment and replacement of directors is governed by the Company’s Articles of Association, the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation. Annual General Meeting (AGM) The AGM will be held at 11.30am on Wednesday 22 April 2020 at Grocers’ Hall, Princes St, London EC2R 8AD. A separate document contains the notice convening the AGM and includes an explanation of the business to be conducted at the meeting. Dividends An interim dividend of 6.4 pence per share was paid on 11 October 2019 (2018: 5.6 pence), to shareholders on the register on 20 September 2019. The Directors propose a final dividend of 9.5 pence per share (2018: 8.5 pence), which will, subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM, be paid on 15 May 2020, to shareholders on the register on 24 April 2020. Details of past dividends can be found on the Company’s website at www.drax.com/investors/dividend-history. Share capital Drax Group plc has a Premium Listing on the London Stock Exchange and currently trades as part of the FTSE 250 Index, under the symbol DRX and with the ISIN number GB00B1VNSX38. The Company has only one class of equity shares, being ordinary shares of 11 16⁄29 pence each, with each ordinary share having one vote. Shares held in treasury do not carry voting rights. Details of movements in the Company’s issued share capital can be found in note 4.5 to the financial statements on page 166. Shares in issue At 1 January 2019 407,193,168 Issued in period 3,282,563 At 31 December 2019 410,475,731 Treasury shares at 31 December 2019 13,841,295 Total voting rights at 31 December 2019 396,634,436 Issued between 1 January and 26 February 2020 1,453 At 26 February 2020 410,477,184 Treasury shares at 26 February 2020 13,841,295 Total voting rights at 26 February 2020 396,635,889 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 115 Directors’ report continued Authority to purchase own shares At the AGM held on 17 April 2019, shareholders authorised the Company to make market purchases of up to 10% of the issued ordinary share capital. As announced on 22 January 2019, the Company completed its share buy-back programme. The purpose of the programme was to reduce the Company’s share capital. In aggregate, the Company purchased 13,841,295 shares at a cost (including dealing and associated costs) of £50,250,181 between April 2018 and 21 January 2019. All shares were purchased in the open market. The shares are held in treasury pending cancellation or re-issue. At the 2020 AGM, shareholders will be asked to renew the authority to make market purchases of up to 10% of the issued ordinary share capital. More details on the resolution number 18 can be found in the notice of meeting. Interests in voting rights Information provided to the Company in accordance with the Financial Conduct Authority’s Disclosure and Transparency Rules (DTR) is published in a timely manner on the London Stock Exchange’s Regulatory News Service – a Regulatory Information Service and also on the Company’s website. As at 26 February 2020, the following information had been received in accordance with DTR5 from holders of notifiable interests in the voting rights of the Company. The information provided below was correct at the date of notification. However, investors are only obliged to notify the Company when a notifiable threshold is crossed and therefore it should be noted that the holdings below may have changed but without crossing a threshold. Number of voting rights in Date last Number of Number of qualifying Total number % of the issued notification voting rights voting rights financial of voting share capital made directly held indirectly held instruments rights held held(1) Invesco plc 13.11.2019 – 58,390,722 – 58,390,722 14.72% Schroders plc 10.12.2019 – 40,957,839 – 40,957,839 10.33% BlackRock Inc 06.02.2020 – 19,790,328 1,238,679 21,029,007 5.30% Orbis Holdings Limited 19.10.2018 – 19,890,687 – 19,890,687 5.00% Artemis Investment Management 11.04.2019 – 13,189,171 – 13,189,171 3.35% Notes: (1) As at the date of the last notification made to the Company by the investor, in compliance with DTR Rights and obligations attaching to shares The rights attaching to the Company’s Ordinary Shares are set out in the Articles, available on the Company’s website at www.drax.com/policies. The Articles may only be changed by shareholders by special resolution. Attention should be given to the following sections within the Articles, covering the rights and obligations attaching to shares: Variation of rights – which covers the rights attached to any class of shares that may be varied with the written consent of the holders of not less than three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of that class, or with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate General Meeting of the holders of those shares. Transfer of shares – provides detail of how transfers of shares in certified and uncertified form may be undertaken. It also sets out the Directors’ rights of refusal to effect a transfer and the action that Directors must take following such refusal. It should be noted that a shareholder does not need to obtain the approval of the Company, or of other holders of shares in the Company, for a transfer of shares to take place. Voting and deadlines for exercising voting rights – these sections of the Articles deal with voting on a show of hands and on a poll. They also cover the appointment of a proxy or corporate representative. In respect of voting deadlines, the Articles provide for the submission of proxy forms not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting. It has been the Company’s practice since incorporation to hold a poll on every resolution at Annual General Meetings and General Meetings. A trustee holds shares on behalf of employees in respect of the Group’s Share Incentive Plan. The voting rights attached to such shares are not directly exercisable by the employees. The employee may direct the trustee on how to vote at a General Meeting and the trustee may only cast its vote in respect of shares over which it has received a valid direction from employees. 116 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Disabled employees The Company gives full consideration to applications for employment by disabled persons, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned. In the event of employees becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues, and that appropriate training is arranged. It is the policy of the Group that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, so far as possible, be identical to that of other employees. Political donations Drax is a politically neutral organisation and did not make any political donations in 2019. The company regularly engages with regulators and policymakers (including those associated with political parties and governments) to listen and contribute to discussions on a wide range of matters. Such engagement is an important part of our strategy and contributing to initiatives enabling the UK in its goal of being carbon neutral by 2050. Further information on how we engage with stakeholders can be found on pages 24 to 29, and our Political Engagement Policy can be found on the Company’s website at: www.drax.com/about-us/ drax-political-engagement-policy. On page 27 we explain how we engaged with shareholders during the year in establishing our Political Engagement Policy. While we do not believe that any expenditure incurred as a result of this engagement would be considered a political donation under the Companies Act 2006 (“the Act”), due to the broad definition of political donations and as a matter of good governance and transparency, we have provided information on areas of expenditure which may be regarded as falling within the scope of the Act. During the year ended 31 December 2019, Drax exhibited at, and held events at, conferences organised by political parties, spending a total of £41,065. These events allow Drax to present its views on a non-partisan basis to politicians from across the political spectrum and non-political stakeholders such as NGOs and other listed and non-listed companies. These payments do not indicate support for any political party. The recipients were the Conservative Party (£30,065), the Labour Party (£8,000) and SERA (an environmental group affiliated to the Labour Party) (£3,000). At our 2020 AGM Drax will be seeking renewal from shareholders of the existing authority approved at the 2019 AGM. More details are contained in the Notice of AGM. Other significant agreements • A £350 million facilities agreement dated 20 December 2012 (as amended and restated on 10 December 2015 and 21 April 2017 and further amended by way of a supplemental amendment agreement dated 4 May 2017) between, amongst others, Drax Corporate Limited and Barclays Bank PLC (as facility agent) (the “Facilities Agreement”). • An indenture dated 5 May 2017 between, amongst others, Drax Finco plc and BNY Mellon Corporate Trustee Services Limited (as Trustee) governing £350 million 4.25% senior secured notes due 2022 (the ”2017 Indenture”). • An indenture dated 26 April 2018 (as amended and supplemented from time to time, including by a supplemental indenture dated 12 February 2019 and a supplemental indenture dated 16 May 2019) between, amongst others, Drax Finco plc and BNY Mellon Corporate Trustee Services Limited (as Trustee) governing $500 million 6.625% senior secured notes due November 2025 (the “2018 Indenture” and, together with the 2017 Indenture, the “Indentures”). • A £375 million term loan facilities agreement dated 24 July 2019 between, amongst others, Drax Corporate Limited and Banco Santander S.A., London Branch (as facility agent) (the “UK Private Placement”). • A £125 million term loan facilities agreement dated 24 July 2019 between, amongst others, Drax Corporate Limited and Barclays Bank PLC (as facility agent) (the ”ESG Facility”). Under the Indentures, a change of control (a “Notes Change of Control”) occurs if any person other than Drax Group plc becomes the beneficial owner of more than 50% of the voting rights of Drax Group plc’s direct subsidiary, Drax Group Holdings Limited (unless replaced by a successor parent company), or else if all or substantially all of the assets of Drax Group Holdings Limited are disposed outside of the Drax corporate group. No later than 60 days after any change of control, Drax Group Holdings must offer to purchase any outstanding notes at 101% of the principal amount of such notes plus accrued interest and other unpaid amounts. Under the Facilities Agreement, the UK Private Placement and the ESG Facility, a change of control occurs if any person or group of persons acting in concert gains control of Drax Group plc or if Drax Group plc no longer holds directly 100% of the issued share capital of Drax Group Holdings Limited (subject to carve-outs for the interposition of an intermediate holding company) or else if a Notes Change of Control occurs. Following a change of control, if any lender requires, it may by giving notice to the relevant Group entity within 30 days of receiving notice from such Group entity that a change of control has occurred, cancel its commitments and require the repayment of its share of any outstanding amounts within three business days of such cancellation notice being given. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 117 Directors’ report continued Directors’ interests and indemnity arrangements Other than a service contract between the Executive Directors and a Group company no director had a material interest at any time during the year in any significant contract with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings. There are no agreements between the Group and its Directors providing for compensation for loss of office or employment because of a takeover bid. The Company has appropriate indemnity insurance cover in place in respect of legal action against Directors of the Company and its subsidiaries. Strategic report The Strategic report on pages 1 to 61 contains disclosures in relation to workforce engagement, stakeholder engagement, diversity, Greenhouse Gas emissions, future development and research activities. Post balance sheet events On 26 February 2020, following a comprehensive review of operations and discussions with National Grid, Ofgem and the UK Government, the Board determined to end commercial coal generation at Drax Power Station in 2021 – ahead of the UK’s 2025 deadline. The Group will shortly commence a consultation process with employees and trade unions with a view to ending coal operations in September 2022. Under these proposals, commercial generation from coal will end in March 2021 but the two coal units will remain available to meet Capacity Market obligations until September 2022. The Group currently anticipates incurring one-off closure costs of between £25 million and £35 million in the period until closure and initially expect to provide in full for these costs during 2020, where appropriate. In assessing the financial impact, the Group will also consider the useful lives, residual values and potential impairment of certain assets at Drax Power Station. The timing for completing this impairment review is uncertain as these assets remain an integral part of the site and a detailed closure plan needs to be finalised. The carrying amount of affected assets was approximately £240 million at 31 December 2019, comprising coalspecific assets with useful lives up to 2025 and other assets with useful lives up to 2039. In addition, the Group held coal inventory at 31 December 2019 with a carrying amount of £103 million, which the Group expects to recover in full over the period to closure. A further update on these items will be provided in the Group’s interim financial statements for the first half of 2020. The Group expects to treat all closure costs and any asset obsolescence charges as exceptional items in the Group’s financial statements. As a result, the Group’s expectations for 2020 EBITDA are materially unchanged. As part of the proposed coal closure programme the Group is implementing a broader review of operations at Drax Power Station. This review aims to support a safe, efficient and lower cost operating model which, alongside a reduction in biomass cost, positions Drax for long-term biomass generation following the end of the current renewable support mechanisms in March 2027. While previously being an integral part of the Drax Power Station site and offering flexibility to the Group’s trading and operational performance, the long-term economics of coal generation remain challenging and in 2019 represented only three percent of the Group’s electricity production. In January 2020, Drax did not take a Capacity Market agreement for the period beyond September 2022 given the low clearing price. Auditors and the disclosure of information to the auditor So far as each person serving as a Director at the date of approving this report is aware, there is no relevant audit information, being information needed by the auditor in connection with preparing the report, of which the auditor is unaware. Having made enquiries of fellow directors, each Director has taken all steps that he/she ought to have taken as a Director to ascertain any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditor is aware of that information. This information is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act. Resolutions will be proposed at the AGM for (i) the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as the auditor of the Group; and (ii) authorising the Directors to determine the auditor’s remuneration. As explained, the Audit Committee reviews the appointment of the auditor, the auditor’s effectiveness and its relationship with the Group, including the level of audit and non-audit fees paid to the auditor. Further details on the work of the auditor and the Audit Committee are set out in the Audit Committee report on pages 78 to 85. The Directors’ report was approved by the Board on 26 February 2020 and is signed on its behalf by: Brett Gladden Group Company Secretary Registered office: Drax Power Station, Selby, North Yorkshire YO8 8PH 118 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors’ responsibilities statement The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations. Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year. Under that law the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice (United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law), set out in FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework”. Under company law the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period. In preparing the Parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: • select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently; • make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent; • state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements; and • prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business. In preparing the Group financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: • properly select and apply accounting policies; • present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information; • provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entity’s financial position and financial performance; and • make an assessment of the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company’s transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities. The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company’s website. Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions. Responsibility statement We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: • the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole; • the Strategic report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face; and • the annual report and financial statements, taken as a whole, are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Company’s performance, business model and strategy. This responsibility statement was approved by the Board of Directors on 26 February 2020 and is signed on its behalf by: Will Gardiner Group CEO Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 119 Verification Statement from Bureau Veritas UK Limited Bureau Veritas UK Ltd. (“Bureau Veritas”) has provided independent assurance to Drax Group Plc (“Drax”) over the key sustainability data reported in its Annual report and accounts 2019 (hereafter ‘the Report’), including the following selected performance indicators: • GHG emissions (scope 1, 2); • Health and safety performance (Total Recordable Injury Rate); • Employee headcount (gender, country, business unit); • Water data; • Biomass supply chain emissions. The assurance process was conducted in accordance with International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000 Revised, Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (effective for assurance reports dated on or after December 15, 2015), issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. Bureau Veritas’ full assurance statement includes certain limitations, exclusions, observations, and a detailed assurance methodology and scope of work. The full assurance statement with Bureau Veritas’ independent opinion can be found at www.drax.com/sustainability. 120 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Independent Auditor’s Report to the Members of Drax Group plc Report on the audit of the financial statements 1. Opinion In our opinion: • the financial statements of Drax Group plc (the ‘parent company’) and its subsidiaries (the ‘group’) give a true and fair view of the state of the group’s and of the parent company’s affairs as at 31 December 2019 and of the group’s profit for the year then ended; • the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union; • the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, including Financial Reporting Standard 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework”; and • the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation. We have audited the financial statements which comprise: • the consolidated income statement; • the consolidated statement of comprehensive income; • the consolidated and parent company balance sheets; • the consolidated and parent company statements of changes in equity; • the consolidated cash flow statement; • the basis of preparation and statement of accounting policies on pages 129 to 131; • the notes 2.1 to 8.4 related to the consolidated financial statements; and • the notes 1 to 9 related to the parent company financial statements. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the group financial statements is applicable law and IFRSs as adopted by the European Union. The financial reporting framework that has been applied in the preparation of the parent company financial statements is applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards, including FRS 101 “Reduced Disclosure Framework” (United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice). 2. Basis for opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing (UK) (ISAs (UK)) and applicable law. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section of our report. We are independent of the group and the parent company in accordance with the ethical requirements that are relevant to our audit of the financial statements in the UK, including the Financial Reporting Council’s (the ‘FRC’s’) Ethical Standard as applied to listed public interest entities, and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. The non-audit services provided to the Group for the year are disclosed in note 2.3 to the financial statements. We confirm that the non-audit services prohibited by the FRC’s Ethical Standard were not provided to the group or the parent company. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. 3. Summary of our audit approach Key audit The key audit matters that we identified in the current year were: matters • Valuation of commodity, foreign exchange and other contracts • Estimation of Customers unbilled revenue • Impairment of OCGT development assets Within this report, key audit matters are identified as follows: ! Newly identified Increased level of risk Similar level of risk Decreased level of risk Materiality The materiality that we used for the Group financial statements was £12.2m which was determined on the basis of taking into consideration a number of metrics, but with particular focus on Earnings before Interest, Taxation, Depreciation and Amortisation (Adjusted EBITDA) which excludes the impact of exceptional items and certain remeasurements. Our selected materiality represents approximately 3% of Adjusted EBITDA for the year. Scoping We focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at four components, being Drax Generation, Haven Power, Opus Energy and Drax Biomass. These components represent the principal business units and account for virtually all of the Group’s net assets, revenue and profit before tax. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 121 Independent Auditor’s Report to the members of Drax Group plc continued Significant The following changes were made to the key audit matters reported in the prior year: changes in our approach • The presentation of the consolidated income statement covering both exceptional items and certain remeasurements was a key audit matter in 2018 as this was the first year in which the consolidated income statement was presented in this way. This was a one off key audit matter to reflect this significant change in presentation and therefore has been removed as a key audit matter in the current year. • The accounting for the acquisition of Drax Generation Enterprise Limited is no longer a key audit matter. This was a prior year one-off acquisition and there have been no significant changes in the finalisation of the purchase price allocation in the current year, see Note 5.1. • Impairment of OCGT development assets has been identified as a key audit matter in the current year. This reflects the delay in securing a capacity market contract which would facilitate continued development of the projects. Other aspects of our audit approach remain broadly consistent with the prior year. 4. Conclusions relating to going concern, principal risks and viability statement 4.1. Going concern Going concern We have reviewed the directors’ statement on page 129 to the financial statements about whether they is the basis of considered it appropriate to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing them and their preparation of identification of any material uncertainties to the group’s and company’s ability to continue to do so over a the financial period of at least twelve months from the date of approval of the financial statements. statements that assumes an We considered as part of our risk assessment the nature of the group, its business model and related risks entity will remain including where relevant the impact of Brexit, the requirements of the applicable financial reporting framework in operation for a and the system of internal control. We evaluated the directors’ assessment of the group’s ability to continue as period of at least a going concern, including challenging the underlying data and key assumptions used to make the assessment, 12 months from and evaluated the directors’ plans for future actions in relation to their going concern assessment. the date of We are required to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to that approval of statement required by Listing Rule 9.8.6R(3) and report if the statement is materially inconsistent with our the financial knowledge obtained in the audit. statements. We confirm that we have nothing material to report, add or draw attention to in respect of these matters. 4.2. Principal risks and viability statement Viability means Based solely on reading the directors’ statements and considering whether they were consistent with the the ability of knowledge we obtained in the course of the audit, including the knowledge obtained in the evaluation of the the group to directors’ assessment of the group’s and the company’s ability to continue as a going concern, we are required continue over to state whether we have anything material to add or draw attention to in relation to: the time horizon considered • the disclosures on pages 54 to 61 that describe the principal risks, procedures to identify emerging risks, and appropriate by an explanation of how these are being managed or mitigated; the directors. • the directors’ confirmation on page 55 that they have carried out a robust assessment of the principal and emerging risks facing the group, including those that would threaten its business model, future performance, We confirm that solvency or liquidity; or we have nothing • the directors’ explanation on pages 52 and 53 as to how they have assessed the prospects of the group, over material to what period they have done so and why they consider that period to be appropriate, and their statement as report, add or to whether they have a reasonable expectation that the group will be able to continue in operation and meet draw attention to its liabilities as they fall due over the period of their assessment, including any related disclosures drawing in respect of attention to any necessary qualifications or assumptions. these matters. We are also required to report whether the directors’ statement relating to the prospects of the group required by Listing Rule 9.8.6R(3) is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit. 122 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 5. Key audit matters Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period and include the most significant assessed risks of material misstatement (whether or not due to fraud) that we identified. These matters included those which had the greatest effect on: the overall audit strategy, the allocation of resources in the audit; and directing the efforts of the engagement team. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. 5.1. Valuation of commodity, foreign exchange and other contracts Key audit Net losses on derivative contracts recognised in the Consolidated income statement in the year are £132.8m (2018: matter gains of £38.4m), with related derivative assets of £346.0m and liabilities of £289.4m recognised on the balance description sheet as at 31 December 2019. Further detail of the key judgements are disclosed in the Audit Committee report on pages 82 and 83. Section 7 sets out the financial risk management notes. The Group has exposure to a number of different financial risks including foreign exchange risk and commodity risk, and use a variety of derivative contracts to mitigate these risks, including commodity contracts, floating swap forwards and cross currency swaps. The valuation of derivative contracts is complex and requires judgement in areas including the selection of appropriate valuation methodologies, and assumptions in respect of future market prices and credit risk factors. Due to the inherent risks as described above, the large volume of data involved in the contract valuations, the complex valuation methodologies applied, and the requirement for certain manual adjustments, we have identified a risk relating to the potential for management or employees of the company to value trades inappropriately. How the We evaluated the design and implementation and tested the operating effectiveness of relevant controls related to scope of the valuation of commodity and foreign exchange contracts. our audit With involvement of our internal financial instrument specialists we tested management’s key judgements and responded calculations, including testing a sample of trades undertaken to trade tickets, confirming key contractual terms to the key such as volumes and contracted prices. audit matter We have assessed the valuation models used by management, including any manual adjustments to determine the fair value of the derivative instruments and performed independent valuations across a sample of both commodity and foreign exchange contracts. We have analysed the appropriateness of management’s forward price curve assumptions by benchmarking these to third party sources and reviewed the consistency of the assumptions used across other areas of the financial statements, such as asset impairment, where relevant. We have challenged management’s approach and assumptions involved in assessing fair value adjustments such as credit risk, time value of money and spread adjustments through consideration of third party data. Key From our testing, we are satisfied that the valuation of commodity and foreign exchange contracts is reasonable. observations We consider the valuation models used by management to be appropriate and the forward curve assumptions adopted are within an acceptable range. 5.2. Estimation of Customers unbilled revenue  Key audit The recognition of retail revenue requires an estimation of customer usage between the date of the last meter matter reading and year end, which is known as unbilled revenue. Across the Customers division, unbilled revenue at the description balance sheet date amounted to £207.6m (2018: £146.5m). Further detail of the key judgements are disclosed in the Group’s critical accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions set out on page 130 and the Audit Committee report on pages 82 and 83. Accrued income is disclosed in note 3.6. The method of estimating unbilled revenue is complex and judgemental and requires assumptions for both the volumes of energy consumed by customers and the related value. We identified a potential fraud risk in relation to revenue recognition in the Customer businesses, in particular to the estimates underpinning unbilled revenue, as these judgemental areas could be manipulated by management to mis-report revenue. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 123 Independent Auditor’s Report to the members of Drax Group plc continued How the We evaluated the design and implementation and tested the operating effectiveness of relevant controls related to scope of the estimation of unbilled revenue. This included controls over the reconciliation of meter readings provided by the our audit energy markets, and which are used by management to estimate the power supplied. We also tested the controls responded over the price per unit applied in the valuation of unbilled revenue. to the key When external market information was not available at the balance sheet date, we obtained and considered audit matter management’s reconciliation of the volume of power purchased to their calculations of revenue supplied and completed sample tests to check that the December 2019 unbilled revenue amount was subsequently billed. We also reviewed the aggregate unbilled revenue balance from previous periods to test that the amounts recognised were subsequently billed in line with the values accrued. Key Our retrospective reviews of estimated revenues found that management have historically achieved a high level of observations accuracy. We considered the estimates for revenue earned in the year to be appropriate. 5.3 Impairment of OCGT development assets  ! Key audit An asset of £41.9m (2018: £36.1m) is recognised within the Consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2019 in matter relation to development assets for OCGT projects. Continued development, construction and operation of these description assets is ultimately dependent upon the ability to secure sufficient future income at an appropriate level in order to reduce the project risk and associated returns to an acceptable level. Further detail of the key judgements are disclosed in the Group’s critical accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions set out on page 130 and the Audit Committee report on pages 82 and 83. Intangible assets are disclosed in note 5.3. The business case for these projects is predicated on the ability to secure a Capacity Market contract at an appropriate level. Current clearing prices are noted to be below the levels required for further development of these projects and a risk has been identified in respect of the recoverable value of these assets. Estimating the recoverable value of these assets requires judgement in relation to key assumptions including discount rates, future income levels and capital costs. We note that assumptions relating to long term revenues and costs are inherently difﬁcult to assess. We note that the headroom calculated is highly sensitive to all key assumptions and any future negative changes would be expected to result in an impairment charge. How the We evaluated the design and implementation of relevant controls in relation to management’s impairment scope of assessment process. our audit We have reviewed management’s models and challenged the key assumptions including discount rates, income responded assumptions and capital costs. We have benchmarked income assumptions against third party reports prepared by to the key reputable market analysts and worked with internal valuation specialists to prepare an independent assessment of audit matter discount rates. We have challenged management over the appropraiteness of capital cost assumptions in light of asset specifications and procurement strategies for the project. We have undertaken analysis and testing including; • Running a range of sensitivities including alternative scenarios to assess whether an impairment would be required if other assumptions were adopted; • Verifying the mathematical accuracy of the cash flow models; and • Assessing whether the disclosures in note 5.3 of the ﬁnancial statements appropriately disclose the key judgements taken so that the reader of the accounts is aware of the impact in the ﬁnancial statements of changes to key assumptions that may lead to impairment. Key We believe that the assumptions used by management were appropriate and supported by third party independent observations assessments. Discount rates applied by management are considered to be lower than expected for projects of this nature which would be expected to be in the range of 7.5% 8.0% compared to management’s assumption of 7.0%. Based on alternative scenarios we are satisfied that no impairment is required. 124 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 6. Our application of materiality 6.1. Materiality We define materiality as the magnitude of misstatement in the financial statements that makes it probable that the economic decisions of a reasonably knowledgeable person would be changed or influenced. We use materiality both in planning the scope of our audit work and in evaluating the results of our work. Based on our professional judgement, we determined materiality for the financial statements as a whole as follows: Group financial statements Parent company financial statements Materiality £12.2m (2018: £7.6m) £5.6m (2018: £4.6m) Basis for We have determined materiality by considering a range We have capped materiality at 46% (2018: 60%) of the determining of possible benchmarks but with a particular focus on materiality identified for the Group. This is a judgement materiality Adjusted EBITDA, which excludes the impact of and reflects the significant value of investments held on exceptional items and certain measurements, together the balance sheet at the year end (£719.7m). Parent with profit before and after interest and tax as well as company materiality equates to 0.8% of net assets the scale of the balance sheet and the overall size of (2018: 0.7%). the business. Our selected materiality represents approximately 3.0% of Adjusted EBITDA for the year (2018: 3.0%) the basis of which is consistent with the prior year. Rationale When determining materiality, we have considered When determining materiality, we considered the net for the the size and scale of the business and the nature of assets of the company as its principal activity is as an benchmark its operations. We have also considered which investment holding company for the Group. applied benchmarks would be of relevance to the users of the financial statements and those applied to the audit of similar businesses. We consider that Adjusted EBITDA is of particular relevance to users of the financial statements and is a key measure of performance used by the Group. It excludes volatility caused in particular by the remeasurements of derivative contracts and exceptional items, defined as those transactions that, by their nature, do not reflect the trading performance of the Group in the period. Group materiality £12m Adjusted EBITDA £410m Component materiality range £6m to £4m Adjusted EBITDA Audit Committee Group materiality reporting threshold £0.60m 6.2. Performance materiality We set performance materiality at a level lower than materiality to reduce the probability that, in aggregate, uncorrected and undetected misstatements exceed the materiality for the financial statements as a whole. Group performance materiality was set at 70% of group materiality for the 2019 audit (2018: 70%). In determining performance materiality, we considered the following factors: • The low level of historical uncorrected misstatements within the consolidated financial statements; • Our assessment of the control environment and conclusions from our testing of group wide controls; and • No significant changes in the business in the year which would impact on our ability to forecast expected level of misstatement. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 125 Independent Auditor’s Report to the members of Drax Group plc continued 6.3. Error reporting threshold We agreed with the Audit Committee that we would report to the Committee all audit differences in excess of £0.6m (2018: £0.4m), as well as differences below that threshold that, in our view, warranted reporting on qualitative grounds. We also report to the Audit Committee on disclosure matters that we identified when assessing the overall presentation of the financial statements. 7. An overview of the scope of our audit 7.1. Identification and scoping of components Our group audit was scoped by obtaining an understanding of the Group and its environment, including group-wide controls, and assessing the risks of material misstatement at the Group level. We focused our Group audit scope primarily on the audit work at four components, being Drax Generation, Haven Power, Opus Energy and Drax Biomass. These represent the principal business units of the Group and account for virtually all of the Group’s net assets, revenue and profit before tax. This is in line with our audit approach from the prior year. All work was performed by the UK audit team under the supervision of the Senior Statutory Auditor. No component or overseas auditors were engaged in the completion of our audit procedures in the current or prior year. A full scope audit was performed for all significant components. This scope was selected to provide an appropriate basis for undertaking audit work to address the risks of material misstatement identified above. Our audit work at all significant component locations was executed at levels of materiality applicable to each individual entity which were lower than Group materiality and ranged from £4.0m to £6.0m (2018: £3.0m to £5.3m). At the Group level we also tested the consolidation process and carried out analytical procedures to confirm our conclusion that there were no significant risks of material misstatement of the aggregated financial information of the remaining components not subject to audit or audit of specified account balances. During 2019 and subsequently the Senior Statutory Auditor visited the primary locations for all four significant components. 8. Other information The directors are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included in the annual report, other than the financial statements and our auditor’s report thereon. Our opinion on the financial statements does not cover the other information and, except to the extent otherwise explicitly stated in our report, we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. In connection with our audit of the financial statements, our responsibility is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If we identify such material inconsistencies or apparent material misstatements, we are required to determine whether there is a material misstatement in the financial statements or a material misstatement of the other information. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. In this context, matters that we are specifically required to report to you as uncorrected material misstatements of the other information include where we conclude that: • Fair, balanced and understandable – the statement given by the directors that they consider the annual report and financial statements taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the group’s position and performance, business model and strategy, is materially inconsistent with our knowledge obtained in the audit; or • Audit committee reporting – the section describing the work of the audit committee does not appropriately address matters communicated by us to the audit committee; or • Directors’ statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code – the parts of the directors’ statement required under the Listing Rules relating to the company’s compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code containing provisions specified for review by the auditor in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.10R(2) do not properly disclose a departure from a relevant provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code. We have nothing to report in respect of these matters. 9. Responsibilities of directors As explained more fully in the directors’ responsibilities statement, the directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view, and for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the financial statements, the directors are responsible for assessing the group’s and the parent company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the group or the parent company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so. 126 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 10. Auditor’s responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs (UK) will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements. Details of the extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations are set out below. A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements is located on the FRC’s website at: www.frc.org.uk/auditorsresponsibilities. This description forms part of our auditor’s report. 11. Extent to which the audit was considered capable of detecting irregularities, including fraud We identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, and then design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, including obtaining audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. 11.1. Identifying and assessing potential risks related to irregularities In identifying and assessing risks of material misstatement in respect of irregularities, including fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations, we considered the following: • the nature of the industry and sector, control environment and business performance including the design of the Group’s remuneration policies, key drivers for directors’ remuneration, bonus levels and performance targets; • the Group’s own assessment of the risks that irregularities may occur either as a result of fraud or error; • results of our enquiries of management, internal audit and the audit committee about their own identification and assessment of the risks of irregularities; • any matters we identified having obtained and reviewed the Group’s documentation of their policies and procedures relating to: –– identifying, evaluating and complying with laws and regulations and whether they were aware of any instances of noncompliance; –– detecting and responding to the risks of fraud and whether they have knowledge of any actual, suspected or alleged fraud; –– the internal controls established to mitigate risks of fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations; • the matters discussed among the audit engagement team and involving relevant internal specialists, including tax, pensions, IT and financial instrument specialists regarding how and where fraud might occur in the financial statements and any potential indicators of fraud. As a result of these procedures, we considered the opportunities and incentives that may exist within the organisation for fraud and identified the greatest potential for fraud in the following areas: impairment of OCGT development assets, cut-off of bilateral sales, working capital transactions and estimation of Customers unbilled revenue. In common with all audits under ISAs (UK), we are also required to perform specific procedures to respond to the risk of management override. We also obtained an understanding of the legal and regulatory framework that the Group operates in, focusing on provisions of those laws and regulations that had a direct effect on the determination of material amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. The key laws and regulations we considered in this context included the UK Companies Act, Listing Rules, Pensions legislation, Tax legislation, and Regulations established by regulators in the key markets in which the Group operates, including the Office of Gas and Electricity Markets (Ofgem). In addition, we considered provisions of other laws and regulations that do not have a direct effect on the financial statements but compliance with which may be fundamental to the Group’s ability to operate or to avoid a material penalty. These included the operating and environmental regulations relevant to the Group. 11.2. Audit response to risks identified As a result of performing the above, we identified impairment of OCGT development assets and estimation of Customers unbilled revenue as key audit matters related to the potential risk of fraud. The key audit matters section of our report explains the matters in more detail and also describes the specific procedures we performed in response to those key audit matters. In addition to the above our procedures to respond to risks identified included the following: • reviewing the financial statement disclosures and testing to supporting documentation to assess compliance with provisions of relevant laws and regulations described above as having a direct effect on the financial statements; • enquiring of management, the audit committee and in-house legal counsel concerning actual and potential litigation and claims; • performing analytical procedures to identify any unusual or unexpected relationships that may indicate risks of material misstatement due to fraud; • reading minutes of meetings of those charged with governance, reviewing internal audit reports and reviewing correspondence with HMRC; Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 127 Independent Auditor’s Report to the members of Drax Group plc continued • in addressing the risk of fraud in revenue recognition and cut-off of bilateral sales, in addition to our testing described above we have performed focussed testing on trades close to the year end combined with analytical review procedures to assess accuracy and completeness of revenue recognised; • in addressing the risk of fraud in the use of working capital transactions, we have challenged management on the rationale for all transactions entered into and reviewed the accounting treatments adopted by management against the specific contractual terms and arrangements associated with each individual transaction and reviewed the related disclosures in the financial statements; and • in addressing the risk of fraud through management override of controls, testing the appropriateness of journal entries and other adjustments; assessing whether the judgements made in making accounting estimates are indicative of a potential bias; and evaluating the business rationale of any significant transactions that are unusual or outside the normal course of business. We also communicated relevant identified laws and regulations and potential fraud risks to all engagement team members including internal specialists, and remained alert to any indications of fraud or non-compliance with laws and regulations throughout the audit. Report on other legal and regulatory requirementss 12. Opinions on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006. In our opinion, based on the work undertaken in the course of the audit: • the information given in the strategic report and the directors’ report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements; and • the strategic report and the directors’ report have been prepared in accordance with applicable legal requirements. In the light of the knowledge and understanding of the group and the parent company and their environment obtained in the course of the audit, we have not identified any material misstatements in the strategic report or the directors’ report. 13. Matters on which we are required to report by exception 13.1 Adequacy of explanations received and accounting records Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: • we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit; or • adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us; or • the parent company financial statements are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns. We have nothing to report in respect of these matters. 13.2 Directors’ remuneration Under the Companies Act 2006 we are also required to report if in our opinion certain disclosures of directors’ remuneration have not been made or the part of the directors’ remuneration report to be audited is not in agreement with the accounting records and returns. We have nothing to report in respect of these matters. 14. Other matters 14.1 Auditor tenure Following the recommendation of the audit committee, we were appointed by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 17 April 2019 to audit the financial statements for the year ending 31 December 2019 and subsequent financial periods. The period of total uninterrupted engagement including previous renewals and reappointments of the firm is 15 years, covering the years ending 31 December 2005 to 2019. 14.2 Consistency of the audit report with the additional report to the audit committee Our audit opinion is consistent with the additional report to the audit committee we are required to provide in accordance with ISAs (UK). 15. Use of our report This report is made solely to the company’s members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006. Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company’s members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditor’s report and for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company’s members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed. Anthony Matthews FCA (Senior statutory auditor) For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Statutory Auditor London, United Kingdom 26 February 2020 128 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Financial statements Introduction Foreign exchange gains and losses arising on such The consolidated financial statements provide detailed retranslations are recognised in the consolidated income information about the financial performance (Consolidated statement within foreign exchange (losses)/gains. income statement), financial position (Consolidated balance sheet), and cash flows (Consolidated cash flow statement) of Foreign operations Drax Group plc (the Company) together with all of the entities The assets and liabilities of foreign operations with a functional controlled by the Company (collectively, the Group). currency other than sterling are translated into sterling using published exchange rates at the reporting date. The income The notes to the financial statements provide additional and expenditure of such operations are translated into sterling information on the items in the Consolidated income statement, using the exchange rate prevailing at the date of the Consolidated balance sheet and Consolidated cash flow transaction. Foreign exchange gains and losses resulting from statement. The notes include explanations of the information the retranslation of the operation’s net assets and its results presented. In general, the additional information in the notes for the year are recognised in the Consolidated statement of to the financial statements is required by law, International comprehensive income. Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) or other regulations to facilitate increased understanding of the primary statements Going concern set out on pages 133-137. The Group’s business activities, along with future developments that may affect its financial performance, position and cash Basis of preparation flows, are discussed within the Strategic report on pages 1 to 61 The financial statements have been prepared in accordance of this Annual Report. with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and therefore the consolidated financial statements comply with Article 4 In the viability statement on page 52-53 the directors state that of the EU IAS Regulation and the Companies Act 2006. they have a reasonable expectation that the Group will be able to continue in operation and meet its liabilities as they fall due The financial statements have been prepared on the historical over the next three years. cost basis, except for certain assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value (principally derivative financial Consequently, the directors also have a reasonable expectation instruments) and the assets and liabilities of the Group’s defined that the Group will continue in existence for the next 12 months benefit pension schemes (measured at fair value and using the and, therefore, have adopted the going concern basis in projected unit credit method respectively). preparing these financial statements. Restatement of the 2018 financial statements Basis of consolidation The Group provides comparative financial information in these These consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018. financial results of the Company and of all entities controlled The financial information provided in respect of 2018 has been by the Company (its subsidiaries) made up to 31 December each restated for the following two matters: year. The Company owns 100% of the equity of all subsidiaries. • The balance sheet for 2018 has been restated to reflect updated values for assets and liabilities acquired in relation Accounting policies to the acquisition of Drax Generation Enterprise Limited The significant accounting policies for the measurement of an (formerly ScottishPower Generation Limited – see note 5.1) individual item in the financial statements are described in the following conclusion of the completion statement process note to the financial statements relating to the item concerned and finalisation of acquisition fair values during 2019. The (see contents on page 132). new portfolio of pumped storage, hydro and CCGT generation assets are hereafter referred to as “the new generation assets.” The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the • The balance sheet for 2018 has also been restated to correct consolidated financial statements are consistent with those a historical error in the application of foreign exchange rates followed in the preparation of the Group’s annual consolidated to the translation of fixed asset balances in the Group’s financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2018, overseas subsidiaries. Correction of this error resulted in a except for the adoption of new standards effective as of £55.5 million increase in fixed asset carrying values and the 1 January 2019. In addition, the Group has early-adopted the balance of the translation reserve at 31 December 2018, with amendments to IAS 39 and IFRS 17: Interest rate benchmark no impact on the Consolidated income statement or the reform. The Group has not early-adopted any other standard, Consolidated cash flow statement. See note 8.3 for further interpretation or amendment that has been issued but is not details. As this adjustment impacts the opening balance yet effective. sheet for 2018, a restated balance sheet for 2017 has also been provided, as required by IAS 1. A full listing of new standards, interpretations and pronouncements under IFRS applicable to these financial Foreign currency transactions statements is presented in note 8.2. The application of these Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into sterling at new requirements has not had a material effect on the financial the exchange rate ruling at the date of the transaction. At each statements, other than in respect of IFRS 16. balance sheet date, monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at that date. Non-monetary items are not retranslated. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 129 Financial statements continued Adoption of IFRS 16 (Leases) Certain remeasurements and exceptional items – management IFRS 16 supersedes IAS 17 Leases, IFRIC 4 Determining whether makes judgements regarding transactions to exclude from the an arrangement contains a lease, SIC 15 Operating leases and Adjusted Results of the Group, as described under Alternative SIC 27 Evaluating the substance of transactions involving the Performance Measures, below. legal form of a lease. See note 2.7 on page 149 The Group has adopted IFRS 16 from 1 January 2019 using the Sources of estimation uncertainty modified retrospective method of adoption. Under this method, The following are the sources of estimation uncertainty that the standard is applied retrospectively with the cumulative carry the most significant risk of a material effect on next year’s effect of initially applying the standard recognised at the date accounts – that is, the items where actual outcomes in the next of initial application. Consequently, comparative information 12 months could vary significantly from the estimates made in in these financial statements for the year ended 31 December determining the reported amount of an asset or liability. 2018 has not been restated. Property, plant and equipment – property, plant and equipment The new requirements have impacted the Group’s accounting is depreciated on a straight-line basis over its useful economic for lease contracts. The Group’s lease portfolio predominantly life. Useful economic lives are estimated and based on past relates to properties and the hire of plant and equipment at experience, future replacement cycles and other available operating sites. On transition to IFRS 16 on 1 January 2019, evidence. Useful economic lives are reviewed annually. The assets controlled under lease contracts were brought onto carrying value of property, plant and equipment at 31 December the balance sheet as right-of-use assets, and the Group has 2019 is £2,327.4 million and depreciation on these assets in the recognised a corresponding liability for the amounts payable year, based on the weighted average useful economic lives under the lease contracts. disclosed in note 3.1, was £159.0 million. On transition, the Group elected to use the available practical See note 3.1 on page 152 expedient allowing the standard to only be applied to those contracts identified as leases under the previous standards. Impairment – an impairment review is conducted annually of Accordingly, the definition of a lease in accordance with IAS 17 goodwill and of other assets and cash-generating units (CGUs) and IFRIC 4 will continue to apply to those leases entered into where an indicator of possible impairment exists. In 2019, an or modified before 1 January 2019. However, the Group has impairment assessment has been completed for five of the applied the new definition of a lease to all contracts entered Group’s CGUs which have allocated goodwill or intangible into or modified on or after 1 January 2019. This change did not assets with an indefinite life. The assessment of future cash have a significant impact on the assessment of new contracts flows that underpins such a review is based on management’s in 2019 that are in scope of the new definition of a lease. best estimate of retail margins, future commodity prices, supply volumes, the capacity market and economic conditions. See note 8.3 on page 204 See note 2.4 on page 143, note 5.2 on page 170 and note 5.3 on Judgements and estimates page 171 The preparation of financial statements requires judgement to be applied in forming the Group’s accounting policies. It also Revenue recognition – the nature of some of the Group’s requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the activities, particularly within the Customers segment, results reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. in revenue being based on the estimated volumes of power Actual results may differ from these estimates. supplied to customers between the last meter reading and the year end, at an estimated average price per unit. Assumptions Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an that underpin these estimates are applied consistently and ongoing basis, with revisions recognised in the period in which comparison of past estimates to final settlements suggests a the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected. high degree of accuracy. However, actual outcomes may vary from initial estimates. The judgements involving a higher degree of estimation or complexity are set out below and in more detail, including Revenue from contracts satisfied over time is recognised in line sensitivity analysis where appropriate, in the related notes. with the progress of those contracts. Assumptions are applied consistently but actual outcomes may vary from initial estimates. Critical accounting judgements The critical judgements made in the process of applying the The value of revenue recognised by the Group in the period Group’s accounting policies during the year that have the most to 31 December 2019 in relation to the Customer business significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial is £2,269.1 million. statements are set out below. See note 2.2 on page 140 130 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Pensions – the Group records a net surplus or liability in its Certain remeasurements comprise fair value gains and losses balance sheet for its obligation to provide benefits under on derivative forward contracts to the extent those contracts approved defined benefit pension schemes, less the fair value do not qualify for hedge accounting, or hedge accounting is of assets held by the pension schemes. The actuarial valuations not effective, which under IFRS are recorded in revenue, cost of of the schemes’ assets and liabilities are performed annually sales or foreign exchange gains/(losses) as described above. The and depends on assumptions regarding interest rates, inflation, Group regards all of its forward contracting activity to represent future salary and pension increases, mortality and other factors, an economic hedge. The impact of excluding these fair value any of which are subject to future change. One of the key remeasurements is to reflect commodity sales and purchases estimations within the valuations is the discount rate. The value at contracted prices (the price paid or received in respect of of the pension surplus recognised by the Group at 31 December delivery of the commodity in question), taking into account the 2019 is £7.0 million. Sensitivities in the valuations are discussed impact of financial trading (such as forward foreign currency in note 6.3. purchases), in the Adjusted Results. The result of this adjustment shows the impact in revenue, cost of sales and foreign exchange See note 6.3 on page 179 gains/(losses) at the time the transaction takes place. Taxation – in accounting for both current and deferred tax Further information on exceptional items and certain the Group makes assumptions regarding the likely treatment remeasurements in the current and previous period is included of items of income and expenditure for tax purposes and the in note 2.7 to the financial statements. recoverability of deferred tax assets. These assumptions are based on interpretation of relevant legislation and, where The Group presents an additional subtotal in the Adjusted required, consultation with external advisers. Results column. Adjusted EBITDA is earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation, excluding the impact of The Group makes assumptions on whether it is appropriate exceptional items and certain remeasurements. Adjusted to recognise deferred tax assets. Deferred tax assets are EBITDA is the primary measure used by executive management recognised when it is considered more likely than not that and the Board to assess the financial performance of the Group they will be recovered. The key assumption for the Group is as it provides a more comparable assessment of the Group’s in relation to the likelihood of sufficient future taxable profits year on year trading performance. in its US business to utilise tax losses. The Group has recognised deferred tax assets in relation to these losses and other Adjusted EBITDA for 2019 does not include the expense for temporary differences at 31 December 2019 of £27.5 million. contracts classified as operating leases under previous See note 2.6 on page 145 accounting standards. Under the new accounting standard of IFRS 16, leases are capitalised on the balance sheet as right-ofAlternative performance measures (APMs) use assets with depreciation charged to the income statement The measures described below are not measures that are over the assets’ useful economic life. The impact of IFRS 16 on defined within IFRS but provide additional information that Adjusted EBITDA is a £7.4 million benefit due to the reduction is used by the Board to evaluate the Group’s trading in operating expenses, see note 8.3 for further information. performance. These measures have been defined internally and may therefore not be comparable to similar APMs Net debt presented by other companies. The Group defines net debt as total borrowings less cash and cash equivalents. Total borrowings includes external financial Presentation of the income statement debt, such as loan notes, term loans and amounts drawn in The Group’s financial performance for the period, measured in cash under revolving credit facilities (see note 4.3) but excludes accordance with IFRS, is shown in the Total Results column on other financial liabilities such as lease liabilities calculated in the face of the income statement. Exceptional items and certain accordance with IFRS 16 (see note 3.2), pension obligations remeasurements are deducted from the Total Results in arriving and trade and other payables. at the Adjusted Results for the year. The Group’s Adjusted Results are consistent with the way executive management The Group does not include lease liabilities, calculated in and the Board assess the performance of the Group. Adjusted accordance with IFRS 16, in the definition of net debt. This Results are intended to reflect the underlying trading reflects the nature of the contracts included in this balance performance of the Group’s businesses and are presented to which were previously not held on the balance sheet and assist users of the accounts in evaluating the Group’s trading disclosed as operating commitments in the Group’s 2018 performance and performance against strategic objectives, Annual Report and Accounts. At 31 December 2019, these liabilities had a carrying amount of £32.5 million (see note 3.2). Exceptional items are those transactions that, by their nature, do The 2018 calculation of net debt includes the amounts payable not reflect the trading performance of the Group in the period. under finance lease liabilities. In 2019, these liabilities have been For a transaction to be considered exceptional, management included with lease liabilities under IFRS 16 and therefore considers the nature of the transaction, the frequency of similar excluded from the net debt calculation. The carrying amount events, previous precedent and commercial context. of finance lease liabilities at 31 December 2018 was £0.5 million Exceptional items are approved by the Audit Committee. and has therefore not had a material impact on the net debt comparison with the previous year. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 131 Financial statements contents Section 1 Section 5 Consolidated financial statements Other assets and liabilities 133 Consolidated income statement 169 5.1 Acquisitions 134 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 170 5.2 Goodwill 135 Consolidated balance sheet 171 5.3 Intangible assets 136 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 174 5.4 Provisions 137 Consolidated cash flow statement Section 6 Section 2 Our people Financial performance 175 6.1 Employees and directors 138 2.1 Segmental reporting 175 6.2 Share-based payments 140 2.2 Revenue 179 6.3 Retirement benefit obligations 142 2.3 Operating expenses 143 2.4 Review of fixed assets for impairment Section 7 144 2.5 Net finance costs 145 2.6 Current and deferred taxation Risk management 149 2.7 Certain remeasurements and exceptional items 185 7.1 Financial instruments and their fair values 150 2.8 Earnings per share 189 7.2 Financial risk management 150 2.9 Dividends 199 7.3 Hedge reserve 151 2.10 Retained profits 200 7.4 Cost of hedging reserve 201 7.5 Offsetting financial assets and liabilities Section 3 202 7.6 Contingent assets and liabilities Operating assets and working capital 202 7.7 Commitments 152 3.1 Property, plant and equipment Section 8 155 3.2 Leases 156 3.3 Other fixed asset investments Reference information 157 3.4 ROC assets 203 8.1 General information 158 3.5 Inventories 203 8.2 Basis of preparation 159 3.6 Trade and other receivables 204 8.3  Adoption of new accounting standards and restatement 161 3.7 Contract costs of previously reported financial statements 161 3.8 Trade and other payables 208 8.4 Related party transactions Section 4 Drax Group plc Financing and capital structure 209 Company financial statements 163 4.1 Reconciliation of net debt 211 Notes to the Company financial statements 163 4.2 Cash and cash equivalents 163 4.3 Borrowings 166 4.4 Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement 167 4.5 Equity and reserves 132 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Section 1: Consolidated financial statements Consolidated income statement Year ended 31 December 2019 Year ended 31 December 2018 Exceptional Exceptional items and items and certain certain Adjusted remeasureTotal Adjusted remeasureTotal Results(1) ments Results Results(1) ments Results Notes £m £m £m £m £m £m Revenue 2.2 4,702.9 10.5 4,713.4 4,237.3 (8.3) 4,229.0 Cost of sales (3,835.8) (143.3) (3,979.1) (3,636.3) 46.7 (3,589.6) Gross profit 867.1 (132.8) 734.3 601.0 38.4 639.4 Operating and administrative expenses 2.3 (439.3) – (439.3) (320.0) – (320.0) Impairment losses on financial assets 3.6 (18.0) – (18.0) (31.4) – (31.4) Adjusted EBITDA(2) 409.8 249.6 Depreciation 3.1 (165.9) – (165.9) (129.2) – (129.2) Amortisation 5.3 (42.0) – (42.0) (44.6) – (44.6) Asset obsolescence charges 2.7 – – – – (26.8) (26.8) Losses on disposals 3.1 (1.2) – (1.2) (3.9) – (3.9) Other gains/(losses) 3.1 – 3.1 4.1 – 4.1 Acquisition and restructuring costs(3) 2.7 – (9.0) (9.0) – (27.7) (27.7) Operating profit/(loss) 203.8 (141.8) 62.0 76.0 (16.1) 59.9 Foreign exchange (losses)/gains 2.5 (1.6) 2.0 0.4 0.3 – 0.3 Interest payable and similar charges(4) 2.5 (61.3) (5.2) (66.5) (40.4) (7.2) (47.6) Interest receivable 2.5 1.3 – 1.3 1.2 – 1.2 Profit/(loss) before tax 142.2 (145.0) (2.8) 37.1 (23.3) 13.8 Tax: – Before effect of changes in tax rate 2.6 (22.3) 27.4 5.1 0.2 1.6 1.8 – Prior year patent box credit 2.6 – – – 4.8 – 4.8 – Effect of changes in tax rate 2.6 (1.8) – (1.8) (0.2) – (0.2) Total tax (charge)/credit (24.1) 27.4 3.3 4.8 1.6 6.4 Profit/(loss) for the year attributable to equity holders 118.1 (117.6) 0.5 41.9 (21.7) 20.2 Earnings/(loss) per share Pence Pence Pence Pence – Basic 2.8 29.9 0.1 10.4 5.0 – Diluted 2.8 29.7 0.1 10.3 4.9 All results relate to continuing operations. Notes: (1) Adjusted Results are stated after adjusting for exceptional items (including acquisition and restructuring costs, asset obsolescence charges and debt restructuring costs), and certain remeasurements. See note 2.7 for further details. (2) Adjusted EBITDA is defined as: earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation, excluding the impact of exceptional items and certain remeasurements. (3) Acquisition and restructuring costs include costs associated with the acquisition and on-boarding (2018) and integration (2019) of Drax Generation Enterprise Limited (formerly ScottishPower Generation Limited). (4) Interest payable and other similar charges includes the cost of debt restructure which comprises one-off costs associated with the refinancing of the Group’s debt. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 133 Section 1: Consolidated financial statements continued Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Years ended 31 December 2018 2019 £m Notes £m (restated)* Profit for the year 0.5 20.2 Items that will not be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss: Actuarial (losses)/gains on defined benefit pension scheme 6.3 (21.5) 15.9 Deferred tax on actuarial gains on defined benefit pension scheme 2.6 4.3 (3.0) (Loss)/gain on equity investments (0.1) 0.2 Net fair value gains on cost of hedging 7.4 56.3 24.8 Deferred tax on cost of hedging 2.6 (9.7) (4.7) Net fair value (losses)/gains on cash flow hedges (112.8) 164.3 Deferred tax on cash flow hedges 2.6 25.0 (31.2) Items that may be subsequently reclassified to profit or loss: Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 4.5 (11.2) 24.9 Net fair value gains on cash flow hedges 91.1 21.4 Deferred tax on cash flow hedges 2.6 (19.9) (4.2) Other comprehensive income/(expense) 1.5 208.4 Total comprehensive income for the year attributable to equity holders 2.0 228.6 * Results for 2018 have been restated to reflect a historical correction of exchange differences arising on translation of foreign operations (see note 3.1). 134 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Consolidated balance sheet As at 31 December Restated(1) Restated(2) 2019 2018 2017 Notes £m £m £m Assets Non-current assets Goodwill 5.2 248.2 248.2 169.9 Intangible assets 5.3 206.9 228.8 232.0 Property, plant and equipment 3.1 2,327.4 2,347.6 1,699.7 Right-of-use assets 3.2 31.4 – – Other fixed asset investments 3.3 3.0 2.4 1.3 Retirement benefit surplus 6.3 7.0 21.6 – Deferred tax assets 2.6 45.3 31.8 22.7 Derivative financial instruments 7.1 152.3 295.2 190.7 3,021.5 3,175.6 2,316.3 Current assets Inventories 3.5 292.0 222.5 272.1 ROC assets 3.4 162.7 216.7 145.5 Trade and other receivables and contract-related assets 3.6 608.8 474.2 417.5 Derivative financial instruments 7.1 193.7 215.4 175.5 Current tax assets – – 6.2 Cash and cash equivalents 4.2 404.1 289.0 222.3 1,661.3 1,417.8 1,239.1 Liabilities Current liabilities Trade and other payables and contract-related liabilities 3.8 (1,039.2) (940.6) (732.4) Lease liabilities 3.2 (6.3) – – Amounts payable in respect of acquisitions 5.1 – (691.7) (4.1) Current tax liabilities 2.6 (37.8) (8.4) – Borrowings 4.3 – (0.1) (18.6) Derivative financial instruments 7.1 (216.5) (89.4) (109.6) (1,299.8) (1,730.2) (864.7) Net current assets/(liabilities) 361.5 (312.4) 374.4 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 4.3 (1,245.2) (608.0) (571.1) Lease liabilities 3.2 (26.2) – – Derivative financial instruments 7.1 (72.9) (62.0) (94.2) Provisions 5.4 (54.2) (50.8) (36.3) Deferred tax liabilities 2.6 (268.9) (315.9) (230.0) Retirement benefit obligations – – (1.2) (1,667.4) (1,036.7) (932.8) Net assets 1,715.6 1,826.5 1,757.9 Shareholders’ equity Issued equity 4.5 47.4 47.0 47.0 Share premium 4.5 429.6 424.7 424.3 Treasury shares 4.5 (50.4) (47.1) – Hedge reserve 7.3 121.5 199.9 126.1 Cost of hedging reserve 7.4 40.8 (8.9) (40.7) Other reserves 4.5 757.0 768.2 743.3 Retained profits 2.10 369.7 442.7 457.9 Total shareholders’ equity 1,715.6 1,826.5 1,757.9 (1) Results for 2018 have been restated to reflect the finalisation of the measurement period adjustments in relation to the new Generation assets in 2018 and a historical correction of exchange differences arising on translation of foreign operations (see notes 3.1 and 8.3). (2) The adjustment to reflect the historical correction of exchange differences arising on translation of foreign operations impacts the opening balance sheet for 2018. As such a restated balance sheet reflecting the impact of this adjustment at 31 December 2017 has been presented, as required by IAS 1 (see note 3.1). The consolidated financial statements of Drax Group plc, registered number 5562053, were approved and authorised for issue by the Board of directors on 26 February 2020. Signed on behalf of the Board of directors: Andy Skelton Chief Financial Officer Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 135 Section 1: Consolidated financial statements continued Consolidated statement of changes in equity Other Issued Share Treasury Hedge Cost of Reserves Retained equity premium Shares reserve hedging (restated)(1) profits Total £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m At 1 January 2018 – as reported 47.0 424.3 – 126.1 (40.7) 705.5 457.9 1,720.1 Restatement(1) – – – – – 37.8 – 37.8 At 1 January 2018 – restated 47.0 424.3 – 126.1 (40.7) 743.3 457.9 1,757.9 Profit for the year – – – – – – 20.2 20.2 Other comprehensive income – – – 150.3 20.1 24.9 13.1 208.4 Total comprehensive income for the year – – – 150.3 20.1 24.9 33.3 228.6 Equity dividends paid (note 2.9) – – – – – – (52.5) (52.5) Issue of share capital (note 4.5) – 0.4 – – – – – 0.4 Total transactions with owners – 0.4 – – – – (52.5) (52.1) Movements on cash flow hedges released directly from equity – – – (94.2) – – – (94.2) Deferred tax on cash flow hedges released directly from equity – – – 17.7 – – – 17.7 Movements on cost of hedging released directly from equity – – – – 14.5 – – 14.5 Deferred tax on cost of hedging released directly from equity – – – – (2.8) – – (2.8) Repurchase of shares (note 4.5)(2) – – (47.1) – – – – (47.1) Movement in equity associated with share-based payments (note 6.2) – – – – – – 4.0 4.0 At 31 December 2018 restated 47.0 424.7 (47.1) 199.9 (8.9) 768.2 442.7 1,826.5 Profit for the year – – – – – – 0.5 0.5 Other comprehensive (expense)/income – – – (16.6) 46.6 (11.2) (17.3) 1.5 Total comprehensive (expense)/income for the year – – – (16.6) 46.6 (11.2) (16.8) 2.0 Equity dividends paid (note 2.9) – – – – – – (58.9) (58.9) Issue of share capital (note 4.5) 0.4 4.9 – – – – – 5.3 Total transactions with owners 0.4 4.9 – – – – (58.9) (53.6) Movements on cash flow hedges released directly from equity – – – (78.9) – – – (78.9) Deferred tax on cash flow hedges released directly from equity – – – 17.1 – – – 17.1 Movements on cost of hedging released directly from equity – – – – 3.8 – – 3.8 Deferred tax on cost of hedging released directly from equity – – – (0.7) – – (0.7) Repurchase of shares (note 4.5)(2) – – (3.3) – – – – (3.3) Movement in equity associated with share-based payments (note 6.2) – – – – – – 2.7 2.7 At 31 December 2019 47.4 429.6 (50.4) 121.5 40.8 757.0 369.7 1,715.6 (1) Other reserves for 2018 have been restated to reflect a historical correction of exchange differences arising on translation of foreign operations (see note 3.1). (2) Repurchase of shares reflects the cost of acquiring ordinary shares as part of the share buy-back programme announced on 20 April 2018. At 31 December 2019 these shares have not been cancelled and are recognised as treasury shares. 136 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Consolidated cash flow statement Years ended 31 December 2019 2018 Notes £m £m Cash generated from operations 4.4 471.2 336.4 Income taxes paid (9.6) (1.0) Other gains/(losses) – 0.4 Interest paid (50.3) (25.9) Interest received 2.1 1.2 Net cash from operating activities 413.4 311.1 Cash flows from investing activities Purchases of property, plant and equipment (142.3) (103.8) Purchases of software assets (29.1) (28.8) Other investments – (0.9) Acquisition of subsidiaries (691.7) – Net cash used in investing activities (863.1) (133.5) Cash flows from financing activities Equity dividends paid 2.9 (58.9) (52.5) Proceeds from issue of share capital 5.3 0.4 Purchase of own shares (3.3) (47.1) Repayment of borrowings (550.0) (218.5) New borrowings drawn down 1,202.8 213.3 Repayment of lease liabilities (7.4) – Other financing costs paid (16.9) (7.6) Net cash generated from/(absorbed by) financing activities 571.6 (112.0) Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 121.9 65.6 Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 289.0 222.3 Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates (6.8) 1.1 Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 4.2 404.1 289.0 The consideration of £686.9 million due in respect of the Acquired Generation Business was settled on 2 January 2019. During the first half of 2019, the completion statement process in respect of the acquisition has been concluded and the Group made a further payment in accordance with the terms of the acquisition of £4.8 million which was settled on 14 May 2019. There were no material non-cash transactions in either the current or previous year. The Group recorded a net loss of £117.6 million (2018: net loss £21.7 million) arising on exceptional items and certain remeasurements in the Consolidated income statement in 2019. Acquisition and restructuring costs of £9.0 million (2018: £27.7 million) are included in cash generated from operations (see note 4.4) and cash paid in respect of debt restructuring of £5.2 million (2018: £2.0 million) in cash used in financing activities. All other exceptional items and remeasurements are non-cash and adjusted in the reconciliation shown in note 4.4. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 137 Section 2: Financial performance The financial performance section gives further information about the items in the Consolidated income statement. It includes a summary of financial performance by each of the Group’s businesses (see note 2.1), analysis of certain income statement items (notes 2.2–2.6) and information regarding the Adjusted and Total Results, dividends and distributable profits (notes 2.7–2.10). Further commentary on the Group’s trading and operational performance during the year, which is predominantly reflected in Adjusted EBITDA, can be found in the Strategic report on pages 1 to 61, with particular reference to key transactions and market conditions that have affected the results. 2.1 Segmental reporting The Group is organised into three businesses, with a dedicated management team for each, and a central corporate office providing certain specialist and shared functions. The Group’s businesses, which each represent a reportable operating segment for the purpose of segmental reporting, are: • Generation: power generation activities in the UK; • Customers: supply of electricity and gas to business customers in the UK; and • Pellet Production: production of sustainable compressed wood pellets at our processing facilities in the US. The B2B Energy Supply segment disclosed in 2018 has been renamed Customers, to align more closely with the Group’s strategy. Generation includes the financial results of the new generation assets acquired on 31 December 2018 from ScottishPower. Information reported to the Board for the purposes of assessing performance and making investment decisions is based on these three segments. The measure of profit or loss for each reportable segment presented to the Board on a regular basis is Adjusted EBITDA (as defined on page 131). Operating costs are allocated to segments to the extent they are directly attributable to the activities of that segment. Corporate office costs are included within central costs. Segment revenues and results The following is an analysis of the Group’s performance by reportable operating segment for the year ended 31 December 2019. The Board monitors the Adjusted Results for the Group by reportable operating segment as presented in the tables below: Year ended 31 December 2019 Exceptional items Pellet Intra-group Adjusted and certain Total Generation Customers Production eliminations Results remeasurements Results £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Revenue External sales 2,433.8 2,269.1 – – 4,702.9 10.5 4,713.4 Inter-segment sales 1,512.7 – 229.4 (1,742.1) – – – Total revenue 3,946.5 2,269.1 229.4 (1,742.1) 4,702.9 10.5 4,713.4 Segment gross profit 649.5 134.1 84.1 (0.6) 867.1 (132.8) 734.3 Segment Adjusted EBITDA 407.5 17.4 31.5 (0.6) 455.8 Central costs (46.0) – (46.0) Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA 409.8 Acquisition and restructuring costs – (9.0) (9.0) Depreciation and amortisation (207.9) – (207.9) Losses on disposals (1.2) – (1.2) Other gains 3.1 – 3.1 Operating profit 203.8 (141.8) 62.0 Net finance costs (60.0) (5.2) (65.2) Foreign exchange (losses)/gains (1.6) 2.0 0.4 Profit/(loss) before tax 142.2 (145.0) (2.8) 138 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 2.1 Segmental reporting continued The following is an analysis of the Group’s performance by reportable operating segment for the year ended 31 December 2018 Year ended 31 December 2018 Exceptional items Pellet Intra-group Adjusted and certain Total Generation Customers Production eliminations Results remeasurements Results £m £m £m £m £m £m £m Revenue External sales 1,994.9 2,242.4 – – 4,237.3 (8.3) 4,229.0 Inter-segment sales 1,336.7 – 213.7 (1,550.4) – – – Total revenue 3,331.6 2,242.4 213.7 (1,550.4) 4,237.3 (8.3) 4,229.0 Segment gross profit 396.0 143.4 65.1 (3.5) 601.0 38.4 639.4 Segment Adjusted EBITDA 232.4 28.2 20.8 (3.5) 277.9 Central costs (28.3) Consolidated Adjusted EBITDA 249.6 Acquisition and restructuring costs – (27.7) (27.7) Depreciation and amortisation (173.8) (26.8) (200.6) Losses on disposals (3.9) – (3.9) Other gains 4.1 – 4.1 Operating profit/(loss) 76.0 (16.1) 59.9 Net finance costs (39.2) (7.2) (46.4) Foreign exchange gains 0.3 – 0.3 Profit/(loss) before tax 37.1 (23.3) 13.8 The accounting policies applied for the purpose of measuring the segments’ profits or losses, assets and liabilities are the same as those used in measuring the corresponding amounts in the Group’s financial statements. The external revenues and results of all the reporting segments are subject to seasonality, with higher dispatch and prices in the winter months compared to summer months. Capital expenditure by segment Assets and working capital are monitored on a consolidated basis; however, spend on capital projects is monitored by operating segment. Additions to Additions to Additions to property, Additions to property, intangible plant and intangible plant and assets equipment assets equipment 2019 2019 2018 2018 £m £m £m £m Generation 0.8 129.9 – 86.5 Customers 18.9 0.6 28.3 2.2 Pellet Production 0.3 17.9 0.3 20.2 Corporate unallocated 0.8 2.9 0.3 4.7 Total 20.8 151.3 28.9 113.6 Additional assets with a fair value of £689.8 million were acquired on 31 December 2018 as part of the business combination described in note 5.1. Total cash outflows in relation to capital expenditure during the year were £171.4 million (2018: £132.6 million). See the Group Financial Review on pages 14-19 for further details about the key capital investments in the year. Intra-group trading Intra-group transactions are carried out at management’s best estimate of arm’s-length, commercial terms that, where possible, equate to market prices at the time of the transaction. During 2019, the Pellet Production segment sold wood pellets with a total value of £229.4 million (2018: £213.7 million) to the Generation segment and the Generation segment sold electricity, gas and ROCs with a total value of £1,512.7 million (2018: £1,336.7 million) to the Customers segment. The impact of all intra-group transactions, including any unrealised profit arising, is eliminated on consolidation. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 139 Section 2: Financial performance continued 2.1 Segmental reporting continued Major customers Total consolidated revenue for the year ended 31 December 2019 includes £575.7 million from one individual customer (2018: £555.8 million from one individual customer) that represented 10% or more of total revenue for the year. These revenues arose in the Generation segment. 2.2 Revenue Accounting policy Revenue represents amounts receivable for goods or services provided to customers in the normal course of business, net of trade discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes and excluding transactions between Group companies. Revenue is presented gross in the income statement as the Group controls the specified good or service prior to the transfer to the customer. Revenues from the sale of electricity by the Group’s Generation business are measured based upon metered output delivered at rates specified under contract terms or prevailing market rates as applicable. The performance obligations for these contracts are satisfied over time and control is deemed to have passed to the customer at the point that the electricity has been supplied. The output method is used to recognise revenue, this method recognises revenue based on the value transferred to the customer. This is measured based on energy supplied to the customer with the amount billed based on the units of electricity supplied. Three biomass-fuelled generating units at Drax Power Station and certain generators across the Hydro-electric plants earn Renewable Obligation Certificates (ROCs) under the UK Government’s Renewables Obligation (RO) regime. The financial benefit of a ROC is recognised in the income statement at the point the relevant renewable biomass fuel is burnt and power dispatched as a reduction in the cost of the biomass fuel. For Hydro assets this is at the point that the renewable energy is generated. A corresponding asset is recognised on the balance sheet (see note 3.4). The performance obligation is satisfied at a point in time when the legal title to the ROC is transferred to the third party. This is when revenue from the sale is recognised. The Group recognises the income or costs arising from the Contract for Difference (CfD) (see below) in the income statement as a component of revenue at the point the Group meets its performance obligation under the CfD contract. This is considered to be the point at which the relevant generation is delivered and the payment becomes contractually due. Revenue from the sale of electricity and gas directly to business customers through the Customers business is recognised on the supply of electricity or gas when a contract exists, supply has taken place, a quantifiable price has been established or can be determined and the receivables are expected to be recovered at the point of sale. Energy supplied is measured based upon metered consumption and contractual rates; however, where a supply has taken place but is not yet measured or billed, the revenue is estimated based on consumption statistics and selling price estimates and is recognised as accrued income. Revenue for contracts satisfied over time is recognised in line with the progress of those contracts. The measurement of progress is based on cost inputs for fixed price Customers contracts, and volume supplied for other contracts. Assumptions are applied consistently but third party costs can be variable, therefore actual outcomes may vary from initial estimates. The Group is eligible for, and therefore applies, the practical expedient available in IFRS 15 and has not disclosed information related to the transaction price allocated to remaining performance obligations. The right to receive consideration from a customer is at an amount that corresponds directly with the value to the customer of the Group’s performance completed to date. Other revenues derived from the provision of services to National Grid (for example, the supply of system support services) are recognised by reference to the stage of completion of the contractual performance obligations. Most such contracts are for the delivery of a service either continually or on an ad-hoc basis over a period of time and thus stage of completion is calculated by reference to the amount of the contract term that has elapsed. Depending on the contract terms this approach may require judgement in estimating probable future outcomes. Other revenues derived from the sale of goods (for example, by-products from electricity generation such as ash and gypsum) are recognised at the point the control of the goods is transferred to the customer, typically at the point of delivery to the customer’s premises. 140 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 2.2 Revenue continued CfD payments The Group is party to a CfD with the Low Carbon Contracts Company (LCCC), a Government-owned entity responsible for delivering elements of the Government’s Electricity Market Reform Programme. Under the contract, the Group makes or receives payments in respect of electricity dispatched from a specific biomass-fuelled generating unit. The payment is calculated by reference to a strike price of £100 per MWh. The base year for the strike price was 2012 and it increases each year in line with the UK Consumer Price Index and changes in system balancing costs. The strike price at 31 December 2019 was £113.65 per MWh. When market prices (based on average traded prices in the preceding season) are above/below the strike price, the Group makes/ receives an additional payment to/from LCCC equivalent to the difference between that market power price and the strike price, for each MWh produced from the generating unit supported by the CfD. Such payments are in addition to amounts received from the sale of the power in the wholesale market and either increase or limit the total income from the power dispatched from the relevant generating unit to the strike price in the CfD contract. ROC sales The generation and sale of ROCs is a key driver of the Group’s financial performance. The RO scheme places an obligation on electricity suppliers to source an increasing proportion of their electricity from renewable sources. Under the RO, ROCs are certificates issued to generators of renewable electricity which are then sold to bilateral counterparties, including suppliers, to demonstrate that they have fulfilled their obligations under the RO. ROCs are managed in compliance periods (CPs), running from April to March annually, CP1 commenced in April 2002. At 31 December 2019 the Group is operating in CP18. To meet its obligations a supplier can either submit ROCs or pay the “buy-out” price at the end of the CP. The buy-out price was set at £30 per ROC in CP1 and rises with the UK Retail Price Index. The buy-out price in CP18 is £48.78. ROCs are typically procured in arm’s-length transactions with renewable generators at a market price slightly lower than the buy-out price for that CP. At the end of the CP, the amounts collected from suppliers paying the buy-out price form the “recycle fund”, which is distributed on a pro-rata basis to suppliers who presented ROCs in a compliance period. The financial benefit of a ROC recognised in the income statement at the point of generation is thus comprised of two parts: the expected value to be obtained in a sale transaction with a third party supplier relating to the buy-out price and the expected value of the recycle fund benefit to be received at the end of the CP. During the year, the Group made sales (and related purchases) of ROCs to help optimise its working capital position. External sales of ROCs in the table below includes £575.7 million of such sales (2018: £555.8 million), with a similar value reflected in cost of sales. See note 3.4 for further details of ROCs generated and sold by the Generation businesses and those utilised by the Customers business in the year. Further analysis of revenue for the year ended 31 December 2019 is provided in the table below: Year ended 31 December 2019 External Intra-group Total £m £m £m Power Generation Electricity sales 1,364.9 1,115.0 2,479.9 ROC sales 733.7 368.1 1,101.8 CfD income 261.7 – 261.7 Ancillary services 49.9 1.8 51.7 Other income 23.6 27.8 51.4 Customers Electricity and gas sales 2,226.1 – 2,226.1 Other income 43.0 – 43.0 Pellet Production Pellet sales – 229.4 229.4 Elimination of intra-group sales – (1,742.1) (1,742.1) Total adjusted consolidated revenue 4,702.9 – 4,702.9 Certain remeasurements 10.5 – 10.5 Total consolidated revenue 4,713.4 – 4,713.4 Included within electricity sales above is £78.1 million of capacity market income relating to the period from October 2018-December 2019. Certain remeasurements of £10.5 million (2018: £(8.3) million) are comprised of gains and losses on derivative contracts that are used to manage risk exposures associated with the Group’s revenue, not designated into hedge accounting relationships under IFRS 9. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 141 Section 2: Financial performance continued 2.2 Revenue continued Revenue recognised in the year that was included within contract liabilities at the start of the year was £6.6 million. (See note 3.8). The following is an analysis of the Group’s revenues for the year ended 31 December 2018: Year ended 31 December 2018 External Intra-group Total £m £m £m Power Generation Electricity sales 983.4 1,020.4 2,003.8 ROC and LEC sales 664.5 316.3 980.8 CfD income 321.5 – 321.5 Ancillary services 18.8 – 18.8 Other income 6.7 – 6.7 Customers Electricity and gas sales 2,195.9 – 2,195.9 Other income 46.5 – 46.5 Pellet Production Pellet sales – 213.7 213.7 Elimination of intra-group sales – (1,550.4) (1,550.4) Total adjusted consolidated revenue 4,237.3 – 4,237.3 Certain remeasurements (8.3) – (8.3) Total consolidated revenue 4,229.0 – 4,229.0 2.3 Operating expenses This note sets out the material components of operating and administrative expenses in the Consolidated income statement and a detailed breakdown of the fees paid to the Group’s auditor, Deloitte LLP, in respect of services they provided to the Group during the year. Years ended 31 December 2019 2018 £m £m The following expenditure has been charged in arriving at operating profit: Staff costs (note 6.1) 184.4 145.7 Repairs and maintenance expenditure on property, plant and equipment 106.3 45.7 Expense for short-term and low value leases 0.7 – Other operating and administrative expenses 147.9 128.6 Total operating and administrative expenses 439.3 320.0 Operating lease costs in 2018 of £3.3 million in respect of land and buildings and £1.6 million in respect of other operating leases were included in other operating and administrative expenses. Following the adoption of IFRS 16 from 1 January 2019 (see note 8.3), operating leases that meet the definition of right-of-use assets are capitalised and recognised on the balance sheet with a corresponding lease liability. The Group has taken the exemption available under short-term and low value leases. Leases that have a term of less than 12 months or the underlying asset is less than £3,500 are expensed to the income statement on a systematic basis over the term of the lease. The amounts expensed in relation to short-term and low value leases in 2019 was £0.7 million. 142 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 2.3 Operating expenses continued Auditor’s remuneration Years ended 31 December 2019 2018 £000 £000 Audit fees: Fees payable for the audit of the Group’s consolidated financial statements 863.9 905.1 Fees payable for the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries 36.0 32.4 899.9 937.5 Other fees: Review of the Group’s half-year condensed consolidated financial statements 96.2 91.0 Other services 2.0 2.0 Total audit-related fees 998.1 1,030.5 Other assurance services 180.0 1,335.0 Other non-audit fees – 139.0 Total non-audit fees 180.0 1,474.0 Total auditor’s remuneration 1,178.1 2,504.5 The Group fee relates to the audit of all the subsidiaries to a statutory materiality. In addition, certain head office companies are not required for the Group audit opinion, the allocation of which is included in the fees payable for the audit of the Company’s subsidiaries disclosed above. Other assurance services provided by Deloitte LLP in 2019 consist of agreed upon procedures and other assurance services provided in connection with the bond issuance in May 2019 (2018: assurance and agreed-upon procedures performed in connection with the bond issuance in April 2018, and reporting accountant and related services for the Class I circular issued for the acquisition of the new generation assets from ScottishPower). Other non-audit fees in 2018 comprised a review of IT resilience and Disaster Recovery processes. Non-audit services are approved by the Audit Committee in accordance with the policy set out on the Group‘s website (www.drax.com/policies) and discussed further in the Audit Committee report on page 78. 2.4 Review of fixed assets for impairment Accounting policy The Group reviews its fixed assets (or, where appropriate, groups of assets known as cash-generating units (CGUs)) whenever there is an indication that an impairment loss may have been suffered. The Group assesses the existence of indicators of impairment annually. In respect of the Customers and Pellet Production businesses, the Group considers the smallest groups of assets that generate independent cash flows to be equivalent to the operating entities within those businesses – Haven Power, Opus Energy and Drax Biomass. In respect of the Generation business, the Group considers the smallest groups of assets that generate independent cash flows to be the individual sites that share common infrastructure and control functions (eight in total). If an indication of potential impairment exists, the recoverable amount of the asset or CGU in question is assessed with reference to the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from the continuing use of the asset or CGU (value in use) or the expected price that would be received to sell the asset to another market participant (fair value less costs to sell). The initial assessment of recoverable amount is normally based on value in use. Where value in use is calculated, the assessment of future cash flows is based on the most recent approved business plan and includes all of the necessary costs expected to be incurred to generate the cash inflows from the CGU’s assets in their current state and condition, including an allocation of centrally managed costs. Central costs are only allocated where they are necessary for and directly attributable to the CGU’s activities. Future cash flows include, where relevant, contracted cash flows arising from the Group’s cash flow hedging activities and as a result the carrying amount of each CGU includes the mark-to-market value of those cash flow hedges. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 143 Section 2: Financial performance continued 2.4 Review of fixed assets for impairment continued The additional value that could be obtained from enhancing or converting the Group’s assets is not reflected, nor the potential benefit of any future restructuring or reorganisation. In determining value in use, the estimate of future cash flows is discounted to present value using a pre-tax rate reflecting the specific risks attributable to the CGU in question. If the recoverable amount is less than the current carrying amount in the financial statements, a provision is made to reduce the carrying amount of the asset or CGU to the estimated recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised immediately in the income statement. Goodwill balances and intangible assets with an indefinite useful economic life are assessed for impairment annually (see note 5.2 and 5.3). Assessment of indicators of impairment A review of the Group’s CGUs did not give rise to any indicators of impairment. Accordingly no detailed impairment calculation has been completed for CGUs where no goodwill is allocated (Drax Power, Drax Biomass and the four CCGTs within Generation). The review considered the impact on previously calculated headroom of movements in market prices for commodities and changes in foreign exchange rates. Impairment considerations for CGUs where goodwill has previously been allocated are set out in note 5.2. Separate consideration has been given to the impact on the OCGT development assets, see note 5.3. During 2019, the Group finalised its assessment of CGUs, and the allocation of goodwill to those CGUs, in respect of the new generation assets acquired from ScottishPower on 31 December 2018. See note 5.1 for details. All impairment reviews conducted in 2019 indicated adequate headroom to conclude that no impairment charges were required. Accordingly, no amounts have been charged to the income statement in respect of asset impairment in 2019. (2018: £26.8 million asset obsolescence charge in respect of coal-specific assets no longer required following the conversion of a generating unit to run on biomass at Drax Power Station). 2.5 Net finance costs Finance costs reflect expenses incurred in managing the debt structure (such as interest payable on bonds) as well as foreign exchange gains and losses, the unwinding of discount on provisions for reinstatement of the Group’s sites at the end of their useful lives (see note 5.4) and net interest charged on the Group’s defined benefit pension scheme obligation (see note 6.3) and lease liabilities (see note 3.2). These are offset by interest income that the Group generates through efficient use of short-term cash surpluses – for example through investment in money market funds. On 2 January 2019, the Group drew down £550 million from the £725 million acquisition bridge facility to partially fund the acquisition of the new generation assets, with the remainder of the consideration funded from the Group’s cash resources. Deferred financing costs in relation to the acquisition bridge facility of £5.2 million were written off to the income statement. Financing costs of £15.5 million in relation to the new facilities have been deferred and are being amortised over the term of the facilities. (2018: incremental costs of £3.8 million in relation to new borrowings were deferred and are being amortised at the effective interest rate, and £5.2 million in relation to floating rate notes and an early repayment charge of £2.0 million were written off). As described in note 2.7, the £5.2 million of costs associated with the acquisition bridge facility have been excluded from the Adjusted Results and are presented as exceptional items in arriving at Total Results. Further information about the Group’s financing structure can be found in note 4.3. 144 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 2.5 Net finance costs continued Years ended 31 December 2019 2018 £m £m Interest payable and similar charges: Interest payable on borrowings (49.8) (36.3) Interest on lease liabilities (note 3.2) (1.2) – Unwinding of discount on provisions (note 5.4) (4.5) (0.9) Amortisation of deferred finance costs (4.2) (3.1) Net finance credit in respect of defined benefit scheme (note 6.3) 0.8 0.1 Other financing charges (2.4) (0.2) Total interest payable and similar charges included in adjusted results (61.3) (40.4) Interest receivable: Interest income on bank deposits 1.3 1.2 Total interest receivable included in adjusted results 1.3 1.2 Foreign exchange (losses)/gains included in adjusted results (1.6) 0.3 Total recurring net interest charge included in adjusted results (61.6) (38.9) Exceptional costs of debt restructure: Fees to exit existing facilities – (2.0) Acceleration of deferred costs in relation to previous facilities (5.2) (5.2) Total exceptional costs of debt restructure (5.2) (7.2) Certain remeasurements on financing derivatives 2.0 – Total net interest charge (64.8) (46.1) Foreign exchange gains and losses in interest arise on the retranslation of non-derivative balances denominated in foreign currencies to prevailing rates at the balance sheet date. 2.6 Current and deferred taxation The tax charge includes both current and deferred tax. Current tax is the estimated amount of tax payable on this year’s taxable profits (which are adjusted for items upon which the Group is not required to pay tax or, in some cases, for items which are not allowable for tax purposes and therefore on which additional tax is required) and adjusted for estimates for previous years. Deferred tax is an accounting adjustment which reflects where more or less tax is expected to arise in the future due to differences between the accounting and tax rules. This is reflected in differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the balance sheet and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profits. The tax credit reflects the estimated effective tax rate on the loss before tax for the Group for the year ended 31 December 2019 and the movement in the deferred tax balance in the year, so far as it relates to items recognised in the income statement. Accounting policy Current tax, including UK corporation tax and foreign tax, is based on the taxable profit or loss for the year in the relevant jurisdiction. Taxable profit or loss differs from profit/loss before tax as reported in the income statement, because it excludes items of income or expenditure that are either taxable or deductible in other years or never taxable/deductible. The Group’s liability (or asset) for current tax is provided at amounts expected to be paid (or recovered) using the tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date. Deferred tax is the tax expected to be payable or recoverable on differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit. Deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Current and deferred tax are recognised in profit or loss, except when they relate to items that are recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case the current and deferred tax are recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity respectively. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 145 Section 2: Financial performance continued 2.6 Current and deferred taxation continued The Group has adopted the research and development expenditure credit regime (RDEC). Under this regime, research and development tax credits are accounted for as development grants, and are recorded in operating profit within the income statement, with the corresponding receivable being offset against corporation tax payable. Significant estimation uncertainty In accounting for taxation the Group makes assumptions regarding the treatment of items of income and expenditure for tax purposes. The Group believes that these assumptions are reasonable, based on prior experience and consultation with advisers. Full provision is made for deferred taxation at the rates of tax prevailing at the period end date unless future rates have been substantively enacted. Deferred tax assets are recognised where it is considered more likely than not that they will be recovered. Where such assets relate to losses incurred by a business unit, particularly one with a history of losses, the Group seeks evidence other than its own internal forecasts to support recognition of the related deferred tax asset. Years ended 31 December 2019 2018 £m £m Total tax (credit)/charge comprises: Current tax – Current year 31.0 17.0 – Adjustments in respect of prior periods 10.4 (5.2) Deferred tax – Before impact of tax rate changes (39.0) (18.4) – Adjustments in respect of prior periods (7.5) – – Effect of changes in tax rate 1.8 0.2 Total tax credit (3.3) (6.4) Years ended 31 December 2019 2018 £m £m Tax charged/(credited) on items recognised in other comprehensive income: Deferred tax on actuarial (losses)/gains on defined benefit pension scheme (4.3) 3.0 Deferred tax on cash flow hedges (5.1) 35.4 Deferred tax on cost of hedging 9.7 4.7 0.3 43.1 Years ended 31 December 2019 2018 £m £m Tax (credited)/charged on items released directly from equity: Deferred tax on cost of hedging 0.7 2.8 Deferred tax on cash flow hedges (17.1) (17.7) (16.4) (14.9) UK corporation tax is the main rate of tax for the Group and is calculated at 19.00% (2018: 19.00%) of the assessable profit or loss for the year. Tax for other jurisdictions is calculated at the rates prevailing in the respective jurisdictions. Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the liability is settled, or the asset is realised based on jurisdictional tax laws and rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date. 146 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 2.6 Current and deferred taxation continued The tax charge for the year can be reconciled to the profit before tax as follows: Year ended 31 December 2019 Year ended 31 December 2018 Exceptional Exceptional items items Total Adjusted and certain Total Adjusted and certain Results Results remeasurements Results Results remeasurements (Restated) £m £m £m £m £m £m Profit/(loss) before tax 142.2 (145.0) (2.8) 37.1 (23.3) 13.8 Profit/(loss) before tax multiplied by the rate of corporation tax in the UK of 19.00% (2018: 19.00%) 27.0 (27.5) (0.5) 7.0 (4.4) 2.6 Effects of: Adjustments in respect of prior periods 2.9 – 2.9 (5.7) – (5.7) Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 0.6 0.1 0.7 1.1 3.5 4.6 Effect of changes in tax rate 1.8 – 1.8 0.2 – 0.2 Difference in overseas tax rates (0.2) – (0.2) (0.3) – (0.3) Patent box benefit (8.0) – (8.0) (8.1) – (8.1) Other – – – 1.0 (0.7) 0.3 Total tax charge/(credit) 24.1 (27.4) (3.3) (4.8) (1.6) (6.4) As a result of the reduction in the US federal tax rates to 21% from 2018, and tax relief now arising to the Group from the UK Patent Box regime (see below), in the medium term, the Group anticipates that the underlying effective tax rate will be marginally lower than the main rate of corporation tax in the UK. Drax Power was granted a patent to protect certain intellectual property it owns and which attaches to the technology developed to manage the combustion process in generating electricity from biomass. Under UK tax legislation the Company is entitled to apply a lower rate of tax to some of its profits each year which are derived from utilisation of that technology. The movements in deferred tax assets and liabilities during each year are shown below. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 147 Section 2: Financial performance continued 2.6 Current and deferred taxation continued Deferred tax (liabilities)/assets Financial Accelerated instruments capital Non-trade Intangible Trade Other Other (restated) allowances losses assets losses liabilities assets Total £m £m £m £m £m £m £m £m At 1 January 2018 (31.2) (161.0) – (33.2) 26.9 (18.5) 9.7 (207.3) Effect of acquisition – (48.4) – – – (20.0) – (68.4) (Charged)/credited to the income statement (7.4) 6.5 2.0 7.1 (6.1) 5.3 11.0 18.4 Charged to other comprehensive income in respect of actuarial gains – – – – – – (3.0) (3.0) Charged to other comprehensive income in respect of cash flow hedges (35.4) – – – – – – (35.4) Charged to other comprehensive income in respect to cost of hedging (4.7) – – – – – – (4.7) Credited to equity in respect of cash flow hedges 17.7 – – – – – – 17.7 Charged to equity in respect of cost of hedging (2.8) – – – – – – (2.8) Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates – – – – 1.4 – – 1.4 At 1 January 2019 (63.8) (202.9) 2.0 (26.1) 22.2 (33.2) 17.7 (284.1) (Charged)/credited to the income statement 25.3 8.3 (0.3) 6.0 5.6 5.7 (5.9) 44.7 Charged to other comprehensive income in respect of actuarial gains – – – – – – 4.3 4.3 Credited to other comprehensive income in respect of cash flow hedges 5.1 – – – – – – 5.1 Charged to other comprehensive income in respect of cost of hedging (9.7) – – – – – – (9.7) Credited to equity in respect of cash flow hedges 17.1 – – – – – – 17.1 Charged to equity in respect of cost of hedging (0.7) – – – – – – (0.7) Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates – – – – (0.3) – – (0.3) At 31 December 2019 (26.7) (194.6) 1.7 (20.1) 27.5 (27.5) 16.1 (223.6) Deferred tax balances (after offset) for financial reporting purposes: Net deferred tax asset – – 1.7 – 27.5 – 16.1 45.3 Net deferred tax liability (26.7) (194.6) – (20.1) – (27.5) – (268.9) Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where the Group has a legally enforceable right to do so, otherwise they are shown separately in the balance sheet. Within the above deferred tax balances is a net deferred tax asset of £27.5 million (2018: £22.2 million) in relation to start-up losses and other temporary differences in the US-based Pellet Production business. Based on its business plan and reflecting continuing improvement in operational performance, the Group anticipates that it will generate sufficient profits in future periods against which to utilise this asset. 148 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 2.7 Certain remeasurements and exceptional items The Group reflects its underlying financial results in the Adjusted Results column of the Consolidated income statement. In order to provide a clear and consistent view of trading performance, certain remeasurements and exceptional items are presented in a separate column. The Group believes that this presentation provides useful information about the financial performance of the business and is consistent with the way executive management and the Board assess the performance of the business. The Group has a framework for the determination of transactions as exceptional. Transactions presented as exceptional are approved by the Audit Committee. In these financial statements, the following transactions have been designated as exceptional items and presented separately: • Acquisition and restructuring costs associated with the acquisition and on-boarding of Drax Generation Enterprise Limited (formerly ScottishPower Generation Limited) (2019 and 2018) into the Group, along with costs associated with the restructuring of the Pellet Production and Customers businesses (2018). • Asset obsolescence charges, which in 2018 related to coal-specific assets associated with the conversion of the fourth unit at Drax Power Station to run on biomass fuel. • Costs incurred as a result of restructuring the Group’s debt in 2019 and 2018, including facility break costs and the acceleration of the amortisation of deferred finance costs associated with the redeemed facilities. Interest costs that relate to the acquisition bridge facility have been classified as exceptional, as they relate directly to the acquisition described above. • Certain remeasurements comprise gains or losses on derivative contracts to the extent that those contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting, or hedge accounting is not effective, and those gains or losses are either i) unrealised and relate to the delivery of commodity contracts in future periods, or ii) are realised in relation to the delivery of commodity contracts in the current period. The effect of excluding certain remeasurements from the Adjusted Results is to reflect commodity sales and purchases at contracted prices – i.e. at the all-in-hedged amount paid or received in respect of the delivery of the commodity in question, to better present the trading performance of the Group in Adjusted Results. Years ended 31 December 2019 2018 £m £m Exceptional items: Acquisition and restructuring costs (9.0) (27.7) Asset obsolescence charges – (26.8) Exceptional items included within Operating Profit (9.0) (54.5) Cost of debt restructure (5.2) (7.2) Exceptional items included in Profit Before Tax (14.2) (61.7) Taxation on Exceptional items 2.6 9.0 Exceptional items after taxation (11.6) (52.7) Remeasurements: Net remeasurements included in Gross Profit (132.8) 38.4 Net remeasurements included in Foreign exchange gains 2.0 – Taxation on certain remeasurements 24.8 (7.4) Remeasurements after taxation (106.0) 31.0 Reconciliation: Adjusted results 118.1 41.9 Exceptional items after tax (11.6) (52.7) Remeasurements after tax (106.0) 31.0 Profit/(loss) after tax 0.5 20.2 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 149 Section 2: Financial performance continued 2.8 Earnings per share Earnings per share (EPS) represents the amount of earnings (post-tax profits) attributable to each ordinary share in issue. Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the Group’s earnings (profit after tax in accordance with IFRS) by the weighted average number of ordinary shares that were in issue during the year. Diluted EPS demonstrates the impact if all outstanding share options that are expected to vest on their future maturity dates (such as those to be issued under employee share schemes – see note 6.2) were exercised and treated as ordinary shares as at the balance sheet date. Years ended 31 December 2019 2018 Earnings attributable to equity holders of the Company (£m) 0.5 20.2 Number of shares: Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of basic earnings per share (millions) 395.5 402.4 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares under share plans 1.9 4.5 Weighted average number of ordinary shares for the purposes of diluted earnings per share (millions) 397.4 406.9 Earnings/(loss) per share – basic (pence) 0.1 5.0 Earnings/(loss) per share – diluted (pence) 0.1 4.9 Repurchased shares (see note 4.5) are not included in the weighted average calculation of shares. Application of the same calculation to Adjusted profit after tax of £118.1 million results in Adjusted basic EPS of 29.9 pence and Adjusted diluted EPS of 29.7 pence (2018: Adjusted profit after tax of £41.9 million, Adjusted basic EPS of 10.4 pence and Adjusted diluted EPS of 10.3 pence). 2.9 Dividends Years ended 31 December 2019 2018 £m £m Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year (based on the number of shares in issue at the record date): Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2019 of 6.4 pence per share paid on 11 October 2019 (2018: 5.6 pence per share paid on 12 October 2018) 25.4 22.4 Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2018 of 8.5 pence per share paid on 10 May 2019 (2017: 7.4 pence per share paid on 11 May 2018) 33.5 30.1 58.9 52.5 At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting the Board will recommend to shareholders that a resolution is passed to approve payment of a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2019 of 9.5 pence per share (equivalent to approximately £38 million) payable on or before 15 May 2020. The final dividend has not been included as a liability as at 31 December 2019. This would bring total dividends payable in respect of the 2019 financial year to £63 million. The Group has a long-standing capital allocation policy. This policy is based on a commitment to robust financial metrics that underpin the Group’s strong credit rating; investment in the core business; paying a sustainable and growing dividend; and returning surplus capital to shareholders. The Board is confident that the dividend is sustainable and expects it to grow as the implementation of the Group’s strategy generates an increasing proportion of stable earnings and cash flows. In determining the rate of growth in dividends the Board will take account of future investment opportunities and the less predictable cash flows from the Group’s commodity based businesses. In future years, if there is a build-up of capital in excess of the Group’s investment needs, the Board will consider the most appropriate mechanism to return this to shareholders. 150 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 2.10 Retained profits Retained profits are a component of equity reserves. The overall balance reflects the total profits the Group has generated over its lifetime, reduced by the amount of that profit distributed to shareholders. The table below sets out the movements in retained profits during the year: Years ended 31 December 2019 2018 £m £m At 1 January 442.7 457.9 Profit for the year 0.5 20.2 Actuarial (losses)/gains on defined benefit pension scheme (note 6.3) (21.5) 15.9 Deferred tax on actuarial gains on defined benefit pension scheme (note 2.6) 4.3 (3.0) Equity dividends paid (note 2.9) (58.9) (52.5) (Loss)/gain on equity investment (0.1) 0.2 Net movements in equity associated with share-based payments (note 6.2) 2.7 4.0 At 31 December 369.7 442.7 Distributable profits The capacity of the Group to make dividend payments is primarily determined by the availability of retained distributable profits and cash resources. The Parent Company financial statements set out on pages 209 to 215 of this Annual report, disclose the Parent Company’s distributable reserves of £188.2 million. Sufficient reserves are available across the Group as a whole to make future distributions in accordance with the Group’s dividend policy for the foreseeable future. The majority of the Group’s distributable reserves are held in holding and operating subsidiaries. Management actively monitors the level of distributable reserves in each company in the Group, ensuring adequate reserves are available for upcoming dividend payments and that the Parent Company has access to these reserves. The immediate cash resources of the Group of £404.1 million are set out in note 4.2 and the recent history of cash generation within note 4.4. The majority of these cash resources are held centrally within the Group by Drax Corporate Limited for treasury management purposes and are available for funding the working capital and other requirements of the Group. The Group’s financing facilities (see note 4.3) place certain conditions on the amount of dividend payments to be made in any given year. The Group expects to be able to make dividend payments, in line with its policy, within these conditions for the foreseeable future. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 151 Section 3: Operating assets and working capital This section gives further information on the operating assets we use to generate revenue and the short-term liquid assets and liabilities, managed during day-to-day operations, that comprise our working capital balances. 3.1 Property, plant and equipment This note shows the cost, depreciation and net book value of the physical assets controlled by the Group that are used in the businesses to generate revenue. The cost of an asset is what was paid to purchase or construct the asset. Depreciation reflects the usage of the asset over time and is calculated by taking the cost of the asset, net of any residual value, to the income statement evenly over the useful economic life of the asset. An asset’s net book value is its cost less any depreciation (including impairment, if required) charged to date. Accounting policy Property, plant and equipment are initially measured at cost. Cost comprises the purchase price (after deducting trade discounts and rebates), any directly attributable costs of bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management and the estimate of the present value of the costs of dismantling and removing the item and restoring the site. Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any provision for impairment in value. The Group construct many of its assets as part of long-term development projects. Assets that are in the course of construction are not depreciated until they are ready for use in the way intended. Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis to write down assets to their residual value evenly over the estimated useful economic lives (UEL) of the assets from the date of acquisition (where relevant, limited to the expected decommissioning date of the site where the asset is located – currently expected to be between 2023–2038 for the gas-fired plants, 2039 for Drax Power Station and 2067 for the hydro-electric plants (including pumped storage). The gas-fired plants have a range of plant decommissioning dates depending on the equipment installed at each site). The table below shows the range of useful lives at the date of acquisition and the average remaining useful life at the balance sheet date of the main categories of asset we own in years: Average UEL Range of UELs remaining at acquisition Freehold buildings 16 6–71 Plant and equipment Electricity generation assets: Drax Power Station common plant 12 3–33 Drax Power Station biomass-specific assets 15 2–27 Drax Power Station coal-specific assets 4 5–19 Hydro-electric plants (including pumped storage) 40 4–141 Gas-fired plants 9 2–38 Pellet production plant 12 4–25 Other plant, machinery and equipment 12 1–33 Decommissioning asset 19 35 Plant spare parts 19 Up to 35 Freehold land held at cost is considered to have an unlimited useful life and is not depreciated. Electricity generation assets are grouped according to the fuel type of the plant. Certain assets at Drax Power Station are common to the whole plant and are shown separately. Pellet production plant includes the US-based assets of the Group’s Pellet Production segment and the assets at the Daldowie Fuel Plant near Glasgow. Plant spare parts are depreciated over the remaining useful life of the relevant power station or plant. Costs relating to major inspections, overhauls and upgrades to the power station are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, if the recognition criteria are met; namely, when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably. All other repairs and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred. Estimated useful lives and residual values are reviewed annually, taking into account regulatory change and commercial and technological obsolescence, as well as normal wear and tear. Residual values are based on prices prevailing at the balance sheet date. Any changes are applied prospectively. 152 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Significant estimation uncertainty Asset lives are reviewed annually at each balance sheet date. No changes to the useful economic lives of assets have been made as a result of the most recent review. Following previous UK Government announcements pertaining to the cessation of coal generation, the Group concluded that coal generation will cease during 2025 but that the two existing coal units will be retained for conversion to alternative fuels in the period to 2039. In February 2020, the Government announced its intention to bring forward the closure date for coal by one year to October 2024. Subsequently, on 26 February, the Board approved a proposal to accelerate the closure of the Group’s two remaining coal-fired generating units at Drax Power Station from 2025 to 2022 (see page 118). At each balance sheet date the Group reviews its property, plant and equipment to determine whether there is any indication that these assets may be impaired. The Group’s accounting policy in respect of impairment, along with details of the impairment review conducted during 2019, are set out in note 2.4. In the two tables below, amounts as at 1 January and 31 December 2018 have been restated to correct a historical currency translation error in the application of foreign exchange rates to balances held in subsidiaries with a functional currency other than sterling. Previously, these balances have been incorrectly retranslated into the presentational currency of the Group at the rate presiding at the date of the transaction. The restated amounts reflect these balances being translated at the closing rate at the relevant Balance Sheet date as required by IAS 21. At 31 December 2017 and 31 December 2018 this results in an increase of £37.8 million and £55.5 million respectively in the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment compared to the amounts previously reported, with a corresponding increase in the translation reserve (see note 8.3). The adjustment does not affect previously reported amounts for the income statement, basic or diluted earnings per share, nor cash. The comparative balances at 31 December 2018 have been restated due to the finalisation of acquisition values in relation to the new generation assets acquired from ScottishPower on 31 December 2018 (see note 5.1). Assets under Freehold land Plant and Plant spare course of and buildings equipment parts construction Total Restated Restated Restated Restated Restated £m £m £m £m £m Cost: At 1 January 2018 as previously reported 304.1 2,134.6 67.0 149.2 2,654.9 Effect of foreign exchange rates adjustments 11.4 21.3 – 5.4 38.1 At 1 January 2018 restated 315.5 2,155.9 67.0 154.6 2,693.0 Acquired in business combination 159.3 521.6 – 8.9 689.8 Additions at cost 3.6 8.8 8.7 92.5 113.6 Disposals (2.8) (80.2) – (1.2) (84.2) Issues/transfers 14.0 108.6 (9.7) (128.1) (15.2) Effect of foreign exchange rates 6.0 18.8 – (3.5) 21.3 At 1 January 2019 restated 495.6 2,733.5 66.0 123.2 3,418.3 Additions at cost 0.4 5.3 8.2 137.4 151.3 Disposals – (0.8) (1.4) (0.9) (3.1) Issues/transfers during the year (70.0) 123.6 (3.7) (54.6) (4.7) Effect of foreign exchange rates (4.1) (9.9) – (0.5) (14.5) At 31 December 2019 421.9 2,851.7 69.1 204.6 3,547.3 Accumulated depreciation and impairment: At 1 January 2018 as previously reported 67.3 905.6 20.1 – 993.0 Effect of foreign exchange rates adjustment 0.1 0.2 – – 0.3 At 1 January 2018 restated 67.4 905.8 20.1 – 993.3 Depreciation charge for the year 12.0 114.4 2.8 – 129.2 Disposals (2.3) (50.8) (2.3) – (55.4) Effect of foreign exchange rates 1.1 2.5 – – 3.6 At 1 January 2019 restated 78.2 971.9 20.6 – 1,070.7 Depreciation charge for the year 12.8 142.7 3.5 – 159.0 Disposals – (0.7) (1.1) – (1.8) Issues/transfers during the year – – (4.9) – (4.9) Effect of foreign exchange rates (0.9) (2.2) – – (3.1) At 31 December 2019 90.1 1,111.7 18.1 – 1,219.9 Net book amount at 31 December 2018 restated 417.4 1,761.6 45.4 123.2 2,347.6 Net book amount at 31 December 2019 331.8 1,740.0 51.0 204.6 2,327.4 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 153 Section 3: Operating assets and working capital continued 3.1 Property, plant and equipment continued Plant and equipment shown above includes the following categories of assets: Pellet Total production plant and Biomass and Hydro-electric Gas thermal plant equipment coal plant plant plants Restated Other Restated £m £m £m £m £m £m Cost: At 1 January 2018 as previously reported 1,938.1 – – 185.7 10.8 2,134.6 Effect of foreign exchange rates adjustments – – – 21.3 – 21.3 At 1 January 2018 restated 1,938.1 – – 207.0 10.8 2,155.9 Acquired in business combinations – 379.5 120.6 21.5 – 521.6 Additions at cost – – – 5.3 3.5 8.8 Disposals (80.1) – – – (0.1) (80.2) Issues/transfers 66.6 – – 43.8 (1.8) 108.6 Effect of foreign exchange rates – – – 18.8 – 18.8 At 1 January 2019 restated 1,924.6 379.5 120.6 296.4 12.4 2,733.5 Additions at cost – – – 4.8 0.5 5.3 Disposals (0.4) – – – (0.4) (0.8) Issues/transfers 46.0 87.0 (2.9) (8.7) 2.2 123.6 Effect of foreign exchange rates – – – (9.9) – (9.9) At 31 December 2019 1,970.2 466.5 117.7 282.6 14.7 2,851.7 Accumulated depreciation and impairment: At 1 January 2018 as previously reported 870.0 – – 28.8 6.8 905.6 Effect of foreign exchange rates adjustments – – – 0.2 – 0.2 At 1 January 2018 restated 870.0 – – 29.0 6.8 905.8 Depreciation charge for the year 94.9 – – 17.8 1.7 114.4 Disposals (50.7) – – (0.1) – (50.8) Transfers Effect of foreign exchange rates – – – 2.5 – 2.5 At 1 January 2019 restated 914.2 – – 49.2 8.5 971.9 Depreciation charge for the year 91.5 15.0 11.3 22.2 2.7 142.7 Disposals (0.3) – – – (0.4) (0.7) Issues/ transfers 8.2 – – (6.7) (1.5) – Effect of foreign exchange rates – – – (2.2) – (2.2) At 31 December 2019 1,013.6 15.0 11.3 62.5 9.3 1,111.7 Net book amount at 31 December 2018 restated 1,010.4 379.5 120.6 247.2 3.9 1,761.6 Net book amount at 31 December 2019 956.6 451.5 106.4 220.1 5.4 1,740.0 Issues and transfers reflect changes in the categorisation of assets during the period e.g. when an asset under construction is complete, it is transferred to the relevant depreciable asset category, or the issue of spare parts for use in repair and maintenance projects. When spares are utilised in such projects, the cost of the part is transferred from the property, plant and equipment balance and recognised as an expense in the income statement within operating costs. Total depreciation of £165.9 million per the income statement includes £6.9 million of depreciation and impairment on right-of-use assets, see note 3.2 154 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 3.1 Property, plant and equipment continued Post balance sheet event On 26 February 2020, the Board approved a proposal to accelerate the closure of the Group’s two remaining coal fired generating units at Drax Power Station from 2025 to 2022. In assessing the financial impact of this decision, the Group will consider the useful lives, residual values and potential impairment of certain assets at Drax Power Station. The timing for completing this impairment review is uncertain as the assets remain an integral part of the site and a detailed closure plan needs to be finalised. The carrying amount of affected assets was approximately £240 million at 31 December 2019. See page 118 for further details. 3.2 Leases Accounting policy IFRS 16 determines a control model to distinguish between lease agreements and service contracts on the basis of whether the use of an identified asset is controlled by the Group. If the Group is deemed to have control of an identified asset, then a lease is recognised on the balance sheet. A right-of-use asset and a corresponding lease liability are recognised. The right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost and is subsequently measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the future lease payments discounted using the discount rate that is implicit in the lease. If this discount rate cannot be determined from the agreement, the liability is discounted using an incremental borrowing rate. The liability is subsequently adjusted for interest, repayments and other modifications. Lease modifications are accounted for as a separate lease where the scope of the lease increases through the right to use one or more underlying assets and where the consideration of the lease increases by an amount that is equivalent to the standalone price of the increase in scope. Where a modification decreases the scope of the lease, the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset is adjusted and a gain or loss is recognised in proportion to the decrease in scope of the lease. All other modifications are accounted for as a reassessment of the lease liability with a corresponding adjustment to the right-of-use asset. Lease extension or termination options are included within the lease term when the Group as the lessee has the discretion to exercise the option and where it is probable that the option will be exercised. Leases with a term shorter than 12 months or where the identified asset has a value below £3,500 are expensed to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the adoption of the agreement. See note 8.3 for further details on the adoption of IFRS 16. Right-of-use assets Land and Plant and Buildings Machinery Total £m £m £m Cost and carrying amount: At 1 January 2019 23.4 13.7 37.1 Additions at cost 0.9 0.7 1.6 Effects of foreign exchange rates (0.1) (0.4) (0.5) At 31 December 2019 24.2 14.0 38.2 Accumulated Depreciation At 1 January 2019 – – – Charge for period 3.5 3.1 6.6 Impairment 0.3 – 0.3 Effect of foreign exchange rates – (0.1) (0.1) At 31 December 2019 3.8 3.0 6.8 Net book value At 1 January 2019 23.4 13.7 37.1 At 31 December 2019 20.4 11.0 31.4 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 155 Section 3: Operating assets and working capital continued 3.2 Leases continued Lease liabilities Total £m Carrying amount: At 1 January 2019 37.6 Additions 1.5 Interest charged to the income statement 1.2 Payments (7.4) Effect of foreign exchange rates (0.4) At 31 December 2019 32.5 The weighted-average discount rate applied to lease liabilities in the year ended 31 December 2019 was 4.01%. The Group is committed to payments for short-term and low value leases of £0.6 million as at 31 December 2019. The maturity of the gross undiscounted lease liability at 31 December 2019 is as follows: Total 2019 £m Within one year 7.2 Within one to five years 19.2 After five years 10.6 Total gross payments 37.0 Effect of discounting (4.5) Lease liability recognised in the Balance Sheet 32.5 Current portion 6.3 Non-current portion 26.2 3.3 Other fixed asset investments Other fixed asset investments include equity investments held by the Group. Accounting policy Other fixed asset investments are recognised at fair value, based on quoted market prices where available, at the balance sheet date. The Group designates all of its investments as fair value through other comprehensive income, as they are intended to be held and not traded, in accordance with IFRS 9. Where quoted market prices are not available fair value is estimated based on all available information. Total fixed asset investments 2019 2018 £m £m At 1 January 2.4 1.3 Additions 0.7 0.9 Fair value (losses) /gains (0.1) 0.2 At 31 December 3.0 2.4 During the year, the Group further increased its investment in C-Capture Limited. See note 7.1 for details on the fair value measurement of investments. 156 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 3.4 ROC assets The Group earn Renewable Obligation Certificate (ROC) assets, which are accredited by the Office for Gas and Electricity Markets (Ofgem), as a result of burning sustainable compressed wood pellets to generate electricity at Drax Power Station and generating renewable energy at a certain number of the Group’s Hydro-electric plants. This note sets out the value of these assets that the Group holds at the year end. Accounting policy ROCs are recognised as current assets in the period they are generated and are initially measured at fair value based on anticipated sales prices. The value of ROCs earned is recognised in the income statement as a reduction to costs of sales in that period. Where the Customers business incurs an obligation to deliver ROCs to Ofgem, that obligation is provided for in the period incurred. At each reporting date the Group reviews the carrying value of ROC assets held against updated anticipated sales prices. Where relevant, this takes account of agreed forward sale contracts and the likely utilisation of ROCs generated to settle the Group’s own ROC obligations. Any impairment is recognised in the period incurred. The fair values and net realisable values of ROCs referred to above are calculated based on assumptions regarding future sales prices in the market, taking into account agreed forward sale contracts where appropriate. Historical experience indicates that the assumptions used in the valuation are reasonable; however, actual sales prices may differ from those assumed. ROC valuations are comprised of two parts: the expected value to be obtained in a sale transaction with a third-party supplier relating to the buy-out price and an estimate of the future benefit that may be obtained from the ROC recycle fund at the end of the compliance period. The recycle fund provides a benefit where supplier buy-out charges (incurred by suppliers who do not procure sufficient ROCs to satisfy their obligations) are paid over to suppliers who presented ROCs in a compliance period on a pro-rata basis. The estimate is based on assumptions about likely levels of renewable generation and supply over the compliance period and is thus subject to some uncertainty. The Group utilises external sources of information in addition to its own forecasts in making these estimates. Past experience indicates that the values arrived at are reasonable, but they remain subject to possible variation. Total £m Carrying amount: At 1 January 2018 145.5 Earned from generation 467.7 Purchased from third parties 582.6 Utilised by the Customers business (319.8) Sold to third parties (659.3) At 1 January 2019 216.7 Earned from generation 527.8 Purchased from third parties 513.1 Utilised by the Customers business (360.3) Sold to third parties (734.6) At 31 December 2019 162.7 Recognition of revenue from sales of ROCs is described in further detail on page 141. The Group has increased sales of ROCs in the year as a result of working capital arrangements as described in note 4.4. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 157 Section 3: Operating assets and working capital continued 3.5 Inventories The Group hold stocks of fuels and other consumable items that are used in the process of generating electricity and raw materials used in the production of compressed wood pellets. This note shows the cost of coal, biomass, other fuels and plant consumables held at the end of the year at Drax Power Station, the Group’s facilities in the US and off-site locations. The Hydro and CCGT plants hold inventory of spare part consumables. Accounting policy The Group’s raw materials and fuel stocks are valued at the lower of the weighted average cost to purchase and net realisable value. The cost of fuel stocks includes all direct costs and overheads incurred in bringing the fuel to its present location and condition, including the purchase price, import duties and other taxes (including amounts levied on coal under the UK carbon price support mechanism) and transport/handling costs. The Group uses forward foreign currency exchange contracts to hedge the costs denominated in foreign currencies. Where these contracts are designated into hedge relationships in accordance with IFRS 9, the stock cost is recognised at the hedged value and all such gains and losses are included in cost of sales when they arise. Both coal and biomass stocks are weighed when entering, moving within or exiting the Group’s sites using technology regularly calibrated to industry standards. Fuel burn in the electricity generation process is calculated using a combination of weights and thermal efficiency calculations to provide closing stock volumes. Both calibrated weighers and efficiency calculations are subject to a range of tolerable error. All fuel inventories are subject to regular surveys to ensure these measurements are sufficiently accurate. Coal stocks are verified by an independent stock survey carried out by a suitably trained specialist and a provision is made where the survey indicates a lower level of stock than indicated by the methods described above. Despite being an independent process, the survey depends on estimates and assumptions and as a result actual values may differ. The characteristics of biomass require specialist handling and storage. Biomass at Drax Power Station is stored in sealed domes with a carefully controlled atmosphere for fire prevention purposes and thus cannot be surveyed using traditional methods. Biomass stock is surveyed using regularly calibrated RADAR scanning technology. As at 31 December 2019 2018 £m £m Coal 103.1 81.0 Biomass 164.9 114.7 Other fuels and consumables 24.0 26.8 292.0 222.5 Inventories of biomass in the year ended 31 December 2019 include £2.6 million (2018: £0.6 million) of fibre and other raw materials utilised in the production of compressed wood pellets. Inventories in the year ended 31 December 2019 include £nil (2018: £0.9 million) of work in progress in the Pellet Production business. The cost of inventories recognised as an expense in the year ended 31 December 2019 was £1,182.8 million (2018: £1,601.1 million). The value of write downs of inventory in the year was £nil (2018: £nil). Post balance sheet event On 26 February 2020, the Board approved a proposal to accelerate the closure of the Group’s two remaining coal fired generating units at Drax Power Station from 2025 to 2022. The carrying amount of coal inventory was £103.1 million at 31 December 2019, the Group expects to recover this value in full over the period to closure. See page 118 for further details. 158 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 3.6 Trade and other receivables Trade receivables represent amounts owed by customers for goods or services provided but not yet been paid for. Accrued income represents income earned in the period but not yet invoiced, largely in respect of power delivered that will be invoiced the following month. Accounting policy Trade and other receivables are initially measured at transaction price and subsequently measured at amortised cost. The Group has access to receivables monetisation facilities under which trade receivables can be sold to a third party on a non-recourse basis. Receivables sold under such facilities are derecognised at the point of sale. Fees are recognised in the income statement as incurred. Years ended 31 December Restated 2019 2018 £m £m Amounts falling due within one year: Trade receivables 134.4 168.0 Accrued income 345.9 197.0 Contract assets 6.7 4.3 Prepayments 67.3 73.2 Other receivables 54.5 31.7 608.8 474.2 Trade receivables and accrued income principally represent sales of energy to counterparties within both the Generation and Customers businesses. At 31 December 2019, the Group had amounts receivable from two significant counterparties representing 18% of total trade receivables and accrued income (2018: two significant counterparties representing 12% of total trade receivables and accrued income). The comparative balances at 31 December 2018 have been restated due to the finalisation of acquisition values in relation to the new generation assets acquired from ScottishPower on 31 December 2018 (see note 5.1). Of total trade receivables and accrued income at 31 December 2019 £275.0 million (2018: £266.6 million) relates to Customers sales. Contract assets relate to amounts for goods or services provided under customer contracts, where the entitlement to consideration is contingent on something other than the passage of time. The Group has recognised a contract asset for any work performed where payment is not yet due. Any amount previously recognised as a contract asset is reclassified to trade receivables at the point at which it is invoiced to the customer, usually in the following financial period. The reconciliation from opening to closing contract assets is as follows: Years ended 31 December 2019 2018 £m £m At 1 January 4.3 5.3 Additions as a result in changes in the measure of progress of balances brought forward at the start of the year 6.7 4.3 Additions as a result of new contracts – – Contract assets transferred to trade receivables (4.3) (5.3) At 31 December 6.7 4.3 Impairment of financial assets Accounting policy The provision for impairment of trade receivables and contract assets is measured at an amount equal to the lifetime expected credit loss. The contract assets relate to amounts for goods or services provided under customer contracts and have substantially the same risk characteristics as the trade receivables for the same types of contracts. The greatest concentration of credit risk exists in the Customers business. During 2019, the Group implemented a new machine learning algorithm to calculate expected credit losses in this business. The algorithm predicts the future performance of a debt on an individual account basis using a broad range of internal and external indicators to assess the likelihood of the debt becoming more than 365 days past due and subsequently defaulting. The Group considers default to be when a customer is in breach of their terms. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 159 Section 3: Operating assets and working capital continued 3.6 Trade and other receivables continued The new method provides in full for debt where the debt is more likely than not (i.e. more than 50% probability) to become both aged over 365 days and then subsequently default. The Group considers that the overall provision applied from this method and other overlay assumptions is adequate to reflect the risk of default across the whole portfolio. The Group defines customers that have a combined probability of less than 25% as low credit risk. Other Customers balances are grouped according to the age of the debt based on a number of days past due. The provision rates remaining are based on historical collection rates and expectation of future cash collection rates. 12-month expected credit losses are calculated for other financial assets by taking the Groups’ exposure at the balance sheet date multiplied by a 12-month provision rate. The Group writes off a financial asset when there is no realistic prospect of recovery and all attempts to recover the balance have been exhausted. The net charge to the income statement in the current year for impairment losses on financial assets was £18.0 million (2018: £31.4 million), this includes a £6.1m benefit in the period in respect of resolution of legacy credit balances. The movement in the allowance for doubtful debts is laid out in the following table: Years ended 31 December 2019 2018 £m £m At 1 January 44.0 28.2 Receivables written off (27.4) (15.6) Additional amounts provided against 24.1 33.6 Amounts reversed as recovered – (0.8) Changes in models/risks parameters – (1.4) At 31 December 40.7 44.0 The expected credit loss provision above relates wholly to trade receivables and contract assets. The expected credit loss provision calculated for other financial assets of the Group was negligible. The provision above principally relates to trade receivables and contract assets in the Customers business. The risk of default within the Generation and Pellet Production businesses is considered to be extremely low and the calculated provision is negligible, this is supported by strong historic collection rates and timely receipts. Credit and counterparty risk are disclosed in further detail in note 7.2. The value of provisions calculated using the Groups’ predictive model is set out below, grouped by the combined probability assigned by the model: Estimated gross carrying Lifetime expected amount at default credit losses Probability of default range % £m £m 80–100 22.7 19.3 50–79 17.2 14.6 0–49 117.8 3.7 Total 157.7 37.6 Provision for specific debt 0.2 Closing provision 37.8 The following table shows the risk profile of amounts due from other customers based on the Group’s provision matrix at 31 December 2019 excluding the debt provided for in the table above using the combined probability model. Financial assets days past due Balances Up to More than More than More than not yet due 30 days 30 days 60 days 90 days Total Group Expected credit loss rate – % 3% 9% 5% 13% 82% 12% Estimated total gross carrying amount at default – £m 13.8 2.9 3.8 1.2 2.4 24.1 Lifetime expected credit losses – £m 0.4 0.2 0.2 0.2 1.9 2.9 160 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 3.6 Trade and other receivables continued The expected credit loss rate is a weighted average for the portfolio of the remaining trade receivables and contract assets associated with the Customers business. Balances not yet due include contract asset balances. The majority of balances not yet due are held in the Generation business where the risk of default is considered to be extremely low and immaterial to provide for, this is supported by strong historic collection rates and timely receipts. The following table shows the comparative risk profile of amounts due from other customers based on the Group’s provision matrix at 31 December 2018. Trade receivables and contract assets days past due Balances not yet due Up to More than More than More than Total (restated) 30 days 30 days 60 days 90 days (restated) Group Expected credit loss rate – % <1% 7% 19% 32% 59% 26% Estimated total gross carrying amount at default – £m 22.7 75.2 11.5 6.8 58.6 174.8 Lifetime expected credit losses – £m 0.1 5.2 2.2 2.2 34.3 44.0 The above table has been restated to include contract assets of the Group and due to the finalisation of acquisition values in relation to the assets acquired from ScottishPower on 31 December 2018 (see note 5.1). 3.7 Contract costs The Group incurs costs of obtaining contracts in the Customers business. Accounting policy Management expects that incremental broker fees paid to intermediaries as a result of obtaining electricity and gas contracts are recoverable. The Group has therefore capitalised them as contract costs at the point the fee is paid. The fees are amortised on a straight line basis over the contract period in line with the recognition of revenue. The balance is included within prepayments in note 3.6. This amount includes both current and non-current balances. The reconciliation from opening to closing contract costs is as follows, there was no impairment loss recognised: Years ended 31 December 2019 2018 £m £m At 1 January 39.0 39.3 Additions 33.7 36.9 Amortisation (30.4) (37.2) At 31 December 42.3 39.0 3.8 Trade and other payables Trade and other payables represent amounts the Group owe to its suppliers (for trade purchases and ongoing costs), tax authorities and other creditors that are due to be paid in the ordinary course of business. The Group make accruals for amounts that will fall due for payment in the future as a result of the Group’s activities in the current year (e.g. fuel received but for which the Group has not yet been invoiced). Accounting policy Trade and other payables are measured at amortised cost. The Group facilitates a supply chain finance scheme, a form of reverse factoring under which certain suppliers can obtain early access to funding. There are no changes to the Group’s payment terms under this arrangement, nor would they be if the arrangement was to fall away, and the amount due is recognised in trade payables. The Group also has access to payment facilities, utilised to leverage scale and efficiencies in transaction processing. Under these facilities the Group benefits from a short extension to payment terms, within a normal working capital cycle, for a small fee. The original liability is derecognised and the amount due to the facility provider is recognised in other payables. Fees are recognised in the income statement in the period incurred. The Group does not include trade and other payables in its calculation of net debt, see note 4.1. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 161 Section 3: Operating assets and working capital continued 3.8 Trade and other payables continued As at 31 December Restated 2019 2018 £m £m Trade payables 175.0 110.5 Fuel accruals 86.1 129.4 Energy supply accruals 364.2 309.9 Other accruals 208.8 183.4 Other payables 183.3 187.4 Contract liabilities 21.8 20.0 1,039.2 940.6 Trade payables includes £4.5m due after more than one year. Trade payables includes £33.1 million (2018: £2.2 million) related to reverse factoring. Other payables include £90.6 million (2018: £87.0 million) due under other payment facilities. Other payables include £55.0 million of ROC sales made in the period which the Group have not yet been accredited for. Once the ROCs have been accredited and transferred to the other party, this amount will be released from other payables and recognised in the income statement. Energy supply accruals include £250.0 million (2018: £235.5 million) in relation to the Group’s obligation to deliver ROCs arising from Customers activities. The remaining balance principally comprises third party grid charge accruals of £42.8 million (2018: £51.7 million) and Feed-in-Tariff accruals of £30.4 million (2018: £14.1 million). The Group recognises a liability in respect of its unsettled obligations to deliver emissions allowances under the EU Emission Trading Scheme (ETS). Accruals at 31 December 2019 include £25.5 million (2018: £nil) with respect to the Group’s estimated net liability to deliver CO2 emissions allowances. Allowances are purchased in the market and are recorded at cost. Other payables at 31 December 2018 have been restated due to the finalisation of acquisition values of the liabilities acquired in the acquisition of the new generation assets on 31 December 2018. (See note 5.1). Contract liabilities primarily relate to the advance consideration received from customers for fixed price electricity and gas contracts, for which revenue is recognised based on the stage of completion of the multi-year contract. The balance reduces as revenue is subsequently recognised in the following period, offset by further advance consideration received. The reconciliation of opening to closing contract liabilities is as follows: Years ended 31 December 2019 2018 £m £m At 1 January 20.0 27.6 Revenue recognised in the year that was included in the contract liability at the start of the period (12.5) (20.5) Additions as a result of cash received from Customers in the period not yet recognised in Revenue 14.3 12.9 At 31 December 21.8 20.0 162 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Section 4: Financing and capital structure This section provides further information about the Group’s capital structure (equity and debt financing) and cash generated from operations during the year. 4.1 Reconciliation of net debt Net debt is calculated by taking the Group’s borrowings (note 4.3) and subtracting cash and cash equivalents (note 4.2). The table below reconciles net debt in terms of changes in these balances across the year. Years ended 31 December 2019 2018 £m £m Net debt at 1 January (319.1) (367.4) Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 121.9 65.6 (Increase)/decrease in borrowings (645.3) 4.2 Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates 1.4 (21.5) Net debt at 31 December (841.1) (319.1) Borrowings include listed bonds, bank debt and revolving credit facilities, net of any deferred finance costs. Borrowings do not include other financial liabilities such as IFRS 16 lease liabilities, pension obligations and trade and other payables. Whilst the definition of net debt is unchanged from previous periods, following the adoption of IFRS 16 as of 1 January 2019, finance leases no longer form part of borrowings and have been subsumed into the larger lease liability calculated in accordance with IFRS 16. The carrying amount of finance lease liabilities at 31 December 2018 was £0.5 million. The Group does not include lease liabilities, calculated in accordance with IFRS 16, in the definition of net debt. This reflects the nature of the contracts included in this balance, which were predominantly classified as operating leases under the old lease standard (IAS 17 and IFRIC 4). These leases were therefore previously not held on the balance sheet, but were disclosed as operating commitments in the Group’s 2018 Annual Report and Accounts. At 31 December 2019, these liabilities had a carrying amount of £32.5 million (see note 3.2). A reconciliation of the increase in borrowings during the year is set out in the table on page 165. The Group has entered into cross-currency interest rate swaps, fixing the sterling value of the principal repayments in respect of the Group’s US dollar denominated debt (see note 4.3). If US dollar balances are translated at the hedged rate, rather than the rate prevailing at the balance sheet date, the carrying amount of the Group’s borrowings would be reduced by £12.2 million (2018: reduced by £22.0 million). The corresponding value of the hedging instrument is recognised at its fair value as a derivative financial instrument, (note 7.2). 4.2 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash held in current and other deposit accounts that is accessible on demand. It is the Group’s policy to invest available cash on hand in short-term, low-risk bank accounts or deposit accounts. As at 31 December 2019 2018 £m £m Cash and cash equivalents 404.1 289.0 4.3 Borrowings Accounting policy The Group measures all debt instruments (whether financial assets or financial liabilities) initially at fair value, which equates to the principal value of the consideration paid or received. Subsequent to initial measurement, debt instruments are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Transaction costs (any such costs incremental and directly attributable to the issue of the financial instrument) are included in the calculation of the effective interest rate and are amortised over the life of the instrument. Fees paid on the establishment of loan facilities are recognised as transaction costs of the loan to the extent that it is probable that some or all of the facility will be drawn down. Where this is the case, the fee is deferred until the draw-down occurs. Debt instruments denominated in foreign currencies are revalued using period end exchange rates, with any exchange gains and losses arising recognised as a component of net interest charges in the period they arise. The Group hedges foreign currency risk in accordance with the policy set out in note 7.2. Where hedging instruments are used to fix cash flows associated with debt instruments, the debt instrument and the hedging instrument are measured and presented separately on the balance sheet. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 163 Section 4: Financing and capital structure continued 4.3 Borrowings continued Reconciliation of borrowings The tables below show the movement in borrowings during the current and previous year: Year ended 31 December 2019 Borrowings before deferred Deferred Net finance costs finance costs borrowings £m £m £m Borrowings at 1 January 622.9 (14.8) 608.1 Cash movements: 2025 $200 million USD loan notes draw down 152.8 (3.4) 149.4 £550 million acquisition bridge facility draw down 550.0 (1.4) 548.6 UK infrastructure private placement draw down 375.0 (10.0) 365.0 ESG facility draw down 125.0 (2.1) 122.9 Repayment of £550 million acquisition bridge facility (550.0) – (550.0) Non-cash movements: Acceleration of deferred costs in relation to previous facilities (note 2.5) – 5.2 5.2 Indexation of linked loan 0.8 – 0.8 Amortisation of deferred finance costs (note 2.5) – 4.2 4.2 Amortisation of USD loan note premium (0.3) – (0.3) Effect of foreign exchange rates (8.2) – (8.2) Reclassification of finance leases (0.5) – (0.5) Borrowings at 31 December 1,267.5 (22.3) 1,245.2 On 2 January 2019, the Group drew down £550 million from the £725 million acquisition bridge facility to partially fund the acquisition of the new generation assets, with the remainder of the consideration funded from the Group’s cash resources. The acquisition bridge facility was fully refinanced in the year, ahead of its scheduled maturity in the second half of 2020, as described below. On 16 May 2019, the Group issued an additional US $200 million of the existing 2025 6.625% USD loan notes. The proceeds from the issuance were used to repay £150 million of the drawn down acquisition bridge facility. The notes were issued at 101.5% of their nominal value which, when swapped back into sterling, achieved an interest rate of 4.74%. On 24 July 2019, the Group successfully concluded the refinancing of the remaining £400 million drawn acquisition bridge facility. Two new facilities totalling £500 million were agreed with effective rates substantially inside Drax’s current cost of debt; a £375 million UK infrastructure private placement with maturities extending out to between 2024–2029 and a £125 million environment, social & governance or “ESG” facility. A proportion of the interest rate on the £125 million ESG facility is variable, based on the Group’s total carbon dioxide emissions per GWh of electricity generation. The Group’s financing structure also includes £350 million 4.25% fixed rate loan notes, US $300 million loan notes with a fixed interest rate of 6.625%, which was swapped back to sterling upon issuance at an effective interest rate of 5%, and a £350 million facility comprised of Revolving Credit Facility (RCF) with a value of £315 million and an index-linked term loan of £35 million. The RCF matures in April 2021, with an option to extend by one year. See note 7.2 for further details. Following the adoption of IFRS 16 (see note 8.3), finance leases have been reclassified to lease liabilities. Prior years have not been restated. The Group has cross-currency interest rate swaps in place (see note 7.1) to hedge the sterling cash flows associated with the USD loan notes. In addition to fixing the sterling value of interest payments over a five year period, this instrument fixes the sterling repayment of the principal at £367.5 million in 2023, the impact of which would reduce borrowings by £12.2 million. 164 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 4.3 Borrowings continued Year ended 31 December 2018 Borrowings before deferred Deferred Net finance costs finance costs borrowings £m £m £m Borrowings at 1 January 605.2 (15.5) 589.7 Cash movements: 2025 US $300 million loan notes drawn down 213.3 (3.8) 209.5 Repayment of floating rate loan notes on 1 May 2018 (200.0) – (200.0) Repayment of US $25 million revolving facility (19.1) – (19.1) Deferred costs in relation to acquisition bridge facility – (3.8) (3.8) Non-cash movements: Indexation of linked loan 1.2 – 1.2 Amortisation of deferred finance costs (note 2.5) – 3.1 3.1 Repayment of floating rate loan notes on 1 May 2018 – 5.2 5.2 Effect of foreign exchange rates 22.6 – 22.6 Changes in finance lease liabilities (0.3) – (0.3) Borrowings at 31 December 622.9 (14.8) 608.1 Amounts drawn against each facility in the Group’s financing structure in the current and previous year is shown in the tables below: As at 31 December 2019 Borrowings before deferred Deferred Net finance costs finance costs borrowings £m £m £m 2022 fixed loan notes 350.0 (5.3) 344.7 2025 US $500 million loan notes 379.6 (5.9) 373.7 Index-linked loan 37.9 – 37.9 UK infrastructure private placement 375.0 (9.3) 365.7 ESG facility 125.0 (1.8) 123.2 Total borrowings 1,267.5 (22.3) 1,245.2 Split between: Current borrowings – – – Non-current borrowings 1,267.5 (22.3) 1,245.2 The Group has a committed £315 million revolving credit facility available but had no cash drawings at 31 December 2019. The Group has no other committed facilities, although it has access to certain non-recourse trade receivable finance facilities and payment facilities, as described in note 4.4, which are utilised to accelerate working capital cash inflows and defer cash outflows. As at 31 December 2018 Borrowings before deferred Deferred Net finance costs finance costs borrowings £m £m £m 2022 fixed loan notes 350.0 (7.6) 342.4 2025 US $300 million loan notes 235.3 (3.4) 231.9 Index-linked loan 37.1 – 37.1 Acquisition bridge facility – (3.8) (3.8) Finance lease liabilities 0.5 – 0.5 Total borrowings 622.9 (14.8) 608.1 Split between: Current borrowings 0.1 – 0.1 Non-current borrowings 622.8 (14.8) 608.0 The Group’s financing structure, including the index linked loan, the loan notes, the revolving credit facility, private placement and ESG facility are secured against the assets of a number of the Group’s subsidiaries including property, plant and equipment, with the exception of the US subsidiaries’ assets. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 165 Section 4: Financing and capital structure continued 4.3 Borrowings continued In addition, the Group has a secured commodity trading line, which allows it to transact prescribed volumes of commodity trades without the requirement to post collateral and FX trading lines with certain banks. Counterparties to these arrangements are entitled to share in the security as described above. As at 31 December 2019, this value was £32.7 million (2018: £11.9 million). 4.4 Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement Cash generated from operations Cash generated from operations is the starting point of the Group’s cash flow statement on page 137 The table below makes adjustments for any non-cash accounting items to reconcile the Group’s net profit for the year to the amount of cash generated from the Group’s operations. Years ended 31 December 2019 2018 £m £m Profit/(loss) for the year 0.5 20.2 Adjustments for: Interest payable and similar charges 66.5 47.3 Interest receivable (1.3) (1.2) Tax credit (3.3) (6.4) Depreciation and amortisation 207.9 173.8 Asset obsolescence charge – 26.8 Losses on disposal 1.2 3.9 Certain remeasurements of derivative contracts 254.0 (43.3) Defined benefit pension scheme current service cost 7.1 6.8 Non-cash charge for share-based payments 2.7 4.0 Other non-cash (gains)/losses (0.5) 4.3 Operating cash flows before movement in working capital 534.8 236.2 Changes in working capital: (Increase)/decrease in inventories (67.8) 52.5 Increase in receivables (142.6) (15.4) Increase in payables 101.6 149.4 Decrease/(increase) in carbon assets 4.3 (3.7) Decrease/(increase) in ROC assets 54.0 (71.2) Total cash released from working capital (50.5) 111.6 Defined benefit pension scheme contributions (13.1) (11.4) Cash generated from operations 471.2 336.4 (1) Certain remeasurements of derivative contracts includes the effect of non-cash unrealised gains and losses recognised in the income statement and cash realised from derivative contracts designated into hedge relationships under IFRS 9, where the gain or loss is held in the hedge reserve pending release to the income statement in the period the hedged transaction occurs. The Group has a strong focus on cash flow discipline and uses various methods to manage liquidity. When compared to the year end position, these methods have been utilised to a broadly consistent level throughout the year unless otherwise stated. The impact of these actions on the cash flows of the Group is described below. Cash from ROCs is typically realised several months after the ROC is earned; however, through standard ROC sales and ROC purchase arrangements we are able to accelerate cash flows over a proportion of these assets. The net impact of ROC purchases and ROC sales on operating cash flows was a £131.2 million inflow (2018: £10.5 million outflow), reflected as a decrease (2018: increase) in ROC assets in the table above. The level of ROCs generated, purchased and sold during the period is set out in note 3.4. The Group also has access to facilities enabling it to sell ROC trade receivables on a non-recourse basis. These facilities were utilised during the year but no amounts remained outstanding at 31 December (2018: £nil). From time to time, where market conditions change, the Group can rebase foreign currency contracts (including cross-currency interest rate swaps). In 2019 this generated a working capital benefit, which is reflected as an adjustment to derivative remeasurements in the table above. The total cash benefit released from related trades that remained outstanding at 31 December 2019 was £106.8 million (2018: £2.9 million). This cash benefit includes £84.3 million (2018: £2.9 million) released from foreign currency contracts and £22.5 million (2018: £nil) from cross-currency interest rate swaps. 166 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 4.4 Notes to the consolidated cash flow statement continued The Customers business has access to a facility which enables it to accelerate cash flows associated with trade receivables on a non-recourse basis, which generated a net cash inflow of £12.8 million in the year ended 31 December 2019, reflected as a reduction in receivables in the table above (2018: £24.4 million). The facility terms were amended in the year, increasing the facility size to £200 million from £150 million in 2018. Utilisation of the facility was £162.2 million at 31 December 2019 (2018: £149.4 million). The Group has sought to normalise payments across its supplier base resulting in certain suppliers extending payment terms and some reducing terms. Suppliers are able to access a supply chain finance facility provided by a bank, for which funds can be accelerated in advance of the normal payment terms. The facility does not affect the Group’s working capital, as payment terms remain unaltered with the Group. At 31 December 2019, the Group had trade payables of £33.1 million (2018: £2.2 million) related to reverse factoring. The Group also has access to a number of payment facilities to leverage scale and efficiencies in transaction processing, whilst providing a working capital benefit for the Group due to a short extension of payment terms within a normal working capital cycle. The amount outstanding under these facilities at 31 December 2019 was £90.6 million (2018: £87.0 million). Changes in liabilities arising from financing cash flows A reconciliation of the movements in liabilities arising from financing activities for both cash and non-cash changes is provided below: As at 31 December 2019 Index-linked loans Lease liabilities Total £m £m £m Balance at 1 January 607.6 0.5 608.1 Cash flows from financing activities 635.9 (7.4) 628.5 Impact of foreign exchange rates (8.2) (0.4) (8.6) Other movements 9.9 39.8 49.7 Balance at 31 December 1,245.2 32.5 1,277.7 As at 31 December 2018 Index-linked loans Lease liabilities Total £m £m £m Balance at 1 January 588.9 0.8 589.7 Cash flows from financing activities (12.8) – (12.8) Impact of foreign exchange rates 22.0 22.0 Other movements 9.5 (0.3) 9.2 Balance at 31 December 607.6 0.5 608.1 4.5 Equity and reserves The Group’s ordinary share capital reflects the total number of shares in issue, which are publicly traded on the London Stock Exchange. Accounting policy Ordinary shares are classified as equity as evidenced by their residual interest in the assets of the Company after deducting its liabilities. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds. As at 31 December 2019 2018 £m £m Authorised: 865,238,823 ordinary shares of 11 16⁄29 pence each (2018: 865,238,823) 100.0 100.0 Issued and fully paid: 2019: 410,475,731 ordinary shares of 11 16⁄29 pence each (2018: 407,193,168) 47.4 47.0 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 167 Section 4: Financing and capital structure continued 4.5 Equity and reserves continued The movement in allotted and fully paid share capital of the Company during the year was as follows: Years ended 31 December 2019 2018 (number) (number) At 1 January 407,193,168 407,034,429 Issued under employee share schemes 3,282,563 158,739 At 31 December 410,475,731 407,193,168 The Company has only one class of shares, which are ordinary shares of 11 16⁄29 pence each, carrying no right to fixed income. No shareholders have waived their rights to dividends. Shares issued under employee share schemes Throughout January to December 2019, a total of 3,282,563 shares were issued in satisfaction of options vesting in accordance with the rules of the Group’s Savings-Related Share Option Plan. Share buy-back programme In the previous financial year, the Group announced the commencement of a £50.0 million share buy-back programme. On 21 January 2019, the buy-back programme concluded. In total, the Group purchased 13.8 million shares for total consideration of £50.4 million, including transaction costs. These shares are held in a separate Treasury Share reserve awaiting reissue or cancellation and have no voting rights attached to them. Share premium The share premium account reflects amounts received in respect of issued share capital that exceeds the nominal value of the shares issued. Share premium 2019 2018 £m £m At 1 January 424.7 424.3 Issue of share capital 4.9 0.4 At 31 December 429.6 424.7 Other reserves Other equity reserves reflect the impact of certain historical transactions, which are described under the table below: Capital Translation Total other redemption reserve Merger reserves reserve (restated) reserve (restated) £m £m £m £m At 1 January 2018 1.5 31.0 710.8 743.3 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations – 24.9 – 24.9 At 31 December 2018 1.5 55.9 710.8 768.2 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations – (11.2) – (11.2) At 31 December 2019 1.5 44.7 710.8 757.0 The capital redemption reserve arose when the Group completed a share buy-back programme in 2007. Exchange differences relating to the translation of the net assets of the Group’s US-based subsidiaries from their functional currency (US dollar) into sterling for presentation in these consolidated financial statements are recognised in the translation reserve. The share premium and the merger reserve arose on the financial restructuring of the Group which took place in 2005. Movements in the share premium reserve reflect amounts received on the issue of shares under employee share schemes. Movements in the hedge reserve and the cost of hedging reserve, which reflect the change in fair value of derivative financial instruments designated into hedge accounting relationships in accordance with IFRS 9, are set out in notes 7.4 and 7.5. 168 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Section 5: Other assets and liabilities This section provides information on the assets and liabilities in the Consolidated balance sheet that are not covered in other sections, including goodwill, other intangible assets and provisions. 5.1 Acquisitions Accounting policy Acquisitions of businesses are recognised at the point the Group obtains control of the target (the acquisition date). The consideration transferred, the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed are measured at their fair value on the acquisition date. The assets and liabilities are recognised in the Consolidated balance sheet and the revenues and profit or loss of the acquired business are recognised in the Consolidated income statement from the acquisition date. Acquisition-related costs are recognised in the income statement in the period the acquisition occurs as an exceptional item. Goodwill is measured as the excess of the fair value of the consideration transferred over the fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired. Acquisition of Drax Generation Enterprise Limited (formerly ScottishPower Generation Limited) There were no acquisitions during 2019; however, the Group has updated the fair value of assets and liabilities acquired in respect of the acquisition of ScottishPower Generation Limited, which completed on 31 December 2018 (See pages 148-149 of the 2018 Annual Report and Accounts for further details). ScottishPower Generation Limited was renamed Drax Generation Enterprise Limited on 9 January 2019. Measurement period adjustments The fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired has been adjusted to reflect the following: • The conclusion of the completion statement process in respect of the acquisition. This process resulted in changes to the values of financial assets and liabilities as estimated amounts were confirmed subsequent to the acquisition date. As a result, the Group made a further payment in accordance with the terms of the acquisition of £4.8 million, increased the fair value of the net assets acquired by £2.5 million, and recognised a corresponding increase in goodwill of £2.3 million. • Finalisation of the terms of the defined benefit pension scheme transfer (see note 6.3). This resulted in a reduction in the net opening surplus recognised by £1.1 million, with a corresponding increase to goodwill. • The finalisation of the Group’s assessment of cash-generating units and their fair values resulted in a net £0.2 million reduction in property, plant and equipment values. As a result of these changes, total goodwill recognised in respect of the acquisition has increased by £3.5 million, to £78.3 million. The balance sheet as at 31 December 2018 has been restated. The additional consideration was paid in cash on 14 May 2019. The acquisition was subject to a risk-sharing agreement in respect of 2019 UK Capacity Market payments. Following the reinstatement of the UK Capacity Market on 25 October 2019, and the subsequent receipt of cash in January 2020 in respect of backdated Capacity Market payment owed, no further amounts are due under this arrangement. The updated fair values of the assets and liabilities acquired are set out in the table below: Original values Revised assumed at values at 31 December 31 December 2018 Remeasurements 2018 £m £m £m Property, plant and equipment 690.0 (0.2) 689.8 Financial assets 40.7 5.4 46.1 Financial liabilities (41.0) (2.9) (43.9) Pension surplus 3.8 (1.1) 2.7 Provisions (13.5) (13.5) Intangible assets 0.6 0.6 Deferred tax liability (68.5) 0.1 (68.4) Total identifiable net assets 612.1 1.3 613.4 Goodwill 74.8 3.5 78.3 Fair value of consideration payable 686.9 4.8 691.7 Goodwill of £78.3 million is largely reflective of the trading and operational opportunities that arise from acquiring a multi-site multi-fuel generation portfolio together with the assembled skilled workforce. None of the goodwill is expected to be deductible for tax purposes. Intangible assets reflect software previously recognised on the balance sheet of the acquiree. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 169 Section 5: Other assets and liabilities continued 5.1 Acquisitions continued Assessment of cash-generating units and allocation of goodwill The Group has determined that each generation site acquired represents a cash-generating unit for impairment testing purposes. Goodwill has been allocated to the hydro and pumped storage cash-generating units, Lanark (£11.3 million), Galloway (£40.1 million) and Cruachan (£26.9 million). The Group conducts an annual impairment test for goodwill, as required by IFRS. The acquired goodwill has been tested for the first time as at 31 December 2019. See note 5.2. 5.2 Goodwill Goodwill arises on the acquisition of a business when the consideration paid exceeds the fair value of the identifiable assets acquired. Accounting policy Goodwill is initially recognised and measured at the acquisition date. Goodwill is not amortised but reviewed for impairment at least annually. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the CGU to which it relates and the recoverable amount for that CGU assessed. The table below shows movements and balances: Goodwill £m Cost and carrying amount: At 1 January 2018 169.9 Acquisition of Drax Generation Enterprise Limited (note 5.1) 74.8 At 31 December 2018 (as reported) 244.7 Measurement period adjustments (note 5.1) 3.5 At 31 December 2018 (restated) and 31 December 2019 248.2 The Group recognised £74.8 million of provisional goodwill in respect of the ScottishPower transaction in 2018. In 2019 the finalisation of acquisition fair values resulted in changes in the fair values of assets and liabilities acquired of £3.5 million with a corresponding increase to goodwill (see note 5.1). Total goodwill in the Consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2019 was £248.2 million, with £10.7 million arising on the acquisition of Haven Power in 2009 attributed to the Haven Power CGU, £159.2 million arising on the acquisition of Opus Energy in 2017 attributed to the Opus Energy CGU and £78.3 million arising on the acquisition of Drax Generation Enterprise in 2019 allocated to the Lanark (£11.3 million), Galloway (£40.1 million) and Cruachan (£26.9 million) CGUs. Impairment review The recoverable amount of the Haven Power and Opus Energy CGUs is measured annually, based on a value-in-use calculation using the Group’s established planning model. This model depends on a broad range of assumptions, the most significant of which are customer margins and supply volumes. Inherent in these assumptions are expectations about future energy prices and supply costs. Cash flows beyond the business plan period are inflated into perpetuity using a growth rate of 1%. The carrying amount of the Haven Power CGU at 31 December 2019 was £49.9 million. The expected future cash flows of the CGU were discounted using a discount rate of 7.5%, calculated based on independent analysis commissioned by the Group, adjusted to the specific circumstances and risk factors affecting the Group’s Customers business. The Group believes that this rate reflects the prospects for a well-established Customers business. The value-in-use of the Haven Power CGU, including the goodwill, was significantly in excess of its carrying amount. The carrying amount of the Opus Energy CGU at 31 December 2019 was £319.5 million, including intangible assets of £140.0 million. Following further integration of Opus Energy into the Group’s existing Customers business during 2019, the discount rate was assessed as being in line with that of Haven Power at 7.5%. The value-in-use of the Opus Energy CGU, including the goodwill and intangible assets, was significantly in excess of its carrying amount. The Group has conducted a sensitivity analysis of the estimates of future cash flows of the Haven Power and Opus Energy CGUs. This analysis indicates that any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions, which are customer margins, supply volumes and discount rate, would not cause an impairment loss in respect of goodwill. 170 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 5.2 Goodwill continued Goodwill associated with recently acquired generation assets The Group tested the goodwill associated with the Lanark, Galloway and Cruachan CGUs for the first time at 31 December 2019. The recoverable amount of each CGU was calculated based on a value-in-use calculation using the Group’s established planning model. The model depends on a broad range of assumptions, the most significant of which are power prices, operating model, sources of stability income and the discount rate applied. Cash flows beyond the business plan period are inflated into perpetuity using a growth rate of 2%. The carrying amounts and discount rates applied to each CGU are set out in the table below: CGU Carrying Amount Discount Rate Lanark 56.4 6.6% Galloway 198.1 6.6% Cruachan 319.9 6.6% The discount rates were calculated based on independent analysis commissioned by the Group, adjusted to the specific circumstances and risk factors affecting the Group’s Generation business. The value-in-use of each of the CGUs in the table above, including allocated goodwill, was significantly in excess of its carrying amount. The Group has conducted a sensitivity analysis of the estimates of future cash flows of the Lanark, Galloway and Cruachan CGUs. For the Cruachan CGU, this analysis indicates that any reasonably possible change in the key assumptions would not cause an impairment loss in respect of goodwill. For the Lanark and Galloway CGUs, a sustained reduction in long-term power prices in excess of 5% or an increase discount rate of 1%, when compared to the assumptions applied in the value in use analysis at 31 December 2019, would result in a recoverable amount for those CGUs equivalent to their carrying amounts. These sensitivities are considered reasonably possible to arise in isolation but do not consider the impact of mitigating actions or compensating changes in other assumptions. 5.3 Intangible assets Intangible assets are not physical in nature but are identifiable and separable from other assets. Intangible assets can be acquired in business combinations (such as the acquisition of Opus Energy during 2017) or purchased separately. The Group routinely purchases computer software and carbon emissions allowances, which are considered intangible assets. Accounting policy Intangibles acquired in business combinations are measured at fair value on the acquisition date. Other intangible assets are measured at cost. Cost comprises the purchase price (net of any discount or rebate) and any directly attributable costs to bring the asset into the condition and location required for use as intended by management. Intangible assets are amortised over their anticipated useful lives. Useful lives are reviewed at each balance sheet date. No changes to useful lives were made as at 31 December 2019. Amortisation calculations are specific to each category of assets and are explained in further detail below. Carrying amounts are assessed for indicators of impairment at each balance sheet date. The customer-related assets and brand are attributed to the Opus Energy CGU and details of the impairment test relating to this CGU are included in note 5.2. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 171 Section 5: Other assets and liabilities continued 5.3 Intangible assets continued Computer Customer-related software and Development assets Brand licences assets Carbon Total £m £m £m £m £m £m Cost and carrying amount: At 1 January 2018 211.0 11.3 58.0 21.0 – 301.3 Additions at cost – – 28.9 – 3.7 32.6 Transferred from Property, plant & equipment – – 7.6 – – 7.6 Acquisition – – 0.6 – 0.6 1.2 Effect of foreign exchange rates At 31 December 2018 211.0 11.3 95.1 21.0 4.3 342.7 Additions at cost – – 20.8 – – 20.8 Transferred from Property, plant & equipment – – 3.1 – – 3.1 Utilised in the period – – – – (4.3) (4.3) Disposals – – – – – – Effect of foreign exchange rates – – 0.3 – – 0.3 At 31 December 2019 211.0 11.3 119.3 21.0 – 362.6 Accumulated amortisation At 1 January 2018 35.6 1.1 32.6 – – 69.3 Charge for period 35.9 1.1 7.6 – – 44.6 Effect of foreign exchange rates – – – – – – At 1 January 2019 71.5 2.2 40.2 – – 113.9 Charge for period 30.2 1.2 10.6 – – 42.0 Effect of foreign exchange rates – – (0.2) – – (0.2) At 31 December 2019 101.7 3.4 50.6 – – 155.7 Net book value At 31 December 2018 139.5 9.1 54.9 21.0 4.3 228.8 At 31 December 2019 109.3 7.9 68.7 21.0 – 206.9 Customer-related assets Customer-related assets reflect the value of customer contracts acquired on the acquisition of Opus Energy in February 2017, which provided the Group with access to a broad customer base with contracted cash flows. The asset valuation of £211 million reflected the estimated value of the future cash flows associated with this customer base at the acquisition date and is dependent upon estimates of both current and expected future contract margins and assumed customer retention rates. The cash flows have been discounted using a pre-tax discount rate of 10.7%. The asset has an estimated useful life of 11 years, calculated based on customer churn-rate analysis, and is being amortised on a reducing balance basis to reflect the diminishing rate of contract renewals over time. Opus Energy brand The Opus Energy brand was acquired as part of the acquisition in February 2017 and valued at £11.3 million on a relief-from-royalty method. The brand is being amortised on a straight-line basis over its assumed 10-year useful life. 172 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 5.3 Intangible assets continued Computer software Additions in the period include those in the ordinary course of business, which principally reflect ongoing investment in business systems to support the Customers segment. Software assets are amortised on a straight-line basis over estimated useful lives ranging from three to five years. As at 31 December 2019, computer software assets in the course of construction amounted to £21.1 million (2018: £24.5 million). This includes £19.2 million for a billing system where the Group has stopped development and is in ongoing discussions with the supplier. No amounts have been provided in respect of these assets as the Group believes that the carrying amount will be recovered in full. Development assets The development assets arose on the acquisition of four OCGT projects in December 2016 and reflect the value of planning and consents. Until operations commence, the assets are considered to have an indefinite life and thus are not amortised and are subject to impairment testing at each balance sheet date. At 31 December 2019, the recoverable amount of the development assets was established using a value-in-use calculation derived from the Group’s established planning model. The assessment reflected the Government’s announcement that the Capacity Market will be reinstated and incorporated key assumptions related to likely Capacity Market clearing prices, construction costs, and the ongoing revenues to be derived from the projects once constructed. The analysis assumes a Capacity Market clearing price that is higher than recently observed clearing prices, but is supported by independent forecasts of future prices. The expected future cash flows were discounted using a rate of 7%, which includes an assessment of the level of construction and execution risk inherent in the existing assets and quality of revenue if constructed. The analysis indicated a recoverable amount in excess of the current carrying amount of the development assets. The analysis is sensitive to the key assumptions described above and the discount rate applied. Set out below are the changes in these assumptions that would result in a recoverable amount that is less than the carrying amount: • Increasing the discount rate by approximately 1.2% • A reduction in the Capacity Market clearing price achieved of 17% • An increase in the total construction cost of 12% • A reduction in system stability revenue streams of 21% If any of these circumstances were to materialise, individually or in aggregate and without mitigation, the Group may not proceed with the projects and the assets currently recognised on the balance sheet may be impaired. In particular, the analysis depends upon achieving an acceptable clearing price in future Capacity Market auctions. Carbon assets Carbon assets arise on the purchase of CO2 emissions allowances in excess of the amount allocated under the Emissions Trading Scheme and required for the current financial year, and are measured at cost, net of any impairment. Given their short tenor, carbon assets are not amortised. The charge to the income statement, within fuel costs, reflects the cost of emissions allowances required to satisfy the obligation for the current year and takes into account generation and market purchases allocated to the current financial year, and to the extent further purchases are required, is based on the market price at the balance sheet date. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 173 Section 5: Other assets and liabilities continued 5.4 Provisions The Group makes provision for reinstatement to cover the estimated costs of decommissioning and demolishing its generation assets and remediating the sites at the end of the useful economic lives of the assets. Accounting policy Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be required to settle that obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. Specifically, provision is made for the estimated decommissioning costs at the end of the useful economic life of the Group’s generating assets, when a legal or constructive obligation arises, on a discounted basis. The amount provided is calculated on a site-by-site basis and represents the present value of the expected costs. In view of the uncertainty of assessing the amount of any proceeds from the disposal of the assets at the decommissioning date, no reduction in the provision is made for any such proceeds. The discount rate used is a risk-free pre-tax rate that reflects the duration of the liability. The average discount rate used across the Group’s decommissioning provisions is 1.2% (2018: 1.8%). The use of a risk-free rate reflects the fact that the estimated future cash flows have built-in risks specific to the liability. An amount equivalent to the discounted provision is capitalised within property, plant and equipment and is depreciated over the useful lives of the related assets. The unwinding of the discount is included in interest payable and similar charges. Other provisions include a small provision in respect of dilapidation provisions for leased offices. Decommissioning Other provision provisions Total £m £m £m Carrying amount: At 1 January 2019 49.2 1.6 50.8 Additions 0.2 0.1 0.3 Utilised – (0.3) (0.3) Released – (1.1) (1.1) Adjustment for changes in assumptions 3.8 – 3.8 Unwinding of discount 0.7 – 0.7 At 31 December 2019 53.9 0.3 54.2 Decommissioning provisions are made in respect of the Group’s thermal generating plants (Drax Power Station and CCGT power stations). The decommissioning provision is based on the assumption that the decommissioning and reinstatement will take place at the end of the expected useful life of each site (which varies between 2026 and 2039) and has been estimated using existing technology at current prices based on independent third-party advice, updated on a triennial basis. The most recent updates took place in December 2017 for Drax Power Station, and 2018 for CCGT sites. 174 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Section 6: Our people The notes in this section relate to the remuneration of the directors and employees of the Group, including the Group’s obligations under retirement benefit schemes. 6.1 Colleagues including directors and employees This note provides a more detailed breakdown of the cost of employees, including executive directors of the Group. The average number of employees in Operations (staff based at production sites), Customers services (employees in our Customers segment) and Central and administrative functions are also provided. Further information in relation to pay and remuneration of the executive directors can be found in the Remuneration Committee report, starting on page 86. The Group acquired ScottishPower Generation Limited (subsequently renamed to Drax Generation Enterprise Limited) on the last day of the previous reporting period and as such no ScottishPower Generation Limited employee data has been included in the comparative. The number of ScottishPower Generation Limited staff that joined the Group as a result of the acquisition was 252. Staff costs (including executive directors) Years ended 31 December 2019 2018 £m £m Included in other operating and administrative expenses (note 2.3) Wages and salaries 145.1 113.4 Social security costs 16.2 12.8 Pension costs (note 6.3) 19.6 15.5 Share-based payments (note 6.2) 3.5 4.0 184.4 145.7 Average monthly number of people employed (including executive directors) Years ended 31 December 2019 2018 (number) (number) Generation operations 1,087 818 Pellet Production operations 254 258 Customers services 1,398 1,402 Central and administrative functions 249 201 2,988 2,679 6.2 Share-based payments The Group operates two share option schemes for employees: the Performance Share Plan (PSP) for directors and senior executives (which replaced the Bonus Matching Plan (BMP) from 2017) which incorporates the Deferred Share Plan (DSP), and the Savings-Related Share Option Plan (SAYE) for all qualifying employees. The Group incurs a non-cash charge in respect of these schemes in the income statement, which is set out below along with a detailed description of each scheme and the number of options outstanding. In the year the Group has granted share appreciation rights to employees in the form of “One Drax Awards”. These are cash awards that are tracked on the Group share price over the retention period. At the date of the award the employee is granted a number of ghost shares which is based on the value of the cash award divided by the Group share price at the date of the grant. At the end of the retention period, the employee receives the cash award based on the share price at the date of redemption. Accounting policy The PSP, BMP, DSP and SAYE share-based payments are equity settled. Equity-settled share-based payments are measured at the fair value of the equity instrument at the date of grant and are recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over the relevant vesting period, based on an estimate of the shares that will ultimately vest as a result of the effect of non-market-based vesting conditions, which is revised at each balance sheet date. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 175 Section 6: Our people continued 6.2 Share-based payments continued Costs recognised in the income statement in relation to share-based payments during the year were as follows: Years ended 31 December 2019 2018 £m £m Equity settled PSP (granted from 2017) 0.8 1.3 DSP (granted from 2017) 0.6 0.2 BMP (granted in periods prior to 2017) (0.5) 0.7 SAYE 1.8 1.8 Cash settled One Drax awards 0.8 – Total share-based payment expense (note 6.1) 3.5 4.0 Share Incentive Plan (SIP) Between 2008 and 2010, qualifying employees could buy up to £1,500 worth of Partnership Shares in any one tax year. Matching shares were awarded to employees to match any shares they bought, in a ratio of one-to-one, with the cost of matching shares borne by the Group. There have been no awards under the SIP Partnership and Matching Share plan since 2010. Shares in the Company held under trust and under the Company’s control as a result of the SIP are as follows: Shares held Shares Shares Shares held Cost Nominal value Market value at 1 January acquired transferred at 31 December at 31 December at 31 December at 31 December 2019 during year during year 2019 2019 2019 2019 (number) (number) (number) (number) £000 £000 £000 SIP 88,283 – (18,239) 70,044 – 8 220 Performance Share Plan (PSP) The PSP was introduced for directors and senior executives to replace the BMP from 2017. Under the PSP, annual awards of performance and service-related shares are made for no consideration to executive directors and other senior executives up to a maximum of 175% of their annual bonus. Vesting of a proportion of shares is conditional upon whether the Group’s Total Shareholder Return (TSR) matches or outperforms an index (determined in accordance with the scheme rules) over three years and vesting of a proportion of shares is conditional upon performance against the internal balanced corporate scorecard. Of the PSP options granted in 2019, 50% will vest conditional on Group TSR relative to the TSR of a comparator group of companies, with the remaining 50% vesting conditional upon the internal balanced corporate scorecard. The fair value of the 2019 PSP awards of £2.7 million (2018: £2.5 million) is being charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the three-year vesting period. The fair value of PSP awards is calculated using a Monte-Carlo valuation model, which takes into account the estimated probability of different levels of vesting. The key inputs to the valuation model for the 2019 awards are the share price at the grant date of 378 pence (2018: 272 pence), expected volatility of 35% (2018: 41%), and risk-free interest rate of 0.98% (2018: 0.83%). Movements in the number of shares outstanding for the PSP awards are as follows: 2019 2018 Weighted 2019 Weighted 2018 average price (number) average price (number) At 1 January 224 2,675,336 247 1,289,762 Granted 299 918,136 160 1,560,757 Forfeited – – 248 (175,183) Exercised – – – – Expired 242 (591,907) – – At 31 December 249 3,001,565 224 2,675,336 The weighted average fair value of the options granted during the year was 299 pence (2018: 160 pence). All of the PSP options outstanding at the end of the period had an exercise price of £nil (2018: £nil). The weighted average remaining contractual life was 20 months (2018: 22 months). The number of options exercisable at the year end was nil (2018: nil). 176 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 6.2 Share-based payments continued Deferred Share Plan (DSP) In addition, the Group operates the DSP, which was introduced as a vehicle for deferring 35% of the annual bonus of executive directors and senior leadership team. DSP awards are granted at nil cost and vest after three years subject to continued employment or “good leaver” termination provisions. The share price on the grant date of DSP awards made in 2019 was 378 pence (2018: 272 pence) and the fair value of these awards of £1.9 million (2018: £0.4 million) is being charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the three-year vesting period. The fair value of DSP awards is calculated using a Monte-Carlo valuation model, which takes into account the estimated probability of different levels of vesting. The key inputs to the valuation model for the 2019 awards are the share price at date of grant, expected volatility of 35% (2018: 41%), and risk-free interest rate of 0.98% (2018: 0.83%). Movements in the number of share options outstanding for the DSP awards are as follows: 2019 2018 Weighted Weighted average 2019 average 2018 price (number) price (number) At 1 January 293 226,588 325 110,809 Granted 378 495,366 272 135,972 Forfeited – – – – Exercised – – 325 (20,193) Expired 378 (73,706) – – At 31 December 348 648,248 293 226,588 100% of the DSP options granted in 2019 will vest in three years. Bonus Matching Plan (BMP) Under the BMP, annual awards of performance and service-related shares were made for no consideration to executive directors and other senior executives up to a maximum of 150% of their annual bonus up until 2016. The BMP was replaced in 2017 by the PSP. For awards prior to 2017, a proportion of the shares vesting under the BMP are conditional upon whether the Group’s Total Shareholder Return (TSR) matches or outperforms an index (determined in accordance with the scheme rules) over three years and a proportion of the shares vesting is conditional upon performance against the internal balanced corporate scorecard. The fair value of the 2017 BMP awards, £0.6 million, are being charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the corresponding three-year vesting period. The 2016 BMP awards have been fully expensed at the year end. The fair value of BMP awards is calculated using a Monte-Carlo valuation model, which takes into account the estimated probability of different levels of vesting. No BMP awards were made in 2019. Movements in the number of share options outstanding for the BMP awards is as follows: 2019 2018 Weighted 2019 Weighted 2018 average BMP average BMP price (number) price (number) At 1 January 206 1,175,130 253 2,314,155 Granted – – – – Forfeited – – 198 (26,436) Exercised 171 (673,846) 335 (125,499) Expired 236 (501,284) 296 (987,090) At 31 December – – 206 1,175,130 For the BMP options exercised during the period, the weighted average share price at the date of exercise was 365 pence (2018: 270 pence). There were no BMP options outstanding at the end of the period. The BMP options outstanding at the end of the period had an exercise price of £nil (2018: £nil). The weighted average remaining contractual life was nil months (2018: 2 months). The number of options exercisable at the year end was nil (2018: nil). Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 177 Section 6: Our people continued 6.2 Share-based payments continued Savings-Related Share Option Plan (SAYE) In March 2019, participation in the SAYE plan was offered again to all qualifying employees. Options were granted for employees to acquire shares at a price of 298 pence (2018: 211 pence), representing a discount of 20% to the prevailing market price determined in accordance with the scheme rules. The options are exercisable at the end of three or five-year savings contracts. The fair value of the options granted in connection with the SAYE plan of £2.8 million (2018: £1.2 million) is being charged to the income statement over the term of the relevant contracts. Movements in the number of share options outstanding for the SAYE plans are as follows: 2019 2018 Three-year SAYE Five-year SAYE Three-year SAYE Five-year SAYE Weighted three-year Weighted five-year Weighted three-year Weighted five-year average price (number) average price (number) average price (number) average price (number) At 1 January 212 3,884,950 212 1,107,394 225 3,622,469 221 1,007,289 Granted 298 2,090,547 298 680,463 211 1,078,583 211 328,325 Forfeited 248 (54,226) 206 (16,046) 229 (79,515) 208 (6,295) Exercised 203 (2,527,770) 203 (30,874) 274 (157,804) 203 (935) Expired 271 (337,583) 276 (84,191) 268 (578,783) 251 (220,990) At 31 December 271 3,055,918 244 1,656,746 212 3,884,950 212 1,107,394 The fair value of SAYE awards is calculated using a Black-Scholes model, which compares exercise price to share price at the date of grant. The fair value of SAYE options granted and the inputs to the option pricing model used in the current and previous year are set out in the table below: 27 March 2019 27 March 2019 28 March 2018 28 March 2018 Grant date three-year five-year three-year five-year Share price at grant date (pence) 379 379 275 275 Vesting period 3 years 5 years 3 years 5 years Exercise price (pence) 298 298 211 211 Dividend yield 4.1% 4.6% 5.1% 3.0% Annual risk-free interest rate 1.00% 1.06% 1.22% 1.35% Expected volatility 34.6% 38.1% 40.9% 38.1% Fair value of options granted (pence) 100 106 80 94 Expected volatility was determined by calculating the historical volatility of the Group’s share price over the previous three and five years respectively. The expected life used in the model has been adjusted, based on management’s best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations. For the SAYE options exercised during the period, the weighted average share price at the date of exercise was 325 pence (2018: 365 pence). The weighted average exercise price of SAYE options outstanding at the end of the period was 262 pence (2018: 212 pence). The weighted average remaining contractual life was 26 months (2018: 16 months). The number of options exercisable at the year-end was nil (2018: 2,252). Additional information in relation to the Group’s share-based incentive plans is included in the Remuneration Committee report on page 86. 178 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 6.3 Retirement benefit obligations The Group operates two defined benefit and four defined contribution pension schemes. Name of scheme Type of Benefit Status Country Drax Power Group (DPG) section of the Electricity Supply Pension Scheme (ESPS) Defined benefit final salary Closed to new members in 2002 UK Closed to new members Drax (2019) Scheme Defined benefit final salary on transfer in 2019 UK Drax Group Personal Pension Plan Defined contribution Open to new members UK Haven Power Personal Pension Plan Defined contribution Open to new members UK Opus Energy Group Personal Pension Plan Defined contribution Open to new members UK Drax Biomass Inc. 401(K) Plan Defined contribution Open to new members US Accounting policy Payments to defined contribution schemes are recognised as an expense when employees have rendered services that entitle them to the contributions. The income statement charge for the defined contribution scheme represents the contributions due to be paid by the Group in respect of the current period. For the defined benefit pension schemes, the cost of providing benefits is determined using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at the end of each reporting period. Remeasurement of the obligation, comprising actuarial gains and losses, the effect of the asset ceiling (if applicable) and the return on scheme assets (excluding interest), is recognised immediately in the balance sheet with a charge or credit to the statement of comprehensive income in the period in which it occurs. Defined benefit costs, including current service costs, past service costs and gains and losses on curtailments and settlements are recognised in the income statement as part of operating and administrative expenses in the period in which they occur. The net interest expense is recognised in finance costs. Significant estimation uncertainty Measurement of the defined benefit obligation using the projected unit credit method involves the use of key assumptions, including discount rates, inflation rates, salary and pension increases and mortality rates. These actuarial assumptions are reviewed annually and modified as appropriate. The Group believes that the assumptions utilised in measuring obligations under the scheme are reasonable based on prior experience, market conditions and the advice of pension scheme actuaries. However, actual results may differ from such assumptions. The assumptions applied in 2019 have been prepared on a consistent basis with those in the previous period and in accordance with independent actuarial advice received. Defined contribution schemes The Group operates four defined contribution schemes for all qualifying employees. Pension costs for the defined contribution schemes are as follows: Years ended 31 December 2019 2018 £m £m Total included in staff costs 12.5 8.1 As at 31 December 2019, contributions of £0.6 million (2018: £1.1 million) due in respect of the current reporting period had not been paid over to the schemes. The Group has no further outstanding payment obligations once the contributions have been paid. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 179 Section 6: Our people continued 6.3 Retirement benefit obligations continued Defined benefit schemes The pension surplus for the two defined benefit pension schemes is as follows: As at 31 December 2018 2019 £m £m restated* Drax Power Group section of ESPS 3.1 18.9 Drax 2019 Scheme 3.9 2.7 Total net surplus recognised in the balance sheet 7.0 21.6 * The surplus for the Drax 2019 Scheme as reported at 31 December 2018 was provisional and has been restated as part of the finalisation of acquisition values (see note 5.1) to reflect the actual terms of the transfer agreed during the year, as described below. The DPG section of the ESPS and the Drax 2019 scheme are collectively referred to as the Defined Benefit Schemes or the Schemes below. At 31 December 2019, application of the accounting assumptions used in relation to the Defined Benefit Schemes, which are described in further detail below, continued to result in a position of surplus assets over liabilities. The scheme rules allow the Group to benefit from any residual surplus upon winding up of the Schemes. As a result, the surplus has been recognised in the balance sheet in full. The DPG section of the ESPS was closed to new members as of 1 January 2002 unless they had qualified through being existing members of another part of the ESPS. Members who joined before this date continue to build up pension benefits as part of the scheme. Members are typically entitled to an annual pension on retirement of 1/80th of final pensionable salary for each year of service plus a tax-free lump sum of three-times pension. On 31 December 2018, Drax completed a transaction to acquire assets from ScottishPower. Under the terms of the Sale and Purchase Agreement, employees with defined benefit pension rights were also transferred to Drax. The employees have continued to participate in the ScottishPower Pension Scheme whilst the Group has been in the process of setting up a new scheme for the members to transfer to. Over the summer of 2019 each transferring member was given the option to either transfer their past service benefits into the Drax 2019 Scheme or keep their past service in the ScottishPower Pension Scheme. As part of this, 81 members have agreed to transfer their past service into the Drax 2019 Defined Benefit Scheme. From 1 January 2020, it is expected that a further 17 members will build up future service within the Drax 2019 Scheme. Under the Drax 2019 Scheme, employees are entitled to retirement benefits based on final salary on attainment of retirement age (or earlier withdrawal or death). No other post-retirement benefits are provided. The Scheme is open to future accrual of benefits. The Schemes expose the Group to actuarial and other risks, the most significant of which are considered to be: Investment risk The scheme liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields; if assets underperform this yield, this will create a deficit. The scheme holds a significant proportion of growth assets (diversified growth funds, direct lending and absolute return bonds) which, though expected to outperform corporate bonds in the long term, create volatility and risk in the short term. The allocation to growth assets is monitored to ensure it remains appropriate given the scheme’s long-term objectives. Discount rate risk A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase the value placed upon the scheme’s liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the scheme’s bond holdings. Longevity risk The majority of the scheme’s obligations are to provide benefits for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the liabilities of the scheme. Inflation risk The majority of the scheme’s obligations to pay benefits are linked to inflation and, as such, higher inflation will lead to higher liabilities. The majority of the assets held by the scheme are either unaffected by or only loosely correlated with inflation, such that an increase in inflation will also increase the deficit. In most cases, caps on inflationary increases are in place to protect against extreme inflation. The scheme has a significant holding in liability-driven investments and a substantial proportion of this risk is hedged. 180 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 6.3 Retirement benefit obligations continued Other risks include operational risks (such as paying out the wrong benefits), legislative risks (such as the Government increasing the burden on pension schemes through new legislation) and other demographic risks (such as making a higher proportion of members with dependants eligible to receive pensions from the Group). The Trustees ensure certain benefits are payable on death before retirement. The most recent funding valuation of the DPG ESPS was carried out by Aon Hewitt, a qualified independent actuary, as at 31 March 2016. The actuarial review at 31 December 2019 is based on the same membership and other data as this funding valuation. The scheme board accepted the advice of the actuary and approved the use of these assumptions for the purpose of assessing the scheme cost. Future valuations are required by law at intervals of no more than three years. The results of the latest funding valuation at 31 March 2016 have been adjusted to the balance sheet date, taking into account experience over the period since that date, changes in market conditions and differences in financial and demographic assumptions. The present value of the defined benefit obligation and the related current service costs were measured using the projected unit credit method. Work commenced on a new funding valuation at 31 March 2019, this work is expected to conclude in 2020. The 2019 Scheme is yet to have its first triennial valuation. We understand that the Trustees are planning to prepare the first valuation as at 31 March 2020. The principal assumptions for the Schemes are set out below. Where absolute assumptions differ between the two schemes, reflecting differences in the expected duration of the scheme liabilities, a weighted average is shown. As at 31 December 2019 2018 % p.a. % p.a. Discount rate 2.1 3.0 Inflation (RPI) 2.9 3.2 Rate of increase in pensions in payment and deferred pensions 2.9 3.1 Rate of increase in pensionable salaries 3.5 3.8 Mortality assumptions are based on recent actual mortality experience of scheme members and allow for expected future improvements in mortality rates. The assumptions are that a member aged 60 in 2019 will live, on average, for a further 26 years if they are male (2018: 26 years) and for a further 28 years if they are female (2018: 29 years). Life expectancy at age 60 for male and female non-pensioners currently aged 45 is assumed to be 27 and 29 years respectively (2018: 27 and 30 years respectively). The net surplus recognised in the balance sheet in respect of the Schemes is the excess of the fair value of the plan assets over the present value of the defined benefit obligation, determined as follows: As at 31 December 2018 2019 £m £m restated Defined benefit obligation (345.4) (312.2) Fair value of plan assets 352.4 333.8 Net surplus recognised in the balance sheet 7.0 21.6 The net surplus for 2018 has been restated to reflect net measurement period adjustments relating to the valuation of the Drax 2019 scheme acquired in 2018 (see note 5.1). The amounts disclosed in 2018 were provisional and pending confirmation of the approach for transferring assets and liabilities to the new scheme, which was finalised during 2019. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 181 Section 6: Our people continued 6.3 Retirement benefit obligations continued The total charge/(credit) recognised in the income statement, within other operating and administrative expenses and finance costs, are as follows: Years ended 31 December 2019 2018 £m £m Included in staff costs (note 6.1): Current service cost 7.1 6.8 Past service cost – 0.6 Included in finance costs (note 2.5): Interest on net defined benefit (surplus)/liability (0.8) (0.1) Total amounts recognised in the income statement 6.3 7.3 Actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the statement of comprehensive income in full, as follows: Years ended 31 December 2019 2018 £m £m Cumulative actuarial losses on defined benefit pension schemes at 1 January (41.9) (57.8) Actuarial (losses)/gains on defined benefit pension schemes recognised in the year (21.5) 15.9 Cumulative actuarial losses recognised in the statement of comprehensive income at 31 December (63.4) (41.9) Changes in the present value of the defined benefit obligation of the Schemes are as follows: Years ended 31 December Restated* 2019 2018 £m £m Defined benefit obligation at 1 January 312.2 306.5 Current service cost 7.1 6.8 Past service cost – 0.6 Employee contributions 0.2 0.1 Interest cost 9.0 7.8 Actuarial losses/(gains) 49.8 (23.0) Benefits paid (32.9) (23.2) Effect of acquisitions (restated) – 36.6 Defined benefit obligation at 31 December 345.4 312.2 * The effect of acquisitions has been restated to reflect measurement period adjustments as a result of confirming the method of transfer during the year. The defined benefit obligation in respect of the Drax 2019 Scheme was provisionally reported as £50.7 million at 31 December 2018. The actuarial losses of £49.8 million (2018: gains of £23.0 million) reflect losses of £50.3 million arising from changes in financial assumptions (2018: gains of £21.8 million) and losses arising from scheme experience of £3.4 million (2018: losses of £0.6 million) offset by £3.9 million gains arising from changes in demographic assumptions (2018: gains of £1.8 million). The losses due to changes in financial assumptions principally reflect the decrease in the present value of the scheme liabilities arising as a result of the change in discount rate assumption to 2.1% (2018: 3.0%) following decreases in corporate bond yields. 182 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 6.3 Retirement benefit obligations continued Changes in the fair value of plan assets are as follows: Years ended 31 December 2018 2019 £m £m restated Fair value of plan assets at 1 January 333.8 305.3 Interest on plan assets 9.9 8.0 Remeasurement gains/(losses) 28.3 (7.2) Employer contributions 13.1 11.5 Employee contributions 0.2 0.1 Benefits paid (32.9) (23.2) Effect of acquisitions (restated) – 39.3 Fair value of plan assets at 31 December 352.4 333.8 The effect of acquisitions has been restated to reflect measurement period adjustments as a result of confirming the method of transfer during the year. The fair value of plan assets in respect of the Drax 2019 Scheme was provisionally reported as £54.5 million at 31 December 2018. Employer contributions included payments totalling £5.2 million (2018: £5.0 million) to reduce the actuarial deficit. There were contributions of £0.9 million outstanding at the end of the year (2018: £nil). The actual return on plan assets in the period was £38.2 million (2018: £0.8 million). The fair values of the major categories of plan assets were as follows: As at 31 December 2019 2018 £m £m Gilts 100.3 83.6 Equities(1) 24.6 9.8 Fixed interest bonds(2) 30.7 50.2 Property 36.7 34.8 Investment funds 123.2 40.4 Cash and other assets(3) 36.9 115.0 Fair value of total plan assets 352.4 294.5 Notes: (1) At 31 December 2019 the scheme’s long-term asset strategy was: diversified growth funds (37%), direct lending (10%), absolute return bonds (3%), liability driven investing (40%) and long lease property (10%). (2) Fixed interest bonds include a mixture of corporate, Government and absolute return bonds. (3) Other assets include £19.4 million of investments in direct lending, a type of private equity vehicle, which is not quoted in an active market (2018: £15.5 million) Cash and other assets include £49.5 million (2018: 39.3 million) in relation to the expected transfer of cash from the ScottishPower Pension Scheme, which is classed as a receivable at the balance sheet date. Following receipt of the transfer, the Drax 2019 Scheme intends to adopt an investment strategy of 70% return seeking and 30% liability matching. The pension plan assets do not include any ordinary shares issued by Drax Group plc or any property occupied by the Group. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 183 Section 6: Our people continued 6.3 Retirement benefit obligations continued The assumptions for discount rate, inflation rate, rate of increase in pensions paid and expected return on plan assets all have a potentially significant effect on the measurement of the scheme surplus. The following table provides an indication of the sensitivity of the pension surplus at 31 December 2019 to changes in these assumptions: Increase/ (decrease) in net surplus £m Discount rate – Increase 0.25% 17.2 – Decrease 0.25% (18.2) Inflation rate(1) – Increase 0.25% (14.9) – Decrease 0.25% 13.9 Life expectancy – Increase 1 year (13.3) – Decrease 1 year 13.3 Note: (1) The sensitivity of the scheme liabilities to salary and pension increases is closely correlated with inflation The Group is exposed to investment and other experience risks, as described above, and may need to make additional contributions where it is estimated that the benefits will not be met from regular contributions and expected investment income. The DPG ESPS defined benefit obligation includes benefits for current employees of the Group (60%), former employees of the Group who are yet to retire (5%) and retired pensioners (35%). The weighted average period over which defined benefit payments are expected to be made, or the duration of the scheme liabilities, was assessed at the 31 March 2016 funding valuation to be 20 years. The Drax 2019 defined benefit obligation includes benefits for current employees of the Group and the duration of the scheme liabilities is estimated to be 25 years. Future contributions The Group expects to make regular contributions in respect of service costs of £8.1 million to the Schemes during the 12 months ended 31 December 2020. In addition to regular contributions, deficit contributions have been agreed with the Trustees based upon the Technical Provisions as at the 31 March 2016 valuation for the DGP section of the ESPS. The Technical Provisions indicate a deficit of £36 million including an estimate of the impact of future service costs, which do not meet the definition of a liability at 31 December 2019 for inclusion in the financial statements. This valuation has improved since 31 March 2016, in line with the accounting surplus, although this remains subject to a recovery plan. A new recovery plan is expected to be agreed in 2020 in relation to the 31 March 2019 valuation, which has not yet been finalised. The Group has agreed to make additional contributions over the period to 31 December 2025 to eliminate the deficit. At this point the scheme is expected to be self-sufficient and fully funded, unless material adverse changes in economic conditions arise compared to those assumed in the valuation. The Group is confident that the additional contributions are manageable within the Group’s business plan. The terms of the Trust Deed allow the Group to recover any surplus once the liabilities of the scheme have been settled. Accordingly, the deficit contributions will not give rise to an unrecognised surplus. 184 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Section 7: Risk management This section provides disclosures around financial risk management, including the financial instruments the Group uses to mitigate such risks. 7.1 Financial instruments and their fair values The Group hold a variety of derivatives and non-derivative financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, borrowings, payables and receivables arising from operations. Accounting classifications and fair values The tables below show the carrying amounts and fair values of financial assets and liabilities, including their levels in the fair value hierarchy. It does not include fair value information for financial assets and financial liabilities not measured at fair value if the carrying amount is a reasonable approximation of fair value. Cash and cash equivalents (note 4.2), trade and other receivables (note 3.6) and trade and other payables (note 3.8) generally have a short time to maturity. For this reason, their carrying values, on the historical cost basis, approximate to their fair value. The Group’s borrowings relate principally to the publicly traded high-yield loan notes and amounts drawn against term loans (note 4.3). These financial liabilities have been measured at amortised cost. Carrying amount Fair Value Financial Fair valueMandatorily FVOCIassets at Other 31 December 2019 hedging at FVTPLequity amortised financial £m instruments others instruments cost liabilities Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets measured at Fair value Commodity contracts 152.1 0.2 – – – 152.3 – 152.3 – 152.3 Financial contracts – 33.7 – – – 33.7 – 33.7 – 33.7 Forward exchange contracts 76.9 65.0 – – – 141.9 – 141.9 – 141.9 Interest rate swaps 1.7 – – – – 1.7 – 1.7 – 1.7 Inflation rate swaps 16.4 – – – – 16.4 – 16.4(1) – 16.4 Equity investments – – 3.0 – – 3.0 1.5 – 1.5 3.0 Financial assets not measured at Fair value Trade and other receivables – – – 582.2 – 582.2 Cash and cash equivalents – – – 404.1 – 404.1 Financial liabilities measured at Fair value Commodity contracts (83.1) (38.2) – – – (121.3) – (121.3) – (121.3) Financial contracts (4.0) (42.2) – – – (46.2) – (46.2) – (46.2) Forward exchange contracts (46.0) (68.8) – – – (114.8) – (114.8) – (114.8) Interest rate swaps (7.1) – – – – (7.1) – (7.1) – (7.1) Financial liabilities not measured at Fair value Secured bank loans – – – – (537.9) (537.9) – – (548.1) (548.1) Secured bond issues – – – – (729.6) (729.6) (762.9) – – (762.9) Lease liabilities – – – – (32.5) (32.5) Trade and other payables – – – – (683.0) (683.0) (1) The inflation rate swaps contain unobservable inputs in their fair value valuation techniques. However, these unobservable inputs are not material to the valuation and therefore they have been categorised as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy in line with IFRS 13. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 185 Section 7: Risk management continued 7.1 Financial instruments and their fair values continued Carrying amount Fair Value Financial Fair valueMandatorily FVOCIassets at Other 31 December 2018 hedging at FVTPLequity amortised financial £m instruments others instruments cost liabilities Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets measured at Fair value Commodity contracts 91.4 2.2 – – – 93.6 – 93.6 – 93.6 Financial contracts 12.1 – – – – 12.1 – 12.1 – 12.1 Forward exchange contracts 234.1 142.9 – – – 377.0 – 377.0 – 377.0 Interest rate swaps 27.9 – – – – 27.9 – 27.9 – 27.9 Equity investments – – 2.4 – – 2.4 1.5 – 0.9 2.4 Financial assets not measured at Fair value Trade and other receivables – – – 413.3 – 413.3 Cash and cash equivalents – – – 289.0 – 289.0 Financial liabilities measured at Fair value Commodity contracts (105.8) – – – – (105.8) – (105.8) – (105.8) Financial contracts (14.5) – – – – (14.5) – (14.5) – (14.5) Forward exchange contracts (7.1) (23.9) – – – (31.0) – (31.0) – (31.0) Interest rate swaps Financial liabilities not measured at Fair value Secured bank loans – – – – (37.1) (37.1) Secured bond issues – – – – (585.3) (585.3) (578.9) – – (578.9) Finance lease liabilities – – – – (0.5) (0.5) Acquisition payable – – – – (686.9) (686.9) Trade and other payables – – – – (560.5) (560.5) 186 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 7.1 Financial instruments and their fair values continued The derivative financial instruments used by the Group and not subject to the own-use exemption have been categorised as follows: • Commodity contracts – forward contracts for the sale or purchase of a physical commodity which is expected to be settled through physical delivery of the commodity. • Financial contracts – freight and weather-related contracts, as well as contracts for commodities that are not expected to be settled through physical delivery of the commodity. • Forward currency exchange contracts – currency related contracts including forwards, vanilla options and structured option products. • Interest rate swaps – contracts which swap one interest rate for another, including floating-to-fixed single currency instruments and cross currency interest rate swaps. • Inflation rate swaps – swap contracts, such as floating-to-fixed, which are linked to an inflation index such as RPI or CPI. Fair value measurement • Commodity contracts fair value – The fair value of open commodity contracts that do not qualify for the own-use exemption is calculated by reference to forward market prices at the balance sheet date. Given the maturity profile of these contracts, forward market price curves are available for the duration of the contracts. • Forward foreign currency exchange contracts fair value – The fair value of forward foreign currency exchange contracts is determined using forward currency exchange market rates at the balance sheet date. • Other financial contracts fair value – The fair value of other financial contracts that do not qualify for the own-use exemption, is calculated by reference to forward market prices at the balance sheet date. Given the maturity profile of these contracts, liquid forward market price curves are available for the duration of the contracts. The fair values of all derivative financial instruments are discounted to reflect the credit risk inherent within the instrument. The Group has reviewed all significant contracts for the presence of embedded derivatives. The 2022 fixed rate loan notes and the 2025 USD loan notes both contain an early repayment option that meets the definition of an embedded derivative. However, in both cases, these do not require separate valuation as they are deemed to be closely related to the host contract. IFRS 13 requires categorisation of the Group’s financial instruments in accordance with the following hierarchy in order to explain the basis on which their fair values have been determined: • Level 1 – Fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; • Level 2 – Fair value measurements are those derived from inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and • Level 3 – Fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). Categorisation within this fair value measurement hierarchy has been determined on the basis of the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement of the relevant asset or liability. The fair value of commodity contracts, financial contracts, interest rate swaps and forward foreign currency exchange contracts are largely determined by comparison between forward market prices and the contract price; therefore, these contracts are categorised as Level 2. The fair value of the inflation swaps comprises an RPI and CPI component. Whilst the RPI component is based on observable market rates, CPI is based on unobservable rates and therefore deemed to be Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. However, this component is not material to the overall valuation and therefore the instruments as a whole are determined to be Level 2 in line with IFRS 13. Listed equity investment valuations are derived from quoted prices in active markets and are therefore categorised as Level 1. The valuation technique used for non-listed equity investments comprises of unobservable inputs and are therefore are classified as Level 3. However, given the valuations as a whole for Level 3 equity investments are immaterial, it is not deemed necessary to include all Level 3 disclosure requirements. There have been no transfers during the year between Level 1, 2 or 3 category inputs. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 187 Section 7: Risk management continued 7.1 Financial instruments and their fair values continued Accounting for derivatives Derivatives (subject to certain exemptions described below) must be measured at fair value, which is in essence the difference between the price the Group has secured in the contract, and the price the Group could achieve in the market at that point in time. Changes in fair value are recognised either within the income statement or the hedge reserve, dependent upon whether the contract in question qualifies as an effective hedge under IFRS 9 (see note 7.2). Where possible, the Group has taken advantage of the own-use exemption which allows qualifying contracts to be excluded from fair value mark-to-market accounting. This applies to certain contracts for physical commodities entered into and held for the Group’s own purchase, sale or usage requirements, including forward contracts for the purchase of biomass, and coal from domestic sources. Contracts for non-financial assets which do not qualify for the own-use exemption – principally power, gas, financial oil, financial coal and CO2 emissions allowances – are accounted for as derivatives in accordance with IFRS 9 and are recorded in the balance sheet at fair value. Changes in fair value are reflected through the hedge reserve (note 7.3) to the extent that the contracts are designated as effective hedges in accordance with IFRS 9, or the income statement where the hedge accounting requirements are not met. To ensure these derivatives are not reflected in the underlying performance of the Group, they are excluded from the Adjusted Results in the income statement. Derivative financial instruments with a maturity date within 12 months from the balance sheet date are classified as current assets or liabilities. Instruments with a maturity date beyond 12 months are classified as non-current assets or liabilities. As at 31 December 2019 2018 £m £m Derivative financial instrument assets > 1 year 152.3 295.2 Derivative financial instrument assets < 1 year 193.7 215.4 Total derivative financial instrument assets 346.0 510.6 Derivative financial instrument liabilities > 1 year (72.9) (62.0) Derivative financial instrument liabilities < 1 year (216.5) (89.4) Total derivative financial instrument liabilities (289.4) (151.4) Total derivative financial instruments 56.6 359.2 The gains and losses recognised in the period relating to derivative financial instruments are detailed below Gains/(losses) recognised 2019 2018 £m £m Unrealised derivative financial instrument (losses)/gains recognised in the income statement (130.8) 38.4 Unrealised derivative financial instrument (losses)/gains recognised in the hedge reserve (125.1) 119.1 Unrealised derivative financial instrument gains/(losses) recognised in the cost of hedge reserve 60.1 39.3 Total unrealised derivative financial instrument (losses)/gains (195.8) 196.8 The unrealised gains/(losses) recognised in the hedge reserve differs from the movements in the hedge reserve in the year by £24.5 million (2018:£27.6 million) due to realised gains/(losses) retained in the hedge reserve relating to hedging instruments where the hedged item has not impacted the income statement yet, or due to the recycling of gains/(losses) on hedging instruments where the hedged item has impacted the income statement, but the hedging instrument has not yet been realised. The total unrealised gains/(losses) recognised on derivative financial instruments differs from the total movement on derivative financial instruments by £106.8 million due to rebasing. The fair value of the rebased trades is recognised on the lower rebased rates, resulting in a reduction in the value of derivative financial instruments recognised. However, the gains relating to the cash received from rebasing are deferred from Adjusted Results until the contracts mature. 188 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 7.2 Financial risk management The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks, including commodity price risk, interest rate risk, foreign currency risk, liquidity risk, inflation risk, counterparty risk and credit risk. The Group’s overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of commodity and financial markets and seeks to manage potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance. The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge certain risk exposures. Risk management is overseen by the risk management committees as explained in the principal risks and uncertainties (page 54 to 61) which identify, evaluate and hedge financial risks in close co-ordination with the Group’s trading and treasury functions under policies approved by the Board of directors. 7.2.1 Commodity price risk The Group is exposed to the effect of fluctuations in commodity prices, particularly the price of electricity, gas, the price of coal, sustainable wood fibre and pellets, other fuels and the price of CO2 emissions allowances. Price variations and market cycles have historically influenced the financial results of the Group and are expected to continue to do so. Commodity price sensitivity The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on the exposure to commodity prices and the impact on profit after tax and other components of equity of reasonably possible increases/decreases in commodity prices. Impact on other components Impact on profit after tax of equity, net of tax 5% decrease 5% increase 5% decrease 5% increase £m £m £m £m 31 December 2019 Power – – 8.6 (8.6) Carbon – – (3.7) 3.7 Gas (3.0) 3.0 – – Oil (4.5) 4.5 – – Other 0.7 (0.7) (0.7) 0.7 31 December 2018 Power – – 23.9 (23.9) Carbon – – (3.2) 3.2 Gas (2.0) 2.0 – – Oil (4.3) 4.3 – – Other (0.2) 0.2 (1.8) 1.8 Profit after tax is sensitive to increases/decreases in commodity prices as a result of the impact on the fair value of derivative financial instruments not designated as hedging instruments under cash flow hedge accounting. The Group designates certain derivatives as hedging instruments under cash flow hedge accounting. As such other components of equity are sensitive to increases/decreases in commodity price risk in relation to the impact on the hedge reserve of these movements. Commodity risk management The Group has a policy of securing forward power sales, purchases of fuel and CO2 emissions allowances when profitable to do so and in line with specified limits under approved policies. Forward power sales can be secured up to 100% of forecast availability two years out. All commitments to sell power under fixed price contracts are designated as cash flow hedges as they reduce the Group’s cash flow exposure resulting from fluctuations in the price of power. The Group purchases sustainable biomass, coal and other fuels under either fixed or variable priced contracts with different maturities principally from a number of international sources. The Group considers all such contracts to be economic hedges. The Group applies the own-use exemption or hedge accounting in accordance with IFRS 9. Where forward power curves are less liquid, the Group uses financially settled gas sales as a proxy for power to mitigate the risk of power price fluctuations. The Group also purchases gas under fixed-price contracts to meet the demand of Customers’ customers and the CCGT assets as a fuel for its gas-fired generation portfolio. The Group purchases CO2 emissions allowances under fixed price contracts with different maturity dates from a range of domestic and international sources. All commitments to purchase CO2 emissions allowances under fixed price contracts are designated as cash flow hedges as they reduce the Group’s cash flow exposure resulting from fluctuations in the price of CO2 emissions allowances. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 189 Section 7: Risk management continued 7.2 Financial risk management continued Hedge accounting The Group’s cash flow hedges relate to commodity contracts (principally commitments to sell power and purchase CO2). Amounts are recognised in the hedge reserve as the designated contracts are marked-to-market at each period end for the effective portion of the hedge, which is generally 100% of the relevant contract. Amounts held within the hedge reserve are then released as the related contract matures and the hedged transaction impacts profit or loss. For power sales contracts, this is at the point when the underlying power is delivered. Included in amounts released from equity are gains and losses on financial instruments that matured in a previous period, released to the income statement in the period the hedged transaction occurs. No ineffectiveness was recognised in the income statement in the year (2018: £nil). Due to the use of ‘all-in-one’ hedges, this results in the movement in value for the hedged items and hedging instruments being identical. The only source of ineffectiveness regarding the “all-in-one” hedges would be if delivery of the commodities be no longer expected to occur. The main sources of ineffectiveness regarding financial contracts could be as a result of timing differences and credit risk. Commodity contracts are released from equity to revenue (power contracts) or cost of sales (CO2 contracts) in the income statement. The reconciliation of the reserves and time period when the hedge will affect the profit or loss are disclosed in note 7.3. The summary of the amounts relating to the hedging instruments and any related ineffectiveness in the period is presented in the table below. Ineffectiveness on sale of power hedging instruments is recognised in revenue. Ineffectiveness on designated hedging instruments for purchases of CO2 emissions allowances and for financial coal are recognised in cost of sales. The average forward rates quoted below only reflect the rates applicable to the portion of the Group’s commodity and financial contracts that qualify for hedge accounting in accordance with IFRS 9. The rates do not reflect the overall average rate of the Group’s total portfolio of commodity and financial contracts that are used to protect the value of future cash flows. 31 December 2019 Change in fair Change in fair value of hedging value of hedged instrument during Fair value item during the reporting Fair value recognised the reporting Notional period used recognised in in balance period used Ineffectiveness value of for measuring balance sheet sheet for measuring recognised contracts Average ineffectiveness (Assets) (Liabilities) ineffectiveness in the period Exposure (Mwh, tonnes) fixed price £m £m £m £m £m Commodity contracts Sale of power 4,596,250 £61.23 68.6 151.2 (79.0) (68.6) – Purchase of CO2 emissions allowances 4,341,000 €25.46 (3.3) 0.9 (4.1) 3.3 – Financial contracts Financial coal 396,000 £73.59 (4.0) – (4.0) 4.0 – 31 December 2018 Change in fair Change in fair value of hedging value of hedged instrument during Fair value item during the reporting Fair value recognised the reporting Notional period used recognised in in balance period used Ineffectiveness value of for measuring balance sheet sheet for measuring recognised contracts Average ineffectiveness (Assets) (Liabilities) ineffectiveness in the period Exposure (Mwh, tonnes) fixed price £m £m £m £m £m Commodity Sale of power 7,931,837 £59.96 (6.1) 59.5 (67.6) 6.1 – Purchase of CO2 emissions allowances 2,898,000 €18.83 15.7 16.1 (0.5) (15.7) – Financial contracts Financial coal 540,000 £86.40 (1.2) 0.5 (0.9 1.2 – 190 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 7.2 Financial risk management continued 7.2.2 Foreign currency risk The Group is exposed to the fluctuations in foreign currency rates resulting from committed and forecast transactions in foreign currencies, principally in relation to purchases of fuel for use in the Generation business. These purchases are typically denominated in US dollars (USD), Canadian dollars (CAD) or Euros (EUR). The Group also has a limited exposure to translation risk in relation to its net investment in its US subsidiary, Drax Biomass Inc. Foreign currency sensitivity The analysis below shows the impact on profit after tax and other components of equity of reasonably possible strengthenings/ weakenings of currencies against GBP. The analysis assumes all other variables were held constant. Impact on other components Impact on profit after tax of equity, net of tax 5% strengthening 5% weakening 5% strengthening 5% weakening £m £m £m £m 31 December 2019 USD 164.0 (84.3) 119.7 (108.5) EUR 18.8 (17.0) 4.0 (3.6) CAD 18.1 (4.8) 13.1 (11.9) 31 December 2018 USD 105.0 (93.9) 156.3 (135.9) EUR 3.3 (3.0) 10.2 (9.2) CAD 16.4 (15.4) 17.1 (15.5) Profit after tax is sensitive to the strengthening/weakening of other currencies as a result of the impact on the fair value of currency derivative financial instruments not designated as hedging instruments under cash flow hedge accounting. The Group designates certain currency derivatives as hedging instruments under cash flow hedge accounting. As such other components of equity are sensitive to the strengthening/weakening of other currencies in relation to the impact on the hedge reserve of these movements. Foreign currency risk management It is the Group’s policy to hedge material transactional exposures using a variety of derivatives to fix the sterling value of foreign currency cash flows, except where there is an economic hedge inherent in the transaction. The Group enters into derivative contracts in line with the currency risk management policy, including forwards and options, to manage the risks associated with its anticipated foreign currency requirements over a rolling five-year period, covering contracted exposures and a proportion of highly probable forecast transactions. In addition, in order to optimise the cost of funding, the Group has issued foreign currency denominated debt in US dollars (see note 4.3). The Group utilises derivative contracts to manage exchange risk on foreign currency debt. Hedge accounting The Group designates certain foreign currency derivatives as hedging instruments. Foreign currency forward contracts that are designated as hedges are transferred from equity to inventory for hedges of fuel purchases or transferred to intangible assets for hedges of carbon EUAs. Gains and losses on the cross-currency interest rate swaps are released to interest payable and similar charges and foreign exchange gains/(losses). Further details of the cross-currency interest rate swaps are provided in the interest rate risk section. The main sources of ineffectiveness relating to foreign currency hedges are timing differences and credit risk. The reconciliation of the reserves and when the amount will affect the income statement or will be removed from equity and included in the initial cost of the non-financial item are disclosed in notes 7.3 and 7.4. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 191 Section 7: Risk management continued 7.2 Financial risk management continued The summary of the amounts relating to the hedging instruments and any related ineffectiveness in the period is presented in the table below. Ineffectiveness on foreign currency hedging instruments is recognised in cost of sales. The average forward rates quoted below only reflect the rates applicable to the portion of the Group’s forward currency purchase contracts that qualify for hedge accounting in accordance with IFRS 9. The rates do not reflect the overall average rate of the Group’s total portfolio of currency derivatives that are used to protect the sterling value of future cash flows. 31 December 2019 Change in fair Change in fair value of hedging value of hedged instrument during item during the reporting Fair value Fair value the reporting Notional period used recognised in recognised in period used Ineffectiveness value of for measuring balance sheet balance sheet for measuring recognised contracts Average ineffectiveness (Assets) (Liabilities) ineffectiveness in the period Exposure million forward rate £m £m £m £m £m Foreign currency contracts Purchases in foreign currency – USD 3,713.4 1.40 (101.4) 117.6 (23.3) 101.4 – Purchases in foreign currency – EUR 90.3 1.09 (5.7) – (6.1) 5.7 – Purchases in foreign currency – CAD 527.6 1.82 1.6 13.0 (3.0) (1.6) – 31 December 2018 Change in fair Change in fair value of hedging value of hedged instrument during item during the reporting Fair value Fair value the reporting Notional period used recognised in recognised in period used Ineffectiveness value of for measuring balance sheet balance sheet for measuring recognised contracts Average ineffectiveness (Assets) (Liabilities) ineffectiveness in the period Exposure million forward rate £m £m £m £m £m Foreign currency contracts Purchases in foreign currency – USD 3,871.8 1.43 155.2 210.6 – (155.2) – Purchases in foreign currency – EUR 170.8 1.12 1.4 2.2 – (1.4) – Purchases in foreign currency – CAD 575.3 1.79 (6.8) 9.9 (7.1) 6.8 – 7.2.3 Interest rate risk The Group has limited exposure to interest rate risk, principally in relation to cash and cash equivalents and floating rate debt instruments. The Group has taken out a fixed-to-fixed cross‑currency interest rate swap to hedge the future cash flows associated with USD $500 million 2025 fixed rate loan notes, effectively converting them to sterling fixed rate cash flows. The Group has also taken out a floating-to-fixed swap to fix the interest payments on the £375 million private placement issued in the year. As the Group has fixed most of its debt instruments interest rates swaps, at December 2019 the Group only had one floating rate debt instrument drawn, being the £125 million ESG facility issued in the year. The return generated on the Group’s cash balance, or on amounts drawn on the revolving credit facility, are also exposed to movements in short-term interest rates. The Group manages cash balances to protect against adverse changes in rates whilst retaining liquidity. Further information about the Group’s instruments that are exposed to interest rate risk and their repayment schedules is provided in note 4.3. 192 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 7.2 Financial risk management continued Interest rate benchmark reform The only interest rate benchmark to which the Group is exposed to within its hedge accounting relationships and that is subject to interest rate benchmark reform is GBP LIBOR. This exposure relates to the hedge of the £375 million private placement using a floating-to-fixed GBP LIBOR swap maturing in 2024. The Group is closely monitoring the market and the output from the various industry working groups managing the transition to new benchmark interest rates. This includes announcements made by LIBOR regulators (including the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)) regarding the transition away from LIBOR to Sterling Overnight Index Average Rate (SONIA). The FCA has made clear that, at the end of 2021, it will no longer seek to persuade, or compel, banks to submit to LIBOR. In response to the announcements, The Group will be engaging the following work streams: risk management, tax, treasury, legal and accounting. The aim of the programme is to identify any LIBOR exposures that are within the business and prepare and deliver on an action plan to enable a smooth transition to alternative benchmark rates. This will involve considering appropriate alternative benchmark rates in line with those proposed by different working groups in the industry and engaging with counterparties to implement appropriate wording in relevant contracts. Interest rate sensitivity The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on the exposure to interest rates for both derivatives and non-derivative instruments at the balance sheet date. For floating rate liabilities, the analysis is prepared assuming the amount of the liability outstanding at the balance sheet date was outstanding for the whole year. The analysis below shows the impact on profit after tax and other components of equity of a reasonably possible increase/ decrease in interest rates. The analysis assumes all other variables were held constant Impact on other components Impact on profit after tax of equity, net of tax 1% increase 1% decrease 1% increase 1% decrease £m £m £m £m 31 December 2019 Variable rate debt (4.2) 4.2 – – Interest rate swaps 3.1 (3.1) 15.8 (15.8) Net (1.1) 1.1 15.8 (15.8) 31 December 2018 Variable rate debt (1.0) 1.0 – – Net (1.0) 1.0 – – Profit after tax is sensitive to an increase/decrease in interest rates as a result of the impact on the interest payable in the period on any floating rate debt. The Group has reduced its exposure to interest rate risk on variable rate debt through the use of floatingto-fixed interest rate swaps and therefore a change in interest rates would not have a significant effect on profit after tax. The Group designates certain floating-to-fixed interest rate swaps as hedging instruments under cash flow hedge accounting. As such other components of equity are sensitive to an increase/decrease in interest rates in relation to the impact on the hedge reserve of these movements. Interest rate risk management The Group has a risk management policy in place relating to interest rate risk. The Group policy permits, but does not require, the use of hedging instruments in order to hedge up to 100% of the Group’s current and forecast interest rate exposure. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 193 Section 7: Risk management continued 7.2 Financial risk management continued Hedge accounting The Group designates the floating-to-fixed GBP interest rate swap and the cross-currency interest rate swaps as hedging instruments. The GBP interest rate swap is a hedge of the interest payments relating to the £375 million private placement. The cross-currency interest swaps are hedges of the interest payments of the $500 million 2025 fixed rate loan notes, and of the USD denominated principal. As such there is both an interest element and a foreign exchange element relating to the cross-currency interest rate swaps. Gains and losses on the floating-to-fixed GBP interest rate swap are released to interest payable and similar charges at the same time as the interest expense on the hedged borrowings. Gains and losses on the cross-currency interest rate swaps are released to interest payable and similar charges at the same time as the interest expense on the hedged borrowings. Also, gains and losses that are effective at hedging the foreign exchange risk on the USD principal are released to foreign exchange gains/(losses) to offset gains and losses on retranslating the USD denominated hedged loan notes. The main sources of ineffectiveness relating to interest rate risk hedges are differences in the critical terms, differences in repricing dates and credit risk. The summary of the amounts relating to the hedging instruments and any related ineffectiveness in the period is presented in the table below. Ineffectiveness on GBP interest rate hedging instruments is recognised in interest payable and similar charges. Ineffectiveness on USD cross-currency interest rate hedging instruments is recognised in either interest payable and similar charges or foreign exchange (losses)/gains. 31 December 2019 Change in fair Change in fair value of hedging value of hedged instrument during item during the reporting Fair value Fair value the reporting Notional period used for recognised in recognised in period used Ineffectiveness value of Average measuring balance sheet balance sheet for measuring recognised in contracts fixed rate ineffectiveness (Assets) (Liabilities) ineffectiveness the period Exposure millions GBP £m £m £m £m £m Financing Interest rate risk – GBP 375 1.05% (4.8) – (4.8) 4.8 – Interest rate risk – USD 500 4.90% (8.3) 21.8 – 8.7 – 31 December 2018 Change in fair Change in fair value of hedging value of hedged instrument during item during the reporting Fair value Fair value the reporting Notional period used for recognised in recognised in period used Ineffectiveness value of Average measuring balance sheet balance sheet for measuring recognised in contracts fixed rate ineffectiveness (Assets) (Liabilities) ineffectiveness the period Exposure millions GBP £m £m £m £m £m Financing Interest rate risk – USD 300 5.01% 27.9 27.9 – (30.9) – 194 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 7.2 Financial risk management continued 7.2.4 Inflation risk The Group is exposed to inflation risk on elements of its revenues and cost base. The Group’s ROC revenues are linked to UK RPI and its Contract for Difference revenue is linked to UK CPI. In addition, a proportion of the Group’s fuel costs are linked to US/CAD CPI. The Group has entered UK CPI swaps to hedge the future cashflows relating to a proportion of its exposure. The Group also benefits from a natural hedge arising from its inflation-linked borrowings (see note 4.3). Inflation risk sensitivity The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on the exposure to inflation rates for both derivatives and non-derivative instruments at the balance sheet date. The analysis below shows the impact on profit after tax and other components of equity of a reasonably possible increase/ decrease in inflation rates. The analysis assumes all other variables were held constant. Impact on other components Impact on profit after tax of equity, net of tax 1% increase 1% decrease 1% increase 1% decrease £m £m £m £m 31 December 2019 CPI inflation swaps – – (15.5) 15.5 The Group designates the CPI inflation swaps as hedging instruments under cash flow hedge accounting. As such other components of equity are sensitive to an increase/a decrease in inflation rates in relation to the impact on the hedge reserve of these movements. Inflation risk management The Group has a risk management policy in place relating to inflation risk. The Group policy permits, but does not require, the use of hedging instruments in order to hedge up to 100% of the Group’s current and forecast inflation exposure. Hedge accounting As the Group has contracts for which the revenue is contractually linked to either RPI or CPI inflation, the Group has been able to designate this risk component as a hedged item. Inflation swaps are utilised as the hedging instrument for this inflation risk. Gains and losses on the inflation swaps are held in the hedge reserve and reclassified to the income statement within the revenue line at the same time the revenue from the inflation linked contracts impacts on the income statement. The summary of the amounts relating to the hedging instruments and any related ineffectiveness in the period is presented in the table below. Ineffectiveness on inflation hedging instruments is recognised in revenue. 31 December 2019 Change in fair Change in fair value of hedging value of hedged instrument during item during the reporting Fair value Fair value the reporting Notional period used recognised in recognised in period used Ineffectiveness value of for measuring balance sheet balance sheet for measuring recognised in contracts Average ineffectiveness (Assets) (Liabilities) ineffectiveness the period Exposure £m fixed rate £m £m £m £m £m Inflation Inflation linked sales contracts – CPI 250 2.48% 16.4 16.4 – (16.4) – Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 195 Section 7: Risk management continued 7.2 Financial risk management continued 7.2.5 Liquidity risk The Treasury function is responsible for liquidity, funding and settlement management under policies approved by the Board. Liquidity needs are monitored using regular forecasting of operational cash flows and financing commitments. The Group maintains a mixture of cash and cash equivalents, committed facilities and uncommitted facilities in order to ensure sufficient funding for business requirements. In managing liquidity risk, the Group has the ability to accelerate the cash flows associated with certain working capital items (principally those related to ROC sales and Customers power sales). In each case this is undertaken on a non-recourse basis and accordingly, the ROCs and other items are derecognised from the balance sheet at the point of sale. The Group also utilises standard purchasing facilities to extend the working capital cycle, whilst still paying suppliers on time. The impact on the Group’s cash flows is described in note 4.4. The following tables set out details of the expected contractual maturity of non-derivative financial liabilities. The tables include both interest and principal cash flows. To the extent that interest flows are floating rate, the undiscounted amount is derived from interest rate curves at the balance sheet date. As at 31 December 2019 Within 3 months– 3 months 1 year 1–2 years 2–5 years >5 years Total £m £m £m £m £m £m Term loans, gross value 7.1 9.2 16.2 316.8 261.9 611.2 Loan notes, gross value – 39.9 39.9 430.1 398.9 908.8 Borrowings, contractual maturity 7.1 49.1 56.1 746.9 660.8 1,520.0 Trade and other payables 354.7 323.8 4.5 – – 683.0 Lease liabilities(1) 1.8 5.4 6.2 13.0 10.6 37.0 363.6 378.3 66.8 759.9 671.4 2,240.0 (1) In the prior year, under IAS 17, only finance leases were recognised as financial liabilities. On transition to IFRS 16 all leases are now recognised as financial liabilities. As such the Lease liabilities row in the table above is not comparable to the Finance Lease liabilities line in the table below as the Lease liabilities above includes leases that would have been classified as operating leases under IAS 17. Trade and other payables of £683.0 million (2018: £560.5 million) excludes non-financial liabilities such as the Group’s obligation to deliver ROCs. The comparative table below has been restated to split out the maturity of financial liabilities due over one year into more time buckets than previously disclosed and updated for the additional acquisition consideration payable as a result of finalisation of the completion accounts process. As at 31 December 2018 Within 3 months– Restated 3 months 1 year 1–2 years 2–5 years >5 years Total £m £m £m £m £m £m Term loans, gross value – 1.7 1.7 39.6 – 43.0 Loan notes, gross value – 30.5 30.5 419.2 266.5 746.7 Finance lease liabilities – 0.2 0.4 – – 0.6 Borrowings, contractual maturity – 32.4 32.6 458.8 266.5 790.3 Trade and other payables 384.1 176.4 – – – 560.5 Acquisition consideration payable 691.7 – – – – 691.7 1,075.8 208.8 32.6 458.8 266.5 2,042.5 The above table has been restated to reflect the finalisation of the measurement period adjustments in relation to the new generation assets acquired from ScottishPower on 31 December 2018. Interest payments are calculated based on forward interest rates estimated at the balance sheet date using publicly available information. The weighted average interest rate payable at the balance sheet date on the Group’s borrowings was 3.99% (2018: 4.56%). 196 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 7.2 Financial risk management continued The following tables set out details of the expected contractual maturity of derivative financial instruments which are marked to market based on the undiscounted cash flows. Where the amount payable or receivable is not fixed, the amount disclosed has been determined by reference to projected commodity prices, or foreign currency exchange rates, as illustrated by the yield or other forward curves existing at the reporting date. Where derivatives are expected to be gross settled the gross cash flows have been presented. Commodity contracts and forward foreign currency contracts are expected to be gross settled. Where derivatives are expected to be net settled, the net cash flows expected to occur based on the current fair value have been disclosed. Financial contracts and other foreign exchange contracts (excluding forwards) are expected to be net settled. Interest rate contracts and inflation rate contracts are presented based on net settlement of the interest rate and inflation rate differentials. Gross settlement of the principal of cross-currency interest rate swaps is expected and as such this element of the swap is presented gross. As at 31 December 2019 Within 1 year 1–2 years >2 years Total £m £m £m £m Commodity contracts (6.7) 43.3 11.0 47.6 Financial contracts (42.8) (37.1) (65.0) (144.9) Foreign exchange contracts 1,581.1 803.6 2,176.8 4,561.5 Interest rate contracts 3.9 2.5 (2.3) 4.1 Inflation rate contracts 1.8 3.2 11.8 16.8 1,537.3 815.5 2,132.3 4,485.1 As at 31 December 2018 Within 1 year 1–2 years >2 years Total £m £m £m £m Commodity contracts 14.5 190.8 68.6 273.9 Financial contracts (33.2) (61.8) (37.5) (132.5) Foreign exchange contracts 1,827.9 905.2 1,898.8 4,631.9 Interest rate contracts 10.7 10.7 26.8 48.2 1,819.9 1,044.9 1,956.7 4,821.5 7.2 Financial risk management continued 7.2.6 Counterparty risk As the Group relies on third party suppliers and counterparties for the delivery of currency, sustainable biomass and other goods and services, it is exposed to the risk of non-performance by these third-party suppliers. If a large supplier were to fall into financial difficulty and/or fail to deliver against its contract with the Group, there would be additional costs associated with securing the lost goods or services from other suppliers. The Group enters into contracts for the sale of electricity to a number of counterparties. The failure of one or more of these counterparties to perform their contractual obligations may cause the Group financial distress or increase the risk profile of the Group. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 197 Section 7: Risk management continued 7.2 Financial risk management continued 7.2.7 Credit risk The Group’s gross exposure to credit risk is limited to the carrying amount of financial assets recognised at the balance sheet date, as summarised below: As at 31 December 2019 2018 £m £m Financial assets: Cash and cash equivalents 404.1 289.0 Trade and other receivables 582.3 413.3 Other fixed asset investments 3.0 2.4 Derivative financial instruments 346.0 510.6 1,335.4 1,215.3 Trade and other receivables are stated gross of the provision for doubtful debts of £40.7 million (2018: £44.0 million) and exclude non-financial receivables such as prepayments. Of the Group‘s three operating segments, two are exposed to different levels and concentrations of credit risk, largely reflecting the number, size and nature of their respective customers. The Pellet Production segment only trades intra-group. The highest risk is in the Customers segment, with a high number of customers of varying sizes operating in a variety of markets. In particular, Opus Energy carries lower concentrations but higher levels of credit risk owing to a customer base comprised largely of smaller retail and commercial entities. In the Customers segment, credit risk is managed by checking a company’s creditworthiness and financial strength both before commencing trade and during the business relationship. Credit risk is monitored and managed by business sector. In addition, the Customers segment extended its trade credit insurance programme to increase its mitigation to credit risk. For the Generation segment, the risk arises from treasury, trading and energy procurement activities, as well as the sale of byproducts from generation activities. Wholesale counterparty credit exposures are monitored by individual counterparty and by category of credit rating. Counterparty credit exposures are subject to approved limits. The Group uses master netting agreements to reduce credit risk and net settles payments with counterparties where net settlement provisions exist. In addition, the Group employs a variety of other methods to mitigate credit risk: margining, various forms of parent company guarantee, deed of charge, cash collateral, letters of credit and surety bonds. The majority of the Generation business’s credit risk is with counterparties in related energy industries or with financial institutions. In addition, where deemed appropriate, the Group has historically purchased credit default swaps. The investment of surplus cash is undertaken with the objective of ensuring that there is sufficient liquidity at all times, so that funds are available to meet liabilities as they fall due, whilst securing a return from invested funds and preserving the capital value of those funds within Board-approved policies. These policies manage credit risk exposure by setting out minimum rating requirements, maximum investment with any one counterparty and the maturity profile. Capital management The Group manages its capital to ensure it is able to continue as a going concern; maintain a strong credit rating underpinned by robust financial metrics; invest in its core business and pay a sustainable and growing dividend while maximising the return to shareholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity balance. The capital structure of the Group consists of shareholders’ equity (excluding the hedge and cost of hedging reserves), plus net debt. Net debt is comprised of borrowings and cash and cash equivalents as disclosed in note 4.3 and 4.2 respectively. As at 31 December 2019 2018 £m £m Borrowings 1,245.2 608.1 Cash and cash equivalents (404.1) (289.0) Net debt 841.1 319.1 Total shareholders’ equity, excluding hedge and cost of hedging reserves 1,553.3 1,580.0 198 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 7.3 Hedge reserve The Group designates certain hedging instruments that are used to address commodity price risk, foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk and inflation rate risk as cash flow hedges. At the inception of the hedge, the relationship between the hedging instrument and hedged item is documented, along with its risk management objectives. Furthermore, at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the Group documents whether the hedging instruments used in hedging transactions are effective in offsetting changes in cash flows of the hedged items. Changes in fair value of contracts designated into such hedging relationships are recognised within the hedge reserve to the extent they are effective. The cumulative gains and losses unwind and are released as the related contracts mature and the Group take delivery of the associated commodity or currency. Hedge reserve Commodity Foreign Interest Inflation price risk exchange risk rate risk rate risk Total £m £m £m £m £m At 1 January 2018 1.0 125.1 – – 126.1 Gains/(losses) recognised: – Change in fair value of hedging instrument recognised in OCI 8.4 149.8 27.9 – 186.1 Released from equity: – Reclassified to cost of inventory (15.5) (53.5) – – (69.0) – Reclassified to the income statement – included in cost of sales (8.8) (16.4) – – (25.2) – Reclassified to the income statement – included in revenue 22.4 – – – 22.4 – Reclassified to the income statement – included in interest payable and similar charges – – (0.8) – (0.8) – Reclassified to the income statement – included in interest payable and similar charges – – (22.0) – (22.0) Related deferred tax, net (note 2.6) (1.3) (15.4) (1.0) – (17.7) At 31 December 2018 6.2 189.6 4.1 – 199.9 Gains/(losses) recognised: – Change in fair value of hedging instrument recognised in OCI 61.3 (105.5) (13.1) 16.4 (40.9) Released from equity: – Reclassified to cost of inventory 0.4 (77.5) – – (77.1) – Reclassified to the income statement – included in cost of sales 1.6 (3.4) – – (1.8) – Reclassified to the income statement – included in revenue 11.7 – – – 11.7 – Reclassified to the income statement – included in interest payable and similar charges – – (0.7) – (0.7) – Reclassified to the income statement – included in interest payable and similar charges – – 8.2 – 8.2 Related deferred tax, net (note 2.6) (12.9) 36.7 1.2 (2.8) 22.2 At 31 December 2019 68.3 39.9 (0.3) 13.6 121.5 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 199 Section 7: Risk management continued 7.3 Hedge reserve continued The expected release profile from equity of post-tax hedging gains and losses is as follows: As at 31 December 2019 Within 1 year 1–2 years >2 years Total £m £m £m £m Commodity contracts 62.1 8.0 1.5 71.6 Financial contracts (3.0) (0.3) – (3.3) Foreign exchange contracts 58.4 (4.3) (14.2) 39.9 Interest rate contracts 3.2 2.5 (6.0) (0.3) Inflation contracts 1.5 2.6 9.5 13.6 122.2 8.5 (9.2) 121.5 As at 31 December 2018 Within 1 year 1–2 years >2 years Total £m £m £m £m Commodity contracts 2.7 3.6 0.5 6.8 Financial contracts 67.0 91.2 56.7 214.9 Cross currency interest rate swap – – (21.8) (21.8) 69.7 94.8 35.4 199.9 7.4 Cost of hedging reserve The Group allocates unrealised gains and losses on the forward rate of foreign currency derivative contracts to a cost of hedging reserve in accordance with IFRS 9. A large proportion of the derivative contracts relate to foreign exchange contracts, including forward contracts, options and swaps. Consistent with prior periods, the Group has continued to designate the change in fair value of the spot rate in the Group’s cash flow hedge relationships. The Group designates the cost of hedging – being the change in fair value associated with forward points including currency basis – to equity. All amounts within the cost of hedging reserve relate to commodity price risk. The cumulative gains and losses unwind and are released as the related contracts mature and we take delivery of the associated currency. Cost of hedging 2019 2018 £m £m At 1 January (8.9) (40.7) Gains/(losses) recognised: – Change in fair value of hedging instrument recognised in OCI 56.3 24.8 Released from equity: – Reclassified to cost of inventory 3.1 11.3 – Reclassified to cost of intangible assets (Carbon) 0.7 3.2 Related deferred tax, net (note 2.6) (10.4) (7.5) At 31 December 40.8 (8.9) Forward foreign currency exchange contracts are released to cost of sales in the income statement. 200 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 7.4 Cost of hedging reserve continued The expected release profile from equity of post-tax cost of hedging gains and losses is as follows: As at 31 December 2019 Within 1 year 1–2 years >2 years Total £m £m £m £m Foreign exchange contracts (3.6) 10.5 33.9 40.8 As at 31 December 2018 Within 1 year 1–2 years >2 years Total £m £m £m £m Foreign exchange contracts (3.0) (11.9) 6.0 (8.9) 7.5 Offsetting financial assets and financial liabilities Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount is reported in the balance sheet where the Group has a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts, and there is an intention to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. The Group also has financial asset and liabilities with certain counterparties that are subject to master netting agreements. Financial assets and liabilities do not meet the criteria for offsetting in the balance sheet, but are subject to an enforceable master netting agreement that in certain circumstances, such as a bankruptcy, would allow for the amounts to be offset and a single net amount payable. The table below shows the impact if the carrying amounts that are subject to these agreements were offset. As at 31 December 2019 As at 31 December 2018 Gross amounts Related Gross amounts Related of financial financial of financial financial instrument instruments instrument instruments in the that are in the that are balance sheet not offset Net amount balance sheet not offset Net amount £m £m £m £m £m £m Financial assets Derivative financial instruments 346.0 (209.1) 136.9 510.6 (117.3) 393.3 Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments (289.4) 209.1 (80.3) (151.4) 117.3 (34.1) Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 201 Section 7: Risk management continued 7.6 Contingent assets and liabilities Contingent liabilities are potential future outflows of cash that are dependent on a future event that is outside of the control of the Group. The amount or timing of any payment is uncertain and cannot be measured reliably. Guarantees In addition to the amount drawn down against the bank loans, certain members of the Group guarantee the obligations of a number of banks in respect of letters of credit issued by those banks to counterparties of the Group. As at 31 December 2019, the Group’s contingent liability in respect of letters of credit issued under the revolving credit facility amounted to £77.0 million (2018: £31.8 million). The Group also guarantees obligations in the form of surety bonds with a number of insurers amounting to £96.1 million (2018: £63.7 million). 7.7 Commitments The Group has a number of financial commitments (i.e. a contractual requirement to make a cash payment in the future) that are not recorded in the balance sheet as the contract is not yet due for delivery. Such commitments include contracts for the future purchase of coal and biomass, contracts for the construction of assets and contracts for the provision of services. As at 31 December 2019 2018 £m £m Contracts placed for future capital expenditure not provided in the financial statements 57.2 74.9 Future support contracts not provided in the financial statements 19.9 6.5 Future commitments to purchase ROCs 295.0 159.7 Future commitments to purchase fuel under fixed and variable priced contracts 4,332.9 6,716.6 The contractual maturities of the future commitments to purchase fuel are as follows: As at 31 December 2019 2018 £m £m Within one year 840.1 1,084.2 Within one to five years 2,997.4 4,191.0 After five years 495.4 1,441.4 4,332.9 6,716.6 Commitments to purchase fuel reflect long-term forward purchase contracts with a variety of international suppliers, primarily for the delivery of sustainable wood pellets for use in electricity production at Drax Power Station over the period from 2019–2027 and the delivery of gas to be used in the Gas-thermal plants. To the extent these contracts relate to the purchase of wood pellets, they are not reflected elsewhere in the financial statements owing to application of the “own-use” exemption from fair value accounting to such contracts (see note 7.1). 202 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Section 8: Reference information This section details reference information relevant to the compiling of the financial statements and provides the general information about the Group (e.g. operations and registered office). The Group also set out the basis of preparation of the accounts and general accounting policies that are not specific to any one note. 8.1 General information Drax Group plc (the Company) is incorporated in England and Wales under the Companies Act. The Company and its subsidiaries (together, the Group) have three principal activities: • Power generation; • Gas and electricity supply to business customers; and • Manufacturing of sustainable compressed wood pellets for use in electricity production. The Group’s activities are principally based within the UK, with the wood pellet manufacturing activities situated in the US. The address of the Company’s registered office and principal establishment is Drax Power Station, Selby, North Yorkshire, YO8 8PH, United Kingdom. A full list of operating companies of the Group is disclosed in note 5 to the Company’s separate financial statements, which follow these consolidated financial statements. 8.2 Basis of preparation Adoption of new and revised accounting standards A number of new and amended standards became effective for the first time in 2019. The Group adopted the following from 1 January 2019: IFRS 9 (amended) – Financial Instruments IFRS 16 – Leases IFRIC 23 – Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments IAS 19 (amended) – Employee Benefits IAS 28 (amended) – Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 2015–2017 Cycle IFRS Practice Statement 2 Other than the adoption of IFRS 16, these updates and amendments have not had a material impact on the financial statements of the Group. The transition disclosures for IFRS 16 have been included in note 8.3. The Group has elected to early adopt the ‘Amendments to IAS 39 and IFRS 7 Interest Rate Benchmark Reform’ issued in September 2019. In accordance with the transition provisions, the amendments have been adopted retrospectively to hedging relationships that existed at the start of the reporting period or were designated thereafter, and to the amount accumulated in the cash flow hedge reserve at that date. The amendments are relevant to the Group given that it applies hedge accounting to its GBP LIBOR interest rate exposure on the £375 million private placement that is hedged using the floating-to-fixed GBP interest rate swap. The amendments provide temporary relief from applying specific hedge accounting requirements to hedging relationships directly affected by interest rate Interbank Offered Rates (IBOR) reform. The reliefs have the effect that IBOR reform should not generally cause hedge accounting to terminate. However, any hedge ineffectiveness continues to be recorded in the income statement. Furthermore, the amendments set out triggers for when the reliefs will end, which include the uncertainty arising from interest rate benchmark reform no longer being present. In summary, the reliefs provided by the amendments that apply to the Group are: • When considering the ‘highly probable’ requirement, the Group is able to assume that the GBP LIBOR interest rate on which the hedged future cash flows are based is not altered as a result of IBOR reform; • In assessing the hedge effectiveness on a prospective basis, the Group is able to assume that the economic relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument is not impacted as a result of IBOR reform; and • When the Group applies these amendments, the quantitative requirements in paragraph 28(f) of IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors are not required. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 203 Section 8: Reference information continued 8.2 Basis of preparation continued These amendments will cease to apply at the earlier of when the uncertainty regarding the timing and amount of the interest rate benchmark-based cash flows are no longer present, or the discontinuation of the hedging relationship. The additional disclosure requirements that apply as a result of applying the ‘Amendments to IAS 39 and IFRS 7 Interest Rate Benchmark Reform’ have been disclosed in note 7.2. At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, the following new or amended standards and relevant interpretations, which have not been applied in these financial statements, were in issue but not yet effective (and some of which were pending endorsement by the EU – marked by *): IFRS 10 (amended) – Consolidated Financial Statements and IAS 28 (amended) – Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures (2011) – effective date deferred indefinitely.* IFRS 3 (amended) – Business Combinations – effective from 1 January 2020.* Conceptual Framework for Financial Reporting (amended) – effective from 1 January 2020. IAS 1 (amended) – Presentation of Financial Statements and IAS 8 (amended) Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors – effective from 1 January 2020. Annual Improvements 2018-2020 Cycle.* IFRS 17 Insurance contracts – effective from 1 January 2021.* Adoption of the other standards in future periods is not expected to have a material impact on the financial statements of the Group. 8.3 Adoption of new accounting standards and restatement of previously reported financial statements IFRS 16 – Leases IFRS 16 supersedes IAS 17 Leases, IFRIC 4 Determining Whether an Arrangement Contains a Lease, SIC 15 Operating Leases and SIC 27 Evaluating the Substance of Transactions involving the legal form of a lease. The Group has adopted IFRS 16 from 1 January 2019 using the modified retrospective method of adoption. Under this method, the standard is applied retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying the standard recognised at the date of initial application. Consequently, comparative information in these Consolidated Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2018 has not been restated. The new requirements have impacted the Group’s accounting for lease contracts. The Group’s lease portfolio predominantly relates to properties and the hire of plant and equipment at operating sites. On transition to IFRS 16 on 1 January 2019, assets controlled under lease contracts were brought onto the balance sheet as right-of-use assets, and the Group has recognised a corresponding liability for the amounts payable under the lease contracts. On transition, the Group elected to use the available practical expedient allowing the standard to only be applied to those contracts identified as leases under the previous standards. Accordingly, the definition of a lease in accordance with IAS 17 and IFRIC 4 will continue to apply to those leases entered into or modified before 1 January 2019. However, the Group has applied the new definition of a lease to all contracts entered into or modified on or after 1 January 2019. This change did not have a significant impact on the assessment of contracts that are in scope of the definition of a lease. The Group has also elected to use the recognition exemptions for lease contracts that, at the commencement date, have a lease term of 12 months or less and lease contracts for which the underlying asset is of low value (less than £3,500). Under IFRS 16, right-of-use assets are tested for impairment. This has replaced the previous requirement to recognise a provision for onerous lease contracts. 204 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 8.3 Adoption of new accounting standards and restatement of previously reported financial statements continued Nature of the effect of adoption of IFRS 16 Leases previously classified as finance leases The Group has not changed the initial carrying amounts of recognised assets and liabilities at the date of initial application for leases previously classified as finance leases (i.e. the right-of-use assets and lease liabilities equal the lease assets and liabilities recognised under IAS 17). The requirements of IFRS 16 were applied to these leases from 1 January 2019 and the related amounts on the balance sheet reclassified from property, plant and equipment to right-of-use assets and borrowings to lease liabilities. Leases previously accounted for as operating leases The Group has recognised right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for those leases previously classified as operating leases, except for short-term leases and leases of low-value assets. Lease liabilities were recognised based on the present value of the remaining lease payments, discounted using the incremental borrowing rate at the date of initial application. When calculating the remaining lease payments, termination options and extension options have been considered in determining the lease term where deemed to be reasonably probable. The right-of-use assets are recognised based on the amount equal to the lease liabilities, adjusted for any related prepaid and accrued lease payments previously recognised. The Group also applied the following practical expedients as permitted by IFRS 16: • Use of a single discount rate to a portfolio of leases with reasonably similar characteristics; • Relied on its assessment of whether leases are onerous immediately before the date of initial application; • Applied the short-term leases exemptions to leases with a lease term that ends within 12 months at the date of initial application; • For leases of low value assets, the Group has elected to recognise a lease expense on a straight-line basis; • Excluded the initial direct costs from the measurement of the right-of-use asset at the date of initial application; and • Used hindsight in determining the lease term where the contract contains options to extend or terminate the lease. Based on the above, as at 1 January 2019: • Right-of-use assets of £37.1 million were recognised and presented separately in the balance sheet. This includes the lease assets recognised previously under finance leases of £0.6 million that were reclassified from property, plant and equipment. • Additional lease liabilities of £37.6 million were recognised separately on the balance sheet. This includes £0.5 million previously recognised as finance leases that were reclassified from borrowings. Prepayments of £0.1 million and trade and other payables of £0.7 million related to previous operating leases were derecognised. The effect of adopting IFRS 16 as at 1 January 2019 is as follows: Previously reported Adjusted at 31 December balance sheet 2018 Transition at 1 January £m adjustments 2019 (Note 1) £m £m Assets Right-of-use assets – 37.1 37.1 Property, plant and equipment 2,292.3 (0.6) 2,291.7 Trade and other receivables 468.8 (0.1) 468.7 Liabilities Trade and other payables (938.5) 0.7 (937.8) IFRS 16 lease liabilities – (37.6) (37.6) Borrowings (608.1) 0.5 (607.6) Total adjustment on equity: Retained profits 442.7 – 442.7 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 205 Section 8: Reference information continued 8.3 Adoption of new accounting standards and restatement of previously reported financial statements continued The lease liabilities as at 1 January 2019 can be reconciled to the operating lease commitments as of 31 December 2018 as follows: £m Operating lease commitments as at 31 December 2018 30.8 Less: Effect of discounting (5.6) Commitments relating to short-term and low-value leases (0.8) Add: Additional leases identified 9.7 Effect of rental changes 2.4 Other adjustments 1.1 Lease liabilities as at 1 January 2019 37.6 Key judgements made in response to new reporting requirements Whilst judgements have been made on initial application of IFRS 16, these are not considered significant to the Consolidated Financial Statements Impact of IFRS 16 on comparative information As the Group has made the election to adopt the modified retrospective approach, no comparative information for the 31 December 2018 has been restated for the effects of transition to the new standard. This has led to a lack of comparability in certain areas of the financial statement for the two years. Income statement Under the previous accounting standards, operating leases were expensed to the income statement on a systematic basis over the lease term, in the year ended 31 December 2018, £6.3 million was expensed to operating expenses for the operating lease rentals. Under IFRS 16, operating leases are recognised on the balance sheet as right-of-use assets with a corresponding lease liability. Interest on the lease liability is expensed to the income statement as the discount on the lease liability unwinds. Depreciation on the right-of-use assets is charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease terms. Lease payments are no longer expensed to the income statement but reduce the lease liability. The impact of IFRS 16 on the income statement for the year to 31 December 2019 was as follows: As at 31 December 2019 £m Reduction in operating expense for lease rentals paid 7.4 Depreciation charged on right-of-use assets (6.9) Unwind of discount on lease liability (1.2) Total impact (0.7) Please refer to note 4.1 for the impact of IFRS 16 on the net debt calculation. 206 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 8.3 Adoption of new accounting standards and restatement of previously reported financial statements continued Restatement of previously reported financial statements The impact of IFRS 16 and the correction of the retranslation of US subsidiary fixed assets (see note 3.1 for further details) on the balance sheet for the year ended 31 December 2018 was as follows: Adjustments Previously reported Measurement Retranslations Restated at 31 December period of US subsidiary 31 December 2018 adjustments fixed assets 2018 £m £m £m £m Assets Non-current assets Goodwill 244.7 3.5 – 248.2 Intangibles 228.8 – – 228.8 Property, plant and equipment 2,292.3 (0.2) 55.5 2,347.6 Other fixed asset investments 2.4 – – 2.4 Retirement benefit surplus 22.7 (1.1) – 21.6 Deferred tax assets 31.8 – – 31.8 Derivative financial instruments 295.2 – – 295.2 3,117.9 2.2 55.5 3,175.6 Current assets Inventories 222.5 – – 222.5 ROC and LEC assets 216.7 – – 216.7 Trade and other receivables 468.8 5.4 – 474.2 Derivative financial instruments 215.4 – – 215.4 Cash and cash equivalents 289.0 – – 289.0 1,412.4 5.4 1,417.8 Liabilities Current liabilities Trade and other payables (938.5) (2.1) – (940.6) Amounts payable in respect of acquisitions (686.9) (4.8) – (691.7) Current tax liabilities (7.6) (0.8) – (8.4) Borrowings (0.1) – – (0.1) Derivative financial instruments (89.4) – – (89.4) (1,722.5) (7.7) – (1,730.2) Net current (liabilities) (310.1) (2.3) – (312.4) Non-current liabilities Borrowings (608.0) – – (608.0) Derivative financial instruments (62.0) – – (62.0) Provisions (50.8) – – (50.8) Deferred tax liabilities (316.0) 0.1 – (315.9) (1,036.8) 0.1 – (1,036.7) Net assets/(liabilities) 1,771.0 – 55.5 1,826.5 Shareholders’ equity Issued equity 47.0 – – 47.0 Share premium 424.7 – – 424.7 Treasury shares (47.1) – – (47.1) Hedge reserve 199.9 – – 199.9 Cost of hedging reserve (8.9) – – (8.9) Other reserves 712.7 – 55.5 768.2 Retained profits 442.7 – – 442.7 Total shareholders’ equity 1,771.0 – 55.5 1,826.5 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 207 Section 8: Reference information continued 8.4 Related party transactions A related party is either an individual or entity with control or significant influence over the Group, or a company that is linked to the Group by investment (such as an associated company or joint venture). The Group’s primary related parties are its key management personnel. Remuneration of key management personnel The remuneration of the directors and Executive Committee members, who are considered to be the key management personnel of the Group, is set out below in aggregate for each of the categories specified in IAS 24 Related Party Disclosures. Further information about the remuneration of individual directors, together with the directors’ interests in the share capital of Drax Group plc, is provided in the audited part of the Remuneration Committee report. Years ended 31 December 2019 2018 £000 £000 Salaries and short-term benefits 4,543 4,891 Aggregate amounts receivable under share-based incentive schemes 636 1,004 Company contributions to money purchase pension schemes 43 74 5,222 5,969 Amounts included in the table above reflect the remuneration of the 16 (2018: 15) members of the Board and Executive Committee as described on pages 86 to 114, including those who have resigned during the year. Amounts receivable under incentive schemes represents the expenses arising from share-based payments included in the Consolidated income statement, determined based on the fair value of the related awards at the date of grant (see note 6.2), as adjusted for non-market-related vesting conditions. There were no other transactions with directors for the periods covered by these consolidated financial statements. 208 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Company financial statements Company balance sheet As at 31 December 2019 2018 Notes £000 £000 Fixed assets Investment in subsidiaries 5 719,654 717,044 Current assets Other debtors 18 57 Amounts due from other Group companies 2,842 760 Cash at bank and in hand 130 1,666 2,990 2,483 Current liabilities Amounts due to other Group companies (12,790) (12,481) Other creditors – (134) Net current liabilities (9,800) (10,132) Net assets 709,854 706,912 Capital and reserves Called-up share capital 6 47,417 47,038 Share premium account 429,646 424,742 Treasury shares (50,440) (47,143) Capital redemption reserve 1,502 1,502 Profit and loss account 281,729 280,773 Total equity shareholders’ funds 709,854 706,912 The Company reported a profit for the financial year ended 31 December 2019 of £57.3 million (2018: £99.4 million). These financial statements were approved by the Board of directors on 26 February 2020. Signed on behalf of the Board of directors: Andy Skelton Chief Financial Officer Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 209 Company financial statements continued Company statement of changes in equity Capital Share Share Treasury redemption Profit and capital premium shares reserve loss account Total £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 £000 At 1 January 2018 46,989 424,325 – 1,502 229,764 702,580 Share capital issued (note 6) 49 417 – – – 466 Own shares purchased – – (47,143) – – (47,143) Profit and total comprehensive income for the year – – – – 99,399 99,399 Credited to equity for share-based payments – – – – 4,089 4,089 Equity dividends paid (note 8) – – – – (52,479) (52,479) At 1 January 2019 47,038 424,742 (47,143) 1,502 280,773 706,912 Share capital issued (note 6) 379 4,904 – – – 5,283 Own shares purchased – – (3,297) – – (3,297) Profit and total comprehensive income for the year – – – – 57,332 57,332 Credited to equity for share-based payments – – – – 2,489 2,489 Equity dividends paid (note 8) – – – – (58,865) (58,865) At 31 December 2019 47,417 429,646 (50,440) 1,502 281,729 709,854 In the previous financial year, the Company announced the commencement of a £50 million share buy-back programme. On 21 January 2019, the buy-back programme concluded. In total, the Group repurchased 13.8 million shares for a total consideration of £50.4 million, including transaction costs. These shares are held in a separate Treasury Share reserve awaiting reissue or cancellation and have no voting rights attached to them. 210 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Notes to the Company financial statements 1. Basis of preparation The separate financial statements of the Company are presented as required by the Companies Act 2006. The Company meets the definition of a qualifying entity under Financial Reporting Standard 100 (FRS 100) issued by the Financial Reporting Council (FRC). The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with FRS 101, ‘Reduced Disclosure Framework’ (FRS 101). The Company applied certain new and amended standards for the first time in 2019. The full list of standards adopted is set out in the consolidated financial statements in note 8.2. These updates and amendments have not had a material impact on the financial statements of the Company. As permitted by FRS 101, the Company has taken advantage of the disclosure exemptions available under that standard in relation to presentation of a cash flow statement, financial instruments, share-based payments, capital risk management, standards not yet effective and certain related party transactions. Where required, equivalent disclosures are given in the consolidated financial statements. The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention. The principal accounting policies adopted are summarised below and have been consistently applied to both years presented. 2. Summary of significant accounting policies Fixed asset investments Fixed asset investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost less, where relevant, provision for impairment. Financial instruments Issued equity – Ordinary shares are classified as equity as evidenced by their residual interest in the assets of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds. The share premium account records amounts by which the proceeds from issuing shares exceeds the nominal value of the shares issued unless merger relief criteria within the Companies Act 2006 are met, in which case the difference is recorded in retained earnings. Cash and cash equivalents – Cash and cash equivalents includes cash in hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less, and bank overdrafts. 3. Critical accounting judgements Critical judgements in applying the Company’s accounting policies The critical accounting judgements made in preparation of the Company’s financial statements are set out below: Impairment of fixed asset investments Determining whether the Company’s investments in subsidiaries have been impaired requires estimates of the investments’ values in use. The methodology for calculation of value-in-use is consistent with that of the Group, as detailed in note 2.4 to the consolidated financial statements. 4. Profit and loss account As permitted by Section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has elected not to present its own profit and loss account for the year. The Company’s profit and loss account was approved by the Board on 26 February 2020. The net profit attributable to the Company is £57.3 million. The Company received dividend income from its subsidiary undertakings totalling £60.5 million in 2019 (2018: £102.6 million). The Company has no employees other than the directors, whose remuneration was paid by a subsidiary undertaking and a proportion was recharged to the Company. The auditor’s remuneration for audit services provided to the Company for the year ended 31 December 2019 was £22,050 (2018: £21,000). Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 211 Notes to the Company financial statements continued 5. Fixed asset investments Years ended 31 December 2019 2018 £000 £000 Carrying amount: At 1 January 717,044 712,955 Capital contribution 2,610 4,089 At 31 December 719,654 717,044 Investments in subsidiary undertakings The capital contribution in 2019 and 2018 relates to the share-based payment charge associated with the Savings-Related Share Option Plan and Bonus Matching Plan schemes, which arises because the beneficiaries of the scheme are employed by subsidiary companies. For more information see note 6.2 to the consolidated financial statements. Full list of subsidiary undertakings The table below lists the Company’s direct and indirect subsidiary undertakings as at 31 December 2019: Country of incorporation Group effective Name and nature of business and registration Type of share shareholding Abergelli Power Limited*** Power generation England and Wales Ordinary 100% Abbott Debt Recovery Limited Debt recovery services England and Wales Ordinary 100% Amite BioEnergy LLC* Trading company, fuel supply Delaware, USA Common 100% Baton Rouge transit LLC* Trading company, fuel supply Delaware, USA Common 100% Damhead Creek II Limited (formerly Dormant England and Wales Ordinary 100% Select Energy Limited) DBI O&M Company LLC* Non-trading company Delaware, USA Common 100% Domus Energy Limited Dormant England and Wales Ordinary 100% Donnington Energy Limited Dormant England and Wales Ordinary 100% Drax Biomass Inc.* Wood pellet manufacturing Delaware, USA Common 100% Drax Biomass Holdings Limited Dormant England and Wales Ordinary 100% Drax Biomass Holdings LLC* Dormant Delaware, USA Common 100% Drax Biomass International Holding company Delaware, USA Common 100% Holdings LLC* Drax Biomass Transit LLC* Holding company Delaware, USA Common 100% Drax CCS Limited Dormant England and Wales Ordinary 100% Drax Corporate Limited Group-wide Corporate Services England and Wales Ordinary 100% Drax Corporate Developments Limited Dormant England and Wales Ordinary 100% Drax Finco plc Finance company England and Wales Ordinary 100% Drax Fuel Supply Limited*** Non-trading company England and Wales Ordinary 100% Drax Generation Developments Development company England and Wales Ordinary 100% Limited*** Drax Generation Enterprise Limited** Trading Company, power generation Scotland Ordinary 100% (formerly ScottishPower Generation Limited) Drax Generation (Selby) Limited Dormant England and Wales Ordinary 100% Drax Group Holdings Limited Holding company England and Wales Ordinary 100% Drax Holdings Limited + Holding company Cayman Islands Ordinary 100% Drax Innovation Limited*** Development company England and Wales Ordinary 100% Drax Pension Trustees Limited Dormant England and Wales Ordinary 100% Drax Power Limited Trading company, power generation England and Wales Ordinary 100% Drax Retail Developments Limited Dormant England and Wales Ordinary 100% Drax Research and Innovation Holding company England and Wales Ordinary 100% Holdco Limited*** Drax Smart Generation Holdco Limited Holding company England and Wales Ordinary 100% Drax Smart Sourcing Holdco Limited Holding company England and Wales Ordinary 100% Drax Smart Supply Holdco Limited Holding company England and Wales Ordinary 100% Farmoor Energy Limited*** Trading company, power retail England and Wales Ordinary 100% Haven Heat Limited Dormant England and Wales Ordinary 100% 212 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 5. Fixed asset investments continued Country of incorporation Group effective Name and nature of business and registration Type of share shareholding Haven Power Limited Trading company, power retail England and Wales Ordinary 100% Haven Power Nominees Limited Non-trading company England and Wales Ordinary 100% Hirwaun Power Limited*** Power generation England and Wales Ordinary 100% Jefferson Transit LLC * Dormant Delaware, USA Common 100% LaSalle Bioenergy LLC * Trading company, fuel supply Delaware, USA Common 100% Millbrook Power Limited*** Power generation England and Wales Ordinary 100% Morehouse BioEnergy LLC * Trading company, fuel supply Delaware, USA Common 100% Opus Energy (Corporate) Limited Trading company, power retail England and Wales Ordinary 100% Opus Energy Limited Trading company, power retail England and Wales Ordinary 100% Opus Energy Group Limited Holding company, power retail England and Wales Ordinary 100% Opus Energy Marketing Limited Dormant England and Wales Ordinary 100% Opus Energy Renewables Limited Trading company, power retail England and Wales Ordinary 100% Opus Gas Limited*** Dormant England and Wales Ordinary 100% Opus Gas Supply Limited Trading company, power retail England and Wales Ordinary 100% Opus Water Limited Dormant England and Wales Ordinary 100% Pike BioEnergy LLC* Trading company, fuel supply Delaware, USA Common 100% Pirranello Energy Supply Limited Dormant England and Wales Ordinary 100% Progress Power Limited*** Power generation England and Wales Ordinary 100% SMW Limited** Trading company, fuel supply Scotland Ordinary 100% Sunflower Energy Supply Limited Dormant England and Wales Ordinary 100% Tyler Bioenergy LLC * Dormant Delaware, USA Common 100% Drax Group plc directly holds 100% of the equity of Drax Group Holdings Limited. All other investments are held indirectly. Registered Office Incorporated in the UK The registered office of all the companies incorporated in England and Wales is Drax Power Station, Selby, North Yorkshire, YO8 8PH. * incorporated in the USA Principal business address for all subsidiaries incorporated in the USA is 2571 Tower Drive, Suite 7, Monroe, LA 71201. ** incorporated in Scotland Principal business address for all subsidiaries incorporated in Scotland is 13 Queen’s Road, Aberdeen, Scotland, AB15 4YL. ***Exempt from audit These subsidiaries have taken advantage of the exemption from audit available under section 479A of the Companies Act 2006 for the 2019 statutory accounts. These companies are all incorporated in England and Wales. + registered in Cayman Islands The address of Drax Holdings Limited is c/o Intertrust Corporate Services (Cayman) Limited, 190 Elgin Avenue, George Town, Grand Cayman KY1 9005, Cayman Islands. All subsidiary undertakings have 31 December year ends. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 213 Notes to the Company financial statements continued 6. Called-up share capital As at 31 December 2019 2018 £000 £000 Authorised: 865,238,823 ordinary shares of 11 16 ⁄29 pence each 99,950 99,950 Issued and fully paid: 2019: 410,475,731 ordinary shares of 11 16 ⁄29 pence each 47,417 47,038 The movement in allotted and fully paid share capital of the Company during the year was as follows: Years ended 31 December 2019 2018 (number) (number) At 1 January 407,193,168 407,034,429 Issued under employee share schemes 3,282,563 158,739 At 31 December 410,475,731 407,193,168 The Company has only one class of shares, which are ordinary shares of 11 16⁄29 pence each, carrying no right to fixed income. No shareholders have waived their rights to dividends. Issued under employee share schemes From January to December 2019 a total of 3,282,563 shares (2018: 158,739 shares) were issued in satisfaction of options vesting in accordance with the rules of the Group’s Savings-Related Share Option Plan. The total cash received, split between nominal value and share premium, is shown in the statement of changes in equity on page 210. Full details of share options outstanding are included in note 6.2 to the consolidated financial statements. 7. Distributable reserves The Company considers its distributable reserves to be comprised of the profit and loss account, less credits in respect of share schemes, less treasury shares, with a total value of £188.2 million. Accordingly, the Company considers itself to have sufficient distributable profits from which to pay the current year final dividend of £38.0 million. Based on a total dividend for 2019 of £63.0 million, the Company has sufficient distributable reserves to pay three years of dividend at the current level without generating further distributable profits. In addition to its own reserves, the Company has access to the distributable reserves of its subsidiary undertakings with which future dividend payments can be funded (see note 2.10 to the consolidated financial statements for additional information). The Company is dependent upon its subsidiaries for the provision of cash with which to make dividend payments. The Group has sufficient cash resources with which to meet the proposed dividend (see note 4.2 to the consolidated financial statement for additional information). 214 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 8. Dividends Years ended 31 December 2019 2018 £m £m Amounts recognised as distributions to equity holders in the year (based on the number of shares in issue at the record date): Interim dividend for the year ended 31 December 2019 of 6.4 pence per share paid on 11 October 2019 (2018: 5.5 pence per share paid on 12 October 2018) 25.4 22.4 Final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2018 of 8.2 pence per share paid on 10 May 2019 (2018: 7.4 pence per share paid on 11 May 2018) 33.5 30.1 58.9 52.5 At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting the Board will recommend to shareholders that a resolution is passed to approve payment of a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2019 of 9.5 pence per share (equivalent to approximately £38.0 million) payable on or before 15 May 2020. The final dividend has not been included as a liability as at 31 December 2019. 9. Contingent liabilities The Company has provided unsecured guarantees to third parties in respect of contracts held by a subsidiary company. The guarantees have been issued for nil consideration and the Company has not charged the subsidiary for the guarantees. The Company has provided guarantees over the liabilities of its subsidiaries that have taken the advantage of the audit exemption available in section 479A of the Companies Act 2006. The list of subsidiaries who have taken this exemption can be found in note 5. The Company has granted a charge over the assets of certain subsidiaries, in respect of the Group’s debt (detailed in note 4.3 to the consolidated financial statements), which is guaranteed and secured directly by each of the subsidiary undertakings of the Company that is party to the security arrangement. The Company itself is not a guarantor of the Group’s debt. Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 215 Shareholder information Key dates for 2020 At the date of publication of this document, the following are the proposed key dates in the 2020 financial calendar: Annual General Meeting 22 April Ordinary shares marked ex-dividend 23 April Record date for entitlement to the final dividend 24 April Payment of final dividend 15 May Financial half year end 30 June Announcement of half year results 29 July Financial year end 31 December Other significant dates, or amendments to the proposed dates above, will be posted on the Company’s website as and when they become available. Results announcements Results announcements are issued to the London Stock Exchange and are available on its news service. Shortly afterwards, they are available under “Regulatory news” within the Investor section on the Company’s website. Share price Shareholders can access the current share price of Drax Group plc ordinary shares on our website at www.drax.com. During London Stock Exchange trading hours the price shown on the website is subject to a delay of approximately 15 minutes and outside trading hours it is the last available price. The table below provides an indication of the fluctuations in the Drax Group plc share price during the course of 2019, and the graph provides an indication of the trend of the share price throughout the year. Closing price on Low during the year High during the year Closing price on 31 December 2018 (4 October 2019) (17 January 2019) 31 December 2019 358.8 pence 247.8 pence 415.0 pence 314.0 pence Share price chart Share price (GBX) Trade Volume 450 10m 400 8m 350 6m 300 4m 93% 250 2m 200 0m January February March April May June July August September October November December 2019 2019 2019 2019 2019 2019 2019 2019 2019 2019 2019 2019 Note: The share prices given are the middle market closing prices as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List. Market capitalisation The market capitalisation, based on the number of shares in issue and the closing price at 31 December 2019, was approximately £1,289 million (2018: £1,461 million). Financial reports Copies of all financial reports we publish are available from the date of publication and can be downloaded from our website. Printed copies of reports can be requested by writing to the Company Secretary at the registered office, by clicking on “Contact Us” on our website, or direct by e-mail to Drax.Enq@drax.com. 216 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Drax shareholder queries The Company’s share register is maintained by Equiniti Limited (“Equiniti”), who is primarily responsible for updating the share register and for dividend payments. Shareholders should contact Equiniti directly if they have a query relating to their Drax shareholding, in particular queries regarding: • transfer of shares; • change of name or address; • lost share certificates; • lost or out-of-date dividend cheques; • payment of dividends direct to a bank or building society account; and • death of a registered shareholder. Equiniti can be contacted as follows: • Call Equiniti on 0371 384 2030 from within the UK. Lines are open from 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday, (excluding Bank Holidays) or +44 121 415 7047 from outside the UK. • Write to Equiniti at Equiniti Limited, Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA. When contacting Equiniti by telephone or in writing it is advisable to have your shareholder reference to hand and quote Drax Group plc, as well as the name and address in which the shares are held. Online communications Registering for online communications allows you to have more control over the administration of your shareholding. The registration process is easy via Equiniti’s secure website www.shareview.co.uk. Once registered with Shareview you are able to: • elect how Drax communicates with you; • amend some of your personal details; • amend the way you receive dividends; and • buy or sell shares online. Registering for electronic communications does not mean that you can no longer receive paper copies of documents. We are able to offer a range of services and tailor the communications to meet your needs. A range of frequently asked shareholder questions can also be found on our website at www.drax.com/investors/faq. Tax on dividends The way that dividends are taxed changed in 2017. Below is a brief summary of the guidance provided by HMRC as it relates to the current tax year. If you are in any doubt as to the impact on your personal circumstances, you are recommended to seek your own financial advice from a professional adviser authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. There is a tax-free Dividend Allowance of £2,000 per annum in the 2019-2020 tax year (2018-2019: £2,000) This means that there is no tax to pay on the first £2,000 of dividend income, no matter what non-dividend income a shareholder may have. Dividends paid on shares held within pensions and ISAs are unaffected and remain tax-free. Non-taxpayers and basic rate taxpayers who receive dividend income of more than £2,001 but less than £10,000 are required to notify HMRC that they have this source of income Non-taxpayers and basic rate taxpayers who receive dividend income of more than £10,001 are required to file a self-assessment return with HMRC. The above requirements apply to Share Incentive Plan participants receiving cash dividends on their plan shares. Further information and updates on tax on dividends can be found on the Gov.UK website at www.gov.uk/tax-on-dividends Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 217 Shareholder information continued Beneficial owners and “information rights” If your shares are registered in the name of a third party (i.e. an ISA provider or other nominee company) you may, if you wish, receive information rights under Section 146 of the Companies Act 2006. In order for this to happen, you must contact the third party registered holder, who will then nominate you. All communications by beneficial owners of shares where the shares are held by third party registered holders must be directed to that registered holder and not to Drax or Equiniti. ShareGift ShareGift (registered charity No. 1052686) is an independent charity which provides a free service for shareholders wishing to dispose charitably of small parcels of shares, which would most likely cost more to sell than they are worth. There are no capital gains tax implications (i.e. no gain or loss) on gifts of shares to charity and it is possible to obtain income tax relief. Further information can be obtained directly from the charity at www.sharegift.org. Share frauds (“boiler room scams”) In recent years, many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence offering to purchase their shares at apparently inflated prices. It is often the case that the caller, or message in the correspondence claims that they represent a majority shareholder who is looking to take over the Company. At the time of this report, the Company was not the subject of a take-over attempt, hostile or otherwise, and approaches such as those outlined are usually made by unauthorised companies and individuals. Shareholders should be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a premium or offers of free reports into the Company. Below is the advice from the Financial Conduct Authority (the “FCA”). Beware of share fraud Fraudsters use persuasive and high-pressure tactics to lure investors into scams. They may offer to sell shares that turn out to be worthless or non-existent, or to buy shares at an inflated price in return for upfront payment. While high profits are promised, if you buy or sell shares in this way you will probably lose your money. How to avoid share fraud: • Keep in mind that firms authorised by the FCA are unlikely to contact you out of the blue with an offer to buy or sell shares. • Do not get into a conversation, note the name of the person and firm contacting you and then end the call. • Check the Financial Services Register from www.fca.org.uk to see if the person and firm contacting you is authorised by the FCA. • Beware of fraudsters claiming to be from an authorised firm, copying its website or giving you false contact details. • Use the firm’s contact details listed on the Register if you want to call it back. • Call the FCA on 0800 111 6768 if the firm does not have contact details on the Register or you are told they are out of date. • Search the list of unauthorised firms to avoid at www.fca.org.uk/scams. • Consider that if you buy or sell shares from an unauthorised firm you will not have access to the Financial Ombudsman Service or Financial Services Compensation Scheme. • Think about getting independent financial and professional advice before you hand over any money. Remember, if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is! Report a scam If you are approached by fraudsters please tell the FCA using the share fraud reporting form at www.fca.org.uk/scams, where you can find out more about investment scams. You can also call the FCA Consumer Helpline on 0800 111 6768. If you have already paid money to share fraudsters you should contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040. 218 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Company information Drax Group plc Registered office and trading address Drax Power Station Selby North Yorkshire YO8 8PH Telephone +44 (0)1757 618381 www.drax.com Registration details Registered in England and Wales Company Number: 5562053 Company secretary Brett Gladden Enquiry e-mail address Drax.Enq@drax.com Professional advisers and service providers Auditor Deloitte LLP 2 New Street Square, London EC4A 3BZ Bankers Barclays Bank PLC 1 Churchill Place, Canary Wharf, London E14 5HP Brokers Royal Bank of Canada 2 Swan Lane, London EC4R 3BF Brokers J.P. Morgan Cazenove 25 Bank Street, Canary Wharf, London E14 5JP Financial PR FTI Consulting LLP 200 Aldersgate, Aldersgate Street, London EC1A 4HD Registrars Equiniti Limited Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA Remuneration advisers PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 1 Embankment Place, London WC2N 6RH Solicitors Slaughter and May One Bunhill Row, London EC1Y 8YY Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 219 Glossary Adjusted EBITDA Combined Cycle Gas Turbines (CCGT) Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation, A form of highly efficient energy generation technology that excluding the impact of exceptional items and certain combines a gas-fired turbine with a steam turbine. remeasurements. EU ETS Adjusted Results The EU Emissions Trading System is a mechanism Business performance after adjusting for material, one-off introduced across the EU to reduce emissions of CO2; exceptional items, certain remeasurements, acquisition and the scheme is capable of being extended to cover all restructuring costs, and debt restructuring costs. greenhouse gas emissions. BECCS Forced outage Bioenergy, carbon capture and storage system, with CO2 Any reduction in plant availability, excluding planned outages. resulting from power generation captured and stored. Grid charges Ancillary services Includes transmission network use of system charges (TNUoS), Services provided to national grid used for balancing supply balancing services use of system charges (BSUoS) and and demand or maintaining secure electricity supplies within distribution use of system charges (DUoS). acceptable limits, for example Black Start contracts. They are described in Connection Condition 8 of the Grid Code. Headroom and footroom Positive “reserve” (see opposite) may be termed headroom Availability and negative reserve as footroom. Average percentage of time the units were available for generation. IFRSs International Financial Reporting Standards. BEIS The Government Department for Business, Energy and Inertia The stored energy in the large rotating mass of a generator, Industrial Strategy, bringing together the responsibilities for which assists in maintaining system stability. Wind and solar business, industrial strategy, science, innovation, energy and power sources have no inertia. climate change (formerly DECC). Black start Lost time incident rate (LTIR) The frequency rate is calculated on the following basis: Procedure used to restore power in the event of a total or partial (fatalities and lost time injuries)/hours worked x 100,000. Lost shutdown of the national electricity transmission system. time injuries are defined as occurrences where the injured party Biomass is absent from work for more than 24 hours. Organic material of non-fossil origin, including organic waste, that can be converted into bioenergy through combustion. Net cash/(debt) Comprises cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments Drax uses woody biomass from low grade wood, sawmill less overdrafts and borrowings net of deferred finance costs. residues and forest residues, in the form of compressed wood pellets, to generate electricity at Drax Power. Open Cycle Gas Turbine (OCGT) A free-standing gas turbine, using compressed air, to generate Capacity market electricity Part of the Government’s Electricity Market Reform, the Capacity Market is intended to ensure security of electricity Planned outage supply by providing a payment for reliable sources of capacity. A period during which scheduled maintenance is executed according to the plan set at the outset of the year. Carbon price support A tax upon fossil fuels (including coal) used to generate Reserve electricity. It is charged as a levy on coal delivered to the Generation or demand available to be dispatched by the System power station. Operator to correct a generation/demand imbalance, normally at two or more minutes’ notice. Contracts for difference (CfD) A mechanism to support investment in low-carbon electricity Response generation. The CfD works by stabilising revenues for Automatic change in generator output aimed at maintaining generators at a fixed price level known as the “strike price”. a system frequency of 50Hz. Frequency response is required Generators will receive revenue from selling their electricity into in every second of the day. the market as usual. However, when the market reference price RIDDORS is below the strike price they will also receive a top-up payment Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrences from suppliers for the additional amount. Conversely if the Regulations. reference price is above the strike price, the generator must pay back the difference. 220 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2019 ROCs A Renewable Obligation Certificate (“ROC”) is a certificate issued to an accredited generator for electricity generated from eligible renewable sources. The Renewable Obligation (RO) is currently the main support scheme for renewable electricity projects in the UK. Summer The calendar months April to September. System operator National Grid Electricity Transmission. Responsible for the coordination of electricity flows onto and over the transmission system, balancing generation supply and user demand. Total recordable incident rate (TRIR) The frequency rate is calculated on the following basis: (fatalities, lost time injuries + worse than first aid injuries)/hours worked x 100,000. Value from flexibility A measure of the value from flexible power generation, support services provided to the power network and attractively priced coal fuels. Voltage control/reactive power Maintenance of voltage within specified limits in order to “push” power around the system to maintain safety and stability. Winter The calendar months October to March. This report is printed on UPM Fine SC which is made Cautionary note regarding forward looking statements This annual report does not constitute an invitation to underwrite, subscribe for, or of FSC® certified and other controlled material. otherwise acquire or dispose of shares or other securities in Drax Group plc. This Annual Report contains “forward looking statements” in relation to the future It also has EMAS and the European EcoLabel accredited. financial and operating performance and outlook of Drax Group plc, as well as future events and their potential effects on Drax Group plc. Generally the words “will”, “may”, “should”, “continue”, “believes”, “targets”, “plans”, “expects”, “estimates”, “aims”, “intends”, Printed sustainably in the UK by Pureprint, a Carbon Neutral “anticipates”, or similar expressions or negatives thereof identify forward looking company with FSC® Chain of custody and an ISO 14001-certified statements. Forward looking statements include statements relating to the following: environmental management system recycling over 99% of all expected developments in our businesses, expected revenues, expected margins, expected EBITDA, expected trends, expected growth in our businesses, expected future dry waste. cash generation, expected future tax rates, expected future interest rates, availability of debt, ability to service prevailing debt, expected cost savings, opportunities in our industry, the acquisition of a portfolio of assets from ScottishPower, utilisation of capital, If you have finished with this document and no longer wish the impact of Brexit, the review of the UK Capacity Mechanism, payments under the to retain it, please pass it on to other interested readers or Capacity Market, ability to source fuels (including gas, coal, biomass fuels and others), dispose of it in your recycled waste. Thank you. the impact of government regulation and other expectations and beliefs of management and the Board of Directors. Actual risks and developments could differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward looking statements as a result of numerous Design and production risks and uncertainties. The reader is cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward looking statements which speak only as of the date of this Annual Report. Neither Drax Group plc, nor any other person undertakes any obligation to update or revise publicly any of the forward looking statements set out herein, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except to the extent legally required.  www.drax.com Drax Group plc Drax Power Station, Selby, North Yorkshire YO8 8PH T +44(0)1757 618381
