SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Contents 3. Camfil & Sustainability 19 22 Air Pollution Control Power Systems 30 5. About Camfil How Camfil Air Pollution Control provides How Camfil Power Systems helps 7. The future we want – UN Global Compact and SDGs for a clean production. Our flagship customers reduce their carbon products and case studies footprint. Case studies 11. Sustainability interview with Camfil’s CEO Product Sustainability 25 13. Owner’s Directive – our governance Minimizing energy use for customers, innovation, developing industry 14. Business Areas standards, sustainable cities and 28. Our sustainability targets and KPIs Molecular Contamination Control communities How Camfil’s molecular and contamination solutions contribute to sustainability. 29. Environment Our new products and case studies 38. Labour 44. Human rights 49. Anti-corruption and business ethics 51. Financial (5-year summary) The Camfil Sustainability Report 2019 presents Camfil’s approach to sustainability and our progress on integrating sustainability into the business. Camfil is a leading manufacturer of premium clean air solutions that provide clean air in customer interviews as part of our customer satisfaction surveys in Italy, China, France combination with energy efficiency. From day one of our company’s inception more than and the U.S. The results were clear: Sustainability is becoming increasingly important 50 years ago, we have been passionate about protecting people, processes and the for our customers and is also a part of their own supplier evaluations. When we asked environment from harmful pollutants. what words they would use to describe Camfil, their responses were: “clean air”, “better environment”, “health”, “labour savings”, “energy” and “quality”. We couldn't be more This year marks the 10th anniversary of sustainability reporting for Camfil. At this pleased with these results. point in time, four main pillars of corporate sustainability work – environmental, labour, human rights and anti-corruption – are firmly anchored within the company and inform the Camfil Group’s decisions and actions. Going forward, we will continue to advocate for a vision of clean air as a human right. In 2019, Camfil conducted comprehensive We hope you enjoy reading our report. C S R 2019 / 3 This is Camfil – who we are, what we do, why we care  55+ Years of Clean Air Solutions. Camfil 4800 Employees 8700 Million SEK net sales AB was founded in Trosa, Sweden, 1963 by Gösta Larson HQ 30 Manufacturing sites 6 30 Countries with sales offices Mark Simmons, President and CEO in Stockholm, Sweden R&D centres C S R 2019 / 4 About Camfil HEAD OFFICE P R O D U C T I O N U N I T, I N C L . S A L E S Camfil AB is a Swedish, family-owned SALES OFFICE shareholding company founded in 1963 and Camfil agents/distributors are not included on this map. headquartered in Stockholm, Sweden. To find Camfil agents/distributors, please use the c­ ontact locator at www.camfil.com C S R 2019 / 5 Mission S tatemen t C o re Va l ues Our mission is to protect people, processes and the RELIABILITY environment by defining, developing and delivering We are reliable because we know the market; we are honest and truthful. solutions that combine clean air with energy efficiency Our people, products and processes must always meet, or exceed, agreed results. in a sustainable and profitable way. COMMITMENT We are committed to always striving for the best possible solutions, and we are in the forefront of technological and environmental developments in our fields of expertise. V i sion Statement CUSTOMER SATISFACTION We like to phrase our vision statement as a question We put our customers first. We focus on identifying customer needs to create a debate and raise awareness. Clean Air A and creating long-lasting customer value. Human Right? Do you agree? We do! TEAMWORK Working together makes us stronger and increases employee satisfaction both locally and globally. G rowth and Profitab ility G o als LOCAL PRESENCE Camfil's goal is to achieve organic growth well Local understanding and presence on local markets above market growth with maintained profitability. builds customer relations and satisfaction. C S R 2019 / 6 What we do For more than half a century, Camfil has been helping people breathe cleaner air. As a leading manufacturer of premium clean-air solutions, we provide commercial and industrial systems for air filtration and air pollution control that improve worker and equipment productivity, minimize energy use, and benefit human health and the environment. In summary we offer innovative products and services that yield the best TCO (total cost of ownership) and most sustainable solutions for our customers. The Camfil Group is headquartered in Stockholm, Sweden, and has 30 manufacturing facilities, six R&D centres, local sales offices in 30 countries, and 4 800 employees and growing. We proudly serve and support customers in a wide variety of industries and in communities across the world. We firmly believe that the best solutions for our customers are the best solutions for our planet, too. From design to delivery and across the product life cycle, we consider the impact of what we do on people and on the world around us. Through a fresh approach to problem-solving, innovative design, precise process control and a strong customer focus we aim to conserve more, use less and find better ways – so we can all breathe easier. C S R 2019 / 7 Why we care 1 kg 2 kg MAKING INDOOR AIR SAFER TO BREATHE Many people aren’t aware that the air they breathe indoors can be more polluted than the air outdoors. Camfil advocates educating people about the potential harms of poor indoor air quality. Here are some facts Humans typically eat 1kg of food, drink 2kg of fluids We spend up to 90% of our life indoors This means that The indoor environment can be up to 50 times more about the air we breathe and why it matters. and breathe 15kg of air each day. indoor air quality can substantially influence our health. polluted than outdoor air. WHY PARTICULATE MATTER MATTERS Just like people themselves, particulate matter (“PM”) comes in different shapes and sizes. The smaller the Size ~10μm – Coarse particles Size ~2.5μm – Fine particles Size ~1μm – Inhaleable particles Size ~0.1μm – Ultrafine particles, PM diameter, the greater the risk of PM getting deep that reaches the respiratory that can penetrate the lungs and can enter the blood stream and small enough to pass through into the lungs and bloodstream. Here’s how particles ducts and can cause decreased cause decreased lung function, lead to tumours, cardiovascular the aveoli cell membrane into the and gases penetrate the human body. lung function. skin and eye problems etc. diseases, dementia etc. blood stream. C S R 2019 / 8 • CODE OF BUSINESS ETHICS UN Global Compact The UN Global Compact was established to encourage businesses around the world to embed • SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT responsibility into their activities. Camfil is a member of the Compact and supports its ten principles and four overarching areas – human rights, labour, the environment and anticorruption. In fact, our own defined vision is to help make clean air a human right. • CAMFILCARING CODE We comply with and promote these principles throughout the company, and we report on their progress in this sustainability report. This year, as every year, we updated and submitted a Communication on Progress (COP) to the Compact website as a record of our ongoing • OWNER’S DIRECTIVE commitment. Other examples of this commitment include the following policies and guidelines: • HEALTH AND SAFETY HANDBOOK • IT SECURITY AND DATA PRIVACY POLICIES CSR 2019 / 9 4 GOALS WHERE WE MAKE THE MOST IMPACT CAMFIL SUPPORTS ALL 17 SDGS BUT HAS IDENTIFIED FOUR GOALS WHERE IT CAN MAKE THE MOST IMPACTFUL CONTRIBUTION. WHERE WE CAN REDUCE THE NEGATIVE IMPACT OF OUR OPERATIONS We provide satisfactory working conditions for more than 4,800 employees at 30 manufacturing sites backed by strong human resource management and local employee care and health programs. This global workforce steadily helps us to increase our annual sales and earnings to contribute to economic growth in more than 30 countries. UN Sustainable WHERE WE CAN POSITIVELY IMPACT VALUE CHAINS AND SOCIETY AT LARGE We need to continue this work and also ensure that our partners, For the best indoor air quality to promote good health suppliers and distributors also help contribute to this goal. We do so Development Goals and well-being, Camfil offers high-efficiency air filters to by strengthening the requirements for the companies we work with to remove harmful particles and contaminants in ventilation ensure they also provide decent working conditions. In addition to this, air, as well as air pollution control systems that collect we support their growth by doing more business together to ensure dust, mist and fumes in manufacturing for safer work environments. The UN’s 17 sustainable development goals (SDGs) and related targets aim to fight economic growth. inequality, end extreme poverty and protect the world we live in. To achieve the This is an area where our ambition to always provide better filtration The environmental impact of Camfil’s production plants is SDGs, businesses must make significant efforts. They must adopt a sustainability for both particles and gases can help to give people a better life. being continuously reduced each year through in-house mindset, anchoring sustainability in company strategies, core business activities and Once again, it is an ongoing work where we continue to mix smaller improvement measures and green initiatives to conserve employee behaviours. incremental changes with step changes. energy, water and reduce landfill waste. This work will never be complete, and we will continue to improve our own operations Camfil’s air filters and clean air solutions are the most and, in addition, work on minimizing the environmental impact our energy-efficient on the market and create more sustainable products have during their lifetime. There are also SDGs where Camfil buildings in cities around the world. can contribute positively with our knowledge and expertise. C S R 2019 / 1 0 You took on a new role as president and CEO in 2019. dangerous particles from the air, collect dust and fumes, and prevent molecular contamination in a huge number of industries. And it’s not just The year also marks the 10th anniversary of Camfil’s the people who work in industry who benefit. Camfil’s products help millions sustainability report publication. What is your view of of people every day, adults and children alike, wherever they spend time Camfil’s sustainability efforts? indoors – in schools, museums, shopping centres, gyms, hotels and many more places. – From the day the company was founded, way before the term Mark Simmons, CEO of Camfil, “sustainability” had become such a megatrend, our company was making As a global leader in filtration, our products provide the highest filtration products that help to clean the air people breathe using energy-efficient efficiency in combination with the lowest energy consumption for our solutions. Camfil was, and still is, a family-owned business with a clear customers, a delicate balance that’s not always easy to achieve. Besides explains Camfil’s sustainability vision and moral compass – a place where colleagues have a strong sense of pride and personal accountability in their interactions with customers our product offer, we also run educational campaigns to raise awareness about how indoor air quality affects human health. In fact, the company’s engagement and vision in the and suppliers. This is true on the sustainability front as well. Since the publication of our first sustainability report a decade ago, this report marks stated vision is to help make breathing clean air a human right, which perfectly aligns with the UN’s Sustainable Development Goal 3 on good following interview. true progress in our pursuit of meaningful, measurable impact. I’ve been health and well-being. with Camfil for nearly a decade, too, and in my new role I intend to build On the production side, since we have our own local manufacturing facilities on our fantastic heritage and to set and achieve even more environmental around the world we can reduce transport distances and so lower our targets going forward. total carbon footprint. At the same time, we can better uphold our strict HOW DO YOUR PRODUCTS PROMOTE SUSTAINABILITY? standards of product quality and ethical behaviour throughout the supply – Our entire business revolves around helping customers protect people, chain. The majority of our production facilities are certified to the ISO production processes and the environment. We make products that filter 14000 environmental standard, and the majority are ISO 9000 certified. C SR 2 0 1 9 / 1 1 WHAT WERE CAMFIL’S MAJOR SUSTAINABILITY ACHIEVEMENTS IN WHAT ABOUT ECONOMIC VIABILITY, WHICH WILL SUSTAIN YOUR friendly. Everyone is starting to realize the effects of spending 2019? BUSINESS? roughly 90% of their time indoors and breathing in potentially – We made great progress on all four major areas of the – Camfil had a strong 2019 fiscal year, and we intend to toxic air pollutants, whether caused by humans or Mother UN Global Compact – human rights, labour, anti-corruption continue making responsible investments in R&D, product Nature. Companies that buy from Camfil are realizing the and the environment – which you can read about in detail innovations and, of course, our community outreach initiatives. human as well as the cost benefits of using our products: in this report. One achievement was our launch of Megalam In line with our future growth plans, we expanded a facility in they are able to improve employee health and thus increase EnerGuard, a groundbreaking cleanroom filter for the the U.S. to meet demand in the premium product segment, productivity, protect critical equipment and end products from life science industry that protects the integrity of critical we invested in people, facilities and other assets in two key dust, corrosion and contamination that can cause downtime pharmaceutical products throughout the production process business areas, and we signed an agreement that will allow or permanent failure, meet tougher environmental regulations to make sure they are protected from contamination. It offers us to build a new facility to better serve the Asian market. at their facilities and workplaces, and overall safeguard the close to 0 percent failure rate with a longer service life, On the employee side, we invested in an improved learning health of their companies and their people. I have every energy cost savings, waste reduction and other efficiencies management system that will help us train and retrain our reason to believe that Camfil is well positioned to at a lower cost than other traditional materials. Another was people to meet tomorrow’s trends and challenges. deliver the expertise and solutions needed to our educational initiative around PM1 – the tiniest and most secure the future we all want and I will continue Demand for our solutions remains as strong as ever, and we dangerous particulate matter – called “People Matter 1st”. In support the Global Compact’s principles in the see a huge need for our products and services well into the terms of the social aspect of sustainability, we received the areas of human rights, labour, environment and future. international GEEIS-SDG trophy in recognition of our leadership anti-corruption that I have signed up for. in gender equality and diversity at the workplace. ARE YOU SEEING ANY SUSTAINABILITY TRENDS THAT WILL IMPACT CAMFIL’S BUSINESS? As far as governance goes, we rolled out a strategic three– People have a deeper awareness of health issues than ever year plan and an Owner’s Directive, a declaration by Camfil’s before, both human health and that of the environment. Our owners and embraced by the entire organisation, which firmly customers, too, are demanding better solutions that last places sustainability at the centre of the way we do business. longer and make their own operations more environmentally C S R 2019 / 1 2 Owner’s Directive – our governance Camfil updated its Owner’s Directive during 2019, which was accepted by the board of directors. It contains ten fundamental points that set the intentions for the company in order to align with our values, reinforce our clean air message and strengthen our brand equity. Highlights include “Clean Air – A Human Right?” “Cool Heads, This vision is intimately linked to issues of sustainability Passionate Hearts & Clean Hands” and human rights. Our vision embodies our role as Another important aspect is the way Camfil does champions in the fight against indoor air pollution and “Sustainability” “Innovation Leader” business. We operate to the highest standards and elevates the issue of clean air as a basic human right. have many policies in place governing our behaviour Our core tenet is that sustainability is not something We are not just a manufacturer of clean-air products. It aligns with UN sustainable development goal 3 (Good internally and towards the customer. The products we we do – it should be who we are. We were the first We are an expert in the field of air quality and health and well-being) and goal 13 (Climate action). sell to our customers are the same ones we trust and company in our industry to produce a voluntary continuously innovate to produce air filters that are use ourselves. And we want it to be clear to everyone sustainability report 10 years ago. Today, we continue more efficient and use less energy. Because we in the company that they must step away from a deal if to set new KPIs and goals for environmental, social and manufacture in-house, we can better uphold our strict they feel it might be in conflict with Camfil's values. economic sustainability that will positively impact our quality standards as well as gain the flexibility to adapt workforce, our customers and other stakeholders. to changing market and customer requirements. C S R 2019 / 1 3 Business Areas C S R 2019 / 1 4 Filtration Solutions Camfil’s filter offering constitutes the majority of our business. We offer a huge range of highquality, rigorously tested solutions that clean the indoor air for nearly any filtration or containment need. Whatever the product, the end product is clean air – free of harmful pollutants, dust, dirt, allergens, contaminants, molecular gases and, in some cases, even life-threatening radiation. C SR 2 0 1 9 / 1 5 How Camfil filtration solutions benefit people, processes and the environment Our filters benefit customers and the wider society by In cleanroom processes, our efficient particulate air improving people’s health and performance, protecting (EPA), high-efficiency particulate air (HEPA) and ultra-low critical manufacturing processes, boosting productivity particulate air (ULPA) filters protect sensitive advanced and safeguarding the environment. They are proven manufacturing processes, prevent microbiological to be some of the most energy-efficient air filters on contamination in research labs, and eliminate infectious the market today, so they also help building owners airborne contaminants in the healthcare sector. reduce their energy consumption and carbon footprint. In heavily regulated industries with strict quality And through this, they help to lower the significant requirements, at manufacturing plants that produce operational costs associated with customers’ HVAC pharmaceuticals, semiconductors or food, or for critical systems. laboratory services, our filters protect the people involved in the processes and ensure the integrity of We generally categorize our filtration solutions into what is being produced to reduce both human and three main benefits: comfort, clean process, and financial risks. containment. Our “comfort” air filters are found in heating, ventilation and air-conditioning (HVAC) systems In the healthcare industry, they meet the most in places like offices, schools, commercial buildings, demanding needs and safety standards to contain and government buildings, homes, hospitals and airports. serve as the main barrier against highly hazardous These products deliver clean air that protects people biological agents and microorganisms. Camfil has by improving the indoor air quality (IAQ), protecting provided top-level biosafety laboratories with air filter the HVAC system from contamination, and helping the systems and filter housing to prevent the release and building owners reduce their energy consumption and spread of microorganisms that cause life-threatening carbon footprint. diseases like Coronavirus, Ebola, SARS, polio and more. C S R 2019 / 1 6 New filter products and tools Comfort IAQ tool In the autumn 2019 Camfil launched Megalam® Camfil’s indoor air quality (IAQ) application is a tool EnerGuard™, a breakthrough cleanroom filter used to calculate the air quality within buildings and resulting from years of research and testing. structures with the goal of improving health, the Designed for demanding applications in industries like comfort of building occupants and the environment. life sciences, microelectronics, food and beverage, The factors impacting the indoor particle concentration and healthcare, it protects critical and sensitive include room size, environment, filtration efficiency, products and processes from airborne particulate OTHER FEATURES AND BENEFITS INCLUDE: particle penetration through the building and others. contamination. As there have been no significant The tool also takes into account that part of the exhaust • Media is resistant to damage during changes in the HEPA filter industry since cleanrooms air can be recirculated in the room by being mixed with handling and operation while still were conceived over 50 years ago, Camfil believes outdoor airflow before passing through the supply air providing the efficiencies needed to that EnerGuard will be the first major game-changer in filter. Indoor sources of particles are not included in the maintain ISO cleanroom class levels 50 years. model. • Incorporates the reliable efficiency properties of glass fibre with the physical TOTAL COST OF OWNERSHIP OVER 10 YEARS OF SERVICE robustness of polymeric fibres and a LIFE IN COMPARISON low pressure drop to ensure optimal Based on 100 filter installations performance • Immediately substitutable into existing filter configurations • Certified for life science use, meeting the requirements for safety, traceability and control EnerGuard offers a close to 0% filter failure rate at installation reducing unplanned waste of material • Available in a complete range of and labour, time and money. Additionally, the lower efficiencies to suit all current operations pressure drop and long service life help significantly Megalam EnerGuard was launched in the U.S. reduce a site’s total energy consumption and CO2 and is set to launch in Europe and Asia in Megalam Megalam Traditional ePTFE costs with a lower total cost of ownership (TCO) early 2020. EnerGuard Glass for Life Sciences than all other HEPA filter technologies. C S R 2019 / 1 7 CASE STUDY Air filters help gyms stay fit for their visitors The Urban Apes climbing and bouldering gym in Hamburg, Germany, is a place where children and adults alike can stay fit and have fun. Going to a gym is supposed to keep you healthy – but the air in gyms can be filled with indoor air pollutants and pose a threat to visitors and employees. POTENTIAL HEALTH THREATS IN THE GYM CAMFIL AIR CLEANERS GET A WORKOUT AND DELIVER HIGH PERFORMANCE The more intense the exercising, the more air you need to breathe in. And, as some studies show, the more Camfil filters and air cleaners were brought in to people in the gym area, the more air pollution levels deliver better air filter performance and achieve increase. Sources of this poor indoor air quality can the best possible indoor air quality. The CC 6000 be the occupants, dangerous chemicals from cleaning Air Cleaner, a free-standing unit, was placed in the agents and building materials, the HVAC system, and large gym while the CC 2000 Air Cleaner, a wallinadequate ventilation and air filtration. mounted unit, was placed in a smaller room. In the case of Urban Apes, many of the climbers use THE BENEFITS INCLUDED: magnesium-carbonate chalk to maintain a good grip • Significant improvement in indoor air quality while climbing. During peak periods, the total particle and fewer dust particles in the room air concentration measured in their gym therefore spiked (particle reduction in PM1, PM2.5 and PM10 of to the dust-pollution levels at industrial premises. About 70% and more) half of these particles were the tiny PM1 particles that • Improved comfort levels for the athletes, can get into the lungs and damage health. guests and employees What this meant was high concentrations of fine dust • Less cleaning of premises needed in the air – as well as dry mouth and eye irritation from • Less pressure on their existing ventilation the dry air caused by the properties of the chalk. Urban system and extended filter lifetime Apes wanted to improve the gym’s air and protect the occupants’ health, while keeping energy consumption low. C S R 2019 / 1 8 Air Pollution Control Camfil Air Pollution Control (APC) develops and produces dust, fume and mist collectors for industrial exhaust-air cleaning. These extraction systems are used across a wide range of applications and industries, including metalworking, pharmaceutical, automotive, food and beverage, and mining. Many manufacturing processes create dust, fume or mist that can harm workers’ health and cause machinery to be less productive. C SR 2 0 1 9 / 1 9 How solutions from Camfil Air Pollution Control promote cleaner, Air Pollution Control flagship healthier work environments product We help our customers go green by optimizing indoor Camfil’s Gold Series X-Flo industrial dust collector is air quality, helping them comply with safety and a best-in-class dust collection system that manages environmental regulations, and preventing high levels all kinds of toxic and combustible dusts and fumes, of pollutants from being exhausted to the outdoor including fine, fibrous and heavy dust loads. It environment. Our systems itself are based on the latest processes dust with maximum air flow and dust filter technologies that combine the highest cleaning processing power while delivering energy efficiency efficiencies, long operation and low energy cost. during use. The air that comes out of a Gold Series collector has been tested and proven to exceed the air OTHER SUSTAINABILITY-RELATED BENEFITS INCLUDE: quality required in most hospital rooms. • Helping to prevent health problems caused by dust, fume and mist particles, fire and explosions • Preventing safety risks such as falling and visibility problems caused by so-called nuisance dusts and mist in the workspace • Reducing worker discomfort from allergens found in processes and protecting valuable equipment from contamination • Enabling companies to comply with local The Gold Series uses our patented Gold Cone™ filter and national air-quality requirements both cartridge to deliver clean air and long service life while inside and outside the factory using the smallest floor space of any dust collector currently available. It allows facilities to reduce the number of filters they need to use and replace. The innovative cone shape of the media expands the usable area of the filter, enabling a reduction in the number of filters by at least one-third. C SR 2 0 1 9 / 2 0 CASE STUDY Food ingredients and dust A Canadian-based provider of wholesale French and Asian-style cakes and pastries that ship to restaurants and grocery stores throughout North America turned to Camfil when it needed a dust collector. The requirements for the dust collector included the ability to collect flour, sugar, baking and dry mix dust from ingredients being dropped into mixers, augers and bin dumpers. The airborne dust created during these processes is accomplishments was that “the employees no light, fine and has explosive properties. In addition to longer have to wear dust masks while they work the explosive properties of the dust, other concerns and waste is down substantially as well”. included employee health and safety, product The Gold Series installation took place working cross-contamination, and manufacturing equipment around the existing infrastructure and without problems and failures caused by the airborne dust. interrupting the food production environment The dust collector that was in place was undersized, workflow. The Gold Series Dust collector is operating poorly manufactured, and filter life was very short. efficiently for two work shifts seven days a week. Camfil developed a plan that included Gold Series (with 16 cartridge filters) combined with different source capture equipment including food-grade extraction arms. Modifications were made to the processing equipment and workflow practices were adjusted to help reduce and eliminate major dust. The Gold Series helped create a safe, clean and efficient work environment for the employees. The Gold Series dust collector also helped the company obtain the certifications it needed. According to the owner, one of the biggest C SR 2 0 1 9 / 2 1 Power Systems Camfil Power Systems (PS) provides filtration and acoustical solutions for turbomachinery including gas turbines, generators, industrial air compressors and diesel engines. Turbomachinery technology has evolved tremendously over the past decades. But this progress has also made turbomachinery more susceptible to fine particulates that cause fouling and corrosion, leading to more rapid degradation of performance. At the same time, stricter emission regulations are requiring newer, more efficient technologies on the filtration side that are adapted to changing environmental conditions. Power systems solutions optimise engine performance, extend equipment component life and increase uptime by removing particles that could degrade the turbomachinery due to erosion, fouling and corrosion. They are manufactured to the highest standards and are equipped with proprietary Camfil filters to ensure that customers operate their assets reliably and efficiently. C SR 2 0 1 9 / 2 2 How Camfil Power Systems helps customers reduce their carbon footprint BOOST TO REDUCE – A CO2 REDUCTION AWARENESS CAMPAIGN Camfil is running an educational campaign to encourage In addition to reducing the carbon footprint and customers to cut their total CO2 emissions. Since fouled lowering the impact on climate change, benefits gas turbines become less efficient, they need to burn include increased profitability, reliability, availability more fuel to generate the same power or they need to find and a safer working environment. another way to make up the lost power. As a consequence of burning more fuel, carbon emissions also increase per megawatt hour produced. A simple way for these customers to get cleaner-running engines with less fouling, corrosion and air resistance consists of simply upgrading the filter solution with Camfil’s hydrophobic, high efficiency EPA filter solution. THE CAMPAIGN PRESENTED A CASE WHERE AN UPGRADE FROM A STANDARD M6 FILTER COULD SLASH TOTAL CO 2 EMISSIONS BY 5%. TEST & LEARN EVENTS HANDS-ON TRAINING the customer’s gas turbines; and understanding how IN THIS CASE 35 000 Camfil regularly welcomes customers to its gas-turbine to design an inlet system according to specific site filtration labs at its Test & Learn centres in North conditions. America, Europe and Asia. There, we train customers TONNES WHICH IS EQUIVALENT TO The training sessions attracted over 200 participants in REMOVING 18.000 CARS FROM THE ROAD. and help them improve their knowledge of air filtration 2019. and gas turbines through intensive courses that involve both theory and practice. WATCH & LEARN – A NEW VIDEO LEARNING SERIES In 2019, Camfil expanded its Test & Learn programme Objectives of the training include: gaining an with an entertaining and educational video series. Watch understanding of basic air-intake filters and gas turbine & Learn teaches customers about the impact of air theory; understanding engine degradation caused by filtration on their gas turbines and other turbomachinery erosion, fouling and corrosion and how to mitigate in industries like power generation, oil and gas, and its risks; identifying environmental/site conditions to process industries. determine the type of contaminants that are affecting C SR 2 0 1 9 / 2 3 CASE STUDY Gas turbines breathe new life Camfil helps customer increase power output scheduled maintenance was a fundamental prerequisite. with a lower carbon intensity Based on environmental and operational conditions, the OEM and customer decided to upgrade the existing system Several paper companies manage cogeneration factories to a 2-stage static filter solution. where they operate 44MW gas turbines with high availability THIS SYSTEM HAS THE FOLLOWING ADVANTAGES: requirements (8500 hours/year). • Low and stable dP, even under wet and humid conditions: In an effort to increase the performance of the gas turbines, ·· prefilter life time expectation > 1 year Camfil Power Systems was asked to optimize the existing ·· final filter EPA Class life time expectation > 3 years filtration system for three paper factories. The aim of the • Greater engine protection due to EPA efficiency and INCREASE FILTER LIFETIME collaboration was to decrease the total filtration system efficient water drainage • Prefilter lifetime expectation > 1 year dP (pressure drop) to achieve the following: • Flexible design • Final filter class lifetime expectation > 3 years • More power output for the same fuel consumption This solution has produced additional savings for the end • Extended filter lifetime INCREASE POWER OUTPUT user in terms of maintenance and operating costs, as well • Less time and effort required for filter replacement • Reduce pressure drop by 48% as superior engine protection and air cleanliness. • Higher engine protection and availability • Increase power output by 1300 MWh / Yr THE SITE Additionally, since pressure drop and The sites are located in coastal to land-based conditions, efficiency class has improved, fuel INCREASE AIR INLET QUALITY where air quality can be challenging. Relative humidity consumption has also decreased per • EPA efficiency decreases engine degradation is moderate to high with an average of 73%, and megawatt hour produced. This means Camfil‘s Air Analysis team estimated 45μg/m3 PM10 dust concentrations. This is 77% higher than the that the carbon intensity is impacted recommended annual WHO standard. positively by approximately 2% as a result RESULTS: CAMFIL SOLUTION of filtration. • From 3 to 1 prefilter changes per year Camfil conducted several site surveys to recommend the • Final filter life expectation from 1 to 3 years optimal air filter solution to enhance the performance of • Gain of 1300 MWh per year with a lower carbon intensity the engines. The shortest possible installation time during C S R 2019 / 2 4 Molecular Molecular Contamination Control (MCC) products remove molecules, gases and Contamination Control vapours from the air that cannot be captured using ordinary particle filters. Molecules are typically 1,000 to 10,000 times smaller than the most penetrating particles that pass through HEPA and ULPA filters. Chemicals present in gas form in the atmosphere either outdoor or inside buildings include polyaromatic hydrocarbons, volatile organic compounds (VOC), benzene, isocyanates and siloxanes, to name just a few. They all require molecular filtration to protect people, processes or machinery, or simply to remove odours. Many of these chemicals are airborne and can mix to form a dangerous cocktail with unknown health impacts. C SR 2 0 1 9 / 2 5 New products CAMCARB VG INDOOR AIR QUALITY: In 2019, Camfil launched a new longer service intervals and a reduced Protect people staying inside buildings like version of CamCarb VG 440, a environmental footprint. airports, offices, hospitals or laboratories. molecular filter used for corrosion Additionally, the Camfil CamCarb molecular control in heavy process industries How Camfil’s molecular filter range was greatly enhanced by and in general ventilation systems contamination solutions in places like airports, museums and implementing a new product labelling system that contribute to sustainability EXHAUST: offices. focuses on target gas rather than media types. Protect people and the environment from The clarity in product descriptions ensures that our odours and toxins emitted in exhaust air A revolutionary product design allows the use of customers select the products best adapted to their streams from industrial or power generation smaller adsorbents in order to more than double the gaseous contamination concerns, with maximized facilities. product lifetime compared with existing competing product life and removal efficiency and therefore lowest solutions. This is in turn results in less waste, waste generation. CORROSION CONTROL: Protect sensitive electrical process control systems from acidic gases in petrochemical, MICROELECTRONICS: TREATING ORGANIC WASTE AT BIOGAS PLANTS pulp and paper, metal refining, printed Enhance yield in semiconductor wafer When biodegradable organic waste is collected or segregated from a mixed circuit board manufacturing, data centres manufacturing, flat panel displays, hard disk waste stream, it provides value as a fuel for energy production or as raw and wastewater treatment facilities. drives and equipment. Protect from outdoor material for compost or fertilizer. Any biodegradation process produces a Corrosion control is also important for and process chemicals present at trace levels complex mixture of gases which can create an odour nuisance or, in the protecting artefacts in museums and in the air. case of biogas, a corrosion hazard for combustion engines. Camfil’s robust storage facilities. molecular filters help to eliminate these problems and remove the heavily contaminated gases from this highly valuable resource for renewable energy, compost and soil enhancers. C SR 2 0 1 9 / 2 6 CASE STUDY How Camfil is preventing street level pollution by removing nitrogen dioxide in Hong Kong tunnel WORLD’S LARGEST AIR PURIFICATION SYSTEM WHAT ROLE CAMFIL PLAYED IN THE PROJECT? standard test method described in ISO10121. To support tests at a range of According to the United Nations Environment The tunnel can handle 5,4 million cubic metres of our global activities, Camfil operate a second ISO10121 temperature and Programme, 92 percent of people in the Asia-Pacific vehicle exhaust per hour and large tunnel exhaust test laboratory in Malaysia. humidity conditions, to region are exposed to high level of air pollution that passes air to 3 ventilation buildings along the tunnel ensure filter efficiency Activated carbon is a powerful and extremely resourceful pose significant risk to health. section of the project. First step to air purification is under all seasonal adsorbent and is used in many molecular air purification separating respirable suspended particulates through conditions experienced solutions. A specific activated carbon can be selected to Electrostatic Precipitators. Next, the air passes through in Hong Kong. The target odours, irritants and toxic gases, such as volatile the denitrification filter which is using activated carbon tests were conducted organic compounds (VOC), nitrogen dioxide and ozone. to remove nitrogen dioxide. Lastly, purified air is in accordance with discharged into the adjacent atmosphere to prevent the global test EFFECTIVE RESULTS FOR HONG KONG’S HIGHWAY DEPARTMENT street level pollution. standard ISO10121. As per Kevin Lo, Highways Department Hong Kong, “The Our contribution to Camfil provided 860 tonnes of activated carbon for the Central Wan Chai the denitrification filter. The carbon was tested in our Central-Wan Chai Bypass tunnel can reduce Bypass tunnel is protecting the health of local residents innovative advanced research lab in The Tech Centre carbon dioxide emission up to 11,000 at street level and in high-rise buildings near the tunnel located in Trosa, Sweden. Camfil is adept in testing tonnes annually as it cuts the journey time exhaust points.” – Dr. Chris Ecob, Global Applications the performance of molecular air cleaning media and to 5 minutes which was previously reported and Solutions Director, Molecular Contamination Control devices for ventilation applications and uses the global Division at Camfil Highways Department in Hong Kong came up with an as 30 minutes. It will take 480,000 trees incredible solution to alleviate the traffic congestion and to absorb this level of carbon dioxide ROAD AHEAD tackle the serious problem of air pollution. The CentralWan Chai Bypass is a 4.5km link road, comprising of a emission from the environment. “ Camfil’s molecular air filters hold a great potential as flyover and 3.7km tunnel section that has air purification “Camfil is proud to have been involved in this landmark apart from purifying the air from hazardous gases and systems capable of removing at least 80 percent infrastructure project. The tunnel is easing congestion, odours, molecular filters can be made from different of key pollutants from roadside emissions. In Hong making travel more efficient for thousands of motorists sustainable raw materials, in different qualities, shapes Kong, it is the first air purification system in a tunnel every day and reducing carbon footprint. Camfil, in and sizes. Our innovative design and strong research and and the largest in the world in terms of air volume their state-of-the-art molecular filtration laboratory development allows us to conserve more, use less and handled that removes harmful particulates, nitrogen evaluated and proved the ability of a filtration media to find better ways so that purifying air becomes easier and dioxide and other key roadside pollutants. remove nitrogen dioxide. This thorough study included better. C S R 2019 / 2 7 Our sustainability targets and KPIs KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATOR (KPI) RISK GOVERNANCE 2020 TARGET RESULTS/OUTCOME WHERE THE IMPACT OCCURS PAGE MINIMIZED ENERGY USE FOR OUR Increased energy consumption for end 5 A+/A Products are certified by Eurovent. Train and inform % increase of Eurovent energy classification New classifications introduced in 30 CUSTOMERS user, which leads to increased CO2 At the end user sales force and customers in Life Cycle Cost tool. sales of A and A+ filters per year. 2019. (PRODUCT SUSTAINABILITY) emissions. PAGE 2 NO REDUCED ENERGY CONSUMPTION Increased cost for the company and Camfil’s global operational scorecard measures energy % reduced energy consumption annually in change in energy consumption in relation Both internally 34 (PRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY) increased CO2 emissions for the world. consumption as related to total production. relation to production volume. to production volume during 2019. and externally PAGE ONE FIVE new factory per year implemented with production units are implemented with 34 INCREASED MATERIAL Waste is measured both in relation to total consumption yield system. yield system today. UTILISATION AND REDUCED WASTE Increased cost for the company and and destination (recycling, landfill, incineration) in the Both internally (PRODUCTION SUSTAINABILITY unnecessary use of natural resources. global operational scorecard. and externally 1 11 ENVIRONMENT) Material utilisation is measured continuously in yield. % reduced waste annually in relation to % increase of waste in relation production volume. to production volume PAGE BE AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY Owner’s Directive and Global Diversity and Equal All major Camfil production companies should be Internally at 44 More difficult to attract and retain Opportunities policy (DEOP) EMPLOYER GEEIS certified (level 1) by the end of 2022 to build a Today: 9 COMPANIES CERTIFIED. Camfil and employees. (HUMAN RIGHTS) Implemented locally and available in 12 languages. stronger brand as an attractive employer. our employees PAGE 2.5 2.5 3.0 3.3 Global Health & Safety Handbook is implemented % Sick leave OSHA rate % Sick leave OSHA rate 39 locally and available in many languages. Camfil’s Internally at SAFE AND HEALTHY WORKPLACES Increased risk for occupational safety global operational scorecard measures the number Camfil and (LABOUR) and health incidents or injuries. of recordable Occupational Safety and Health (OSHA) our employees injuries monthly. Sick leave per 100 workdays is NUMBER OF NUMBER OF measured annually. INCIDENTS: 50 INCIDENTS: 70 PAGE 100 88 Corruption and bribery. Loss of Owner’s Directive and Trade compliance policy and % of senior management and sales % have completed trade compliance Both internally 48 reputation and heavy economic Code of Conduct in our CamfilCairing code. managers working with listed countries webinars and have received training and externally ANTI-CORRUPTION impact. should have participated in trade compliance material. Whistleblowing process with 3rd party partner to ensure training. anonymity. Implemented and available in 13 languages. C S R 2019 / 2 8 Environment Product sustainability MINIMIZING ENERGY USE FOR OUR CUSTOMERS As demands to reduce CO2 emissions get tougher, Today, all ePM1, ePM2,5 and ePM10 air filters in full size Eurovent’s updated system helps consumers find the energy prices increase, and people are more aware and family sizes can be graded from A+ to E. Grade right air filter with the lowest energy usage combined of the effects of bad air on their health, the energy A+ indicates the lowest energy consumption and E the with the highest indoor air quality. Using the right air consumption of air filters in ventilation systems has highest. The classification, based on EN ISO 16890, filter not only helps our customers maintain healthy drawn much attention. 2019 marked a new class of gives people a better understanding of a filter’s annual indoor air quality, but also helps to save energy and air filter energy efficiency. On 1 January, an updated energy consumption, initial efficiency and minimum money. Camfil clearly displays the Eurovent ratings on energy classification system by certification body efficiency. Eurovent’s new classification method is more its product packages. In the U.S., Camfil’s premium filters Eurovent became effective. Camfil collaborated with objective and stringent than before, something which carry a 5-star rating. Eurovent on this new classification. Camfil welcomes. SALES PER EUROVENT ENERGY CLASSIFICATION EUR Sales per Eurovent energy classification EUR 45 000 000 40 000 000 35 000 000 30 000 000 25 000 000 20 000 000 15 000 000 10 000 000 5 000 000 0 A+ & A B C D E 2017 2018 2019 These numbers relates to the countries that are included in Eurovent only. Not all countries were Camfil has business. New Eurovent regulations have changed the classification criteria for all energy rated filters. Therefore the numbers are not 100% comparable from 2018 to 2019. C S R 2019 / 3 0 CASE STUDY Camfil provides high-efficiency air filtration solution for new nuclear power station in the UK with an aim to reduce carbon emissions Under construction in Somerset, United Kingdom, “Camfil's expertise and skills are a force for the Hinkley Point C will be amongst the safest and most successful execution of the Hinkley point C project” – efficient new nuclear power stations of its type. The Mathieu Herlemont, HVAC third generation EPR (European Pressurized Water Package Lead Manager, Reactor) has an operational lifetime of 60 years and is Engie Solutions. designed to use less uranium and produce less waste. Michel Moulin, Managing Coming online in 2025, Hinkley Point C will provide the Director from Camfil France UK with enough low-carbon electricity to power some 6 said: “Camfil has worked million homes. with more than 90 power plants around the world Camfil’s efforts and uniquely designed technology to since the 1960s. Today, furnish nuclear-grade equipment and air filters for the we are the global leader in world’s biggest power producers with over 50 years nuclear particulate and gasof experience, makes Camfil the best choice for air phase filtration and Hinkley filtration solution at Hinkley Point C. Point C is an important Camfil is committed to deliver air filtration solution in 3 part of the power network phases which will comprise of and we are delighted to be • Nuclear platform housings to supply clean air through part of this project. Our contract covers all aspects the air intake systems and to handle air flow up to of design, development, manufacturing, testing and 100,000 cubic metres per hour supply in accordance with the challenging technical and performance requirements of the customer.” • 100 Nuclear Tight lock casing accommodating more than 400 high performance HEPA filters to exhaust Air cleaning and quality control along with containment “CAMFIL'S EXPERTISE AND SKILLS ARE A FORCE clean air through the air outtake systems systems are most vital in minimising public exposure to FOR THE SUCCESSFUL EXECUTION OF THE radioactive material and protecting public safety inside HINKLEY POINT C PROJECT” • 30 gas-phase adsorption systems handling air flows and outside the nuclear power station. Camfil offers – Mathieu Herlemont, HVAC Package Lead up to 40,000 cubic metres per hour high quality solutions for best-in-class energy and power Manager, Engie Solutions system facilities that are designed and developed by world-class professionals in the industry. C S R 2019 / 3 1 Product innovation for sustainability Innovation and a strong R&D focus are cornerstones for We always approach each new product or enhancement from two perspectives: the customer perspective and product life cycle perspective. successful manufacturing companies, and Camfil is no The lifecycle perspective is especially helpful when trying to identify the exception. The awareness of our environmental footprint potential to reduce the product’s environmental footprint. Early in the remains a key focus in all product development and development phase of the product’s life, we typically evaluate the choice innovation activities. of raw materials, means of manufacturing these materials, and effects of transportation and logistics. In the manufacturing phase, we also evaluate our internal processes in terms of energy use, complimentary raw materials, From a customer perspective, the two primary value-adds resulting from ergonomics and work environment, internal waste treatment and recycling. sustainable product development are (1) lowest total cost of ownership Further along in the chain we look at transport distances, optimal location (TCO) and (2) the reliable delivery of clean air. Over the lifetime of owning for production, volume and weight efficiencies in packaging, and mode of an air filter, the cost is typically divided as follows: 70% is related to energy transport to customers and local warehouses. In the use phase, most effort consumption, 15% to the purchase cost and 15% to other factors, including goes into minimizing the overall energy consumption and ensuring health and a fairly significant portion for waste treatment and recycling. It is therefore safety for the maintenance staff who often handles the used contaminated a natural part of our job to focus much of our development efforts on air filters. Finally, in the end of life we place efforts on minimizing general minimizing energy consumption as well as simplifying the effort to recycle or Camfil’s use of modern LCA modelling software now enables a more rapid, waste, whenever possible ensuring that the waste can be easily separated into reuse our products. accurate and complete modelling of the environmental impact of our recyclable or reusable fractions. development choices. WHAT IS TOTAL COST OF OWNERSHIP IN NUMBERS? To ensure that we optimize our environmental choices and maintain a holistic HELPING TO DEVELOP INDUSTRY STANDARDS view of sustainability on during product development, we use state-of-the-art life cycle analysis (LCA) simulation tools. These tools enable us to model the Camfil actively participates on standards committees to ensure that a good entire product life cycle from cradle to grave, including all life cycle phases and balance is achieved between filtration efficiency and energy efficiency in components of the product. The modelling tools translate the environmental general ventilation systems. Industry standards and governmental regulations impact of our choices into a common unit, CO2 equivalents. This is highly preserve this balance and help drive the development of innovative solutions that simultaneously increase both these elements in order to safeguard 70% 15% 13% 2% effective in judging what the impact of, for example, a certain choice of new people’s health and conserve energy. ENERGY FILTER COST REPLACEMENT LABOUR & DISPOSAL filter media on the overall environmental footprint of the product. FILTER COST C S R 2019 / 3 2 SDG 11 aims to reduce the adverse environmental impact of cities by 2030, including by paying special attention to air quality. According to the World Health Organization, more than 90% of the world’s population live in places exceeding WHO air quality guidelines. Camfil’s air filters and clean air solutions are some of the most energy-efficient on the market, and help purify the indoor air and create more sustainable buildings around the world where people live, study and work. Also related to this SDG, Camfil engages employees in local sustainability and corporate social responsibility actions through a programme called CamfilCairing. This global, group-wide programme demonstrates how Camfil cares about the air we breathe and wider environmental issues. It integrates sustainability initiatives and good corporate citizenship into our business strategy. As part of the programme, each year Camfil companies host a Cairing Week during which we place a special focus on community outreach events and internal improvement measures related to our business of promoting health and well-being through clean air. From beach clean-ups to resource efficiency programs to raising health awareness, our people engage, educate and inspire. C S R 2019 / 3 3 Production Sustainability REDUCING ENERGY CONSUMPTION INCREASING MATERIAL UTILISATION AND REDUCING WASTE We want to implement yield systems in our major HERE ARE SOME WAYS WE INCREASE MATERIAL UTILISATION: Waste and energy reduction measures are a key aspect Waste reduction at the company is a key aspect of production units so that we can capture measurement • By having well-functioning production equipment. This of Camfil’s strategic three-year plan. We continuously Camfil’s strategic three-year plan. data that will allow us to identify and analyse where in enables us to control the media in a way that reduces track our energy consumption, and in 2019 we set the process the filter media scrap arises. We use our the need to cut off too much media material during The process starts already when Camfil is buying a new target for achieving an annual 2% reduction production yield system to plan and minimise set-up production and can thus reduce rolling widths and the filter media from our suppliers. Producing filter in energy consumed. Because Camfil is growing, we times that can lead to filter media scrap. Measurements use of natural resources. media that is not used in the finished filter products decided to list comparisons of our production cost (cost allow us to sharpen our focus so that we can make amounts to the unnecessary use of natural resources, • By splicing the media more effectively and fewer of goods sold). This of course depends on raw material improvements. energy, and transports. Reducing waste from this times during set-up. prices and product mix, but for Camfil as a group, we process is therefore crucial. We began to measure Part of the increase in waste index is related to improved believe it gives a good enough indication of our work in • Through better production planning. material utilisation in Sweden several years ago and in reporting routine and recent acquisitions. Camfil’s routines this area. conjunction with this we developed a production yield for waste handling and reporting in these acquisitions is • By having a stable process, which enables us to system. being implemented continuously and we believe this negative achieve a more stable quality. trend will flatten out in the coming years for this reason. • By continuously training and educating our staff. Each production unit that has implemented a yield system has set its own targets, using measurements it has taken, to increase its material utilisation. By 2022 we aim to reduce our scrap rate by 1% annually and have implemented a production yield system in one new factory each year. C S R 2019 / 3 4 Chemicals To prevent damage to people and the environment, we must comply with applicable laws and regulations regarding chemicals and hazardous substances. To this end, we always conduct risk assessments to ensure that we use the right protective equipment and that we have instructions in place describing how to work safely. We also need to understand how to handle potentially hazardous waste properly and, of course, ensure that we end up with as little hazardous waste as possible. Our plant in Malaysia started a project in 2018 to reduce the number of chemicals in 16 the production. The systematic work has, after one year, resulted in a reduction in the number % CHEMICAL REDUCTION of chemicals with more than 16%. In conjunction with this work, new routines for control and procurement have been developed and implemented and training for relevant personnel has been executed. Our facility in Trosa, Sweden, installed a chemical management system in 2018 to establish good 5 % CHEMICAL REDUCTION governance and follow-up routines for the chemicals used in our business. Over the course of one year we succeeded in reducing the number of chemicals by 5 percent, and 6 chemicals were 6 CHEMICALS REPLACED replaced by alternatives that are better for humans as well as the environment. Our efforts to reduce chemicals that bear the hazard symbol continue at our factories around the world. C S R 2019 / 3 5 ISO certifications The purpose of obtaining ISO certification is to ensure continual improvement of processes and procedures so that we can provide better products and services and, as a result, have more satisfied stakeholders. The ISO standards guide us in these efforts and underpin our success. Today’s ISO standards differ from what they were only a few years ago. They now enable certification to multiple standards. We can use simple language, images, illustrations and videos instead of a stockpile of written documents. Camfil’s intranet is part of our management system, where we share local and global manuals, training material and other key documents. Certification is fundamental for us – it serves an aid to monitor and evaluate the business, competitors and trends. We are making progress on reducing risks and ensuring compliance with laws, regulations and other requirements. This means that we can keep our own house in order as we perform our daily tasks. The current standards also provide scope for developing one’s corporate culture and values, something that represents one of Camfil’s major strengths. We are proud to state that most of our production units are ISO-certified. A new achievement for 2019, our R&D Tech Centre in Trosa, Sweden, was awarded ISO 9001 certification. This represents a huge step towards our goal of receiving ISO 17025 certification in 2020. C S R 2019 / 3 6 SDG 12 calls for actions to improve resource efficiency, reduce waste and mainstream sustainability practices. One of its sub-targets is to ensure that people everywhere have the relevant information and awareness for sustainable development and lifestyles. As with most manufacturing companies, Camfil’s own operations generate emissions that have negative impacts in relation to SDG 12. Camfil is committed to reducing such impacts. Each year, we have been improving on production and consumption impacts through our management systems, sustainability targets, green initiatives and Best Available Technologies. We educate consumers about energy efficiency and provide information by clearly displaying Eurovent's energy efficiency label on the product packaging of our comfort filters. We also offer filter schools, testing labs and learning experiences at various Camfil academies and universities worldwide to raise awareness of air quality issues. C S R 2019 / 3 7 Labour C S R 2019 / 3 8 Maintaining safe and healthy work places At Camfil, we believe that employee well-being, health and safety are an essential OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH  Goal: 2,5 OSHA Rate part of being a sustainable employer. This is why Camfil uses a global operational OUR KEY POLICIES THAT ADDRESS 100 Number of OSHA recordable injuries OSHA Incident Rate 12,0 PEOPLE AND SAFETY MANAGEMENT scorecard to measure the number of recordable occupational safety and health AT CAMFIL INCLUDE: 90 10,0 80 (OSHA) injuries. This is one of the company’s key performance indicators and is • Global Health & Safety Handbook, 70 8,0 implemented locally and available defined as an injury that usually requires professional medical attention. It is 60 in several different languages 50 6,0 measured monthly, while lost workdays are measured annually. 40 • Code of Conduct 4,0 Most of the increase in lost workdays for 2018 was related to two acquisitions that year of companies that 30 20 had significantly higher numbers. During 2019, we therefore implemented Camfil’s routines for health and 2,0 10 safety in these acquisitions. In France, our subsidiary Chimbault succeeded in reducing the number of lost 0 0,0 days caused by work injury from 316 days in 2018 to only 15 days in 2019. They first analysed the cause 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 of the accidents and then implemented an action-plan to prevent them from happening again. Each month, the Quality Director comes to the factory to follow up on safety and security with the local management team and the local Quality Manager. NUMBER OF SICK LEAVE DAYS LOST WORK DAYS DUE TO OCCUPATIONAL INJURIES PER 100 WORK Number DAYS of Sick leave days per 100 workdays  Goal: 2.5% PER 100 WORK DAYS  Goal: 0.07% Work lost days due to work related injury per 100 workdays EXAMPLES OF ACTIONS: 6,00% 0,25% • Improved the storage areas in the workshops. 5,00% 0,20% • Installed signs to warn of dangerous areas. 4,00% • Enforced the use of individual protective equipment. 0,15% 3,00% • Introduced displays that monitor quality and accident indicators in the workshops. 0,10% 2,00% 0,05% 1,00% 0,00% 0,00% 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 C S R 2019 / 3 9 CASE STUDY Servifiltro – a Spanish success story from Guadalajara Since the Camfil Group acquired Servifiltro, a comfort filtration company FACILITY IMPROVEMENTS INCLUDED: • Designated fire-safety areas (production, warehouse, based in Cabanillas del Campo in Guadalajara, Spain, the company etc.) according to local regulations has seen many improvements related to both the workforce and the • New fire-detection system workplace. Camfil’s substantial financial investments have improved labour • Upgraded all lights to low-energy LED lighting, conditions, production space, safety and quality standards, and employee drastically reducing electricity consumption engagement. • New office space, cantina, employee areas • A new, more ergonomic production floor built IMPROVEMENTS IN WORK ENVIRONMENT QUALITY INCLUDED: • Additional 750 square metres available for production • New equipment and material flow design, providing additional space for operators • Improved compensation schemes for the workforce • Move from a strict organisational hierarchy to a more process-oriented hierarchy • Section leaders nominated, clear functions and responsibilities defined, and agreed and salary improvement according to new responsibilities • Quality improvement plan to bring Servifiltro up to Camfil’s quality standards C SR 2 0 1 9 / 4 0 CASE STUDY Crystal Lake, USA – facility expansion and renovation wins community award In 2018, Camfil USA began a much-anticipated journey of expansion and renovation of its facility in Crystal Lake, Illinois. The 50,000-square-foot (SF) expansion aimed to add six new product lines and create more jobs in the local community. Manufacturing kicked off in May 2019, and equipment efforts, the facility received the 2019 continues to be added. Camfil increased its Crystal McHenry County Business Champion Lake staff by 22 full-time employees, and that figure is award in its division. This award expected to reach roughly 150 within a 5-year period. recognizes businesses that have made a positive impact on the local The facility also completed a total renovation of the county’s economy and are exceptional current 110,000 SF facility. This renovation consisted primary sector employers. of a new roof over the 10,000 SF office space, plus new flooring, paint, doors and security system. The remaining 100,000 SF area, consisting of production and a warehouse, was also renovated. The facility has seen a much better awareness of safety issues. It experienced one minor incident in 2019 in the midst of the extensive expansion and renovation. All in all, employee morale is high at the facility. The facility had a ground-breaking ceremony and plant tour for customers to spread the news. In recognition of Camfil’s C S R 2019 / 4 1 CamfilCairing How we communicate about sustainability internally CamfilCairing is the framework and name of our internal programme We started the year 2020 with a bike convoy as part of building up the team spirits among our operation team (Production, Maintenance, QA and Logistics) and at the same time that integrates sustainability and corporate citizenship in every promoting Camfil as part of sustainability efforts. The team cleaned up the beach together aspect of our business strategy. Organized and managed at Group and had a great team spirit on making the effort fruitful. Safety of the team members is the level, the CamfilCairing Code gives each local company freedom to biggest priority and the team leaders (Zainal MWS and Makhyuddin Hepa) have done a great implement policies and recommendations according to the economic, job on ensuring the safety of the members. Bravo guys. environmental and social contexts of their local operations. During one week each year, we celebrate and put a special focus on our sustainability efforts. This week is called CamfilCairing week. The week is very much appreciated by our employees all around the world and the key to success is the network of committed employees who engage in activities such as blood drives, charities and health initiatives. We also encourage everybody to share their stories in the CamfilCairing group on Camfil’s intranet. C S R 2019 / 4 2 SDG 3 calls for actions to address determinants of health such as air pollution. Camfil’s products and entire line of business revolve around helping our customers ensure healthy lives and promoting well-being for all ages. We do this by producing the highest efficiency air filters that remove harmful particles and contaminants in ventilated air and by providing air-pollution control systems that collect dust, mist and fumes for safer work environments. Whether for residential, commercial or industrial use, our products protect people, equipment, processes and the air we all breathe. C S R 2019 / 4 3 Respecting human rights and our Code of Conduct At Camfil, we take human rights issues seriously. We are a member of the UN Global Compact and support and comply with the Compact’s ten principles, including human rights. The Compact emphasizes that companies should not merely comply with minimum human rights requirements. They should go beyond what is legislated to make positive contributions, by creating diverse workplaces, investing in communities, and engaging employees and society to promote collective action. We respect all internationally proclaimed human rights as reflected in our Code of Conduct, which covers important topics like forced labour, child labour, freedom of association, working conditions and elimination of discrimination. Externally, Camfil’s suppliers are also required to follow this Code in their relations with Camfil. We also believe strongly in our area of expertise – clean air solutions – and believe that clean air should be a human right. Therefore, we use our knowledge, expertise and resources to Human rights create awareness and educate people on the topic. C SR 2 0 1 9 / 4 4 An equal opportunity employer We embrace diversity and we value the unique contributions each employee brings to the workplace. Camfil is convinced that striving for diversity and equal opportunities help building a more profitable, effective and attractive company. A workforce with a multitude of backgrounds and experiences is more innovative and willing to adapt to new input, different views and work approaches, providing the business with many tangible advantages. CAMFIL AWARDED INTERNATIONAL GEEIS TROPHY FOR EQUALITY AND DIVERSITY Engaging positively with diversity is an inevitable part of ensuring equal opportunities and it contributes to what we want to achieve, how we want to achieve it, and is in GEEIS is an internationally recognised label for line with our core values. companies that demonstrate a strong, successful commitment to achieving gender equality in the workplace. Currently, nine Camfil companies are “EQUAL OPPORTUNITY AND DIVERSITY ARE certified to GEEIS. GEEIS assesses companies from CRUCIAL FOR THE EMPOWERMENT OF OUR three broad dimensions: management tools, HR In the picture from the left: Serge Christiane Minister of the EU delegation in UN, Cristina Lunghi Founder of Arbours, PEOPLE AND SUCCESS OF OUR BUSINESS. and managerial practices, and the global impact of Agnes Genevois, Eva Bergenheim Holmberg and Nyanyui Silidin The (Camfil) main Camfil initiative awarded the GEEIS-SDG European and international policies. trophy was the “Camfilles Project”, which promotes to promote workplace equality. The award positions In September, Camfil was awarded the newly instituted gender equality as a central pillar that supports all equal opportunities for school children in France by GEEIS-SDG trophy for gender equality and diversity sustainable development efforts. The jury consisted of providing internships at the company. The project TARGET/KPI: All major Camfil production compawas also extended to support girls’ education at the from the Arborus Fund. The fund is the leading representatives from Arborus, UN Global Compact, UN nies should be certified as a minimum at Level 1 Diebougou orphanage in Burkina Faso. provider of funding support for gender equality in the Woman, UNESCO and UNDP. of the Gender Equality European & International workplace in Europe and worldwide. Standard (GEEIS) by the end of 2022. The trophy, presented to Camfil at the United Nations Headquarters in New York, recognizes Camfil’s actions C SR 2 0 1 9 / 4 5 New educational campaign PM1: People Matter 1st CAMPAIR – Breaking the barriers in China The health effects of breathing bad air, especially in the “People Matter 1st” is an educational campaign that Every two years, Camfil conducts a global employee and deadlines, are then openly published for all most polluted cities of the world, are widely known. Air helps people to understand the importance of PM1 survey called CAMPAIR. The survey gives each employees. pollution is now estimated to be responsible for several particles and their health effects. We provide articles, employee a unique opportunity to voice their opinion. To date, we have noted that most questions focus on million premature deaths each year. It is also considered videos and other forms of expert advice to raise At Camfil in China, the CAMPAIR survey revealed a need employee benefits and welfare. As we progress, we to be one of the highest risk factors for death globally awareness of the effects and to propose solutions. to improve the effectiveness of our communication and expect and encourage more discussions around work and a leading environmental risk factor for disease. Solution examples include our air filters Opakfil ES, engagement with employees. processes, EHS, quality improvements and the like. By Hi-Flo XLT7 and Hi-Flo M7, which protect the indoor So, almost everyone knows that air pollution is bad In an effort to break traditional organisational engaging our employees through alternative channels, environment, products, production processes, and, for human health. But not all air pollutants are created barriers, a quarterly “Skip Level Meeting Programme” we aim to create a positive impact that encourages critically, human health. equal. New research indicates that the tiniest particles was introduced in Q2 2019. Representatives from greater camaraderie among our employees and builds a in the air are the most dangerous. These ultrafine management and employees are invited to an informal high-performing team. particles, called Particulate Matter 1 (PM1), are 1 meeting facilitated by HR where employees are micrometre or smaller in diameter and take the form of encouraged to freely raise questions and requests. To dust, combustion particles, bacteria and viruses. When ensure a good mix of employee representation, inhaled, they travel to the deepest area of the lungs and 5-10% of our employees regardless of then enter the bloodstream, damage the inner walls of function or level are randomly invited to arteries, penetrate tissue in the cardiovascular system be a representative at each session. and potentially spread to organs including brain. They are given sufficient time to collect information and requests from their peers. BENEFITS OF USING HIGH E  FFICIENCY AIR FILTERS IN SCHOOLS At the meetings, some topics are addressed and resolved immediately while others require further investigation, resources or approval. The content of the meeting, REDUCED IMPROVED WORK LOWER ANNUAL AIR THAT FEELS PROTECT  INCREASED TRAINING including resolved or answered topics, ABSENTEEISM P ERFORMANCE ENERGY COSTS EASY TO BREATHE STUDENTS P ERFORMANCE action plan, timeline, measures, decisions C SR 2 0 1 9 / 4 6 SDG 8 calls for promoting safe, secure working environments to create decent work opportunities. Camfil provides satisfactory working conditions for nearly 4,800 employees at offices and manufacturing sites around the world. In addition to our Code of Business Ethics, Code of Conduct, and Health & Safety Handbook, which provide governance on these particular issues, we have strong human-resource management practices at our local workplaces and local employee healthcare programmes. Our global workforce helps us steadily grow sales and support economic growth in more than 30 countries. We conduct due diligence and proactively integrate our strong culture around work ethics in all companies that Camfil acquires. C S R 2019 / 4 7 Whistleblowing Camfil believes it is always critical to ensure compliance with applicable laws as well as enhance transparency and accountability across the organisation. Our CamfilCaring Code contains a Code of Business Ethics that sets the standards of conduct expected in the management of our business. All employees are expected to carry out their duties in a way that is consistent with this Code. To support our efforts in identifying potential ethical and fraudulent violations, Camfil provides a whistleblowing service to all employees for reporting their concerns confidentially. The service is encrypted and password protected. Using the system is voluntary. Employees can report knowledge or suspicion of activities that are illegal or are not Anti-corruption aligned with Camfil’s moral and ethical values as stated in the Code of Business Ethics or Code of Conduct. This service is outsourced to a third party, so any employee can report anonymously without the fear of any negative consequences. and business ethics  THE WHISTLEBLOWING SERVICE IS AVAILABLE IN 13 LANGUAGES. C SR 2 0 1 9 / 4 8 Trade compliance Data security and privacy It is the global policy of all Camfil business units to In 2019, we assigned 18 regional trade compliance As digitalisation brings opportunities to businesses, it HOW WE MAINTAIN HIGH STANDARDS OF DATA PROTECTION AND PRIVACY: fully comply with, at a minimum, all export control and officers who were trained in our trade compliance also poses challenges around data security and privacy. trade sanction laws and regulations of the European policy. A total of 92 people out of 104 identified key The risk of cybercrime and data security breaches has • Continuous information security training required of Union, the United States, the United Nations and other individuals were trained in trade compliance. At the increased tremendously in recent years, and as a global all employees local laws and regulations that govern the sale, supply senior management meeting in June, 150 of Camfil’s company Camfil must remain vigilant and stay ahead of • Periodic security reviews conducted by each and export of Camfil products, services and technical senior management participated in a seminar about potential threats, whether internal or external. business unit data. Camfil’s Owner’s Directive is clear on this matter anti-corruption and trade sanction laws to raise Camfil takes active prevention and protection steps to • Annual risk assessment conducted by each business and requires Camfil to step away from a business deal awareness of this important topic. minimise risks. Just like in other areas of our business, unit if there is a risk of non-alignment with our moral and we engage all employees around the way we work on ethical values. • All systems owners are responsible for security security issues and align our efforts. Camfil has an IT requirements and analysis To ensure the adequacy and effectiveness of policies TARGET/KPI: 100% of senior management and Security Policy in place as part of our broader approach and procedures worldwide, Camfil has a Group Trade to ethics and compliance. With regards to data privacy, • GDPR-compliant data privacy policy updated and sales managers working with listed countries Compliance Manager. Trade compliance procedures are the EU’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) available to website visitors should have participated in trade compliance in place for export licensing, screening of third parties training. strengthens citizens’ right to control their personal data • Updated policy for 2019, approved by Camfil’s CEO, and vessels, U.S. export controls and trade sanctions, by setting requirements for personal data processing. was rolled out in June product classifications, mandatory contract clauses, Through our Data Privacy Policy, Camfil aims to fully country-specific requirements, end user certificates and comply with the GDPR to help ensure this right. red flag situations. C SR 2 0 1 9 / 4 9 Building for the future During 2019, Camfil made significant investments in several areas to be prepared for continued future growth: • The establishment of the Molecular Contamination Control Business Area is now close to completion, including design and sourcing centers. • The Crystal Lake facility in the United States was extended to allow for further growth of premium products in the North American market. • To support the Group’s potential in Air Pollution Control business, significant investments were made in people and assets during the year. • Camfil signed a land-lease agreement in Taicang, China, for construction of a new plant serving the Chinese and Asian markets. C S R 2019 / 5 0 Financial (5-year summary) ·· EBIT margin (operating margin) 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Earnings before financial items, appropriations and taxes, as a percentage of sales. Income statement Cash flows ·· EBT margin (profit margin before tax) Net sales 8 676 8 298 7 294 6 722 6 250 Cash flow from operating activities 1 119 713 849 684 712 Earnings before tax, as a percentage of sales. Operating profit 1 003 1 114 896 775 657 Cash flow from investing activities -387 -306 -281 -262 -190 ·· Equity ratio Profit after net finance costs 928 1 044 829 725 558 Cash flow from financing activities -509 -455 -260 -571 -728 Equity as a percentage of total assets. Tax -235 -239 -258 -205 -189 Change to Cash flows or the year 223 -47 308 -149 -206 ·· Interest-bearing net debt Profit for the year 693 805 572 521 369 Interest-bearing liabilities less cash and cash equivalents and other interest-bearing receivables, such as derivative financial instruments. Key ratios ·· Debt-equity ratio (gearing ratio) Balance sheet Operating margin, EBIT 11.6% 13.4% 12.3% 11.5% 10.5% Interest-bearing net liabilities as a percentage of equity. Intangible assets 1 621 1 555 1 432 1 416 1 260 Profit margin before tax, EBT 10.7% 12.6% 11.4% 10.8% 8.9% ·· Capital employed Property, plant and equipment 1 666 1 100 980 963 914 Equity ratio 46% 43% 35% 28% 45% Total assets less cash and cash equivalents, non-interest-bearing Financial assets 117 109 109 128 85 Interest-bearing net liabilities 1 283 1 217 1 275 1 740 760 liabilities including non-interest-bearing provisions. Average capital Inventories 912 804 930 1 056 827 Net debt-equity ratio (gearing 41% 47% 66% 119% 35% employed is calculated as capital employed at January 1 plus capital ratio) employed at December 31 divided by two. Cash and cash equivalents 840 598 615 316 453 Return on capital employed 27.9% 35.8% 33.6% 31.7% 25.3% ·· Return on capital employed Other current assets 1 656 1 803 1 428 1 352 1 228 Profit after financial items plus financial expenses as a percentage of Return on equity 24.2% 35.8% 33.8% 28.7% 18.4% Assets 6 812 5 968 5 496 5 231 4 767 average capital employed. Investments 367 231 182 163 129 ·· Return on equity Employees (average for the year) 4 537 4 509 4 225 4 076 3 811 Equity 3 157 2 577 1 919 1 462 2 162 Profit after tax as a percentage of average equity. Average equity is Interest-bearing liabilities 2 170 1 868 1 934 2 084 1 229 calculated as equity at January 1 plus equity at December 31 divided by two. Interest-free liabilities 1 485 1 524 1 643 1 684 1 376 ·· Investments Equity and liabilities 6 812 5 968 5 496 5 231 4 767 Investments in intangible assets and property, plant and equipment. C SR 2 0 1 9 / 5 1 Camfil Sustainability Report 2019 CAMFIL – A GLOBAL LEADER IN AIR FILTERS AND CLEAN AIR SOLUTIONS. For more than half a century, Camfil has been helping people around us. Through a fresh approach to problem-solving, innovative breathe cleaner air. As a leading manufacturer of premium clean design, precise process control and a strong customer focus we air solutions, we provide commercial and industrial systems for aim to conserve more, use less and find better ways – so we can all air filtration and air pollution control that improve worker and breathe easier. equipment productivity, minimize energy use, and benefit human The Camfil Group is headquartered in Stockholm, Sweden, and health and the environment. has 30 manufacturing sites, six R&D centres, local sales offices in We firmly believe that the best solutions for our customers are 30 countries, and about 4 800 employees and ­growing. We proudly the best solutions for our planet, too. That’s why every step of the serve and support customers in a wide variety of industries and in way – from design to delivery and across the product life cycle – communities across the world. To discover how Camfil can help you we consider the impact of what we do on people and on the world to protect people, processes and the environment, visit us at  www.camfil.com camfil camfilgroup camfilgroup camfil
