Corporate Social Responsibility Report January December 2019 IDEMIA CSR REPORT REPORT SUMMARY CEO’S WELCOME 5 1. IDEMIA, WE STAND FOR AUGMENTED IDENTITY 6 1.1. About IDEMIA 6 1.2. Executive Committee 7 1.3. Our values 8 1.4. Awards 9 1.5. 2019 developments 9 2. APPROACH TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 10 2.1. A longstanding commitment to CSR 10 2.2. CSR governance 10 2.3. CSR Core Committee 10 2.4. CSR direction 10 2.5. Key pillars 11 2.6. Global policies 12 2.7. IDEMIA in the community 12 2.8. Performance scorecard 13 2.9. CSR training 13 3. IDENTIFYING OUR IMPACTS 14 3.1. Stakeholder engagement 14 3.2. Materiality 15 3.3. Our material topics 16 4. BUSINESS CONDUCT 17 4.1. Business conduct background 17 4.2. Trade Compliance 18 4.3. Anti-corruption 18 4.4. Guiding principles and reporting wrongdoing 19 4.5. Import and export control 19 4.6. Audit and risk management 19 4.7. Personal data protection and privacy 20 4.7. Human rights 20 2 CSR Report 2019 | IDEMIA CSR REPORT 5. PEOPLE 22 5.1. Labor practices background 22 5.2. Health and safety at work 23 5.3. Health and safety monitoring 23 5.4. Business travel 25 5.5. Talent management and employee development 26 5.6. HR data 26 6. ENVIRONMENT 29 6.1. Environmental management background 29 6.2. Tracking our environmental performance 30 6.3. ISO14001 certifications 31 6.4. Climate change 31 6.5. Product compliance 31 7. PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 32 7.1. Customer relations 32 7.2. Quality products and services 32 7.3. Innovation mindset 33 8. RESPONSIBLE SOURCING 35 8.1. Supplier management background 35 8.2. Assessing CSR performance of suppliers 35 8.3. Supplier quality 36 8.4. Supplier Code of Conduct 37 8.5. Supplier diversity 37 8.6. Monitoring our responsible sourcing 37 9. GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE CONTENT INDEX 39 CSR Report 2019 | 3 IDEMIA CSR REPORT 4 CSR Report 2019 | IDEMIA CSR REPORT CEO’S WELCOME At IDEMIA, we are the global leader in Augmented wellbeing of our most valuable asset – our employees Identity, empowering citizens and consumers alike to and to the precious resources and enduring health interact, pay, connect and travel in ways that are now of our planet. possible in a connected environment. We understand We value the opinions of our stakeholders including our that data, security and privacy have an essential role to customers, employees and partners, so, in consultation play in protecting peoples’ identities and private lives. with them, we have identified our significant material We have embraced this new reality and we understand corporate responsibility topics and have placed a spotthe security concerns that accompany advancement. light on addressing them, monitoring our progress We analysed the world around us and reinvented the through a set of performance indicators. These top concept of identity. This is what we call Augmented priority topics, always with due consideration of the leIdentity – an identity that ensures privacy and trust gislative landscape affecting our business, continue to and guarantees secure, authenticated and verifiable shape and focus our CSR agenda. transactions. An identity that is so enhanced, adaptable, strengthened and self-sovereign that it allows us to I am pleased to share with you in this report IDEMIA’s truly enjoy life – because securing our identity is key to corporate social responsibility efforts and achievements making our world a safer place. in 2019. This report also serves as our annual Communication on Progress to the Ten Principles of the United We are an industry leader, so it stands to reason that Nations Global Compact. we also set an example in our corporate responsibility journey. We are capturing opportunities to make a real difference, not only to society through our innovations, YANN DELABRIÈRE but also to our local communities across the world CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER through engagement activities, to the health, safety and One of IDEMIA’s top 2020 business objectives is dedicated to building an IDEMIA culture, with a focus on corporate social responsibility CSR Report 2019 | 5 IDEMIA CSR REPORT 1. IDEMIA, WE STAND FOR AUGMENTED IDENTITY 1.1. About IDEMIA IDEMIA Group S.A.S., is a French Société par Actions The Group develops, manufactures and markets Simplifiée (Simplified Joint Stock Company). IDEMIA specialized security technology products and services was formed from the coming together of Oberthur worldwide, mainly for the telecommunications, Technologies and Safran Morpho in 2017. The company’s payments, and public security and identity markets. registered office is: 2 Place Samuel de Champlain, The Group’s main customers are financial institutions, 92400 Courbevoie, France. The majority shareholder of telecom operators and governments. IDEMIA Group S.A.S. is the private equity firm, Advent International. AN INNOVATIVE & END-TO-END SET OF SOLUTIONS €2.3 Billion Close to 15,000 in revenue 3B+ identity employees documents including 2,000+ issued WW in R&D More than 80 nationalities 800M+ SIM cards shipped in 2019 $200M+ in R&D in 2019 & over 1,500 800M+ active patent payment cards families produced in 2019 5M+ Large scale card biometric terminals production 110+ deployed worldwide major wins in eSIM subscription management platforms Well positioned in our markets and serving clients in 180 countries #1 IN POLICE TRUSTED BY #1 IN CIVIL IDENTITY TRUSTED BY 500+ #1 IN US DRIVER’S BIOMETRIC SYSTEMS 1,800 FINANCIAL SOLUTIONS MOBILE OPERATORS LICENSE ISSUANCE INSTITUTIONS 6 CSR Report 2019 | IDEMIA CSR REPORT 1.2. Executive Committee Yann DELABRIÈRE CEO Pierre BARRIAL Secure Entreprise Transactions David Laurent Ed Philippe BARREAU Amanda DESHARNAIS LEMAIRE CASEY Public Security and GOURBAULT Chief Digital Chief Financial Identity & Security, Identity Financial Product Officer Officer N.A. Institutions Jean-Christophe Jeremy Fabien FONDEUR ROFFE-VIDAL JAUTARD R&D CTO Human Resources Mobile Operators Matthew Yves FOXTON PORTALIER Communications Biometric Devices & Branding & Automotive Muzaffar KHOKHAR Digital Financial Mobile Operators Biometric Public Security Identity & Institutions Devices & Identity Security, N.A. and Automotive › 1,800 financial › 500 mobile operators › Number 1 in biometric › Number 1 in civil › Number 1 in Driver’s institutions and FinTechs trust us (including security systems identity solutions with License issuance in trust us (including most leading mobile › 5M biometric devices 130+ customers the U.S. of the world’s largest operators worldwide delivered worldwide › 37M+ automated › 40+ years leadership in banks) › 110+ major wins in passenger crossings the criminal justice and › 10M cars connected › Up to 4M cards digitized eSIM subscription through IDEMIA per year public security market per month in the 3 major management solutions to date › Number 1 in police › 9M+ citizens enrolled in mobile wallets platforms biometric systems the TSA Pre✓® program › 20M payment PIN codes › 100+ OTA platforms managed electronically deployed around the world › Up to 1M signature transactions per month with 50% annual growth rate Digital transformation solutions for › 3M+ eSIM profiles activated Secure Enterprise Transactions › Up to 4M payment cards digitized per month in major digital wallets (Apple, Samsung, Google) CSR Report 2019 | 7 IDEMIA CSR REPORT 1.3. Our Values Curious We find inspiration from clients, colleagues, markets and friends Caring Together We care for our clients, our We can be #1 people, stakeholders in all our efforts Trusted Daring We don’t ask for trust, We challenge we earn it the status quo 8 CSR Report 2019 | IDEMIA CSR REPORT 1.4. Awards JCB received two awards thanks to IDEMIA technology. field. The award recognises a high degree of innovation IDEMIA’s partner JCB was awarded Best Security with products and technologies, and the resulting Initiative and Best NFC Security Initiative at the 5th leadership in terms of customer value and market Cards and Electronic Payments International Asia penetration. Summit and Awards. Based on its analysis of the global biometrics market, IDEMIA and JCB have worked closely together since Frost & Sullivan recognised IDEMIA with the 2019 Global 2016 on different projects, including an advanced Company of the Year Award. tokenization platform, the JCB Token Platform (JTP), enabling payments to mobile devices and, a biometric The Frost & Sullivan report underlines the user-centric card proof of concept, based on F.CODE, IDEMIA’s design and robust anti-spoofing technology, which allow technology using fingerprint in place of PIN code. IDEMIA to offer optimum end-user experience without compromising performance and security. It highlights IDEMIA’s Noida factory awarded Best Supplier CSR some of IDEMIA’s latest innovations, including: Award by the Joint Audit Co-operation (JAC) Initiative. IDEMIA Noida was subject to a rigorous corporate MorphoWave™ Compact, a wall-mounted, touchless social responsibility audit by JAC, created by Deutsche fingerprint access and time-and-attendance Telekom, Orange and Telecom Italia and now with terminal, which can be deployed in any location around 17 major telecom operators, with the aim F.CODE, a payment card with an integrated of driving CSR implementation across important fingerprint sensor, ensuring transactions are only multinational suppliers in the ICT industry. performed when the card is used by its legitimate owner Recognized by JAC for its excellent practices, IDEMIA OneLook, a non-intrusive, simple-to-use multiNoida achieved a total score of 100, the highest score in biometric device that can capture both iris and facial all categories covered by the audit: biometrics in less than three seconds on average, ensuring a high level of accuracy while delivering › Child labor high throughput › Forced labor Augmented Vision, a solution that redefines the › Health & safety level of value that can be extracted from a video › Freedom of association surveillance infrastructure, through powerful › Discrimination Artificial Intelligence-based algorithms capable of › Disciplinary practices detecting and tagging massive amounts of valuable metadata. › Working hours › Wages and compensation › Environment › Business ethics 1.5 2019 developments February One of the largest factories in India, IDEMIA Noida › IDEMIA changed its management structure is also certified SA8000, having been successfully to consolidate its Augmented Identity global measured on social accountability in the workplace leadership and appointed Pierre Barrial CEO of and implemented a management system that drives its new Secure Enterprise Transactions division, continuous improvement. Through SA8000, IDEMIA bringing together under one division all Group Noida demonstrates respect of labor provisions laid out transactions business units (i.e. Financial in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Institutions, Mobile Operators and Connected International Labor Organization (ILO) convention. Objects). A new Digital business unit was also created within the SET division. Frost & Sullivan awarded IDEMIA for its leading October biometric technology. › IDEMIA acquired X Core Technologies’ Metal Each year, Frost & Sullivan presents a Company of the Year Payment Card business and launched its Smart award to the organization that demonstrates excellence Metal offer. in terms of growth strategy and implementation in its CSR Report 2019 | 9 IDEMIA CSR REPORT 2. APPROACH TO CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2.1. A longstanding commitment to CSR 2.3. CSR Core Committee Since 2006, IDEMIA has been a signatory to the Ten At Executive Committee level, the main functions meet Principles of the United Nations Global Compact – the to drive CSR priorities. Gathering together top executives world’s largest corporate citizenship and sustainability from across the business, including communications, initiative. The voluntary decision to sign up to these HR, procurement, legal and global operations, the CSR principles, which are inspired by the Universal Core Committee also welcomes experts from within the Declaration of Human Rights and the International Labor business to collaborate on specific CSR agenda items. Organization Core Conventions and embrace the values IDEMIA acknowledges the widely accepted best practice of respect for labor law, protection of the environment that CSR commitments are most effective when driven and combating corruption, illustrates IDEMIA’s enduring by top management. commitment to promoting and embedding corporate social responsibility, both within our organization and throughout our sphere of influence. Each year we communicate our progress towards the 2.4. CSR direction Ten Principles. We upload our annual CSR reports to The IDEMIA Code of Conduct is one of the key elements the UNGC to demonstrate the strides we are taking to of CSR and all employees joining the company must embed the principles within our business. This year’s CSR sign their acceptance of its terms. The Code informs report, covering the period January to December 2019, and guides employees on our business culture and our is prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting fundamental expectations of them in all aspects of their Initiative (GRI) Standards for Sustainability Reporting working lives. IDEMIA has established a CSR scorecard and meets the GRI’s Core Requirements. There have comprising indicators from all CSR pillars. been no changes in the way we report or the reporting period. This report has been externally assured by a third party specializing in sustainability reporting checking, validation and assurance. 2.2. CSR governance An executive management-led CSR Core Committee defines our CSR roadmap and priorities. On a dayto-day basis, IDEMIA’s CSR strategy is co-ordinated and implemented by a central CSR Team. In 2019, CSR became integrated into the IDEMIA human resources function, reporting directly to the Executive VP Human Resources. The CSR Team is responsible for the harmonization and standardization of policies and objectives, including their effective adoption at IDEMIA sites worldwide. With employees in more than 60 countries, CSR is supported by a network of local CSR, HSE and HR managers, as well as legal and trade compliance officers. For 2020, IDEMIA’s CEO has set CSR engagement as one of the top company-wide objectives. 10 CSR Report 2019 | IDEMIA CSR REPORT 2.5. Key pillars In order to control, focus and monitor our CSR activities, we have split them into five key pillars: IDEMIA’S CSR KEY PILLARS › ETHICS › RESPONSIBLE SOURCING › PEOPLE › HEALTH & SAFETY › ENVIRONMENT CSR Report 2019 | 11 IDEMIA CSR REPORT 2.6. Global policies In France, we have signed a partnership with the National Graduate School of Electronics and its Applications. We have developed a suite of global policies, designed to We are delighted to be able to offer internships, support our efforts towards a joined up approach to the apprenticeships and first jobs to future graduates of this management of CSR across our business, irrespective of great French engineering school geographical location, size or nature of operations. We Across our sites in Johannesburg (SA), Dubai (UAE) and check the currency of our policies annually and update Franklin (USA), we supported breast cancer awareness them as required, such as to comply with legislative activities and education during the month of October changes. 2019. › H&S Manual: a commitment to safeguard the IDEMIA’s office in South Africa marked Mandela Day, health and safety of IDEMIA employees at their place of work and during business travel. July 18th, by giving back to the community and those less fortunate. Through charitable activities and donations › Environmental Policy: a means to respect the of scarves, hats and blankets, employees reached out to environment and reduce any environmental impact of IDEMIA’s activities. the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and the Alexandra Disability Movement. › Code of Conduct: the principles of conduct with which everyone at IDEMIA must abide. In India, we collaborate with Akshaya Patra, a local › Supplier Code of Conduct: a set of fundamental association that fights against hunger, on a project expectations of our partners. involving the provision of mid-day meals to more than › Whistleblowing Procedure: a formalized mechaa thousand children studying in government and aided nism for the reporting of misconduct, policy schools in the city of Bellary (India). This partnership infringement, crime or failure to meet legislative goes under IDEMIA trade compliance procedure to obligations. prevent any risk of conflict of interests. › Conflict Minerals Policy: IDEMIA’s position In the United States, we have developed specific actions statement on the ethical sourcing of minerals in toward the nation’s Veterans, honouring them for their its products. sacrifices and service to the country. The initiative › Trade Compliance Policy, Conflict of Interest Policy started in 2015, and IDEMIA continues to actively recruit and train Veterans for key roles in various business areas. In Brazil, we launched a program to increase reading 2.7. IDEMIA in the community among employees and work in partnership with universities to favour improvements in education: the Through our corporate citizenship commitment, IDEMIA partnership includes reduction of monthly fees (up to engages with its local communities to effect positive 25%) to employees or to their children. change. We have established partnerships with local and national charities, we support our employees’ charitable In the UK, we have an established community outreach activities, we work with local education providers to offer program, including charities chosen each year by training and employment opportunities to the young members of our employee forum. We also select generation, we promote environmental initiatives long-term partnership charities that benefit our local for the benefit of our neighbors to reduce local traffic community and our annual awards make a positive and pollution, such as cycling to work and lift-sharing impact on the charities’ abilities to continue their schemes. services within our locality. In Singapore, we have partnered with the Ministry of The socially responsible efforts of employees are Education and STEM Inc. to align with the Singaporean supported by IDEMIA. government initiatives to equip youth with knowledge for the future. Through a series of STEM training and education workshops for teachers, educators, and students in 2019 held at our Singapore innovation centre, we aim to engage and inspire the young generations to equip themselves with the right skills to meet future needs. We strive to positively affect the communities in which we live and work 12 CSR Report 2019 | IDEMIA CSR REPORT 2.8. Performance scorecard 2.9. CSR training Each year, IDEMIA participates in numerous CSR IDEMIA’s CSR fundamentals training was launched in performance assessments, driven by customers’ desire 2019. Testing workers on their understanding of the to understand and score the CSR practices within key principles of CSR and how they apply to daily life their supply chains. Furthermore, IDEMIA’s global at IDEMIA, 5,877 employees have so far completed this CSR performance is assessed at least annually by the ongoing training. international CSR platform, EcoVadis. IDEMIA has a twofold partnership with EcoVadis: on one hand, EcoVadis evaluates and scores our performance and shares it with CSR FUNDAMENTALS TRAINING 2019, our customers; on the other hand, EcoVadis scores our EMPLOYEE PARTICIPATION BY REGION own suppliers performance and shares it with us. In its 2019 assessment, IDEMIA was once again awarded NORAM, 1767 APAC, 551 a gold certification level by EcoVadis and is categorized as ‘Advanced’, meaning IDEMIA has a structured and EUROPE, 920 proactive CSR approach. EcoVadis also concluded that IDEMIA has engagements/policies and tangible actions on major issues with detailed implementation information, as well as significant CSR reporting on actions and Key Performance Indicators. With this gold award, IDEMIA is amongst the top 5% of companies assessed by EcoVadis. MEA, 275 LATAM, 385 FRANCE, 1346 INDIA, 633 CSR Report 2019 | 13 IDEMIA CSR REPORT 3. IDENTIFYING OUR IMPACTS 3.1. Stakeholder engagement We have identified the stakeholder groups to which we are accountable by the likelihood of them being significantly affected by our activities, products or services, or the potential for them to affect our ability to conduct our business. The main stakeholder groups are shown below. IDEMIA STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT METHODS FOCUS AREAS Employees › Employee surveys › Labor conditions, remuneration, › Internal communications via benefits, working hours, talent email, social networks, physical management, training communication (e.g. posters, employee › Health & Safety handbook, contracts) › Non-discrimination › Worker committees › Equal opportunities Customers › Annual customer survey › Quality products and services › Contracts › Business continuity › Service reviews › Code of conduct alignment › Tenders › Customer meetings Suppliers › Contracts › Code of Conduct adherence › Supplier Code of Conduct › No restricted substances › CSR performance audits and quality › Legal compliance audits › Modern slavery avoidance › Product streamlining and improvement › CSR performance collaborations › Avoidance of complicity in human › Supplier events rights abuses Shareholders › Annual general meeting › Sustainable business › Company financial report › Financial performance › Risk management › Trade compliance › Conflict of interest avoidance Competitors › Industry working groups › Environmentally conscious products › Common solutions to industry-wide legal obligations › Fair competition Local communities › Employment opportunities › Providing employment in the › Outreach activities community › Consultation on business change › Charity partnerships › Encouraging employee philanthropy › Supporting communities following natural disasters Education › Recruitment fairs › Graduate traineeships establishments › Providing IDEMIA experts to support › Work placements educational events 14 CSR Report 2019 | IDEMIA CSR REPORT 3.2. Materiality In sustainability, materiality is the process of identifying employees, customers and external agencies, to tell us the topics, which reflect an organization’s significant “What are your expectations when doing business or economic, environmental and social impacts; or partnering with IDEMIA?” those that influence the assessments and decisions Our stakeholders informed us that twelve key material of stakeholders. It enables a company to understand topics most influence their assessments and decisions its impacts and streamline its efforts on CSR topics in relation to IDEMIA. These twelve priority areas are relevant to its business. helping to guide our CSR strategy and form the basis In 2016, we conducted a thorough materiality exercise of our corporate social responsibility reporting. with the support of an external consultant. From a list of 32 issues, we asked stakeholders, including suppliers, 4,0 Internal Important Anticorruption and business ethics Socio-environmental impact of the procurement Responsible relationships 3,5 with suppliers Transparency and dialogue with stakeholders Human Protection of personnal GHG emissions Waste and recycling Continuity of business and procurements Sustainable innovation Well-being at work rights data and privacy Quality of products Consumption of and services Customer relation natural resources Green IT Energy efficiency Export control 3,0 Corporate governance Intellectual property Human capital developpment and talent management Internal and access to technology Diversity and equal opportunities Local nuisances Social impact of technologies and services Socio-economic developpement Water consumption Partnership/Support for research Managerial relations 2,5 Social dialogue Support to local populations Image of the group, and employee engagement Compensation, employee attractiveness and in society benefits and social protection employement brand 2,0 Not important 1,5 Not important External Important External 1,50 2,00 2,50 3,00 3,50 4,00 CSR Report 2019 | 15 IDEMIA CSR REPORT 3.3. IDEMIA’s Material Topics Our stakeholders told us that twelve topics are crucially important to them. Therefore, we have focussed this 2019 CSR Report on these material issues. IDEMIA MATERIAL TOPIC GRI TOPIC UNGC PRINCIPLE REPORT SECTION SPECIFIC DISCLOSURE 1. Anti-corruption & business ethics GRI 205 10: Anti-Corruption Business conduct 2. Personal data protection & GRI 418 Business conduct privacy 3. Human rights GRI 412 1, 2: Human Rights Business conduct 4. Well-being at work GRI 403 3, 4, 5, 6: Labor People 5. Customer relations GRI 206 Products and services 6. Export control Business conduct 7. Quality products & services GRI 417 Products and services 8. Sustainable innovation 1, 2: Human Rights Products and services 9. Green IT and environmental GRI 302-1, 306-2 7, 8, 9: Environment Environment responsibility Identifying our impact, 10. Transparency & stakeholder people, products and dialogue services, responsible sourcing 3, 4, 5, 6: Labor 11. Responsible supplier relationships GRI 204, GRI308 Responsible sourcing 7, 8, 9: Environment 12. Talent management & employee GRI 404 3, 4, 5, 6: Labor People development 16 CSR Report 2019 | IDEMIA CSR REPORT 4. BUSINESS CONDUCT 4.1. Business conduct background Our business depends upon trust – trust in IDEMIA as a chosen partner, supplier, customer or employer, trust in our Augmented Identity products and services in an ever more connected world. Without trust in us, our people and our technologies our business faces great risk. We are a global company, with a complex network of operations spanning the globe. In each country we operate, we are bound to abide by local rules and regulations. What’s more, we must comply with all relevant regional laws and in addition, we have committed to abide by certain internationally recognised standards of business conduct. It is no surprise that, due to the very nature of the industry we operate within corruption, ethics, data privacy, human rights and export control are of premium importance to our stakeholders. We take a global overview of these matters, ensuring that we take LATAM, 5% NORAM, 42% MEA, 5% account of the legislative demands, market risks, the nature and size of operations, along with a sensitivity to cultural norms, at all of our sites. We have deployed an organization, procedures and processes, and training, INDIA, 6% to ensure that our operations meet the highest ethical IDEMIA requirements. code of conduct In July 2019, the IDEMIA Ethics Committee was created. training 2019, The permanent members of the Ethics Committee are FRANCE, 17% Employee the General Counsel, Chief Financial Officer, Executive participation VP Human Resources, Executive VP Communications & by region Branding and the VP Internal Audit & Risk Management The Ethics Committee is convened at least twice a year, and whenever necessary to address a specific urgent EUROPE, 15% matter (e.g. a major whilstleblowing report; when the settlement of a disclosed conflict of interest is urgently APAC, 10% needed). IDEMIA has a set of values and ethical standards that Internal communications to all employees support our are embraced by all of its employees and stakeholders. management’s commitment to ensuring that everyone Duty of care has been integrated into all of the Group’s at IDEMIA understands the ethical conduct standards, business processes and growth is carefully managed in trade compliance and export control guidelines and accordance with the highest international standards applies them in his/her everyday business lives and, at of business ethics, integrity and professionalism. These the very heart of these efforts, that integrity, honesty values and ethical behaviour are of critical importance and transparency should guide all employees in their to IDEMIA, in that they play a vital role in enabling it to work. earn and retain the trust of all of its stakeholders. CSR KPIs related to our ethical practices are established Competition, for IDEMIA, must be on the basis of its and figures are being monitored. These include: products, solutions and services and must not involve › Number of employees having signed the Code entering into any agreements with its competitors to of Conduct. illegally limit business and competition. Employees are expected to adhere to IDEMIA’s policies and requirements › Number of employees trained on CSR fundamentals. in respect of fair competition, gifts and hospitality and › Internal audits addressing CSR. conflict of interest. CSR Report 2019 | 17 IDEMIA CSR REPORT 4.2. Trade compliance 4.3. Anti-corruption IDEMIA trade compliance procedure contains the rules The IDEMIA anti-corruption program covers the entire that must be followed by every director, officer and set of requirements from international conventions, such employee of IDEMIA and each of its direct or indirect as those of the OECD and the United Nations. IDEMIA subsidiaries and controlled affiliates wishing to establish a has trade compliance officers and correspondents relationship with a partner for any purpose. This procedure dedicated to its countries of operation and relevant applies to any third party that is intended to assist IDEMIA activities. An Anti-Corruption Policy and Gift & Hospitality in obtaining, retaining or conducting business (agent, Policy is established. broker, commercial firm, consultant or consultancy IDEMIA is currently consolidating its anti-corruption firm, expert, distributor, intermediaries, lobbyist, prime processes: contractor, public relations agency, supplier, sales representative, representative, reseller, subcontractor › Update of IDEMIA Code of Conduct or co-contractor, joint venture partner, acting on behalf › Code of Conduct e-learning targeting all of IDEMIA). Employees must strictly apply this procedure. employees Our trade compliance procedures also include clear › Trade compliance and business ethics guidelines for the management of gifts and hospitality. e-learning Annual trainings are conducted by our Trade Compliance › New classroom training for sensitive personnel Team. › Key policy review and launch of updated version Once all those processes have been consolidated, IDEMIA will complete its program of ISO37001 Antibribery Management System certification at its sites, with certification expected in 2021. In 2019, all chiefs of IDEMIA sites and heads of finance were sent a letter of representation regarding business ethics and at time of publication, 94% of CEOs and 100% of CFOs had signed and returned the letter. We have a Trade Compliance contact for each region Trade compliance training 2019 Each year, a trade compliance training program is defined, Classroom training is targeted at certain employee taking account of employees previously trained, IDEMIA groups, such as group managers, senior management headcount at its locations and the level of risk assessed of subsidiaries, sales and purchasing employees. per region or country. IDEMIA marked United Nations International Anti-Corruption Day 18 CSR Report 2019 | IDEMIA CSR REPORT 4.4. Guiding principles and reporting 4.6. Audit and risk management wrongdoing We have processes and procedures to mitigate risks. IDEMIA’s Code of Conducts reflects senior management Our Audit Committee meets throughout the year to commitment to engage the Group in social responsibility monitor business risk and guide our actions. We have including corruption prevention and detection process. put in place worldwide insurance policies to protect our The Code of Conduct, endorsed by IDEMIA’s CEO and business, along with specific local policies at site level. General Counsel and after consultation with employee Internal audits take place regularly according to a strict representatives, is integrated into each facility operating screening of our subsidiaries. A pool of internal auditors procedures manual (Règlement Intérieur in France). tour IDEMIA’s entities overseas to achieve control Commitments expressed in the Code of Conduct missions, following an audit calendar, established well encompass compliance with laws and regulations in in advance over 2 years. Our Internal Audit Charter, all countries where we operate, fight against bribery defining the roles, responsibilities and authority and anti-corruption, import and export control, of IDEMIA’s internal audit function, refers to the respectful relationships to all stakeholders (customers, International Standards for the Professional Practice of shareholders, employees, trade unions, media, suppliers, Internal Auditing. CSR elements are taken into account partners…), safety of the workplace, and environmental during the audit process and sites are expected to have stewardship. The Code of Conduct is accessible to all in measures in place to address the fundamental CSR five key languages of IDEMIA: French, English, Spanish, expectations of the business with a route for follow-up Chinese and Portuguese. on any issues or non-conformances. It is the reference on how we should behave internally, In addition to the CSR principles incorporated into its and toward partners and customers. In compliance with internal audit program, in 2019 IDEMIA continued to the law, we also have implemented a whistleblowing focus on specific CSR site internal audits, checking procedure that allows questions about ethical matters, areas such as working conditions, environmental or reports of misconduct to be sent. This procedure, can practices, health and safety. Sites are scored on their be found by employees in a language understandable CSR performance across the topics and opportunities to them via the company intranet. We also recommend are taken to share best practice. that our suppliers implement their own whistleblowing procedure. 4.5. Import and export control Based on its Internal Export Compliance Program, IDEMIA complies, without exception, with all applicable regulations governing dual-use goods export, re-export and import operations. With a network of more than 40 correspondents around the world, IDEMIA’s export control expert reporting to the Legal Department: › Ensures that compliance standards are applied across the company, including KYC diligence. › Verifies the compliance of all business conducted by the companies within IDEMIA. › Participates in due diligence during mergers and acquisitions. › Verifies the compliance of all business conducted by companies subject to sanctions or embargoes. In addition, IDEMIA complies with all applicable customs legislation by deploying a suitable, effective system to ensure compliance in all of its international business transactions. 9 IDEMIA sites were audited against principles of good CSR practice in 2019 CSR Report 2019 | 19 IDEMIA CSR REPORT 4.7. Personal data protection & privacy IDEMIA business is B2B2C, and has no direct relations with end-users. IDEMIA did not received any complaints Advanced security solutions are at the heart of what we from its customers or the end-users of its customers in do and we are committed to protecting the personal the reporting period. data and fundamental rights of all citizens. Indeed, our trusted, secure technologies are enabling users to GDPR training 2019 connect in ever more frictionless ways. We have pledged to protect the personal data of our Having completed the first phase of both an awareness employees, customers, suppliers and others we interact course for all employees and a mandatory training for with. Our dedicated, Group-level appointed Data those likely to process personal data of people residing Protection Officer has responsibility for this topic within in the EEA (EU + Iceland + Norway + Lichtenstein), in IDEMIA. 2019 IDEMIA rolled out a second phase training for > 4,000 targeted employees, 79% of which are EU-based. Our data protection policies outline IDEMIA’s responsiA 52% completion rate was recorded at time of this bilities to interact with personal data, HR-related data report’s publication, with the training still live. and customer data in accordance with the following data protection principles: 4.8. Human Rights 1. The organisation processes personal data lawfully, fairly and in a transparent manner. IDEMIA respects the 30 fundamental human rights laid out in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, 2. The organisation collects personal data only for specified, explicit and legitimate purposes. ensuring that, through its policies, procedures, training and culture it enacts its responsibilities as an employer 3. The organisation processes personal data only particularly in regard of the following human rights: where it is adequate, relevant and limited to what is necessary for the purposes of processing. › No discrimination 4. The organisation keeps accurate personal data, › No slavery or servitude ensures that where necessary it is kept up to date and takes all reasonable steps to ensure › No cruel treatment that inaccurate personal data is rectified or › Freedom of belief and religion deleted without delay. › Freedom of expression 5. The organisation keeps personal data only for › The right to work and assemble the period necessary for the purposes for which the processing is taking place. › The right to rest and leisure 6. The organisation adopts appropriate measures › The right to an adequate standard of living to make sure that personal data is secure, and › Responsibility to others and their human rights. protected against unauthorised or unlawful processing, and accidental loss, destruction or In 2020, IDEMIA will roll out human rights training for damage. employees. We are serious about customer privacy, and have Discrimination established robust policies and processes to mitigate any potential risk of loss of customer data and breaches We believe in the fundamental dignity of every human of customer privacy. For example, with our biometric being and in respecting individual rights. In our recruitaccess and time solutions we have developed a detailed ment, career development and compensation practices compliance guide, based on the tools recommended by we work against discrimination due to gender, sexual the French Commission Nationale de l’Informatique et orientation, marital or civil partner status, gender reasdes Libertés (CNIL). signment, race, colour, nationality, ethnic or national origin, religion or belief, disability, medical status, age or Total number of substantiated complaints received any other legally protected characteristic. The Code of concerning breaches of customer privacy: Conducts reflects that each individual should be treated › Complaints received from outside parties and fairly, and recruited, selected, trained, promoted and substantiated by the organization: None paid based on merit, experience and other work-related › Complaints from regulatory bodies: None criteria alone. Total number of identified leaks, thefts, or losses of We respect our employees’ lawful right to freedom customer data: None of association. We compensate employees to ensure 20 CSR Report 2019 | IDEMIA CSR REPORT that their needs are met and provide opportunities for annual Slavery and Human Trafficking Statement in them to improve their skills and capabilities. We strive compliance with our legal obligations under the UK to provide safe and healthy workplaces where free Modern Slavery Act. discussion is encouraged and discrimination is opposed. We have identified that, where we work with smallWe believe that our places of work and the conditions scale, local recruitment agencies, not co-ordinated at therein reflect our company ethos of mutual respect. a corporate level, we must ensure that we consistently share our Supplier Code of Conduct, educate those with Child labor responsibility for managing the relationships with local recruitment agencies on modern slavery risks and work We are strictly against the use of child labor, both within with suppliers to be reassured that all recruitment is our own organization and in our supply chain. We have managed according to our expectations. We have also policies in place to ensure that any work carried out incorporated screening questions related to corporate for IDEMIA by persons under the age of 18 and still in responsibility practices in our request for information compulsory education, such as trainees and work template. placements students, is specifically designed not to interfere with or impede the employee’s studies, should Conflict minerals not include overtime, night time working, hazardous tasks or any other work that is likely to jeopardize IDEMIA supports the efforts of human rights their health or safety. We ensure proper management organizations to end violence and atrocities in conflict of student workers through adequate support and affected and high-risk areas. It has been widely reported training, pay that is equal to workers at the same entry that the major driver of this violence is the natural level performing similar tasks, proper maintenance of abundance of the minerals tin, tungsten, tantalum and student records, due diligence of educational partners gold, known as conflict minerals. Armed groups fight for and protection of students’ rights in accordance with control of mines in this region and use forced labor to applicable law. We expect our suppliers to mirror our mine and sell the minerals, which in turn funds ongoing conduct in this regard. violence. We are guided by the recommendations of the UN Whilst IDEMIA is not currently subject to legal Global Compact to: obligations such as those of the US Dodd-Frank Act, › Be aware of countries, regions, sectors, economic we work with our supply chain to positively influence activities where there is a greater likelihood of ethical behaviour through the application of a conflictchild labor and respond accordingly with policies free sourcing process. In compliance with the OECD and procedures; Guidelines on responsible sourcing, we control a full › Adhere to minimum age provisions of national list of mineral sourcing partners, to ensure that our labor laws and regulations and, where national products and components originate from conflict-free law is insufficient, take account of international smelters for gold, tungsten, tantalum, and tin (3TG). In standards; 2019, we supported more than 30 customers with their conflict minerals reporting requirements, by the open › Use adequate and verifiable mechanisms for age sharing of information relating to minerals chain of verification in recruitment procedures; custody. Our actions follow the recommendations of the › Avoid having a blanket policy against hiring Responsible Minerals Initiative, including checking for children under 18, as it will exclude those above and requesting transitioning away from any identified the legal age for employment from decent work smelters not compliant with the Responsible Minerals opportunities; Assurance Process (RMAP). › Exercise influence on subcontractors, suppliers and other business affiliates to combat child labor. Modern slavery We are committed to addressing the issue of modern slavery and human trafficking. A significant focus is placed each year on identifying risks of modern slavery in our supply chain, including an annual assessment of their labor practices. Each year we published our CSR Report 2019 | 21 IDEMIA CSR REPORT 5. PEOPLE 5.1. Labor practices background headquarters also deliver services for work-life balance, and offer sport installations to enhance well-being at The UN Sustainable Development Goal 8: Decent Work work. & Economic Growth, calls for the promotion of inclusive and sustainable economic growth, employment and Annual polls measure employee engagement, reflecting decent work for all. IDEMIA’s recruitment policies, the level of motivation of our employees based on conditions of work and adherence to the laws in all its management quality, trust in the service delivered to countries of operation uphold the ethos of UN SDG 8 customers, understanding of the company vision and and are respectful of the ILO Core Conventions. We pride in being part of IDEMIA. This annual ’pulse check’ support the elimination of forced and compulsory labor has a 70+% response rate and the answers on key and the abolition of child labor. We recognize the rights questions define the global “engagement” of employees. of employees to choose representatives and participate A 2019 ‘pulse check’ was directed at >2000 IDEMIA in trade unions. Our commitment is to provide work people managers. environments that respect the dignity, safety and The IDEMIA Purple Rules are the governing HR rules and security of all employees, that is favourable to good job policies for all IDEMIA. They outline how we work as an performance and is free from all types of workplace HR community, including: violence, bullying and harassment. Through mandatory 1. How we are organized Code of Conduct training IDEMIA’s employees gain an understanding of the company’s entrustment of 2. Well-being at work in a respectful its people not to commit, tolerate, or ignore any form & positive environment of unacceptable behaviour that negatively affects the 3. Recruiting & Onboarding right of us all to conduct our work in a safe, fair and non4. Performance discriminatory environment. Reporting mechanisms are in place, in the main languages of IDEMIA’s 5. Talent Management workforce, providing employees with a secure channel 6. Reward to confidentially address experienced or witnessed 7. Off-boarding incidents without fear of reprisal. 8. Security compliance Our social policy has three ambitions: 9. KPIs and Dashboard › Create ONE social identity across the whole IDEMIA group (which means achieve a unified IDEMA pledges to be a responsible employer in the social model that goes beyond cultures, borders, following ways: and missions). › Develop our employees to maintain a high level › Improve employee “engagement” through of expertise in fast evolving technology markets. efficient management, training and goal sharing. › Attract new talents. › Grow skills and mobility through the creation › Motivate all employees whatever their role. of the IDEMIA Development Team, a system to › Protect employees through health, safety and plan for up to date resources, and the opening environment action plans, certifications, social of IDEMIA Institute (the central training hub for bargaining. IDEMIA). › Develop tools for better communication and decision-making. The IDEMIA “One People Identity” program was estaOur CSR scorecard indicators measure progress on blished to develop leadership, harmonize compensamain labor-related topics, including: tion and benefits policies and ensure integration from a culture perspective. In 2019, we continued to work on 1. Number of employees answering IDEMIA internal group wide initiatives so that all employees can feel part “engagement” polls (Pulse Check). of one and the same company. 2. Training (for men and women). In Paris, all teams are gathered in common headquarters 3. Turnover. in Paris La Défense. More than just offices, IDEMIA creates 4. Absenteeism rate. an “IDEMIA home” reflecting our corporate culture. IDEMIA home offers great installations to work, meet, host meetings with customers and partners, demonstrate our innovations (state-of-the-art showroom). Our 22 CSR Report 2019 | IDEMIA CSR REPORT 5.2. Health and safety at work 5.3. Health and safety monitoring IDEMIA is committed to safeguarding the health and We are capturing and tracking the following data safety of its employees at their place of work and in the related to health and safety from IDEMIA sites, such as: course of business travel, and strives to create a strong › Number of injuries on the site. culture of prevention, ensuring the clear definition and communication of health and safety responsibilities. › Number of lost days during the month. › Number of minor accidents (accidents that do not Health and safety objectives are applicable to the whole translate into lost days). company, whatever the activity, wherever the facility, whoever the employee, those on permanent and fixed › Number of occupational diseases. term contracts, agency workers, temporary staff and › Number of injuries due to travel (home/work). contractors. Employees in all facilities share a number of common In 2019, there were 40 reported injuries across IDEMIA’s health and safety objectives: sites, for a Lost Time Injury (LTI) Frequency Rate of 1,72. › Preserve the health and safety of women and We have calculated this rate based on the number of men who contribute to IDEMIA’s activities, injuries and actual hours worked in 2019 : 23,277,023. significantly reducing the risks of occupational The health and safety rates that we report are based on diseases and accidents. 1,000,000 hours worked. › Introduce the evaluation of health and safety impact in the product development objectives and specifications. › Ensure continuous improvement of the health and safety management system. › Deploy and maintain ISO45001 (ex OHSAS 18001) certifications in our production sites. 10 sites currently certified. › Communicate to stakeholders and regularly publish actions and results on health and safety matters. › Comply with all local health and safety regulations. › Educate and train employees to make them aware of health and safety stakes and adherence to the company policy during induction and in CSR online training. During 2019, at our sites in Dubai and South Africa, we launched annual wellness day for employees, including health checks and the promotion of healthy eating. CSR Report 2019 | 23 IDEMIA CSR REPORT Injuries Manufacturing sites 47 41 40 13 11 10 9 6 6 4 4 4 3 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 O SA RÉ A AG EX EN FA A CA P ST A O TO C CO LI G R D INT U -E VI T RLE N ZH TO TI RO AV M SA EN R U A R T O IE NTI Y U N VR N H SH A AY E ID 2017 2018 2019 O N We have been controlling the number of injuries very closely over the last three years. A special investigation is taking place in Vitré to decrease injuries. We have been controlling the number of injuries very closely over the last three years. Investigations are taking place on the sites where the Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate is high. Some sites have implemented different actions with the help of managers to decrease the number of injuries. IDEMIA also follows minor accidents and near misses in order to anticipate more serious injuries. Lost Time Injury Rate 3 year evolution 28 16 14 12 11 9 7 7 6 4 3 3 3 3 3 3 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 R SA É LE O N EN AV R M G EX FA N CO CA LI A I D NT VI T TI TO ZH C OD TI A E -E R A TO R IA ST R T A N EN O O IE A U N VR N H SA SH Y AY E 2017 2018 2019 24 CSR Report 2019 | IDEMIA CSR REPORT 5.4. Business travel In the event of a serious incident, the traveller is advised on the appropriate course of action and should a critical We recognize the need to protect our employees, both event occur, travellers are supported to arrange removal within their regular place of work and during the course from the risk, such as medical treatment or repatriation. of business travel. In 2019, IDEMIA worked with a leading IDEMIA’s Crisis Cell Policy, Security Travel Checklist and international security services company, to provide Guidelines provide support when there is a genuine security risk information, advice, real-time tracking and business need to travel to high or extreme risk countries. emergency support to IDEMIA’s international travellers. Through restricted access, all travellers are monitored via the service, providing senior management with a live interface to know exactly who is traveling and where. The service includes a pre-trip advisory bulletin, sent directly to the traveller, containing all pertinent information regarding the route of travel and the countries to be visited. Updates and advisories continue throughout the duration of the trip. Important information is communicated, such as: › 24/7 emergency alarm centre contact numbers. › Travel risk summary. › Crime. › Terrorism. › Local law. › Travel by road. › Cultural tips. › Currency… Assistance cases – business travellers, 2019 In 2019, there were 46 total cases from 11,141 trips by 1,954 travellers 30 25 20 15 10 5 0 Medical assistance Security assistance Travel assistance 2018 2019 CSR Report 2019 | 25 IDEMIA CSR REPORT 5.5. Talent management and employee Skills development development The IDEMIA Institute was created to enable employees to learn, develop and share their skills through a single Onboarding platform. The mission of the IDEMIA Institute is to develop its employees for its clients, without exception. Our highly skilled international workforce is our greatest asset and because we know this, we are dedicated to The IDEMIA Institute offers different categories of providing the right tools and knowledge our people training to help employees, in their daily work, and need to be the best they can be, both in the jobs they develop their skills, for example: are hired to do, during their ongoing development and › An overview of IDEMIA products and services, its when applying for promotions or mobility opportunities. mission and global values, as well as its history To support the ONE IDEMIA model we aim, right of innovation. from the on boarding, to make our new colleagues › Productivity tools for work efficiency. feel welcome and ensure rapid understanding of role requirements. The following documents are provided to › Leadership and management development. the new employees: › A more digital, more innovative way of thinking. › Purple Rules (document containing major common › A certification roadmap for certain business HR values). functions. › Delegation of Authority. As the first brick of the IDEMIA Institute, we have launched an alliance with Udemy, one of the largest › Code of Conduct. MOOCs (Massive Open Online Course) in the world. › List of learning contents available (e.g. GDPR, etc.). The IDEMIA Institute is committed to offering different A mentor is assigned to support the new joiner’s forms of learning: plenary courses, computer training, integration, and make sure that training is achieved online or in collaboration. Regions and/or business units within the first month of arrival. There are checkpoints will continue to organize learning activities according with each new joiner at regular intervals during the first to their specific needs and will have resources to share year and one around the time of the first anniversary. their content with other regions and entities. HR information system Communication and on line tools are key to achieve the unified ONE IDEMIA. Therefore we have our global 5.6. HR data HR information system called IDEMIA> Talents. This new single tool, available to all within IDEMIA, allows NB: In some countries, the law prohibits the collection employees to: and publication of certain data. › Consult colleagues’ profiles, facilitating interactions within our Group. IDEMIA had a 15,250 total headcount, across 70 countries, › Have access to dynamic organization charts, in 2019. The workforce comprised of 68% male and 32% enabling easier collaboration. female. The average age of employees in 2019 was 35 › Consult and apply to job posts, encouraging years. internal mobility within the company. › Set individual objectives and manage performance, Individuals within the Executive together with the managers. Committee Grow skills and mobility IDEMIA’s Executive Committee is composed of 12 men and 1 woman, with an average age of 51 years. IDEMIA Development Team has the mission to organize and plan people evolutions. Supported by an external consulting firm, this HR team helps employees and managers develop the right skills to grow from one mission to the next one, according to requirements and personal wishes. In 2019, the global IDEMIA recruitment agency was established. In a fast moving high technology environment, employees are interested in the future missions offered in their environment, and how they can access them. 26 CSR Report 2019 | IDEMIA CSR REPORT Recruitment 2019 new hires: NUMBER OF NEW HIRES NEW HIRES BY REGION APAC, 28% FRANCE, 10% 3000 2821 LATAM, 13% 2099 2000 1000 NORAM, 19% EUROPE, 24% 2018 2019 MEA, 6% NEW HIRES BY GENDER NEW HIRES AS % OF TOTAL HEADCOUNT 55% 61% 18,4% 45% 38% 14,7% 2018 2019 2018 2019 Female Male 27 CSR Report 2019 | IDEMIA CSR REPORT Turnover IDEMIA tracks its turnover rate and has set a target to maintain, or not exceed, its 2019 figure over time. TURNOVER RATE 19,5% 18,06% 2018 2019 Training and development Employees receiving a regular performance and career development review: 90% 85% 88% 76% 2018 2019 Objective Performance Performance and career development forms were shared with 100% of the targeted male and female employees. CSR Report 2019 | 28 IDEMIA CSR REPORT 6.ENVIRONMENT 6.1. Environmental management What’s more, all around IDEMIA, our people are working background every day to better protect our environment. Examples of site initiatives include: Protection of the environment is one of our CSR key pillars, the cornerstone of how we conduct our business. › In Ostrava, Czech Republic, all office supplies are It is a shared responsibility to reduce energy sources 100% recyclable. dependency, and reduce consumption of energy, › In Cotia, Brazil, air conditioning water is reused carbon footprint, greenhouse gas emissions, water and for flushing toilets. waste. › In Brazil (Cotia) and India (Noida), air conditioning IDEMIA has establishments on all continents, with more water is reused for watering plants. than 200 sites including manufacturing plants, service › In Cali, Colombia, the replacement of halogen centres, headquarters, sales offices, R&D centres and lamps with LEDs has saved more than €3,200 in data centres. All these sites have different purposes, but electricity per year (23,600 kWh). serve the following common environmental objectives: › In Paris, France, the IDEMIA Tower is a HQE (High › Minimize the environmental impacts of processes Environmental Quality) building. and services by reducing or eliminating dange› In France, some entities develop solutions to rous substances, reducing energy consumption, facilitate employees’ commute. limiting emissions, managing waste recycling and › In almost all countries, regular lights are replaced disposal. by LEDs activated by presence detection. › Achieve our environmental goals through state› In headquarters, network and secure printing of-the-art, innovative, eco-friendly products and are chosen to reduce paper consumption. solutions by introducing the evaluation of environ› For electrical and electronic equipment, WEEE mental impact in the product development objec(Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment tives and specifications. Directive) third parties have been engaged to › Help our customers achieve their environmental collect and treat potential dangerous equipment. goals with our products offering and provide › IDEMIA is a member of the Association des suitable advice. Fabricants et Personnalisateurs de Cartes with a › Encourage environmental responsibility within special mission on sustainable development. the supply chain. › Waste is managed in most sites by the support › Ensure continuous improvement of the Environof recycling companies. Data relating to waste mental Management System. disposal methods are provided by the waste › Deploy and maintain ISO 14001 certifications at our disposal contractor. production sites (all manufacturing sites and the › In manufacturing, transportation solutions most important service centres, over 100 persons). of material are constantly challenged for cost › Communicate to stakeholders and regularly publish and energy reduction (this implies suppliers actions and results on environmental matters. reorganization to optimize routes). › Educate and train employees to make them aware › Procurement teams select partners to optimize of environmental stakes and compliance with the transportation and costs. company policy. We encourage all at IDEMIA to play their part in We measure progress regarding our main environmental becoming a green attitude ambassador. They know objectives: reduce energy consumption per person or that this can begin with very simple actions, such as: unit produced, and reduce carbon footprint, improve › Turning off the light when leaving a room. energy mix, reduce water consumption per person, manage waste (paying specific attention to landfill), and › Switching off the tap after washing hands. reduce VOCs (volatile organic compounds). › Turning off computers at the end of the day, As a Group, we support World Environment Day. which can reduce around 80kg of CO2. 29 CSR Report 2019 | IDEMIA CSR REPORT › Think about using a mug or re-usable cup instead CO2 equivalent emissions and/employee of a plastic one for coffee or tea. In some sites there are money saving initiatives to incentivize these actions. 30 000 27 878 6,40 › Think twice before printing a document, and if it 25 000 6,14 6,20 22 881 is unavoidable always print double side. 22 596 6,00 20 000 5,80 IDEMIA’s management warmly welcome environmental 5,60 initiatives and sites are invited to make their suggestions 15 000 through the IDEATION process. Best practice of the 5,40 5,40 excellent initiatives at our sites is strongly encouraged. 10 000 5,19 5 19 5,20 5,00 5 000 4,80 0 4,60 6.2. Tracking our environmental CO2 2017 CO2 2018 CO2 2019 performance Together, the CSR Team and local site control This graph shows our CO2 emissions evolution for all environmental progress through a number of indicators. manufacturing sites and per employee. The CO2/person In 2019, we gathered environmental data through our has decreased significantly (from 6,14 in 2017 to 5,19 in company-wide CSR reporting tool. 2019) as a result of many environmental protection plans and also because of production consolidation. IDEMIA’s target is to achieve a 3% reduction of CO2/per person by CO2 equivalent at IDEMIA manufacturing sites the end of 2022. The first source of CO2 reduction is optimization of the IDEMIA operates production in Europe (Czech Republic, production and at IDEMIA this is enacted through major France, Netherlands), America (Colombia, USA, Brazil), reduction plans, such as: and Asia (China, India). › Replacement of lights with LED in most With the merge of Morpho and Oberthur, our site in production sites, Taubate (Brazil) was absorbed by another site in Cotia. › Replacement of aging machines for a better Production is diverse as we produce smart cards, yield, passports, ID cards, but also terminals, car speed › Isolation (cold and heat), detectors, etc. making a flat comparison of emissions between sites difficult. › Employee training (right temperature in the room, printing, PC settings) › Increase of yield (reduction of reject rate) CO2 equivalent tonnes 2017 2019 Manufacturing 12000 10942 10000 9153 8566 8000 6000 5380 4248 3897 4199 4000 3581 3489 3265 2380 2081 2000 1440 822 1051 890 874 900 779 865 566 482 426 742 372 460 159 137 374 400 435 2 0 0 R SA É M O N EN FA CO LI AT AV VI LE G EX C CA E A D INT U -E TR R TIA TO ZH TO TIA B ST R T A N EN R TA O O IE A SA Y U U N VR N H SH A AY E OID 2017 2018 2019 N CSR Report 2019 | 30 IDEMIA CSR REPORT Waste management 6.5. Product compliance In 2019, IDEMIA continued to focus its attention on In 2019, the 40 sites registered in IDEMIA’s whole product compliance, striving to ensure that its products company CSR platform (PURE) generated 6,390 tons of complied with the applicable legislation of all countries, waste: 88% non-hazardous, and 12% hazardous. in terms of the manufacturing, sale and distribution of Nearly half came from manufacturing sites (12 sites). goods. This included key EU directives, such as REACH These sites generated 3,191 tons of waste: 80.5% was (Registration Evaluation Authorization and Restriction recycled, 17% incinerated and 2.4 % landfilled. The of Chemicals) and updates to its list of associated remainder of the waste generated came from service substances of very high concern, RoHS (Reduction of centers, offices and tertiary sites. the Use of Certain Hazardous Substances in Electrical IDEMIA’s target is to keep reducing landfilled waste and and Electronic Equipment) and WEEE and its national to increase the recycled waste to 85% by 2023. transpositions. Working closely with suppliers and customers, we took action to meet our legislative obligations and to help our customers meet their own. We use a range of methods to ensure that our products 797 5595 do not contain restricted substances under all relevant 12% 88% legislation in excess of applicable legal limits, including obtaining certifications from our suppliers and third 2019 party laboratory testing of our products. Our Supplier 6 392 tons waste Code of Conduct contains provisions aimed at ensuring that suppliers comply with all relevant laws, regulations Non hazardous and customer requirements prohibiting or restricting the use of restricted substance. hazardous Following a program of eco-design, IDEMIA’s 1,400 R&D engineers, belonging to the organization of IDEMIA’s Chief Technology Off icer, analyse the environmental aspects of raw materials, the 6.3. ISO14001 Certifications manufacturing and assembly process, distribution, Our objective is to certify all manufacturing sites and end of life management, with attention on and large sites with more than 100 employees. 100% all phases of the product life. The IDEMIA R&D of our manufacturing sites are covered by ISO14001 team considers environmental aspects in both the certifications. Action plans to protect the environment technical specif ications of the product and required are in place at all those sites. manufacturing equipment, as well as the set-up of new associated production processes. 6.4. Climate change EcoVadis classifies IDEMIA’s environmental Our environmental commitment includes action to performance as ‘Advanced’ fight global climate change, and control greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions: reduce energy dependency, encourage 6.6. Industry collaboration on green renewable energies, improve waste management and issues restrict landfill, develop eco-designed products. Although our main activities are not part of highIDEMIA participates in the Eurosmart CSR Committee, energy consumption sectors, for many years IDEMIA a digital security industry collaboration for common has declared its carbon footprint to Carbon Disclosure approaches and best practice management of issues Project (CDP). The declaration is done in two categories, affecting the industry. In 2020, the Eurosmart CSR investors and supply chain, the latter meeting the Committee will develop an industry-wide action plan in request of a number of large customers (mobile response to the launch of the European Commission’s operators and banks in the USA, Brazil, Germany and UK) Green Deal, setting a target of no net emissions of asking for the energy spent through the manufacturing greenhouse gases in 2050. of their products in our plants. We monitor emissions of IDEMIA is the speaker for the Sustainable Development the gases CO2, CH4 and N2O. Group of the Association des Fabricants et Personnalisateurs de Cartes (AFPC). 31 CSR Report 2019 | IDEMIA CSR REPORT 7. PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 7.1. Customer relations 7.2. Quality products and services Even with the best products, services, pricing, quality IDEMIA knows the importance of trust to its stakeholand cutting-edge technologies, a sustainable business ders, in every interaction, product and service and we must ensure the ongoing confidence of customers to recognize that our CSR and quality work is crucial to place their trust in it as an honest, transparent, reliable, building and sustaining this trust. ethical partner. At IDEMIA we want to be THE supplier IDEMIA’s Quality Manual supports everyone’s commitof choice for our customers, naturally on the basis of the ment to customer satisfaction, continuous improveinnovations and services we offer, but also influenced by ment and compliance. It, along with related quality prothe reassurance that our moral compass is fixed on doing cesses, are shared through the IDEMIA intranet site. the right thing. For us, corporate social responsibility guides how we behave, constantly pushes us to be better and Several sites across the IDEMIA network are in scope of because we have put in place the necessary resource and the common certification related to ISO9001, with local expertise, and continue to strengthen cross-departmental and corporate quality experts working together for the collaboration on CSR-related topics we are seeing progress success of the certification. in our performance year on year. Where customers are further along their CSR journeys than us, we are keen to learn from them to support our continuous improvement Ideation efforts. We value the input of employees in making our work Fundamentally, we are committed, at all times, to spaces, as well as our product offerings, evolve for the conducting our business with honesty and integrity in better. IDEMIA Ideation has opened the dialogue for compliance with the laws of all the countries in which employees to share their ideas on how to improve the we are active. workplace, reduce waste, do things faster and more Technology is progressing faster now than ever before efficiently, etc. It’s intended for IDEMIA people to share and with this comes new actors in the market and and implement their ideas, becoming the driver of positional shifts that we must prepare for and respond change, and includes a contest to reward the best ideas to. Our competitors are amongst our key stakeholders and most active sites. and on certain subjects we work together in collaborative groups to improve our industry conditions, including those relating to CSR, such as environmental legislation Compliant products and product compliance. We demonstrate, through our We understand the need for information about the policies, procedures and training our intention to always environmental and social impacts of our products and do business within the law, including when seeking to we provide recommendations on the safe use of our win business. We are against price fixing, creating market products and how to manage them at end of life. We restrictions, imposing geographic quotas or any other have not been subject to any legal breach concerning kind of anti-competitive behaviour with the effect of our product or service information labelling. limiting the effects of market competition. Our Conflicts of Interest Policy ensures that potential risks are anticipated We comply with all laws applicable to our products’ and managed. composition relative to the countries in which we operate. We focus on ensuring that our products do not contain restricted substances within legal limits, including obtaining certifications from the supply chain and third party laboratory testing. Our Supplier Code of Conduct contains provisions for suppliers to comply with the law prohibiting or restricting the use of certain substances in materials they provide to us. CSR Report 2019 | 32 IDEMIA CSR REPORT 7.3. Innovation mindset Digital identity presents a solution to removing barriers to financial inclusion. By enabling people to prove their Recognized as one of the main patent filers in France, identity conveniently, it also has the capacity to build at IDEMIA we are pursuing our tradition of innovation. trust, ensure ease of use and lower costs. IDEMIA’s technologies can be life changing for people IN OUR CORE TECHNOLOGIES AI, Cloud, cryptography, cybersecurity, and enable them to access and use essential financial advanced analytics and innovative sensors for services, right at their doorstep, even in the most remote biometric data capture geographical areas. Jharkhand State Cooperative Bank (JSCB) faced difficulties in reaching their customers, mainly farmers living in rural areas, like 70 % of the Indian population. Opening a brick and mortar branch in each village was neither feasible nor profitable for the bank. To extend banking and financial services to the underand un-banked, JSCB teamed up with IDEMIA to €1B over 5 years completely digitalize banking and payment services provided by JSCB’s bank agents right on the customer’s doorstep. IDEMIA provides an end-to-end financial inclusion solution including a software gateway and fingerprint sensors embedded into micro-ATMs. It ensures biometric capture and identity verification and allows customers to access services such as cash withdrawal, IN SOFTWARE AND SYSTEMS IN PHYSICAL PRODUCTS Digital, API PNR, border control, video Traditional & metal cards, biometric cash deposit, balance enquiry, account opening and analytics, AFIS, ID management ... terminals road safety ... more. So far 4,300 bank agents have been equipped with biometric-enabled micro ATMS, serving more than 120 IDEMIA’s technologies are dedicated to making citizens’ million JSCB customers across 42,000 villages. lives safer, easier and to equity for all people. In another success story, IDEMIA contributed to the construction of a civil identity to register children in the Democratic Republic of Congo. Partnering with Promoting the universal human right to an CIVIPOL, the technical co-operation operator of the identity French Ministry of the Interior, DIGITECH, a leading Identity is the first step towards financial inclusion and provider of paperless Civil Registry solutions, the United development and is the key factor in gaining access to Nations Population Fund and CARITAS. This project healthcare, education and more. This is a cause that we, aims to produce 600,000 birth certificates and should at IDEMIA, believe in. Nearly 1.7 billion adults worldwide register 60% of children that have not been registered are still excluded from the formal financial system, at birth. without any account at a bank or through a mobile money provider. Not having access to basic financial services prevents saving for the future, facing unforeseen IDEMIA supports the United Nations’ life events and creating profitable businesses to lift ambition for a legal identify for all. We enable people from poverty. It also hinders global sustainable governments around the world to provide economic growth. citizens a unique and legal identity from birth and valid throughout their lives, based on who they are. IDEMIA promotes International Identity Day, convinced that everyone deserves an identity and that advancement of this cause will help ensure access to fundamental human rights for the almost 1 billion people worldwide without an official identify. 33 CSR Report 2019 | IDEMIA CSR REPORT Crime prevention Environmentally sensitive products Our products are being used to help police forces IDEMIA’s expert Product Managers for Eco-Friendly enhance the fight against crime. The Automated Solutions in the Financial and Mobile business units Multi-modal Biometric Identification System (AMBIS) are dedicated to developing and promoting our range is the latest tool being used by police in Maharashtra, of eco-friendly products and end-to-end solutions, India and it’s based on IDEMIA’s finger, face, iris & palm including fulfilment and end of life. We focus on: recognition, already utilised by the FBI, Interpol and › PETg card body many other police agencies across the world. Previously gathered manually, this data can now be stored on one › 100% recycled PVC card body secure server, a database accessible to police stations › Bioplastic card body and jails across the state. › Digital PIN › Digital inserts › Life cycle analysis compliant with ISO 14040 & Road safety 14044 standards IDEMIA’s road safety technologies are proving critical in lowering road casualties and are unique in their ability to: IDEMIA participates in the Greener Payments Partnership with Mastercard, establishing › Track multiple vehicles on intersections to environmental best practices to reduce first-use PVC enforce illegal turns or yellow box violations plastic in card manufacturing. › Cover up to 8 lanes › Remove the need for a conventional air conditioning system in hotter climates We are going further than speed and red light running control, using video analytics to address other major causes of casualties, such as the use of mobile phones while driving and failure to wear a seat belt. At IDEMIA, it’s our vision to make the world a safer place. Energy preservation Available in different form factors to meet every footprint requirement, our Device Identity Module (DIM): Low Power, is a SIM card tailored for lower power networks. It helps to reduce power consumption by using sophisticated technology, such as energy-saving ‘suspend and resume’ features. Contributing to the extension of the device battery lifetime, it adapts to small IoT devices with reduced form factors, optimizing the size of the SIM card and its memory. Low power, smaller footprint CSR Report 2019 | 34 IDEMIA CSR REPORT 8.RESPONSIBLE SOURCING 8.1. Supplier management 8.2. Assessing CSR performance of background suppliers Partners and subcontractors play a pivotal role in Sustainable Supply Chain is among the key elements ensuring we make good on our commitments. In of IDEMIA’s CSR policy and IDEMIA has committed to order to build a chain of confidence, we aim to engage consider the social, environmental and ethical behaviour with third parties that share our ethical, social and of its supply chain in its business activities. environmental values. We welcome opportunities to To monitor the CSR performance of its suppliers and share best practice and learning with our more mature manage supply chain risk, IDEMIA has extended its CSR partners, whilst encouraging a focus on responsible partnership with EcoVadis, which offers a simple, easy business in those who are less advanced. All third parties to use service for suppliers to report and improve with whom we engage must demonstrate that they are their CSR performance through an online platform. prepared to meet our fundamental expectations for The assessment addresses 21 CSR Criteria across four responsible corporate behaviour. categories: We have defined the framework for a trustworthy › Environment (ENV) supply chain in our Supplier Code of Conduct, to which we require our suppliers to sign their adherence. Key › Fair Business Practices/Ethics (FBP) CSR principles are also set out in our general purchasing › Supply Chain/Sustainable Procurement (SUP) conditions. › Social/Labor and Human Rights (LAB) We work to positively influence CSR practices in our IDEMIA’s top spend suppliers and strategic partners are supply chain, including education and best practice invited to be assessed via the Ecovadis platform. sharing on conflict mineral sourcing, and demanding Monitoring the CSR performance of the supply chain zero tolerance of child and forced labor. helps us to identify, address and avoid supply chain risks, We expect our suppliers to confirm that their products such as those associated with particular geographic adhere to all applicable legislation, for example EU locations or types of industry, achieve compliance with REACH, EU RoHS and the U.S. California Safe Drinking legislation affecting our business and find opportunities Water and Toxic Enforcement Act of 1986 (Proposition to collaborate with suppliers on CSR. 65). In a collaborative effort, IDEMIA’s CSR and Purchasing We assess the ethical credentials of our suppliers Teams support suppliers throughout the EcoVadis through the third party CSR performance assessment assessment process, from first contact to postagency, EcoVadis. assessment follow-up. IDEMIA buyers consider CSR aspects when selecting Supplier scores are categorized from High Opportunity suppliers and partners, and have formally incorporated to High Risk. A supplier’s EcoVadis CSR Performance CSR elements into our RFI template. For the selection of Score is integrated into the scorecard utilized during suppliers, IDEMIA has integrated CSR aspects, such as the annual Supplier Performance Evaluation. IDEMIA is an existing Ecovadis score, in the selection criteria. developing a follow up process for suppliers that score For the selection of suppliers, IDEMIA has integrated consistently below IDEMIA’s threshold on EcoVadis, to CSR aspects, such as an existing EcoVadis score, in the include a self-assessment questionnaire. selection criteria. Reports generated by this assessment help to identify In 2019, through the IDEMIA Purchasing Academy 47 strengths and weaknesses in supply chain CSR buyers received training on both the law and CSR topics performance, both across the supply base and with relevant to IDEMIA and its supply chain. individual companies. 35 CSR Report 2019 | IDEMIA CSR REPORT IDEMIA SUPPLIERS: CSR ENGAGEMENT ACTIONS % COMPLIANT Policy on corruption 81% Active whistleblowing procedure in place 73% ISO 14001 certified (at least one operational site) 70% Reporting on energy consumption & GHGs 68% Audit or assessment of suppliers on CSR issuesd 65% Reporting on health & safety indicators 57% OHSAS 18001/ISO 45001 certification or equivalent (at least one operational site) 51% Policy on sustainable procurement issues 43% Corrective action plans are launched for low scoring 8.3. Supplier Quality suppliers, enabling IDEMIA to monitor and address supply chain CSR risks. Next steps are launched where The supplier performance review grading system was reassessments following corrective actions still do not updated in 2019 to integrate EcoVadis scoring of supmeet IDEMIA’s expectations. pliers. 25 key supplier performance reviews were performed, taking account of the supplier’s EcoVadis score. 73% of suppliers assessed have met IDEMIA’s threshold Alongside this improvement, IDEMIA’s CSR and Supplier score. Those that have not are working on the agreed set Quality Teams worked on an update of the on-site audit of corrective actions and will be re-evaluated to ensure template to ensure that CSR is now fully integrated. progress targets are met. The CSR performance of IDEMIA’s suppliers 50 audits in 9 different countries were has improved by an average of 3 points, with conducted by the Supplier Quality Team in suppliers making the greatest progress in 2019 including CSR audit questions. Ethics and Labor/Human Rights. CSR Report 2019 | 36 IDEMIA CSR REPORT 8.4. Supplier Code of Conduct 8.6. Monitoring our Responsible Sourcing The Supplier Code of Conduct, complementary to the IDEMIA Code of Conduct, the ethical framework within which IDEMIA conducts its business, is shared CSR risk assessed suppliers by region with suppliers intending to partner with IDEMIA. The MIDDLE EAST, EUROPE & Code was developed with reference to prevailing AFRICA CENTRAL ASIA international standards such as the ILO Codes of Practice, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, NORTH Social Accountability International and the Responsible AMERICA Business Alliance Code of Conduct. The IDEMIA purchasing department ensures that suppliers sign their acceptance of the expectations laid out within it prior to the commencement of contract negotiations. Data pertaining to supplier acceptance of the Supplier Code of Conduct are represented on IDEMIA’s CSR scorecard. EAST ASIA Coordinating essential CSR principles are mirrored in & PACIFIC our general purchasing conditions, whilst the Supply Chain Quality Team controls that our CSR principles are effectively applied through on-site audits. % of CSR risk assessed suppliers scoring above IDEMIA’s performance level 60% IDEMIA expects its suppliers to uphold 94% 100% 100% fundamental conduct principles 72% 80% 60% 40% 8.5. Supplier diversity 20% 0% IDEMIA’s goal is to obtain a diverse supplier base, 2017 2018 2019 reflective of the overall customers, associates, and communities that the company serves, by identifying procurement opportunities and maximizing % of suppliers CSR risk assessed by score participation of approved suppliers. Delivering IDEMIA’s ambition in creating value is not something we can 60% achieve on our own. Every day we work with hundreds 50% of suppliers who are helping us serve customers in 180 40% countries. Approved suppliers include MBEs, WBEs, and 30% Small Business Enterprises (SBEs), LGBT, and DisabilityOwned Business Enterprises (DOBE). 20% 10% To help ensure that our bidding opportunities reach all eligible diverse businesses, IDEMIA is a member of the 0% 25-44 45-64 65-84 85+ following diversity councils: Improvement actions were launched with all suppliers not meeting IDEMIA’s overall performance threshold and individual threshold per category (environment, fair business practices, supply chain, labor/human rights). 2 suppliers scored below IDEMIA’s threshold in the environment category and corrective actions were launched and followed. 57% of suppliers CSR risk assessed by IDEMIA scored between 40 and 60% for their environmental performance. 37 CSR Report 2019 | IDEMIA CSR REPORT CSR Report 2019 | 38 IDEMIA CSR REPORT 9. GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE – CONTENT INDEX In accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative Standards for sustainability reporting, this table points readers to contextual information about IDEMIA GRI General Disclosures within the report. Links are provided to each disclosure topic. GRI GENERAL TITLE REPORT SECTION PAGE DISCLOSURE 1. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 102-1 Name of the organization IDEMIA We stand for augmented identity 6 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services IDEMIA We stand for augmented identity 7 102-3 Location of headquarters IDEMIA We stand for augmented identity 6 102-4 Location of operations IDEMIA We stand for augmented identity 6 102-5 Ownership and legal form IDEMIA We stand for augmented identity 6 102-6 Markets served IDEMIA We stand for augmented identity 7 102-7 Scale of the organization IDEMIA We stand for augmented identity 6 102-8 Information on employees and other IDEMIA We stand for augmented identity 6 workers 102-9 Supply chain Responsible Sourcing 35 102-10 Significant changes to the organization IDEMIA We stand for augmented identity 9 and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Environment Product Compliance 31 102-12 External initiatives IDEMIA We stand for augmented identity 6 102-13 Membership of associations IDEMIA We stand for augmented identity 31 2. STRATEGY 102-14 Statement from senior decision maker CEO’s Welcome 5 3. ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms Approach to Corporate Social Responsibility 10 of behaviour 4. GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance structure IDEMIA We stand for augmented identity 7 39 CSR Report 2019 | IDEMIA CSR REPORT 5. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Identifying our Impacts 14 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements People 22 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Identifying our Impacts 14 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Identifying our Impacts 14 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Identifying our Impacts 15-16 6. REPORTING PRACTICE 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated Not applicable financial statements 102-46 Defining report content and topic Identifying our Impacts 15-16 Boundaries 102-47 List of material topics Identifying our Impacts 16 102-48 Restatements of information Not applicable 102-49 Changes in reporting Approach to Corporate Social Responsibility 10 102-50 Reporting period Approach to Corporate Social Responsibility 10 102-51 Date of most recent report Approach to Corporate Social Responsibility 10 102-52 Reporting cycle Approach to Corporate Social Responsibility 10 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding End of report 41 the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance Approach to Corporate Social Responsibility 10 with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI Content Index Approach to Corporate Social Responsibility 39-40 102-56 External assurance Approach to Corporate Social Responsibility 10-42 CSR Report 2019 | 40 IDEMIA CSR REPORT This table points readers to Topic Specific Disclosures, identified by IDEMIA through stakeholder engagement, as being material topics for IDEMIA to address. Links are provided to each topic specific disclosure. GRI TOPIC SPECIFIC IDEMIA MATERIAL TOPIC REPORT SECTION PAGE DISCLOSURE GRI 200 ECONOMIC 204: Procurement practices Responsible supplier relationships Responsible Sourcing 35 205: Anti-corruption Anti-corruption and business ethics Business Conduct 17 206: Anti-competitive Customer relations Products and Services 32 behaviour GRI 300 ENVIRONMENTAL 302-1: Energy Green IT and environmental responsibility Environment 29 306-2: Effluents and waste Green IT and environmental responsibility Environment 29 308: S upplier environmental Responsible supplier relationships Responsible Sourcing 35 assessment GRI 400 SOCIAL 403: Occupational health Well-being at work People 22-23 412: Human rights assessment Human rights Business Conduct 17 417: Marketing and labelling Quality products and services Products and Services 32 418: Customer privacy Personal data protection and privacy Business Conduct 17 Comments on this report and about any aspect of CSR at IDEMIA may be directed to CSRTeam@idemia.com 41 CSR Report 2019 | IDEMIA CSR REPORT CSR Report 2019 | 42 IDEMIA CSR REPORT Report by the independent third party on the consolidated corporate social responsibility Information Report by the independent third party on the consolidated corporate social responsibility Information IDEMIA France 2 place Samuel de Champlain, 92400 Courbevoie For the year ended December 31, 2019 To the Shareholders, In our capacity as independent third party for IDEMIA we hereby report to you on the Corporate Social Responsibility indicators (hereinafter named “CSR Information”) for Corporate Social Responsibility Report related to the year ended December 31, 2019. Company’s responsibility IDEMIA is responsible for preparing the following CSR Information: Employee engagement measured by annual polls (qualitative sentence) Employees receiving a regular performance and career development review CO2 equivalent emissions per employee Independence and quality control Our independence is defined by the provisions of article L. 822-11-3 of the French Commercial Code, in addition, we have implemented a system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with the ISO17020 requirements and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Responsibility of the independent third party verifier On the basis of our work, our responsibility is to provide a report expressing a limited assurance conclusion on: the fairness of the Corporate Social Responsibility indicators for Corporate Social Responsibility Report (hereinafter the “Information”). However, it is not our responsibility to comment on the entity’s compliance with other applicable legal and regulatory provisions, in particular the French duty of care law and anti-corruption and tax evasion legislation and the compliance of products and services with the applicable regulations. Nature and scope of our work SAS CABINET DE SAINT FRONT 3, rue Brindejonc des Moulinais 31500 Toulouse Tél. : 05 61 24 74 40 www.cabinetdesaintfront.fr e-mail : secretariat@cabinetdesaintfront.fr Cabinet de Saint Front, Cabinet spécialisé en Développement durable N° SIRET : 494 642 978 00014 CODE NAF / 7022Z Société anonyme par actions simplifiée – Capital de 15 000,00€ 43 CSR Report 2019 | IDEMIA CSR REPORT Report by the independent third party on the consolidated corporate social responsibility Information CSR verification report-REV03-16-04-2020 RV_300089 31/12/2019 The work described below was conducted to assess the fairness of the Information: we obtained an understanding of all the activities of the companies included in the scope of consolidation; we referred to documentary sources and conducted interviews in order to: o assess the consistency of the indicators; o corroborate the information (measures, outcomes and qualitative information) that we considered to be important1; we asked what internal control and risk management procedures the entity has put in place and we assessed the data collection process implemented by the entity to ensure the completeness and fairness of the Information; for the indicators and other quantitative outcomes that we considered to be the most important2, we implemented: o analytical procedures to verify the proper consolidation of the data collected and the consistency of any changes in those data, o substantive tests, using sampling techniques, in order to verify the proper application of the definitions and procedures and reconcile the data with the supporting documents. We believe that the work conducted based on our professional judgement, are sufficient to provide a basis for our limited assurance conclusion; a higher level of assurance would have required us to carry out more extensive procedures. Means and resources Our work was carried out by a team of 5 people in April 2020. 1 Measures, outcomes and other qualitative information: Trade compliance and business ethics e-learning Internal Export Compliance Program Establishment of data protection policies Trade compliance procedure Conflict minerals – “we control a full list of mineral sourcing partners” Focus placed on identifying risks of modern slavery in our supply chain, including an annual assessment of their labor practices. Total number of identified leaks, thefts, or losses of customer data GDPR completion rate Number of employees trained on CSR fundamentals Social Policy One People Identity Program Lost Time Injury Certifications ISO 45000 Idemia institute Waste management with the support of recycling companies Waste management per site All manufacturing sites are covered by ISO14001 certifications Program of eco-design Chairing the Eurosmart committee Supplier Code of Conduct Audit or assessment of suppliers on CSR issues % Compliance of suppliers to policy on corruption 2 Quantitative Indicators: Employee engagement measured by annual polls (qualitative sentence) Employees receiving a regular performance and career development review CO2 equivalent emissions per employee 2 CSR Report 2019 | 44 IDEMIA CSR REPORT Report by the independent third party on the consolidated corporate social responsibility Information CSR verification report-REV03-16-04-2020 RV_300089 31/12/2019 Conclusion Based on our work, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Information, taken as a whole, is not presented fairly. Comments: Without qualifying our conclusion, the reader’s attention is drawn to the paragraph “IDEMIA’s Material Topics” concerning the policies and the consolidation scope. Toulouse, 28th April 2020 THE INDEPENDENT THIRD PARTY SAS CABINET DE SAINT FRONT Pauline de SAINT FRONT Director Associate . 3 45 CSR Report 2019 | IDEMIA CSR REPORT © Copyright 2019. All rights reserved. IDEMIA | EN 12/19 | Photo: iStock, IDEMIA IDEMIA Headquarters 2 Place Samuel de Champlain, 92400 Courbevoie, France Phone: +33 (0)1 73 60 20 20 Email : info@idemia.com All rights reserved. Specifications and information subject to change without notice. The products described in this document are subject to continuous development and improvement. All trademarks and service marks referred to herein, whether registered or not in specific countries, are the property of their respective owners. CSR Report 2019 | 46
