Natural Capital Partners’ Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact February 2020 Statement of Continued Support, from Stephen Killeen, President & CEO To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Natural Capital Partners, as a United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Participant, reaffirms its support for the Ten Principles of the UNGC in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this Communication on Progress, we describe our work since our last submission in February 2019 to deepen the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Stephen J. Killeen President & CEO London: 167 Fleet Street, London, EC4A 2EA +44 20 7833 6000 New York: 1732 First Avenue, Suite 20732, New York, New York 10128 +1 212 390 8835 info@naturalcapitalpartners.com naturalcapitalpartners.com Natural Capital Partners Europe Limited Registered in England No: 02979872 VAT No: 728827790 Registered Office: 167 Fleet Street, London EC4A 2EA, United Kingdom 2020 Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact 27 February 2020, Page 2 of 5 2020 Communication on Progress Introduction to Natural Capital Partners With more than 300 clients in 34 countries, including Microsoft, MetLife, Logitech, PwC, Sky and Ørsted, Natural Capital Partners (formerly known as The CarbonNeutral Company) is harnessing the power of business to create a more sustainable world. Through a global network of projects, the company delivers the highest quality solutions to make real change possible by reducing carbon emissions, generating renewable energy, building resilience in supply chains, conserving forests and biodiversity, and improving health and livelihoods. We are a privately held business founded in 1997 and our team of 26 people is based in the US, Europe and Central America. Since we began, we have contracted more than 43 million tonnes of carbon credits from 489 projects in 64 countries on behalf of our clients. Over the past four years we have contracted 19 million MWh of energy attribute certificates from 43 countries In addition, we have received the Environmental Finance Best Offset Retailer award for the past nine years. The CarbonNeutral Protocol was created by Natural Capital Partners in 2002. It was the first clear set of guidelines for businesses to achieve carbon neutrality and every year since then we have continued our commitment to providing a robust framework for credible carbon neutral action. The Protocol is reviewed annually with input from our Advisory Council of external experts to ensure it reflects best practice in emissions measurement and reductions. How we manage our Global Compact Commitments Natural Capital Partners became a signatory to the Global Compact in 2010. The Company continues to work on incorporating its commitments under the Global Compact into our strategy, operations, and management procedures. Our approach to assuring compliance with our commitments is based upon a qualitative assessment of risks in each of the ten areas of focus as defined by the Global Compact. Areas of highest risk relate to risk exposures within our supply chain – specifically climate mitigation and adaptation projects in the least developed and developing economies from which we source market-based instruments such as carbon credits, energy attribute certificates, water benefit certificates and others. In calendar year 2019 this activity accounted for approximately 72% of our discretionary spend and covered more than 462 contracts in 46 countries of which 7 are classified as least developed nations. The remaining spend is in low risk categories including professional services, travel, and office accommodation – purchased from suppliers selected for their professionalism and commitment to sustainable development. Table 1, below, summarises our risks assessment, related risk controls and areas of planned risk management improvement. 2020 Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact 27 February 2020, Page 3 of 5 Table 1: Risk Assessment and Responses Across Ten Principles Human Rights Level Operational Operational Priority Areas of Risk Controls Tools Support and respect the protection Company policy Deepen project 1 of internationally proclaimed human Medium & due diligence Supplier Code partner vetting; rights. procedures of Conduct; Extend incountry and Company policy house due Make sure that they are not project partner 2 Medium & due diligence diligence complicit in human rights abuses. due diligence procedures process Labour Uphold the freedom of association Company policy 3 & effective recognition of the right to Low & due diligence collective bargaining. procedures Deepen project Staff partner and Company policy Handbook; supplier vetting Eliminate all forms of forced and 4 Low & due diligence Supplier Code through compulsory labour. procedures of Conduct & Supplier Code Company policy due diligence of Conduct and Work for the effective abolition of processes in-person 5 Medium & due diligence child labour. project visits procedures Company policy Eliminate discrimination in respect 6 Low & due diligence of employment and occupation. procedures Environment Advocacy through our Use of best-inmembership of Support a precautionary approach 7 Low class third-party industry to environmental challenges. standards associations including Core purpose of ICROA & IETA our business is Undertake initiatives to promote Maintain our the delivery of Product and 8 greater environmental Low CarbonNeutral® positive service sales responsibility. status environmental impact Develop new products & Encourage the development and services in Supply partner 9 diffusion of environmentally friendly Low plastics waste activities technologies. management and blue carbon (mangroves) Anti-corruption Employee Deepen Work against corruption in all its Financial Handbook supplier 10 forms, including extortion and Medium management & policy & engagement & bribery. controls procedures vetting With respect to Principle 8, Natural Capital Partners is a CarbonNeutral® company certified to the requirements of The CarbonNeutral Protocol. We calculate our greenhouse gas emission footprint and offset unavoidable emissions annually for the prior year within six months of the calendar year2020 Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact 27 February 2020, Page 4 of 5 end. For calendar year 2018, our carbon footprint was 140 tonnes of CO2e. A different approach was taken in 2018 when completing our footprint calculations. Specifically, homeworkers are now accounted for in Scope 3 emissions rather than broken into Scope 1 and 2 emissions, to reflect best practice in accounting for our increasingly virtual organisation. Doing so has reduced our Scope 1 and 2 emissions but has increased Scope 3 emissions respectively. Renewable Energy Guarantees of Origin were retired to zero-rate our 2 tonnes of CO2e for Scope 2 emissions arising from our UK office (14 MWh). The remaining Scope 1 and 3 emissions of 138 tonnes CO2e were offset by retiring a mixed portfolio of carbon credits generated under the Clean Development Mechanism (36%), American Carbon Registry (36%), and Verified Carbon Standard (28%). The main tools we use to manage our Global Compact commitments across the business are our Employee Handbook and our detailed sourcing due diligence procedures. The Employee Handbook includes policies that together cover the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, including specifically: • Dignity at work and harassment • Disability in employment • Diversity • Equal opportunity • Age discrimination • Anti-bribery • UN Global Compact Natural Capital Partners’ commitment to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact: • applies to all personnel, namely directors, officers and employees of Natural Capital Partners, its subsidiaries, as well as appointed affiliates and/or third-parties acting on behalf the Company from time to time; and, • relates to business activities with any individuals, private commercial organisations, subnational, national and international governmental or public-sector bodies, and any other organisations with which the Company interacts directly or indirectly in the course of its business-related activities. All Company personnel are responsible individually and collectively for our commitments under the United Nations Global Compact. Specifically, personnel must: • not by act or omission knowingly breach the spirit and purpose of the Global Compact; • follow the mandated Company procedures designed to ensure adherence with the Ten Principles, and which may be developed from time to time to improve our management of associated risks; • take steps to require that third parties engaged on the Company’s behalf conduct Natural Capital Partners business to ethical and professional standards consistent with the aims and objectives of the Global Compact; and, • promptly report to the Company any known or suspected instances or circumstances where the Company’s personnel, or those doing business on the Company’s behalf, may be acting counter to the spirit and purpose of the Global Compact. 2020 Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact 27 February 2020, Page 5 of 5 Performance Improvement and Compliance During the past year we have: 1. Deepened our engagement with project partners with the continued implementation of our Supplier Code of Conduct. 2. Enhanced and further developed our proprietary supplier due diligence procedures and controls. 3. Extended our service portfolio to include financing for projects and programmes addressing plastic waste, mangrove restoration and reforestation. . 4. Deepened our ability to deliver against Sustainable Development Goals by including impact reporting across our carbon mitigation project portfolio. These areas remain the focus of our performance improvements. Annual reporting on non-compliance and ongoing improvements Internal checks and controls have not identified material instances of non-compliance with our policies since our last Communication of Progress. Our next Communication on Progress will be at the end of February 2021. _____________________________________________________
