E SG Environment Society Governance ESG Report 2019 Building a Sustainable Society ⽇本語 English ESG Report Latest News 2019.12 Third-party verication is now online. 2019.08 The ESG Report 2019 is now online. Information may be added to the ESG Report 2019 without prior notice. Privacy Policy Basic Policy on Specic Personal Information Concerning Protection of Personal Information Concerning Cookies and Access Logs Usage Notice © 2019 Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. ⽇本語 English ESG Report ESG Information and SDGs and Neighborhood Creation ESG Information Regarding the Disclosure of our ESG Report Third-party Verication List View of ESG Information Environment Environmental Initiatives Policy Environmental Management System Water Environmental Pollution and Resources Climate Change Biodiversity Environmentally Friendly Supply Chain Other Environmental Data Society Health and Safety Labor Standards and Practices Human Rights Social Supply Chain Consumer Issues Community Involvement and Development Improving the Quality of Urban Development Safe and Secure Neighborhood Creation Creating New Value and Markets through Neighborhood Creation Governance Risk Management Corruption Prevention Corporate Governance SDGs and Neighborhood Creation TOPICS Privacy Policy Basic Policy on Specic Personal Information Concerning Protection of Personal Information Concerning Cookies and Access Logs Usage Notice © 2019 Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. ⽇本語 English ESG Report Management’s Commitment ESG Report TOP ESG Information SDGs and Neighborhood Creation ESG at the Mitsui Fudosan Regarding the Disclosure of our The Mitsui Fudosan Group: A Management’s Commitment Group ESG Report History of Value Creation Environment Society Governance Special Reports Third-party Verication The Mitsui Fudosan Group and SDGs List View of ESG Information Management’s Commitment Accelerating ESG Management Based on the Group Long-Term Vision, VISION 2025 Recent years have seen an acceleration in international initiatives to address social challenges. These include the Paris Agreement, an international framework to respond to climate change, and the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) aimed at solving global challenges. As such, it is also becoming increasingly important for enterprises to contribute to sustainable growth through their commercial activities. Based on the ideals of coexisting in harmony with society, linking diverse values, and achieving a sustainable society, as symbolized by its logo, the Mitsui Fudosan Group is working to build societies that enrich people’s lives and our planet. Under our byword, we pursue ESG management and conduct business with awareness of our responsibilities with respect to the Environment, Society, and Governance. Against this background, VISION 2025, our Group long-term vision, outlines our primary objective as follows: Successfully establish a sustainable society through the creation of neighborhoods. We have also laid out the following six materiality goals, reecting our commitment to further accelerate the Group's ESG management. 1. Establish ultra-smart societies by creating neighborhoods 2. Achieve a society where a diverse workforce can thrive 3. Achieve health, safety and security in people’s daily lives 4. Create new industries through open innovation 5. Reduce environmental impact and generate energy 6. Continuously improve compliance and governance We believe that by working toward these objectives, we can contribute in a signicant way to the Japanese government’s Society 5.0 vision and to the attainment of the UN’s SDGs. Furthermore, in scal 2019, we established an ESG Promotion Committee, comprising executive management, as well as a specialized entity, the ESG Promotion Department. We are further bolstering our organizational structure toward acceleration of ESG management. Moreover, we participate in the UN Global Compact, an international initiative that underlies our Group ideals and objectives, and have joined the Global Compact Network Japan. The Compact consists of Ten Principles across the four areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. Our aim is to conform to these principles and, through our commercial activities, work to address the challenges that face society. Successfully Establish a Sustainable Society Through the Creation of Neighborhoods The Mitsui Fudosan Group carries on the enterprising spirit the Mitsui Group has maintained since its founding. As we create value by discerning the paradigm shifts that mark every era, we have worked to address social challenges through neighborhood creation. Neighborhood creation by the Mitsui Fudosan Group is playing a signicant role in building a sustainable society through such developments as Kashiwa-no-ha Smart City, which aims to realize environmental harmony, health and longevity, and new industry creation, as well as the Nihonbashi Revitalization Plan, which is stimulating local society and culture and bolstering disaster preparedness across the entire region. Furthermore, as a Real Estate Development Category Gold Partner for the Olympic and Paralympic Games Tokyo 2020, we are promoting neighborhood creation through the power of sports, working to maintain and enhance people’s mental and physical health, and energize the local community. Each of our neighborhood creation initiatives is helping to address a wide range of social issues, including a falling birthrate, an aging society, and environmental problems, as well as the need for safe and secure lifestyles and new industry creation. We believe that these efforts will lead not only to the creation of social value, but raise our corporate value. Environment: E We believe that contributing to the realization of a low-carbon society—through the creation of neighborhoods and facilities that consume less energy and emit less greenhouse gases, as well as services and facility management practices with limited environmental impact—is our social mission as a developer engaged in neighborhood creation. In particular, we recognize the signicant risk to our business that climate change represents, and have positioned efforts to reduce such risk through our commercial activities as an important management task. Moreover, we are engaged in active efforts to meet the diverse challenges facing the environment—including biodiversity and water resource conservation, environmental pollution prevention, and the reduction of resource consumption and waste generation—in all of our business areas, from ofce buildings and commercial facilities to residences and more. In addition, we see environmental challenges as business opportunities, and are creating such new businesses as the Nihonbashi Smart Energy Project, which helps conserve energy and reduce CO2 emissions through local energy generation and consumption. Going forward, we will continue to create comfortable environments for customers and local societies, and engage in comprehensive activities to preserve the environment and respond to the challenge of climate change. Society: S Respect for individual human rights is of paramount importance in offering people settings for business and residential life through neighborhood creation. In addition to supporting and respecting the principles embodied in the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the International Labour Organization’s (ILO) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, we promote respect for human rights throughout every aspect of our business. Furthermore, the Mitsui Fudosan Group is engaged in internal workstyle reform activities based on the three pillars of awareness reform, infrastructure improvements, and work reform in organizational units, and we are creating ofce environments where our employees can work with enhanced motivation. Moreover, in addition to creating environments where a diverse workforce can demonstrate their capabilities regardless of race, nationality, religion, sex, age, and other attributes, we are promoting measures to support diverse ways of working to accommodate different life stages, including a work-at-home system, and a nancial support system for those balancing work and child/nursing care. During the previous scal year, with awareness of the heavy social responsibilities we bear as an enterprise doing business in a wide range of areas with numerous partners, we formulated the Mitsui Fudosan Group Sustainable Procurement Standards. The Group and its partners shared basic policies, and through strict adherence to those policies, the entire supply chain will promote ESG. Governance: G Because we rely on the trust of individuals, neighborhoods, and society, the Mitsui Fudosan Group regards risk management, compliance, and governance as extremely important themes that are fundamental to our business. In particular, with respect to our international business, which has expanded rapidly in recent years, we regard strict compliance and strengthened governance as pressing challenges. In addition to bolstering further the compliance and governance structures at the parent and at our international local corporations, we are working to manage business risk appropriately and practice thorough due diligence. Going forward, and taking a broad view of global trends, changes in the structure of society, changes in stakeholder attitudes toward corporate management, and other factors in our operating environment, we will work to continuously review and strengthen our corporate governance and reinforce the soundness, transparency, and efciency of our management. This ESG Report 2019 provides updated information concerning the Mitsui Fudosan Group’s ESG policies and activities, to enable our stakeholders to accurately assess our Group corporate value as we work toward the achievement of a sustainable society. We hope this report will be useful in deepening understanding of the Mitsui Fudosan Group, and we look forward to your continued support and valued input. The Group Statement, Vision, and Mission (outline) Our Group's Aspirations GROUP STATEMENT 2025 VISION The Mitsui Fudosan Group aims to bring afuence and comfort to urban living Successfully establish a sustainable GROUP VISION society through the creation of neighborhoods The Philosophy Coexisting in harmony with society, linking diverse values, and achieving a sustainable society Evolution and value creation Harness technology to innovate the A protable and growing Mitsui Fudosan Group real estate business GROUP MISSION Provide business and lifestyle-related solutions and Evolve into a global company services Work in partnership with customers from a global perspective Raise our corporate value Create a strong corporate group by building the capabilities of individuals Established in June 1999, revised in April 2018 Relationships Between Materiality Goals, ESG Issues and SDGs We believe the materiality goals of the Mitsui Fudosan Group for establishing a sustainable society are linked with solution of the main ESG issues, and achievement of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The relationships of priority goals, ESG issues and SDGs are as indicated in the following table. Establish ultraAchieve a society Achieve health, Reduce Continuously Materiality goals for smart societies by where a diverse safety and security Create new environmental improve industries through the Mitsui Fudosan Group creating workforce can in people's daily impact and compliance and open innovation neighborhoods thrive lives generate energy governance Main ESG issues Water ● ● ● ● Environmental Pollution and Resources ● ● ● ● E Climate Change ● ● ● ● Biodiversity ● ● Environmentally Friendly Supply Chain ● ● ● ● Health and Safety ● ● ● ● ● Labor Standards and Practices ● ● ● S Human Rights and Community ● ● ● ● ● Social Supply Chain ● ● ● ● ● Risk Management ● ● G Corruption Prevention ● ● Corporate Governance ● ● 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 1 No poverty ● ● ● 2 Zero hunger ● ● 3 Good health and well-being ● ● ● 4 Quality education ● ● ● 5 Gender equality ● ● ● 6 Clean water and sanitation ● ● ● 7 Affordable and clean energy ● ● ● ● 8 Decent work and economic growth ● ● ● Industry, innovation and 9 infrastructure ● ● ● 10 Reduced inequalities ● ● ● ● 11 Sustainable cities and communities ● ● ● ● ● ● Responsible consumption and 12 production ● ● Establish ultraAchieve a society Achieve health, Reduce Continuously Materiality goals for smart societies by where a diverse safety and security Create new environmental improve industries through the Mitsui Fudosan Group creating workforce can in people's daily impact and compliance and open innovation neighborhoods thrive lives generate energy governance 13 Climate action ● ● ● 14 Life below water ● ● 15 Life on land ● ● Peace, justice and strong 16 institutions ● ● ● 17 Partnerships for the goals ● ● ● Privacy Policy Basic Policy on Specic Personal Information Concerning Protection of Personal Information Concerning Cookies and Access Logs Usage Notice © 2019 Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. ⽇本語 English ESG Report ESG at the Mitsui Fudosan Group ESG Report TOP ESG Information SDGs and Neighborhood Creation ESG at the Mitsui Fudosan Regarding the Disclosure of our The Mitsui Fudosan Group: A Management’s Commitment Group ESG Report History of Value Creation Environment Society Governance Special Reports Third-party Verication The Mitsui Fudosan Group and SDGs List View of ESG Information ESG at the Mitsui Fudosan Group Statement, Vision, and Mission The Mitsui Fudosan Group's Statement, Vision, and Mission embody management's basic philosophy and vision of bringing afuence and comfort to urban living. Since their formulation in 1999, they have guided the Mitsui Fudosan Group as an integrated management policy. GROUP STATEMENT The Mitsui Fudosan Group aims to bring afuence and comfort to urban living. The Mitsui Fudosan Group's Statement, Vision, and Mission embody management's basic philosophy and vision. Since their formulation in 1999, they have guided the Mitsui Fudosan Group as an integrated management policy. GROUP VISION What we want to be The Philosophy Seeking to link diverse values and coexist in harmony with society, and achieve a sustainable society, as symbolized by the Mitsui Fudosan logo, we will work to foster social and economic development as well as preservation of the global environment. Under , we will aim for a society that enriches both people and the planet. Evolution and value creation By bringing knowledge and experience together in diverse ways, we seek to advance the real estate business and create new value, both at home and abroad, proactively responding to global changes in social environments and market structures. A protable and growing Mitsui Fudosan Group We seek to create a protable and growing Mitsui Fudosan Group, acting honestly and fairly to realize the capabilities of the entire organization. GROUP MISSION What is expected of us Provide business and lifestyle-related solutions and services Maximize urban value creation by providing secure, safe, and attractive urban spaces and soft services that bring enrichment and comfort to urban living. Provide variable and innovative solutions that stimulate the real estate investment market. Work in partnership with customers from a global perspective Treat customers as the business foundation on which to progress and develop the Company. Propose and provide products and services by deploying the collaborative strength of the Group with a multidisciplinary approach that meets the real needs of customers. Work in partnership with customers to raise brand value by continuously providing services that are highly valued by them. Raise our corporate value Raise corporate value through sustainable prot growth and continual innovation. Optimize the allocation and use of available resources and pursue efcient operations. Conduct operations while closely monitoring and managing business risks. Create a strong corporate group by building the capabilities of individuals Seek to maintain a creative and pioneering spirit by integrating various skills and values. Cultivate and institutionalize the professional capabilities of individuals to raise our creative ability for value-added products and services. Maintain high awareness of ethical, disciplinary, and compliance issues, and act accordingly. The &EARTH Principle The Mitsui Fudosan Group is committed to social and economic development as well as global environmental preservation under the principles of coexisting in harmony with society, linking diverse values, and achieving a sustainable society represented by its corporate logo. Under our principle, we recognize the need to create neighborhoods that remain in tune with environmental concerns. This principle therefore reects our aim to help establish a society that enriches both people and the planet. Policy for Addressing ESG Issues in VISION 2025 In VISION 2025, our objective is to achieve a sustainable society and drive continual prot growth by addressing ESG issues based on the philosophy of the Mitsui Fudosan & logo. 1. Establish ultra-smart societies by creating neighborhoods 2. Achieve a society where a diverse workforce can thrive 3. Achieve health, safety and security in people's daily lives 4. Create new industries through open innovation 5. Reduce environmental impact and generate energy 6. Continuously improve compliance and governance Through these efforts, we will help to realize Society 5.0 and achieve SDGs. Policy for Environmental Initiatives (E) Guided by its Group Environmental Policy, the Mitsui Fudosan Group engages in the three core environmental activities of load reduction (reducing the impact of products and services on the environment), quality improvement (enhancing safety, security, and comfort while ensuring sustainability), and cooperation (collaborating and cooperating with various stakeholders) in an integrated manner. The Group Environmental Policy (Established November 1, 2001; Revised April 1, 2018) Environmental Principles We at Mitsui Fudosan are committed to social and economic development as well as global environmental preservation under the principles of coexisting in harmony with society, linking diverse values, and achieving a sustainable society represented by our corporate logo. Under the principles of the logo, represents our Group Vision. symbolizes our recognition that urban development is interlinked with the planet and our aim of a society that enriches both people and the planet. Contributing to the building of a society that realizes the sustainable development of human life is our corporate mission, and we consider this an important business challenge directly related to increasing corporate value. Positioning the promotion of business while addressing collaboration and cooperation with the community, reduction of environmental burden and improvement of security, safety, and comfort as vital to harmonious coexistence with the environment, we endeavor to create urban environments of enrichment and comfort and contribute to the global environment. Environmental Policy 1. We aim to take countermeasures against global warming and create a recycling society by striving to improve environmental efciency, reduce environmental burden, conserve energy/resources, reduce waste materials and prevent pollution. 2. We aim to both reduce environmental burden and improve security, safety, and comfort with widespread and comprehensive promotion of water and biodiversity conservation and introduction of diversied and independent energy sources, in addition to low carbon. 3. In collaboration and cooperation with all of society including our customers, local communities, and the government, we proactively address harmonious coexistence with the environment, build a society that realizes sustainable development, and implement highly effective environmental measures. 4. We will expand environment-conscious urban development such as smart cities both at home and abroad and aim to be an environmentally advanced company that plays a leading role in the future of urban development. 5. In addition to adhering to environment-related laws and regulations, we will establish our own standards as necessary and promote harmonious coexistence with the environment. 6. Through environmental training and awareness-enhancing activities, we ensure that all Mitsui Fudosan Group employees have a solid understanding of our Environmental Policy and increase their environmental awareness. 7. We provide full public disclosure of necessary information relating to such matters as our environmental initiatives, and promote open communication with society at large through promotional activities. Policy for Social Initiatives (S) Through neighborhood creation, the Mitsui Fudosan Group is actively working to resolve issues in areas such as safety and security, local communities, culture, education, and human rights. We have put in place a Policy for Social Contribution Initiatives to ensure that each Group company and department follows a common and uniform direction. Based on this policy, we are active in four cores areas: the global environment, local communities, culture and education, and international exchange. The Mitsui Fudosan Group's Policy for Social Contribution Initiatives (Formulated March 27, 2013) In line with our Group Statement that focuses on efforts to bring afuence and comfort to urban living, we actively contribute to society by revitalizing and creating urban areas while engaging in various activities from a global perspective, to provide afuence and comfort with the aim of achieving the sustained development of society and the economy. 1. We are primarily involved in four areas: the global environment, local communities, culture and education, and international exchange. 2. We strive to achieve harmony with local communities, and 3. We proactively make use of our own resources, including properties, networks, and personnel. Policy for Governance Initiatives (G) The Mitsui Fudosan Group aims to create and maintain optimal corporate governance from the standpoint of improving the soundness, transparency and efciency of management in order to gain the trust of its stakeholders. The Mitsui Fudosan Group sets up and manages an internal control system that conforms to the Companies Act. We endeavor to put in place systems to ensure that the execution of business by directors and employees complies with laws and regulations and the Company's Articles of Incorporation. With this in mind, the Board of Directors of Mitsui Fudosan formulated the Basic Policy on the Internal Control System and maintains its proper operation. Moreover, we have also put in place company regulations and systems to ensure that Group directors and employees engage in business activities in an appropriate manner, such as by formulating the Mitsui Fudosan Group Compliance Policy. Basic Policy to Put in Place an Internal Control System That Will Ensure the Proper Execution of Business Activities by a Company Limited by Shares 1. System to ensure that execution of business by directors conforms to laws and regulations and the Company's Articles of Incorporation The Company is working to ensure compliance through formulation and implementation of a compliance promotion plan, based on its Compliance Rules and other internal rules. The Company has also established a Risk Management Special Committee and put in place a compliance structure to prevent violations of laws and regulations and its Articles of Incorporation. 2. System related to storage and management of information concerning the execution of business by directors All information is appropriately stored and managed according to internal rules, including the Document Rules, the Information Management Rules and the Information System Management Rules. 3. Regulations and other frameworks related to prevention of losses Based on Risk Management Regulations and other internal rules, the Executive Management Committee supervises and controls risk management items concerning the Company or the Mitsui Fudosan Group. It heads two committees charged with uncovering and comprehending risk issues and devising solutions for them-the Strategy Planning Special Committee, which handles business risk management, and the Risk Management Special Committee, which is responsible for management of administrative risk. In addition, the Crisis Management Subcommittee, which reports to the Risk Management Special Committee, was established to meet when necessary to respond to accidents and other highly urgent matters. 4. Framework for ensuring that the business of directors is executed efciently To promote the separation and strengthening of the management and executive functions for which directors are responsible, the Company has adopted a corporate ofcer system, part of a framework intended to ensure that the business of directors is executed efciently. Concerning the execution of business based on decisions of the Board of Directors, internal rules, including organizational rules and rules governing administrative authority, set forth who is in charge and their responsibilities and promote efcient business by also setting forth procedures for execution. 5. A system to ensure that the execution of business by employees conforms to laws and regulations and the Company's Articles of Incorporation The Company is working to ensure compliance through formulation and implementation of a compliance promotion plan, based on its Compliance Rules and other internal rules. The Company has also established a Risk Management Special Committee and put in place a compliance structure to prevent violations of laws and regulations and its Articles of Incorporation. In addition, based on its Internal Control System Rules, the Company has established a point of contact for consultation regarding compliance problems both inside and outside the Company. Further, based on Internal Audit Rules, the Internal Audit Department audits the operation of the compliance framework as well as compliance with laws and regulations, and reports to the Board of Directors and the Board of Corporate Auditors. 6. Framework for ensuring appropriate business practices by the corporate group comprising the Company and its subsidiaries Through appropriate management of its Subsidiaries and Afliates Administration Rules and Overseas Afliates Administration Rules, the Company seeks to ensure the efcient execution of business by directors of its subsidiaries, while management is based on approval and monitoring by Mitsui Fudosan. Each Group company also has in place a compliance framework and Internal Control System based on the Mitsui Fudosan Group Compliance Policies. The Internal Audit Department conducts audits of the subsidiaries' compliance frameworks and their compliance with laws and regulations, and reports to the Board of Directors and the Board of Corporate Auditors. 7. A system for employees to assist auditors with their duties and matters concerning the assurance of independence of these employees from directors and the effectiveness of instructions given to these employees The Corporate Auditor's Department has been established specically to assist the corporate auditors with their work, and each corporate auditor has been assigned a dedicated employee. Said employee shall be under the chain of command of the corporate auditor, who shall also evaluate the employee's performance. Transfer of said employee shall take place only upon prior discussion with the corporate auditor. 8. Frameworks for enabling directors and employees to report to the corporate auditors, for other reporting to the corporate auditors, and for ensuring that audits by the corporate auditors are conducted effectively Corporate auditors attend meetings of the Board of Directors. Full-time corporate auditors also attend meetings of the Executive Management Committee, which oversees internal controls and risk management, receives reports when necessary, and shares these at meetings of the Board of Corporate Auditors. In addition, the corporate auditors receive regular audit reports from the Internal Audit Department and the Company's certied public accountant, and exchange information to build cooperation. Matters that have become subject to internal consulting are reported to the corporate auditors as appropriate via the Risk Management Special Committee, and the Internal Control System Rules contain provisions stating that the act of consulting itself will not be reason for detrimental treatment of the person requesting consultation. 9. Framework for enabling directors, auditors and employees of subsidiaries, or individuals receiving reports from those listed, to report to corporate auditors, and for ensuring that individuals providing such reports will not, by reason of having made said report, be subject to detrimental treatment as a result Full-time corporate auditors attend meetings of the Executive Management Committee, which oversees internal controls and risk management, receives reports as necessary, and shares them with the Board of Corporate Auditors. They also work to exchange information as appropriate with the directors and auditors of the Company's subsidiaries, either directly or through relevant departments, and receive progress reports on implementation of internal audits at subsidiaries. Matters subject to internal consulting under the internal consulting system of each Group company are also reported to the Company's corporate auditors as appropriate via the Risk Management Special Committee. Rules regarding each Group company's internal consulting system contain provisions stating that the act of consulting itself will not be reason for detrimental treatment of the person requesting consultation. 10. Policies regarding procedures for prepayment or reimbursement of expenses arising in the execution of the corporate auditors' duties or related to processing of other expenses and liabilities arising from execution of those duties Expenses required for the execution of the corporate auditors' duties shall be borne by the Company at cost. Mitsui Fudosan Group Compliance Policy (established April 28, 2005; revised August 1, 2018) Introduction We have engaged in fair business activities based on the highest corporate ethics and worked diligently to garner trust and build a robust brand. However, these tireless efforts to build a robust brand strength can be lost in an instant by the erroneous actions of a single individual. As a result, proper decision-making and behavior will continue to increase in importance. To accomplish this, we regard the practice of compliance as one of our highest priorities for Group management and implement fair and highly transparent corporate activities in accordance with corporate ethics, in addition to observing laws and regulations as well as social norms. Denition of Compliance Ensuring legitimate and fair corporate activities by observing laws, regulations, and internal rules, and giving proper consideration to norms of ordinary society, and corporate ethics. Aims for Compliance Honest Conduct 1. We shall aim not simply to comply with laws and regulations, but rather recognize our company's social responsibility and be a good corporate citizen. 2. We shall ensure mutual respect of human rights, personalities, and values. 3. Even if news is bad, it shall be promptly reported to top management, and we shall strive to respond properly. 4. In carrying out work, the top priority shall be placed on the safety of customers and the workplace environment. Fair Conduct 1. We shall carry out corporate activities with fairness and a high degree of transparency, in accordance with corporate ethics. 2. We shall properly disclose information to society and ensure the transparency and soundness of our management. 3. We shall take an uncompromising stance toward antisocial organizations and reject any relationship whatsoever. 4. We shall not engage in wrongful discrimination based on nationality, social status, beliefs, sex, age, disability or sexual orientation/gender identity (so-called LGBT), etc. Abiding by Rules 1. We shall abide by all relevant laws, regulations, and internal rules, and give proper consideration to social norms and corporate ethics. 2. We shall carefully protect and manage personal information and other information requiring condentiality. 3. We shall not exchange gifts or provide entertainment to obtain illegitimate advantages. 4. We shall not pursue personal gain by using undisclosed or internal information. 5. We shall avoid conduct that may negatively affect our company's reputation or operations even outside of working hours. When Unable to Decide, Ask Yourself the Following... 1. Is my conduct honest? 2. Is my conduct fair? 3. Is it conduct you can explain to your family, friends, and the society at large without being ashamed? Privacy Policy Basic Policy on Specic Personal Information Concerning Protection of Personal Information Concerning Cookies and Access Logs Usage Notice © 2019 Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. ⽇本語 English ESG Report Regarding the Disclosure of our ESG Report ESG Report TOP ESG Information SDGs and Neighborhood Creation ESG at the Mitsui Fudosan Regarding the Disclosure of our The Mitsui Fudosan Group: A Management’s Commitment Group ESG Report History of Value Creation Environment Society Governance Special Reports Third-party Verication The Mitsui Fudosan Group and SDGs List View of ESG Information Regarding the Disclosure of our ESG Report Disclosure Policy The ESG Report 2019 on this website reports on topics such as the environmental (E), social (S) and governance (G) policies and efforts of the Mitsui Fudosan Group. It discloses a wide range of initiatives relating to ESG, together with quantitative data on each initiative. On the List View of ESG Information page, headings of all ESG content covered in this report are given in list form; select the heading you are interested in to go directly to the page describing those efforts. In the Integrated Report issued separately by our company, we have expanded coverage of ESG information, and made non-nancial information more comprehensive and cohesive. Scope of Report The ESG Report 2019 covers the environmental, social, and governance-related efforts of the Mitsui Fudosan Group. Numerical gures and other information relating to our environmental efforts apply mainly to the following group companies. Group Companies Covered by the Report (Environment) Ofce Buildings Business Mitsui Fudosan Building Management Co., Ltd. Mitsui Fudosan Facilities Co., Ltd. Retail Properties Business Mitsui Fudosan Retail Management Co., Ltd. Hotels and Resorts Business Mitsui Fudosan Hotel Management Co., Ltd. Housing Business Mitsui Fudosan Residential Co., Ltd. Mitsui Fudosan Residential Service Co., Ltd. Mitsui Fudosan Residential Lease Co., Ltd. Mitsui Fudosan Realty Co., Ltd. Mitsui Home Co., Ltd. Mitsui Fudosan Reform Co., Ltd. Real Estate Solutions Business Mitsui Fudosan Investment Advisors, Inc. Other Businesses Tokyo Midtown Management Co., Ltd. Mitsui Fudosan Architectural Engineering Co., Ltd. Daiichi Engei Co., Ltd. Period Covered by the Report The ESG Report 2019 mainly covers activities undertaken from April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019. However, details are also provided for certain ongoing development projects both at the design and construction phase. In principle, quantitative data related to scal 2018, the scal year from April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019. The period covered for quantitative data outside scal 2018 is identied in each instance. The report indicates which policies, declarations, and commitments for each ESG activity were announced for the rst time in scal 2018, which were revised, and which were continued. Reference Guidelines Environmental Reporting Guidelines (2018) issued by Japan's Ministry of the Environment Launch/Publication Website: Primary launch in July 2019 *This website will be updated as required if there are any future additions or changes to information. Published by⁄Inquiries: ESG Promotion Department, Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. (Tel: +81-3-3246-3063) Privacy Policy Basic Policy on Specic Personal Information Concerning Protection of Personal Information Concerning Cookies and Access Logs Usage Notice © 2019 Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. ⽇本語 English ESG Report List View of ESG Information ESG Report TOP ESG Information SDGs and Neighborhood Creation ESG at the Mitsui Fudosan Regarding the Disclosure of our The Mitsui Fudosan Group: A Management’s Commitment Group ESG Report History of Value Creation Environment Society Governance Special Reports Third-party Verication The Mitsui Fudosan Group and SDGs List View of ESG Information List View of ESG Information Regarding the Disclosure of our ESG Report Environment Environmental Initiatives Policy Environmental Management System Water Policy Goals Major Initiatives Water Usage Water Recycling Ratio Environmental Pollution and Resources Policy Goals Major Initiatives Waste Emissions Annual Cost for Fines and Penalties Relating to Environmental Pollution Climate Change Awareness of Climate Change Policy Goals Participation in Initiatives Concerning Adaptation to Climate Change Climate Change Management System Major Initiatives Energy Consumption Greenhouse Gas Emissions Scope of Calculation Biodiversity Policy Major Initiatives Implementation of Biodiversity Risk Assessments Environmentally Friendly Supply Chain Policy Other Environmental Data Environmental Accounting (Mitsui Fudosan Ofce Building Division) Environmental Data by Prefectural/Municipal Ordinance Society Health and Safety Policy Management System Goals and Progress Major Initiatives No. of Employees Attending Seminars on Health and Safety Standards Percentage of Ofce Buildings with OHSAS18001 Certication Labor Standards and Practices Labor Standards and Practices Policy Declarations to Society and Participation in International Initiatives Internships and Employment of People with Disabilities Our Efforts for Human Rights Issues Our Efforts for Labor Issues Employment Situation at the Mitsui Fudosan Group Employment Situation at Mitsui Fudosan Our Efforts for Diversity Policy Our Efforts to Promote Active Roles for Diverse Employees Employment of Seniors Employment of People with Disabilities Human Resources Management Policy Management System Examples of Training/Education for Employees’ Personal Development Development of Global Personnel Time Spent Developing Employee Abilities Environmental Training and Education Support for Work-Life Balance Policy Our Efforts to Support Work-Life Balance Our Efforts to Support Childcare Our Efforts to Support Family Care Workstyle Reform Policy Major Initiatives Human Rights Policy Major Initiatives Social Supply Chain Policy Diverse Collaborative Efforts City Redevelopment Projects Consumer Issues Policy Implementation of Customer Surveys Barrier Free and Universal Design Our Efforts to Improve Customer Satisfaction (CS) Our Efforts to Improve Employee Satisfaction (ES) Tools for Communication with Our Customers Community Involvement and Development Community Involvement Policy Management System Record of Social Contribution Activities Regional Revitalization and Community Creation Utilizing the Power of Sport in Neighborhoods and Communities Supporting Community Creation through Sport Community Creation through Volunteer Activities and Reconstruction Support Social Contribution through Volunteer Activities Communicating with Local Communities Following the Great East Japan Earthquake Improving the Quality of Urban Development Quality Improvement Policy Quality Management in Each Business Performance Evaluations by Evaluation Bodies Basic Urban Development Design Policy Our Efforts at Kashiwa-no-ha Smart City Good Design Award Recipient for 19 Consecutive Years Preserving and Utilizing Landscapes and Streetscapes Urban Development That Reects Local Cultures and Characteristics Next-Generation Homes Safe and Secure Neighborhood Creation Policy Disaster Countermeasures System Disaster Countermeasures and BCP at Our Buildings Disaster Countermeasures and BCP at Our Retail Facilities Disaster Countermeasures and BCP at Our Logistics Facilities (MFLP) Disaster Countermeasures and BCP at Our Hotels Life Saving Courses for Our Employees Disaster Countermeasures Together with the Community and Society Creating New Value and Markets through Neighborhood Creation Policy Major Initiatives Governance Risk Management Mitsui Fudosan Group Compliance Policy Risk Management System Risk Management Committee Response to Compliance Violations Related Fines, Surcharges, and Arbitrations Our Commitment to Auditors Complying with the Antimonopoly Act Responding to Antisocial Forces Information Security Management System Corruption Prevention Policy to Prevent Bribery and Corruption Enhanced Compliance Prohibiting Bribery and Handling of Gifts and Entertainment Our Efforts at Preventing Corruption Establishment of an Internal Consultation Service Political Donations No. of Compliance Violations Corporate Governance Corporate Governance System Board of Director Decisions and Reports Internal Control Internal Auditing System Reasons for Selecting Outside Directors and Their Attendance Executive Compensation Analysis and Evaluation of Board of Director Effectiveness Shareholder Voting Rights Third-party Verication Privacy Policy Basic Policy on Specic Personal Information Concerning Protection of Personal Information Concerning Cookies and Access Logs Usage Notice © 2019 Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. ⽇本語 English ESG Report Environment Environmental Initiatives Policy ESG Report TOP ESG Information SDGs and Neighborhood Creation ESG at the Mitsui Fudosan Regarding the Disclosure of our The Mitsui Fudosan Group: A Management’s Commitment Group ESG Report History of Value Creation Environment Society Governance Special Reports Third-party Verication The Mitsui Fudosan Group and SDGs List View of ESG Information Environmental Initiatives Policy Guided by its Group Environmental Policy, the Mitsui Fudosan Group engages in the three core environmental activities of load reduction (reducing the impact of its products and services on the environment), quality improvement (enhancing safety, security, and comfort while ensuring sustainability), and cooperation (collaborating and cooperating with various stakeholders) in an integrated manner. The Group Environmental Policy (Established November 1, 2001; Revised April 1, 2018) Environmental Principles We at Mitsui Fudosan are committed to social and economic development as well as global environmental preservation under the principles of coexisting in harmony with society, linking diverse values, and achieving a sustainable society represented by our corporate logo. Under the principles of the logo, represents our Group Vision. symbolizes our recognition that urban development is interlinked with the planet and our aim of a society that enriches both people and the planet. Contributing to the building of a society that realizes the sustainable development of human life is our corporate mission, and we consider this an important business challenge directly related to increasing corporate value. Positioning the promotion of business while addressing collaboration and cooperation with the community, reduction of environmental burden and improvement of security, safety, and comfort as vital to harmonious coexistence with the environment, we endeavor to create urban environments of enrichment and comfort and contribute to the global environment. Environmental Policy 1. We aim to take countermeasures against global warming and create a recycling society by striving to improve environmental efciency, reduce environmental burden, conserve energy/resources, reduce waste materials and prevent pollution. 2. We aim to both reduce environmental burden and improve security, safety, and comfort with widespread and comprehensive promotion of water and biodiversity conservation and introduction of diversied and independent energy sources, in addition to low carbon. 3. In collaboration and cooperation with all of society including our customers, local communities, and the government, we proactively address harmonious coexistence with the environment, build a society that realizes sustainable development, and implement highly effective environmental measures. 4. We will expand environment-conscious urban development such as smart cities both at home and abroad and aim to be an environmentally advanced company that plays a leading role in the future of urban development. 5. In addition to adhering to environment-related laws and regulations, we will establish our own standards as necessary and promote harmonious coexistence with the environment. 6. Through environmental training and awareness-enhancing activities, we ensure that all Mitsui Fudosan Group employees have a solid understanding of our Environmental Policy and increase their environmental awareness. 7. We provide full public disclosure of necessary information relating to such matters as our environmental initiatives, and promote open communication with society at large through promotional activities. Environmental Management System Privacy Policy Basic Policy on Specic Personal Information Concerning Protection of Personal Information Concerning Cookies and Access Logs Usage Notice © 2019 Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. ⽇本語 English ESG Report Environment Environmental Management System ESG Report TOP ESG Information SDGs and Neighborhood Creation ESG at the Mitsui Fudosan Regarding the Disclosure of our The Mitsui Fudosan Group: A Management’s Commitment Group ESG Report History of Value Creation Environment Society Governance Special Reports Third-party Verication The Mitsui Fudosan Group and SDGs List View of ESG Information Environmental Management System Mitsui Fudosan has established an ESG Management Committee (headed by the Ofcer in Charge of ESG) subordinate to the ESG Promotion Committee (headed by the Representative Director, President and CEO), established scal year targets for each business division in accordance with the Group Environmental Policy, and is carrying out tasks such as progress management. Priority issues in these tasks are reported to the Board of Directors, and environmental initiatives are carried out in a planned fashion alongside Group companies subject to environmental policies. As of April 1, 2019, there are 14 Group companies that fall within the scope of the environmental policy. Organization of the ESG (Environmental) Management System of the Mitsui Fudosan Group (as of April 1, 2019) Note: Mitsui Home, Mitsui Fudosan Facilities, Mitsui Fudosan Retail Management, Mitsui Fudosan Hotel Management, and Tokyo Midtown Management promote environmental conservation activities by establishing their own environmental policies based on the Group Environmental Policy. These companies also conduct their own social and environmental reporting. Environmental Initiatives Policy Water Privacy Policy Basic Policy on Specic Personal Information Concerning Protection of Personal Information Concerning Cookies and Access Logs Usage Notice © 2019 Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. ⽇本語 English ESG Report Environment Water ESG Report TOP ESG Information SDGs and Neighborhood Creation ESG at the Mitsui Fudosan Regarding the Disclosure of our The Mitsui Fudosan Group: A Management’s Commitment Group ESG Report History of Value Creation Environment Society Governance Special Reports Third-party Verication The Mitsui Fudosan Group and SDGs List View of ESG Information Policy Based on our Group Environmental Policy, we develop buildings and create neighborhoods that help preserve the water environment through measures like effective utilization of water and replenishment of subterranean aquifers. We also preserve water resources through water conservation and effective use of water resources together with our business partners, tenant companies and stores, and customers. Goals We shall strive to reduce clean water and industrial water usage per base unit (of oor area) from the previous scal year through measures such as installing water-saving equipment in our newly constructed buildings or switching to such equipment when renovating existing buildings. Progress in Achieving Goals Clean water and industrial water usage per base unit (of oor area) in scal 2018 was 0.848 m3/m2 per year, a 6.7% increase over the previous scal year (0.795 m3/m2per year). (For details on clean water and industrial water usage per base unit [of oor area], please see Water Usage. ) Major Initiatives Water Conservation At our ofce buildings and retail facilities, the Mitsui Fudosan Group installs water-saving equipment in newly constructed buildings. We have also been switching to water-saving equipment in existing buildings when they are renovated, and are making efforts to conserve water during routine building management and operations together with our business partners, tenants, stores, and customers. Adoption of Water-Saving Equipment At Tokyo Midtown (Minato-ku, Tokyo), we are saving water by installing water-saving sanitary equipment, automatic faucets and similar facilities. Large-scale renovation took place at MITSUI OUTLET PARK JAZZ DREAM NAGASHIMA (Kuwana City, Mie), and in the extended area we installed 49 ultrawater-saving toilets (ush volume 5.5 liters). The built-for-sale and rental condominiums and built-for-sale detached housing which Mitsui Fudosan Residential sell use water-saving toilets and bathing room shower heads with a water stop button. Use of Rainwater and Grey Water Mitsui Fudosan aims to effectively use water resources by taking advantage of rainwater and grey water (processed wastewater) at its ofce buildings, retail facilities and built-for-sale condominium buildings. Use of Rainwater and Grey Water at Tokyo Midtown Hibiya At Tokyo Midtown Hibiya (Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo), we are planning to collect rainwater and drainage water※ from air-conditioners in a rainwater utilization tank (water storage capacity approximately 400m3), and after treatment use as general service water for toilet ushing and similar purposes. The plan also calls for grey water, obtained by treating kitchen wastewater, miscellaneous wastewater, and cooling tower blowdown water, to be used as general service water in the same way. *Drainage water: Excess wastewater from humidiers of air-conditioners, and water cooled and condensed on cooling pipes. Letting Rainfall Reach the Ground and Preventing Rainfall Runoff In our ofce buildings and retail facilities, we direct rainwater underground by utilizing water-permeable paving for parking lots, walkways, on-site roads, and external sections of the building. We also aim to preserve the water environment and prevent ooding with temporary storage tanks and ow adjustment ponds to prevent rainwater runoff in large volumes. Water Usage *1 Total water usage: The total of clean water, industrial water, and grey water usage. *2 Clean water and industrial water usage: Clean water and industrial water usage includes well water usage. *3 Amount of grey water usage: Amount of grey water usage is the total of kitchen and miscellaneous wastewater, some rain and other water processed, and recycled water purchased from the outside. Trends in the Amount of Water Usage ⇒ Please see here (Third-party verication) for data on water usage. Trends in Clean Water and Industrial Water Consumption Scope of Data Calculation The scope of data calculation for water usage encompasses, in principle, facilities for which disclosure is required under the Act on the Rational Use of Energy. However, some facilities are excluded. Scope of Data Calculation (Water Usage) Fiscal year Business Division Type 2016 2017 2018 No. of target facilities (facilities) 137 139 139 Overall Total oor area （m2） 5,599,861 5,938,901 6,379,120 No. of target facilities (facilities) 75 76 70 Ofce buildings Total oor area （m2） 2,462,672 2,648,216 2,886,933 No. of target facilities (facilities) 43 43 46 Retail facilities Total oor area （m2） 2,851,201 2,864,433 2,973,917 No. of target facilities (facilities) 12 12 14 Hotels Total oor area （m2） 151,626 150,619 158,761 No. of target facilities (facilities) 3 3 3 Logistics Total oor area （m2） 124,225 265,059 300,630 No. of target facilities (facilities) 4 5 6 Other Total oor area （m2） 10,138 10,574 58,879 Note: 1．Ofce buildings include Tokyo Midtown (Roppongi) and Kashiwa-no-ha Smart City Gate Square shops and the ofce building KOIL. 2．Resort hotels are included in the scope for hotels. 3．Facilities under the control of the General Administration Department as well as each branch have been included in Other. 4．Water usage in ofces is included. Water Recycling Ratio Trends in Water Recycling Rate (Grey Water Usage Rate) Note: 1．Grey water usage rate = Amount of grey water consumption/Amount of water usage x 100 2． Scope of Data Calculation is the same as for Water Usage. Environmental Management System Environmental Pollution and Resources Privacy Policy Basic Policy on Specic Personal Information Concerning Protection of Personal Information Concerning Cookies and Access Logs Usage Notice © 2019 Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. ⽇本語 English ESG Report Environment Environmental Pollution and Resources ESG Report TOP ESG Information SDGs and Neighborhood Creation ESG at the Mitsui Fudosan Regarding the Disclosure of our The Mitsui Fudosan Group: A Management’s Commitment Group ESG Report History of Value Creation Environment Society Governance Special Reports Third-party Verication The Mitsui Fudosan Group and SDGs List View of ESG Information Policy Environmental Pollution Based on our Group Environmental Policy, we prevent environmental pollution by observing laws, regulations, and ordinances relating to air pollution, water pollution, soil contamination, and hazardous materials, and we work hard to curb emissions of pollutants and contaminants that are not subject to regulation by laws, regulations, and ordinances. In addition, we take hazardous materials into consideration when acquiring land as well as in the building design stage. We also ensure appropriate management and disposal, and thereby prevent impacts due to hazardous materials on the environment or building users. Resources and Waste Based on our Group Environmental Policy, we aim to create a recycling society by working, together with our business partners, tenant companies and stores, and customers, to conserve resources and reduce waste. At the same time, we will prevent impacts on the environment due to waste through appropriate disposal of any waste that cannot be reused or recycled. Goals Environmental Pollution At facilities managed and operated by the Mitsui Fudosan Group that are subject to regulation* based on laws, regulations, and ordinances relating to air or water pollution, our goals shall be to take appropriate measures based on laws, regulations, and ordinances, comply with regulatory values, and reach even more stringent values. Our goals shall be to take appropriate measures based on laws, regulations, and ordinances relating to soil contamination, and prevent, as much as possible, soil contamination and dispersal. Our goals shall be to take proper measures based on laws, regulations, and ordinances relating to chlorouorocarbons and asbestos, and prevent, as much as possible, adverse impacts on the environment due to these hazardous materials. subject to regulation*: Scale and other characteristics of facilities subject to regulation are outlined in laws, regulations, or ordinances of local authorities. Progress in Achieving Goals In scal 2018, there were no violations of emissions standards or other requirements based on laws, regulations, and ordinances relating to air pollution and water pollution. In scal 2018, proper measures were taken based on laws, regulations, and ordinances relating to soil contamination, and there were no violations. In scal 2018, proper handling was carried out based on laws, regulations, and ordinances relating to chlorouorocarbons and asbestos, and there were no violations. Resources and Waste We shall promote the 3Rs (reduce, reuse, recycle) and work to reduce general and industrial waste emissions per base unit. We shall appropriately dispose of wastes based on laws, regulations, and ordinances relating to waste disposal. Progress in Achieving Goals General waste emissions per base unit (of oor area) in scal 2018 were 0.0060 tons/m2 per year, for a 3.2% decrease over the previous year. Industrial waste emissions per base unit (of oor area) were 0.0016 tons/m2 per year, indicating little change from the previous year. (For details on emissions of general waste and industrial waste per base unit of oor area, please see Waste Emissions. ) Wastes were appropriately disposed of based on laws, regulations, and ordinances relating to waste disposal, and there were no violations. Major Initiatives Prevention of Air Pollution Measures to Address Exhaust Gas at Facilities Producing Soot and Smoke Boilers, cogeneration systems, and other soot and smoke producing facilities larger than a certain size and installed at ofce buildings, retail facilities, hotels, large-scale logistics facilities, and other properties managed and operated by the Mitsui Fudosan Group, are subject to regulation under laws, regulations, and ordinances relating to air pollution. At these regulated soot and smoke producing facilities, we have installed exhaust gas treatment equipment, and we are working to prevent air pollution by curbing emission of air pollutants such as nitrogen oxides and sulfur oxides. Measures to Address Exhaust Gas at Mitsui Repark Parking Lots At the Mitsui Repark pay-by-the-hour parking lots of Mitsui Fudosan Realty, we are working to reduce the in-lot effects of automobile exhaust gas by installing exhaust gas panels on the perimeter. At Mitsui Repark's Enkobashi-cho No. 3 Parking Lot in Hiroshima, exhaust gas panels with photocatalytic lters were installed. When light such as sunlight strikes these panels, a powerful oxidizing effect is produced, and this enables removal of organic compounds and other hazardous materials which come into contact with the panel. Mitsui Repark's Enkobashi-cho No. 3 Parking Lot in Exhaust gas panel with photocatalytic lter installed at Mitsui Hiroshima Repark's Enkobashi-cho No. 3 Parking Lot in Hiroshima Prevention of Water Pollution Wastewater Treatment at Ofce Buildings, Retail Facilities, and Hotels/Resorts Restaurants above a certain size in ofce buildings and retail facilities, as well as hotels and resort facilities managed and operated by the Mitsui Fudosan Group are subject to regulation under laws, regulations, and ordinances relating to water pollution. At these regulated facilities, we install wastewater treatment equipment, and discharge wastewater into sewage systems, rivers, the ocean, or other public waters only after treatment that ensures it meets regulatory standards. Lowering Environmental Impact of Cleaning Solutions Mitsui Fudosan Facilities has been using to eco-chemicals with low environmental impact based on its own standards, with the exception of chemicals designated by its customers, for cleaning solutions (toilet cleaner, oor and general-purpose cleaner, wax, and removers). As of the end of March 2019, the usage rate of eco-chemicals has risen to more than 90%. Mitsui Fudosan Residential Service in principle uses cleaning solutions with low environmental impact based on its own standards for cleaning condominiums, with the exception of some managed properties. Mitsui Fudosan Residential Service's Standards for Cleaning Solutions with Low Environmental Impact Cleaning solutions that satisfy the following conditions: ◎More than 60% biodegradable (after 28 days) ◎Chemically neutral ◎Low biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) and chemical oxygen demand (COD) Responding Appropriately to Soil Contamination The Mitsui Fudosan Group complies with relevant laws and regulations for surveying soil history. We also implement soil contamination surveys and take measures to remedy contaminated soil as needed. Reduction of Hazardous Substances Appropriate Disposal of Chlorouorocarbons When equipment containing chlorouorocarbons is disposed of at our ofce buildings, retail facilities and hotels, it is handled in an appropriate manner in accordance with relevant laws and regulations. Responding Appropriately to Asbestos In demolition and repair of buildings, retail facilities, condominiums and other structures, we observe laws and regulations relating to asbestos, and take proper measures such as notifying government agencies, and preventing the dispersion of asbestos. Sick Building Countermeasures For our ofce buildings and retail facilities, we have added guidelines for combating sick building symptoms to our eco-specications (for design, etc.). We make concerted efforts to prevent formaldehyde and other volatile organic compounds (VOCs) from entering our buildings, because they are a cause of sick building syndrome. Mitsui Garden Hotels uses low-formaldehyde building materials* including building components, adhesives, and paints. The housing business promotes the use of low-formaldehyde building materials to limit substances that cause sick building syndrome, such as formaldehyde. *Low-formaldehyde building materials : Building materials rated by Japanese Industrial Standards (JIS) and Japanese Agricultural Standards (JAS) as having the minimal or second-lowest level of formaldehyde emissions. Measures to Address Indoor PM2.5 Pollutants Mitsui Home offers Smart Breeze, a healthy air-conditioning system for its custom-built detached residences. Smart Breeze is a 24-hour ventilation system, equipped with a high-performance lter that captures particulate matter of around 2.5 μm in size. This prevents inltration not only of pollen and dust, but also of PM2.5, an air pollutant thought to have effects on health. Overview of High-Performance Filter 3Rs Initiatives The Mitsui Fudosan Group is working, together with business partners, tenant companies and stores, and customers, to conserve resources and reduce waste through the 3Rs (reduce, reuse, and recycle), while striving to prolong the useful life of its buildings. We also appropriately dispose of wastes. Reduce To reduce the generation of waste, we make every effort to restrict the use of disposable products, and have introduced a metering system. Metering System at Retail Facilities In an attempt to reduce waste from stores, our retail facilities feature a metering system that charges for the volume of waste generated. Application of stickers Scale Taking measurements Reuse The Mitsui Fudosan Group aims to reuse materials instead of throwing them away to conserve resources and reduce waste. &EARTH Clothing Support Project Every year since 2008, we have held the &EARTH Clothing Support Project — Bring a Smile to the World with Your Clothes — at retail facilities operated by the Mitsui Fudosan Group. In this project, unneeded clothing is collected, and then donated to refugees and disaster victims in countries all over the world through the NPO Japan Relief Clothing Center. By promoting reuse of clothing, we contribute to the reduction of waste, and by working collaboratively with NPOs active on the international stage, we also help support people who need assistance due to poverty, natural disasters brought on by climate change, and conicts. Reception Packaging Volunteers Recycle In an effort to conserve resources and reduce waste, the Mitsui Fudosan Group promotes the recycling of food waste along with paper, uorescent light bulbs, and batteries using our proprietary recycling system. We also make every effort to use recycled items. Recycling Food Waste At our ofce buildings and retail properties, working together with restaurants, food waste from restaurants is recycled into fertilizer and feedstock for livestock, or converted into biomass energy (electricity and gas). Recycled Food Waste (scal 2018) Category Ofce buildings （28） Retail facilities（28） Waste volume 2,321.2 tons/year 6,175.9 tons/year Food waste Recycled volume 1,429.3 tons/year 6,085.8 tons/year Recycling ratio 61.6% 98.3% Fertilizer, feedstock, gasication, incineration Recycling applications Feedstock, power generation power generation, carbonization At the resort hotel HAIMURUBUSHI (Taketomi Town, Yaeyama District, Okinawa Prefecture), we make compost out of coffee grounds from our restaurants, and use this compost to cultivate herbs and vegetables in the hotel gardens. In turn, the herbs and vegetables are served in our restaurants. Other food waste is processed on the premises with a food waste processor that uses microbes. At TOBA HOTEL INTERNATIONAL (Toba City, Mie), used cooking oil is collected and handed over to an industrial waste disposal company for recycling as fuel. Similarly, NEMU RESORT (Shima City, Mie) has been recycling used cooking oil since scal 2005. Recycling of Environmentally Friendly Tile Carpeting Used tile carpeting from ofce buildings managed by the Mitsui Fudosan Group is collected and recycled into environmentally friendly tile carpeting, which is then reused in ofce buildings in the Tokyo metropolitan area. This recycling system uses environmentally friendly tile carpeting to conserve resources and reduce incineration waste, which in turn helps reduce CO2 emissions. Tile carpeting recycling (scal 2018) Volume of used tile carpeting collected Carpeting collected: 14,294 m2 Volume of environmentally friendly tile carpeting supplied Carpeting supplied: 42,637 m2 Approx. 1,130,000 m2 Cumulative volume supplied since scal 2002 (1,090,000 m2 through scal 2017 + 40,000 m2 in scal 2018) Wastepaper Recycling Loop System In collaboration with traders of used paper, paper manufacturers, and paper distributors, the Mitsui Fudosan Group has created a unique recycling loop system for wastepaper, which is collected from ofce buildings managed by the group in Tokyo, and from LaLaport TOKYOBAY (Funabashi City, Chiba). The wastepaper is recycled into original recycled ofce paper and is reused as toilet paper. Wastepaper recycling (scal 2018) 68 ofce buildings in Tokyo Approx. 7,983 tons Volume of wastepaper collected Total approx. 11,370 tons LaLaport TOKYO-BAY Approx. 3,387 tons Recycled paper purchased Mitsui Fudosan Group’s purchase volume Recycled paper for ofce use: approx. 196 tons Outline of Wastepaper Recycling Loop System Used Fluorescent Bulb and Battery Recycling System Mitsui Fudosan has established a recycling system for used uorescent bulbs and batteries in cooperation with four subcontractors including a recycling company and a transport company. Used uorescent bulbs and batteries at ofce buildings managed by the Mitsui Fudosan Group are recycled through this system. Mercury extracted from the collected used uorescent bulbs and batteries is reused as a raw material for new uorescent bulbs. Separated aluminum and glass are also reprocessed into recycled aluminum and glass to recycle everything that can be recycled. Used uorescent bulb and battery recycling (scal 2018) Number of buildings covered for collections Fluorescent bulbs: Total 53 buildings (43 in Tokyo, 10 in Chukyo / Kansai area) Batteries: Total 52 buildings (42 in Tokyo, 10 in Chukyo / Kansai area) Fluorescent bulbs: approx. 33.1 tons Collection volume Batteries: approx. 10.1 tons Outline of Used Fluorescent Bulb and Battery Recycling System Recycled Ofce Paper Usage Ratio in Mitsui Fudosan’s Ofces In scal 2018, about 93% of the business paper used* was recycled paper in Mitsui Fudosan’s ofces. *Ratio of recycled business paper used: The ratio of recycled paper used for all business paper (weight basis). Recycling Efforts at Tokyo Midtown At Tokyo Midtown (Minato-ku, Tokyo), we classify wastes into 21 types, and we are working together with shops and tenants to recycle and appropriately dispose of waste. We have a total of 10 separated garbage storage spaces, by building and application, and appropriately store and manage waste until it is carried away from the site. In addition, we are working to ensure proper separation and recycling by installing garbage stations with easy-to-understand separation instructions in the ofces of Tokyo Midtown Management. Extending the Useful Life of Buildings The Mitsui Fudosan Group aims to extend the useful life of buildings, including ofce buildings, condominium buildings (built-for-sale, rental units) as well as detached houses (for-sale and customized), by enhancing their ability to withstand earthquakes, overall durability, and re resistance, while also designing them so that maintenance and upgrading of plumbing and other equipment can be carried out easily. In addition, we engage in appropriate maintenance and renovations after buildings go into service. For example, Mitsui Home offers the Keep Well long-term building support system to maintain quality and performance over the long-term, through a combination of inspection and upkeep every 10 years after building delivery. Our efforts to extend the useful lifespan of our buildings lead directly to resource conservation and waste reduction. Efforts to Appropriately Dispose of Waste The Mitsui Fudosan Group promotes the 3Rs, and we appropriately dispose of wastes that cannot be reused or recycled based on laws, regulations, and ordinances relating to appropriate disposal of wastes. On-Site Inspection of Waste Management Subcontractors and Disposal Facilities In the Ofce Building Division, we make every effort to ensure that waste is disposed of appropriately, and to this end we conduct on-site inspections of our industrial waste management subcontractors, which are required to cooperate based on the Waste Disposal and Public Cleansing Act. In the Retail Facility Division, from scal 2011 to scal 2012, we conrmed that waste was properly disposed of at our retail facilities in Japan, completing any adjustments to our agreements with waste management subcontractors. We audit and inspect numerous retail facilities annually to ensure compliance with adjusted waste disposal agreements. Appropriate Storage, Management, and Disposal of PCB Waste The Mitsui Fudosan Group appropriately stores, manages, and disposes of PCB waste at its ofce buildings, retail facilities, and hotels based on the Law Concerning Special Measures Against PCB Waste. Waste Emissions Hazardous Waste (Specially Controlled Waste) Emissions Emissions in scal 2018 of PCB waste, a type of hazardous waste (specially controlled waste), were 0 kg/year. Non-Hazardous Waste Emissions Trends in the Amount of Disposed Non-Hazardous Waste Trends in Amount of Disposed General Waste Trends in Amount of Disposed Industrial Waste ⇒ Please see here (Third-party verication) for data on disposed industrial waste. Scope of Data Collation The scopes of data collation for hazardous and non-hazardous waste emissions encompasses, in principle, facilities for which disclosure is required under the Act on the Rational Use of Energy. However, some facilities are excluded. Scope of Data Calculation (Waste Emissions) Fiscal year Business Division Type 2016 2017 2018 No. of target facilities (facilities) 115 118 121 Overall Total oor area （m2） 5,339,523 5,803,409 6,247,209 No. of target facilities (facilities) 63 63 60 Ofce buildings Total oor area （m2） 2,429,400 2,628,289 2,857,052 No. of target facilities (facilities) 39 37 39 Retail facilities Total oor area （m2） 2,753,039 2,754,780 2,872,148 No. of target facilities (facilities) 12 12 14 Hotels Total oor area （m2） 151,626 150,619 158,761 No. of target facilities (facilities) 0 2 3 Logistics Total oor area （m2） 0 259,537 300,630 No. of target facilities (facilities) 1 4 5 Other Total oor area （m2） 5,459 10,183 58,618 Note: 1． Ofce buildings include Tokyo Midtown (Roppongi) and Kashiwa-no-ha Smart City Gate Square shops and the ofce building KOIL. 2．Resort hotels are included in the scope for hotels. 3．Facilities under the control of the General Administration Department as well as each branch have been included in Other. 4．Waste emissions in ofces are included. Annual Cost for Fines and Penalties Relating to the Environment In scal 2018, annual cost for nes and penalties relating to the environment was 0 yen in areas such as air pollution, water pollution, soil contamination, hazardous materials, and wastes. Water Climate Change Privacy Policy Basic Policy on Specic Personal Information Concerning Protection of Personal Information Concerning Cookies and Access Logs Usage Notice © 2019 Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. ⽇本語 English ESG Report Environment Climate Change ESG Report TOP ESG Information SDGs and Neighborhood Creation ESG at the Mitsui Fudosan Regarding the Disclosure of our The Mitsui Fudosan Group: A Management’s Commitment Group ESG Report History of Value Creation Environment Society Governance Special Reports Third-party Verication The Mitsui Fudosan Group and SDGs List View of ESG Information Awareness of Climate Change Since the Industrial Revolution, an increase in energy consumption has heightened the concentrations of greenhouse gases, such as carbon dioxide (CO2), in the atmosphere, and global warming is progressing. If warming continues without taking any effective countermeasures, there will be major changes in the earth's climate. This will cause phenomena such as rising sea levels and abnormal weather patterns, and have a great impact on the living environments of people and other organisms. Abnormal weather patterns will also increase the risk of damage to the business activities of the Mitsui Fudosan Group. In order to curb global warming, reduce the risk to our Group due to climate change, protect environments where people and other organisms can live, and build a sustainable, low-carbon society, the Mitsui Fudosan Group believes that one of our key social missions as a real estate developer is to create, supply, and operate buildings and neighborhoods which curb energy consumption, and have low emissions of greenhouse gases. Policy Based on our Group Environmental Policy, we create buildings and neighborhoods with low energy consumption and reduced emissions of greenhouse gases, and we aim to build a low-carbon society by taking steps together with our business partners, tenant companies and stores, and customers, to address global warming, such as conservation of energy. Goals* Over the medium to long-term, we shall reduce energy consumption per base unit (of oor area) by an average of 1% every year. On a per unit basis (of oor area), energy consumption in scal 2018 was 0.04199 ㎘ of oil equivalent/m2 per year, a reduction of 1.6% from the previous year. (For details on energy consumption per base unit [of oor area], please see Energy Consumption. ) *Goals:The primary greenhouse gas emitted by the Mitsui Fudosan Group is carbon dioxide (CO2) resulting from energy consumption. Therefore, no reduction goal has been set for greenhouse gas emissions, and our efforts are focused on the goal of reducing energy consumption. Participation in Initiatives Concerning Adaptation to Climate Change Participation in the United Nations Global Compact The Mitsui Fudosan Group supports the UN Global Compact comprising 10 principles relating to human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption advocated by the UN. We signed the compact in December 2018, and participate in the Global Compact Network Japan. In 2001, our group established a Group Environmental Policy, and we have helped curb global warming by creating buildings and neighborhoods which conserve energy and have low greenhouse gas emissions, and we have also made efforts in areas such as prevention of environmental pollution, reduction of waste, and conservation of water and biodiversity. As a corporate group supporting ofces, housing, and other infrastructure necessary for daily life, we will fulll our social responsibility at an even higher level by making even greater efforts in the future in areas such as environmental conservation. For details on the UN Global Compact, please see the following: ⇒ https://www.unglobalcompact.org/ Climate Change Management System Mitsui Fudosan has established an ESG Management Committee subordinate to the ESG Promotion Committee (headed by the Representative Director, President and CEO), and is engaged in environmental initiatives such as measures to address global warming alongside Group companies subject to environmental policies. (For details on the Mitsui Fudosan Group’s Environmental Management System, please see Environmental Management System. ) ⇒ To the Environmental Management System page Major Initiatives Energy Conservation, Creation, and Storage In addition to energy conservation, the Mitsui Fudosan Group is actively engaged in energy creation using solar power and cogeneration systems, and energy storage using large-scale storage batteries. In this way, we create buildings and neighborhoods with low energy consumption and reduced emissions of greenhouse gases. We are also involved in energy-saving activities together with our business partners, tenant companies and stores, and customers. Energy Conservation, Creation, and Storage in Ofce Buildings Efforts at TOKYO MIDTOWN HIBIYA At TOKYO MIDTOWN HIBIYA (Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo), we employ an exterior covering and high-performance glass to reduce thermal load, use high-efciency systems and energy-saving equipment such as lighting control systems that utilize daylight, and make use of waste heat from a gas cogeneration system. We also create energy through the installation of a solar power system (generation capacity approx. 20 kW). By using these energy conservation and creation systems, we have attained Level 3 for Perimeter Annual Load (PAL) and Energy Reduction Ratio (ERR) evaluation in the Tokyo Metropolitan Building Environmental Planning System, and the S Rank in self-assessment under the CASBEE (Comprehensive Assessment System for Built Environment Efciency) scheme. We have also installed a new sub-plant for district heating and cooling (DHC), and by linking it with an existing DHC plant in the Hibiya area, we have helped realize a high-efciency energy supply for the entire district. Overview of Environmental Efforts at TOKYO MIDTOWN HIBIYA Efforts at the Nihonbashi Takashimaya Mitsui Building The Nihonbashi Takashimaya Mitsui Building (Chuo-ku, Tokyo) has attained Level 3 for PAL/ERR evaluation in the Tokyo Metropolitan Building Environmental Planning System. Nihonbashi Takashimaya Mitsui Building (computer graphic, perspective view) Ofce Buildings in Tokyo Certied Again as Excellent Designated GHG Ofces by the Tokyo Metropolitan Government Since scal 2010, we have been acquiring and renewing certication for ofce buildings in the Tokyo metropolitan area based on the standards established by the Tokyo Metropolitan Government for Excellent Designated GHG Ofces*. At these ofce buildings, we are switching to energy-saving equipment, holding meetings to promote CO2 reduction, strengthening systems for collaboration with tenants, and promoting energy conservation activities. As of April 1, 2019, Mitsui Fudosan has six ofce complexes (eight buildings) designated as Top Level Ofces and eight ofce complexes (eleven buildings) as Semi-Top Level Ofces under the Excellent Designated GHG Ofces program. *Tokyo Metropolitan Government’s Excellent Designated GHG Ofces:The Tokyo Metropolitan Government uses 213 criteria for evaluating the impact of management systems, building equipment performance, and ofce building equipment operations on reducing CO2 emissions. Ofce buildings that receive this designation are singled out for their exceptional promotion of global warming countermeasures. The system alleviates liability for CO2 emissions, and has two ranks: Top Level Ofce (a score of at least 80 points) and Semi-Top Level Ofce (a score of at least 70 points). List of Tokyo Metropolitan Government's Excellent Designated GHG Ofces Certications (as of April 1, 2019) Top Level Ofces SemiTop Level Ofces ・Nihonbashi 1-chome Mitsui Building (Update) ・Shiodome City Center (Update) ・Nihonbashi Mitsui Tower (Update) ・Gate City Ohsaki (Update) ・Tokyo Midtown (Update) ・Akasaka Biz Tower (sub-lease)(Update) ・Ginza Mitsui Building (Update) ・Kasumigaseki Building* (Tokyo Club Building)(Update) ・Gran Tokyo North Tower (Update) ・Shinjuku Mitsui Building (Update) ・Gran Tokyo South Tower (Update) ・Muromachi Higashi Mitsui Building ・Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation Building (Update) * (Muromachi Furukawa Mitsui Building, Muromachi Chibagin Mitsui Building) ・Iidabashi Grand Bloom 6 ofce complexes (6 buildings) 8 ofce complexes (11 buildings) Total: 14 ofce complexes (17 buildings) *Note: Kasumigaseki Building and Tokyo Club Building are two buildings considered to be one ofce complex. Muromachi Higashi Mitsui Building, Muromachi Furukawa Mitsui Building, and Muromachi Chibagin Mitsui Building are three buildings considered to be one ofce complex. Energy Conservation at Large-Scale Logistics Facilities At our large-scale logistics facilities, Mitsui Fudosan Logistics Parks (MFLP), we are installing LED lighting and solar power systems. Solar power panels at MFLP Inazawa (generation capacity Solar power panels at MFLP Ibaraki (generation capacity approx. 1,500 kW) approx. 2,000 kW) Energy Conservation at Mitsui Repark Parking Lots Under the Mitsui Repark brand of Mitsui Fudosan Realty, we are creating next-generation parking lots based on the four key concepts of safety/security, innovation, environmental awareness, and disaster recovery assistance. For instance, we have installed a hybrid solar system at the Mitsui Repark Minatomachi Niigata Parking Lot (Chuo-ku, Niigata City) which generates and stores solar power, and then illuminates the LED lighting of signage at night. Not only does the system reduce CO2 emissions, it also acts as an emergency power source in case of a disaster or power outage. Solar power panels of the hybrid solar system at the Mitsui Repark Minatomachi Niigata Parking Lot Megasolar Projects Mitsui Fudosan engages in megasolar power projects. As of the end of scal 2019, we operate ve megasolar power stations. Planned total generating capacity for the ve stations is 72 MW, with approximately 70 million kWh generated in a year, equivalent to the annual power needs of approximately 20,000 typical households. List of Mitsui Fudosan Solar Power Stations (As of the end of scal 2019) Date operations Facility name Location Planned generation capacity started Mitsui Engineering & Shipbuilding and Mitsui Fudosan Oita Solar Approx. 21 MW (including 4 MW Oita, Oita Prefecture 1 December 2013 Power Plant expansion) Sanyo-Onoda, Yamaguchi Mitsui Fudosan Sanyo-Onoda Solar Power Plant 1 December 2013 Approx. 13 MW Prefecture Mitsui Fudosan Tomakomai Solar Power Plant Tomakomai, Hokkaido 1 April 2014 Approx. 24 MW Mitsui Fudosan Hachinohe Solar Power Plant Hachinohe, Aomori Prefecture 1 October 2014 Approx. 8 MW Mitsui Fudosan Omuta Solar Power Plant Omuta, Fukuoka Prefecture 1 December 2014 Approx. 6 MW Total Approx. 72 MW Energy Management System The Mitsui Fudosan Group is installing optimal energy management systems at each type of property: ofce buildings, retail facilities, condominiums, and detached housing. We are also introducing area energy management systems to link the energy management systems of individual buildings, and manage energy over an entire block. Examples of Energy Management System Adoption Type of building Type of energy management system Buildings with Energy Management Systems Installed ・TOKYO MIDTOWN HIBIYA Ofce buildings BEMS ・Nihonbashi Takashimaya Mitsui Building etc. ・LaLaport TOKYO-BAY ・LaLaport KOSHIEN Commercial facilities BEMS ・MITSUI OUTLET PARK KITAHIROSHIMA etc. (16 facilities) Type of building Type of energy management system Buildings with Energy Management Systems Installed Mitsui Fudosan Residential's ・LaLaport TOKYO-BAY Built-for-sale condominiums HEMS (each condominium), MEMS (communal areas, overall) ・LaLaport KOSHIEN ・MITSUI OUTLET PARK KITAHIROSHIMA etc. (16 facilities) Mitsui Fudosan Residential's ・Fine Court Keihanna Koen Toshi Built-for-sale detached housing HEMS ・Fine Court Todoroki Okeitei etc. Mitsui Home's ・green's II Series Custom-built detached residence HEMS ・green's ZERO Series etc. ・Kashiwa-no-ha Smart City (Kashiwa-no-ha AEMS) Entire block AEMS, TEMS, etc. ・Park City Musashikosugi The Garden etc. Note: BEMS: Building Energy Management System MEMS: Mansion Energy Management System HEMS: Home Energy Management System AEMS: Area Energy Management System TEMS: Town Energy Management System Curbing CO2 Emissions from Automobiles To restrict CO2 emissions from automobiles, the Mitsui Fudosan Group installs electric vehicle recharging stations and provides services at its retail facilities that encourage the use of public transportation. Establishing Infrastructure to Respond to the Increase in Electric Vehicles Mitsui Fudosan Realty is installing charging stations for electric vehicles (EVs) and plug-in hybrid vehicles (PHVs) at the Mitsui Repark payby-the-hour parking lots. Charging stations for EVs and PHVs are also being installed in the parking lots of retail facilities like LaLaport SHONAN HIRATSUKA (Hiratsuka City, Kanagawa) and built-for-sale condominiums like Park City Musashikosugi The Garden (Nakahara-ku, Kawasaki City). EV and PHV charging station at the Mitsui Repark Henn na Hotel Maihama Tokyo Bay Parking Lot (Urayasu City, Chiba) Energy Consumption Energy consumption by Mitsui Fudosan (see Scope of Data Calculation) has been on a slight rising trend since scal 2015, and in scal 2018 was 268,800 kl of oil equivalent per year, for a 4.6% increase year on year. However, energy consumption per base unit (of oor area) was 0.04199 kl (oil equivalent)/m2 per year, a reduction of 1.6% from the previous scal year. Trends in the Amount of Energy Consumption ⇒ Please see here (Third-party verication) for data on energy consumption. Greenhouse Gas Emissions Greenhouse gases (GHG) emitted due to the business activities of Mitsui Fudosan (see Scope of Data Calculation) are primarily carbon dioxide (CO2) resulting from energy consumption. Aside from that, emitted chlorouorocarbons (e.g., HFC) also fall under the same category. GHG emissions at Mitsui Fudosan have been almost at since scal 2016, and in scal 2018, the gure of 512,800 t-CO2 per year was almost the same as the previous year. However, GHG emissions per base unit (of oor area) were 0.08011 t-CO2/m2 per year, down 4.7% compared with the previous scal year. Total greenhouse gas emissions by scope ⇒ Please see here (Third-party verication) for data on total greenhouse gas emissions by scope. Scope of Data Calculation The scope of data calculation for energy consumption and GHG emissions encompasses facilities for which disclosure is required under the Act on the Rational Use of Energy. Scope of Data Calculation (Energy Consumption, Greenhouse Gas (CO2) Emissions) Fiscal year Business Division Type 2016 2017 2018 No. of target facilities (facilities) 154 163 157 Overall Total oor area（m2） 5,673,109 6,024,150 6,400,710 No. of target facilities (facilities) 82 90 81 Ofce buildings Total oor area（m2） 2,482,891 2,728,958 2,897,021 No. of target facilities (facilities) 43 45 46 Retail facilities Total oor area（m2） 2,851,201 2,864,433 2,973,917 No. of target facilities (facilities) 12 12 14 Hotels Total oor area（m2） 151,626 150,619 158,761 No. of target facilities (facilities) 0 3 3 Logistics Total oor area（m2） 0 265,059 300,630 No. of target facilities (facilities) 14 13 13 Other Total oor area（m2） 63,168 15,080 70,380 Note: 1．Ofce buildings include Tokyo Midtown (Roppongi) and Kashiwa-no-ha Smart City Gate Square shops and the ofce building KOIL. 2． Resort hotels are included in the scope for hotels. 3．Facilities under the control of the General Administration Department as well as each branch have been included in Other. 4．Energy consumption and GHG emissions total oor area data takes into consideration the operating month 5．Energy consumption and GHG emissions at ofces are included. Environmental Pollution and Resources Biodiversity Privacy Policy Basic Policy on Specic Personal Information Concerning Protection of Personal Information Concerning Cookies and Access Logs Usage Notice © 2019 Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. ⽇本語 English ESG Report Environment Biodiversity ESG Report TOP ESG Information SDGs and Neighborhood Creation ESG at the Mitsui Fudosan Regarding the Disclosure of our The Mitsui Fudosan Group: A Management’s Commitment Group ESG Report History of Value Creation Environment Society Governance Special Reports Third-party Verication The Mitsui Fudosan Group and SDGs List View of ESG Information Policy Based on our Group Environmental Policy, we strive to protect the precious natural environment in urban areas and preserve the trees and forests that pass on the memories and history of the land. We also work to create new green spaces in urban areas. Recognizing the maturity that comes with age, we are also working to create and restore greenery and biotopes that are in harmony with the surrounding environment and preserve biodiversity. Major Initiatives Biodiverse Regions Business Activities in National Parks Among the regions where the Mitsui Fudosan Group is engaged in business activities, the resort hotel HAIMURUBUSHI (Yaeyama District, Okinawa) is located in an ordinary zone of Iriomote-Ishigaki National Park, the TOBA HOTEL INTERNATIONAL (Toba City, Mie) in an ordinary zone of Ise-Shima National Park, and the NEMU RESORT and AMANEMU (both in Shima City, Mie) are located in an ordinary zone and a special zone in Ise-Shima National Park. Group-Managed Forests The Mitsui Fudosan Group owns roughly 5,000 hectares of forest (equivalent to 1,063 Tokyo Domes*) in 31 cities, towns and villages in Hokkaido. Less than 40% is natural forest of trees such as Mongolian oak, and management is kept to a minimum so they can be preserved in their natural state. More than 60% is hand-planted Sakhalin r and other varieties, and we conduct planned tree-planting and provide appropriate management and care. By using timber from our group managed forests as building materials, we create never-ending forests. *Calculation based on Tokyo Dome covering 4.7 hectares. Policy for Biodiverse Regions In the regions inside national parks where our four resort hotel facilities are located, we are working to create and restore wildlife habitats lost due to development, and are working to minimize the impact of business activities on wildlife habitats in these regions. Using these rich natural surroundings, we also strive to provide venues and opportunities for activities in touch with nature. Preserving and Creating Greenery in Urban Settings Creation of About 2,000 m2 of Green Space in TOKYO MIDTOWN HIBIYA (Greening Rate: 40%) At TOKYO MIDTOWN HIBIYA (Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo), the planted foliage incorporates the same local varieties of trees as the adjacent Hibiya Park located across the road, to ensure harmony with the park's lush greenery. The Parkview Garden (sixth oor), Sky Garden (ninth oor) and other amenities provide approximately 2,000 m2 of green space (greening rate* 40%). *Greening rate:Green area is calculated based on the method outlined in the greenery program of the Tokyo Nature Conservation Ordinance. Greening rate (%) = (Rooftop green area + Ground green area) / (Site area Building area + Usable rooftop area) x 100 Greenery plan for TOKYO MIDTOWN HIBIYA Parkview Garden Sky Garden Preserving and Creating Wildlife Habitats The neighborhood of Tokyo Midtown (Minato-ku, Tokyo) is a redevelopment of a former Japan Defense Agency (JDA) site in Roppongi. Approximately 140 trees remaining on the former JDA site were preserved and transplanted, and in combination with the adjacent Hinokicho Park (Minato-ku) approximately 40% of the development area (roughly 4 hectares) forms a richly green open space, for a green area about 2.7 times that during the JDA era. A wild bird survey was carried out from October 2016 to June 2017 in these green spaces of Tokyo Midtown, and the results conrmed birds of 6 orders, 18 families, and 25 species. These include the Northern Goshawk, Great Egret, Black Kite, and Bull-Headed Shrike, all of which appear on the Red List of the Tokyo Metropolitan Government, indicating important wildlife species for protection. Moreover, within the premises, a handbook introducing the wild birds discovered in the survey is available for visitors to look at. Wild Bird Handbook for Green space in Tokyo Midtown (Midtown Garden) Tokyo Midtown Japanese Pied Wagtail (lawn) Japanese Pygmy Woodpecker (tree) Barn Swallow (sky) Eastern Spot-Billed Duck (water) Wild birds living in Tokyo Midtown Restoring Wildlife Habitats The resort hotel NEMU RESORT (Shima City, Mie) is located in Ise-Shima National Park, which overlooks Ago Bay. Large parts of the tidal wetlands and seaweed beds in Ago Bay have been lost, and efforts to restore the tidal wetlands and seaweed beds, and thereby rejuvenate a ourishing ocean, are moving forward through a joint project by industry, government, academia, and the local community. At the NEMU RESORT, a project has been underway since scal 2012 to restore a roughly two-hectare coastal plot of open land in the park (abandoned agricultural land) as a tidal wetland, and after restoration we are checking habitation by wildlife such as Flathead Grey Mullet, Japanese Black Seabream, and Japanese Intertidal Crab. At AMANEMU (Shima City, Mie) which opened in March 2016, a pre on-site vegetation survey was carried out based on the REFOREST development concept (reclaiming nature on land damaged in the past by repeated development and deforestation). Based on the results, we selected the principal trees of existing forests on the site, and carried out priority planting starting from locations articially developed with no trees, such as lawns. In this way, we worked to restore the forest in harmony with the natural environment of the region. Provision of Venues and Opportunities for Activities in Touch with Nature At the resort hotel NEMU RESORT (Shima City, Mie), we offer programs to experience nature such as Bird Watching Strolls and Satoyama Nature Tours, led by dedicated nature specialists and guides. We also offer programs to experience nature at HAIMURUBUSHI (Yaeyama District, Okinawa) such as Nighttime Park Tours, scuba diving, and snorkeling. Initiatives for Sustainable Forest Resource Procurement To ensure sustainable procurement of forest resources, Mitsui Home—as a company using such resources—has formulated the Mitsui Home Group Resource Procurement Guidelines, which set forth procurement policy and scope of applicability. In the Eco-Action Plan 2020, we set a medium-term goal (2020) of maintaining 100% achievement of internal procurement standards relating to legality, and we are continuing our efforts within that framework. The Mitsui Home Group Resource Procurement Guidelines (Overview) Procurement Philosophy As a company that draws on trees and forests in the conduct of its business activities, Mitsui Homes adheres strictly to a policy of sustainable forest resource procurement to ensure an abundant ecosystem and to maintain regional society. Moving forward, the company will work diligently to reduce its global environmental load. Procurement Policy 1 Conrm the legality of timber and lumber products When procuring from countries and regions where the possibility of illegal harvesting exists, the legality of timber and lumber procured are conrmed in advance. 2 Procure sustainable forest resources We promote procurement of forest resources from sources that practice sustainable harvesting, to protect precious forests, their environments and biodiversity. 3 Protect precious species We work to protect valuable and endangered tree species. 4 Manage and maintain the supply chain We work with partners to manage and promote legal, sustainable supply chains. Implementation of Biodiversity Risk Assessments When carrying out a new development project, the Mitsui Fudosan Group conrms the presence of trees, forests, and other elements of the natural environment that should be preserved on development sites, and we preserve, transplant, or conserve trees, forests and other natural features when needed. In developing regions with many natural areas, we assess environmental impact on plants, animals, and ecosystems based on laws, regulations, and ordinances relating to environmental impact assessments and protection of the natural environment. Climate Change Environmentally Friendly Supply Chain Privacy Policy Basic Policy on Specic Personal Information Concerning Protection of Personal Information Concerning Cookies and Access Logs Usage Notice © 2019 Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. ⽇本語 English ESG Report Environment Environmentally Friendly Supply Chain ESG Report TOP ESG Information SDGs and Neighborhood Creation ESG at the Mitsui Fudosan Regarding the Disclosure of our The Mitsui Fudosan Group: A Management’s Commitment Group ESG Report History of Value Creation Environment Society Governance Special Reports Third-party Verication The Mitsui Fudosan Group and SDGs List View of ESG Information Policy As a corporate group supporting ofces, housing, and other infrastructure necessary for daily life, we at the Mitsui Fudosan Group recognize that it is our social responsibility to reduce our environmental impact and conserve the environment to an even higher standard. To accomplish this, we believe efforts should be made throughout the entire supply chain to promote environmentally friendly, sustainable procurement. We have formulated Sustainable Procurement Standards summarizing basic guidelines in this area. We published these standards on our website in December 2018, and have notied our main business partners. Our Sustainable Procurement Standards specify environmental guidelines, as well as basic guidelines on six items—including compliance with laws and regulations and respect for human rights relating to labor—as standards to be complied with or actively promoted by both the Mitsui Fudosan Group and its suppliers. The idea is to share these standards within the Mitsui Fudosan Group, build and operate an ordering and contract process in line with the nature of our business, and also notify and request the understanding of our business partners. To realize a sustainable society, we will work to promote environmentally friendly sustainable procurement throughout our supply chain. Procurement Standards for Environmental Awareness (Excerpt from the Mitsui Fudosan Group’s Sustainable Procurement Standards) 5. Consideration for the Environment Strive to reduce resource use including energy, CO2 emissions and water use, etc. Manage and reduce in an appropriate manner contaminated substances and generation of waste materials Show consideration for biodiversity Preserve the environment, including the aforementioned items For details on the Mitsui Fudosan Group’s Sustainable Procurement Standards, see Policy under Social Supply Chain. ⇒ For details on the Mitsui Fudosan Group’s Sustainable Procurement Standards Building Management System to Measure the Energy Efciency of Our Real Estat6 Properties ⇒ Please see Climate Change > Examples of Our Activities > Energy Management System . Biodiversity Conservation Project at Our Real Estate Properties ⇒ Please see Biodiversity > Major Initiatives . Water Usage at Our Real Estate Properties ⇒ Please see Water > Water Usage . Energy Consumption at Our Real Estate Properties ⇒ Please see Climate Change > Energy Consumption Greenhouse Gas Emissions at Our Real Estate Properties ⇒ Please see Climate Change > Greenhouse Gas Emissions . Biodiversity Other Environmental Data Privacy Policy Basic Policy on Specic Personal Information Concerning Protection of Personal Information Concerning Cookies and Access Logs Usage Notice © 2019 Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. ⽇本語 English ESG Report Environment Other Environmental Data ESG Report TOP ESG Information SDGs and Neighborhood Creation ESG at the Mitsui Fudosan Regarding the Disclosure of our The Mitsui Fudosan Group: A Management’s Commitment Group ESG Report History of Value Creation Environment Society Governance Special Reports Third-party Verication The Mitsui Fudosan Group and SDGs List View of ESG Information Environmental Accounting (Mitsui Fudosan Ofce Building Division) Calculation of Environmental Accounting Investment and expenses required for environmental conservation were calculated in the environmental conservation costs. In addition, scal 2002 is regarded as the base scal year for comparisons/calculations. Expenses for environmental conservation costs include depreciation allowance for equipment, etc. invested in. Among environmental conservation costs related to administrative activities, expenses for conducting occupational knowledge training and other expenses are posted. The basis for conversion into CO2 with respect to environmental conservation effects is as follows. In order to compare with the base scal year, the numerical values for the scal year under review and the previous scal year were also calculated on the following basis. CO2 emissions coefcient (other than electricity): The CO2 emissions coefcient indicated in the Enforcement Ordinance of the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures (revised in December 2002). CO2 emissions coefcient (electricity): The CO2 emissions coefcient indicated in the Enforcement Ordinance of the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures (revised in December 2002) (the numerical value for general electric power suppliers is used). Targeted properties of the scal year under review differ from those of the previous scal year and base scal year. Cost of Environmental Conservation (Fiscal 2018) Scope of calculations: Ofce buildings that Mitsui Fudosan owns or partially owns (targeted: 66 buildings) Applicable period: April 1, 2018 – March 31, 2019 Base scal year: Fiscal 2002 (thousand yen) Cumulative Current Expenses Classication Contents of Major Initiatives Investment Expenses from Base Fiscal Year Environmental Conservation Costs to Reduce Environmental Impact Generated through Production/ Service Activities in 430,174 967,009 13,298,832 Business Areas (costs in business areas) Efuent Treatment Facility, Smoke Density Measurements, Countermeasures 1-1 Antipollution Costs 3,480 23,766 497,122 1 against Legionella Bacteria, etc. Renovation of Heat Sources, Renovation of Air Conditioners, External CO2 1-2 Global Environment Breakdown Control, Renewal of Central Monitoring Stations, Midperformance Filter 424,394 657,294 8,613,361 Conservation Costs Cleaning, etc. Facility to Recycle Wastewater, Expenses to Recycle Food Scraps, 1-3 Resource Recycling Costs 2,300 285,949 4,188,349 Expenses to Recycle Fluorescent Light and Batteries, etc. Costs to Reduce Environment Load Generated Upstream or Downstream Due to 2 0 0 0 Production/Service Activities (Upstream/Downstream Costs) Environment Conservation Cost in Expenses to Comply with Environmental Laws and Ordinances, 3 Administrative Activities (Administrative 0 85,651 1,419,830 Expenses to Provide Environmental Education, etc. Activity Costs) Environment Conservation Cost in Research Environmental-related Research and Development Expenses, 4 and Development Activities Depreciation on Facilities Related to Research and Development 0 0 42,440 (Research and Development Costs) Personnel Expenses for Environment related Research and Development Environment Conservation Cost in Social Planting Refurbishments, Maintenance Expenses for Outdoor Facility 5 635 74,598 819,018 Activities (Social Activity Costs) Planting, etc. Costs to Handle Environmental Damage 6 0 0 0 (Environmental Damage Costs) Total 430,809 1,127,258 15,580,120 Environmental Conservation Effects (Fiscal 2018) Scope of calculations: Ofce buildings that Mitsui Fudosan owns or partially owns (targeted: 67 buildings) Applicable period: April 1, 2018 – March 31, 2019 Base scal year: Fiscal 2002 Environmental Load Index Year-on-year Compared with Change (Current Base Fiscal year Contents of Effects Current Fiscal Previous Fiscal Base Fiscal Year scal year(Current scal Year Year Previous scal year-Base scal year) year) Environmental Load Index Year-on-year Compared with Change (Current Base Fiscal year Contents of Effects Current Fiscal Previous Fiscal Base Fiscal Year scal year(Current scal Year Year Previous scal year-Base scal year) year) Consumption by Floor Area of Crude Oil Equivalent to Fuel/Electricity for Administrative 2.01 2.00 3.16 0.01 -1.15 Use (after correction based on occupancy ratio) [crude oil equivalent kℓ/thousand m2]*1 Consumption by Floor Area of CO2 Equivalent to Fuel/ Electricity for Administrative Use (after 3.10 3.08 4.87 0.02 -1.77 correction based on occupancy ratio) [equivalent t-CO2/thousand m2]*2 Electricity: Consumption by Floor Area of Energy-saving Electric Power Consumed for for Administrative Use (after correction 6.69 6.77 10.94 -0.08 -4.25 Administrative based on occupancy ratio) [thousand Use kWh/thousand m2]*3 Breakdown Gas: Consumption by Floor Area of Gas of Consumed for Administrative Use (after 0.29 0.26 0.32 0.03 -0.03 Each correction based on occupancy ratio) Energy [thousand m3/thousand m2]*4 DHC: Consumption by Floor Area of DHC Purchased for Administrative Use 13,616.79 10,942.76 24,258.57 2,674.03 -10,641.78 (after correction based on occupancy ratio) [MJ/thousand m2]*5 Water: Consumption by Floor Area of Water Consumed for Administrative Use (after correction based on occupancy ratio) 40.78 40.15 77.96 0.63 -37.18 [t/thousand m2]*6 Consumption by Floor Area of Disposed Waste (after correction 0.47 0.63 1.19 -0.16 -0.72 based on occupancy ratio) [t/thousand m2]*7 Improvement of Recycling Rate to Total Waste [%] 72.52 71.32 44.77 1.20 27.75 *1 Crude oil equivalent to fuel/electricity use [kℓ] / (total oor area [thousand m2] x occupancy ratio) *2 CO2 equivalent to fuel/electricity use for administrative use [t-CO2] / (total oor area [thousand m2] x occupancy ratio) *3 Electric power consumed for administrative use [thousand kWh] / (total oor area [thousand m2] x occupancy ratio) *4 Gas consumed for administrative use [thousand m3] / (total oor area [thousand m2] x occupancy ratio) *5 DHC purchased for administrative use [MJ] / (total oor area [thousand m2] x occupancy ratio) *6 Water consumed for administrative use [t] / (total oor area [thousand m2] x occupancy ratio) *7 Amount of disposed waste [t] / (total oor area [thousand m2] x occupancy ratio) Environmental Data by Prefectural/Municipal Ordinance Environmental Data Based on Ordinances of the Tokyo Metropolitan Government (1.01MB) https://www.mitsuifudosan.co.jp/corporate/esg_csr/pdf/2019/env_tokyo_2019.pdf Environmental Data Based on Ordinances of the Yokohama Municipal Government (550KB) https://www.mitsuifudosan.co.jp/corporate/esg_csr/pdf/2019/env_yokohama_2019.pdf Environmental Data Based on Ordinances of the Saitama Prefectural Government (587KB) https://www.mitsuifudosan.co.jp/corporate/esg_csr/pdf/2019/env_saitama_2019.pdf Environmental Data Based on Ordinances of the Hiroshima Municipal Government (261KB) https://www.mitsuifudosan.co.jp/corporate/esg_csr/pdf/2019/env_hiroshima_2019.pdf Environmentally Friendly Supply Chain Health and Safety Privacy Policy Basic Policy on Specic Personal Information Concerning Protection of Personal Information Concerning Cookies and Access Logs Usage Notice © 2019 Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. ⽇本語 English ESG Report Society Health and Safety ESG Report TOP ESG Information SDGs and Neighborhood Creation ESG at the Mitsui Fudosan Regarding the Disclosure of our The Mitsui Fudosan Group: A Management’s Commitment Group ESG Report History of Value Creation Environment Society Governance Special Reports Third-party Verication The Mitsui Fudosan Group and SDGs List View of ESG Information Policy Mitsui Fudosan regards the health and safety of our employees as an important issue essential for the sustained growth of our company, and we are actively working to maintain and promote the health of employees while striving for a workplace environment where employees can work energetically in accordance with their respective lifestyles. Management System Mitsui Fudosan has established a Health Committee and Health Management Center-specialized organizations for maintaining and improving employee health-and we are working to achieve goals such as improving the rate at which employees undergo periodic health checkups. We have also set up a Health Consultation Service where employees can freely discuss health issues, and in partnership with the Personnel Department, industrial physicians, public health nurses, and counselors, we are striving to improve the working environment and the physical and mental health of employees. In meetings with our labor unions, we exchange and coordinate views based on a shared understanding that health and safety are important issues. Board of Director Oversight Activities relating to employee health and safety, and occurrences of accidents or occupational injuries, are reported to the Board of Directors, and the Director in Charge of Personnel provides management and oversight. Procurement Standards to Ensure the Health and Safety of Employees and Outside Suppliers (Excerpt from the Mitsui Fudosan Group's Sustainable Procurement Standards) 2. Respect for Human Rights Related to Labor Respect for basic human rights, freedom of association and collective bargaining rights Pay at least minimum wage and ensure health and safety Do not engage in child labor or forced labor Reduce excessive overtime work and prevent overwork Ban discrimination and ensure equal opportunity for workers Comply with countries' laws and regulations and standards in relation to the aforementioned items when conducting business For details on the Mitsui Fudosan Group's Sustainable Procurement Standards, see Policy under Social Supply Chain. ⇒ To the Social Supply Chain page Goals and Progress Mitsui Fudosan has set goals for the health checkup and screening rate to help maintain the health of employees, and we are steadily expanding efforts to improve this rate. Health Checkup and Screening Rate ⇒ Please see here (Third-party verication) for data on health checkup and screening rates. Major Initiatives Stress Check Through stress check tests by Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance, an outside specialist organization, Mitsui Fudosan periodically monitors the mental health of employees, linking these results with efforts to realize improvements. In addition to carrying out yearly health checkups, we also offer thorough health screening for all employees over 35 and their spouses, gynecological exams for female employees and the spouses of male employees, and leave to undergo thorough health screening. We are also working to ascertain the working situation and health status of employees through yearly personal interviews between Personnel Department staff and all employees, stress checks, interviews with an industrial physician for overworked employees, and other programs. To help employees recover from fatigue and maintain physical/psychological balance, we have established Refre, a facility where a massage specialist is always on duty and they can refresh themselves with a massage or a nap. Refreshment Room Excellent Enterprise of Health and Productivity Management Mitsui Fudosan afrms the principles of the Excellent Enterprise in Health and Productivity Management Certication System promoted by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, and we obtained certication as an excellent enterprise in 2017. This system is for commending large rms, small and medium-sized enterprises, and other corporations which practice health management with particular excellence, based on efforts responding to local health issues, and efforts to improve health promoted by the Nippon Kenko Kaigi. As a company actively engaged in health management, Mitsui Fudosan was certied as an Excellent Enterprise of Health and Productivity Management 2019 (White 500) in the large enterprise category. Excellent Enterprise in Health and Productivity Management System This system is for commending large rms, small and medium-sized enterprises, and other corporations which practice health management with particular excellence, based on efforts responding to local health issues, and efforts to improve health promoted by the Nippon Kenko Kaigi. (Excerpt from home page of the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry) No. of Employees Attending Seminars on Health and Safety Standards At Mitsui Fudosan, we provide training every year on health and safety for new employees and newly appointed executive managers. (In scal 2018, 42 new employees and 18 newly appointed executive managers undertook this training.) Moreover, in scal 2018 we provided training for a total of 216 department managers and executive managers regarding management of employees' mental and physical health. We also provided labor management training, which, among others, outlined ways to prevent excessive working hours. Percentage of Ofce Buildings with OHSAS 18001 Certication At present, no business sites have received OHSAS 18001 certication. Other Environmental Data Labor Standards and Practices Privacy Policy Basic Policy on Specic Personal Information Concerning Protection of Personal Information Concerning Cookies and Access Logs Usage Notice © 2019 Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. ⽇本語 English ESG Report Society Labor Standards and Practices ESG Report TOP ESG Information SDGs and Neighborhood Creation ESG at the Mitsui Fudosan Regarding the Disclosure of our The Mitsui Fudosan Group: A Management’s Commitment Group ESG Report History of Value Creation Environment Society Governance Special Reports Third-party Verication The Mitsui Fudosan Group and SDGs List View of ESG Information Policy Mitsui Fudosan supports and respects the basic rights for workers set out in the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. The following labor principles are set forth in this declaration. Freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Effective abolition of child labour Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Furthermore, we pursue methods to ensure that basic human rights are respected in countries and regions that do not adhere to internationally-recognized basic human rights. Declarations to Society and Participation in International Initiatives We at the Mitsui Fudosan Group believe it is important for various stakeholders to work collaboratively to solve social issues. We are working to full our role by making declarations to society and leading the way in participation in various initiatives inside and outside Japan. Participation in the United Nations Global Compact The UN Global Compact is a worldwide framework put forward by the UN. Companies and groups participate in this voluntary initiative in order be benecial members of society and realize sustainable growth, by showing responsible, creative leadership. The ten principles of the UN Global Compact-structured around the four areas of human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption-are based on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, and the United Nations Convention against Corruption. The Mitsui Fudosan Group supports the principles of the UN Global Compact, which we signed in December 2018, and we have also joined the Global Compact Network Japan. For details on the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), please see the following: ⇒ https://www.unglobalcompact.org/ Communication of Corporate Policy on Labor Standards Our Group translates basic policy on labor management into English, and strives to ensure a common framework with employees and local staff working at business locations overseas. Internships and Employment of People with Disabilities Mitsui Fudosan provides internships for students as an opportunity for them to improve the quality of their career options. We make a public appeal to undergraduate and graduate students, and accept more than 150 students every year. First Facilities Challenged is a special subsidiary of Mitsui Fudosan Facilities, established in 2006 based on the Act on Employment Promotion etc. of Persons with Disabilities. The company promotes employment of persons with disabilities and provides them with work experience opportunities. Our Efforts for Human Rights Issues Equality of Opportunity to Work Mitsui Fudosan has established a Code of Employee Conduct with regard to human rights, and we actively and voluntarily fulll our social responsibility regarding human rights problems. As an organization for promoting correct understanding and recognition of human rights problems among all employees, we have established the Fair Employment Screening and Human Rights Awareness Raising Committee. The primary role of the committee is education and guidance, formulating and implementing training plans, investigative research, and supervision, communication, and coordination of issues relating to human rights problems. Specically, we are continuously implementing educational activities to promote awareness of sexual harassment, abuse of power, other types of harassment, and discrimination. We have also established harassment consultation services inside and outside the company that are available by telephone 24 hours a day. Moreover, each Group company organizes a Fair Employment Screening and Human Rights Awareness Raising Liaison Conference to raise awareness of human rights issues across the Group, and we are actively hiring people with disabilities, local people overseas, and nonJapanese in Japan. Additionally, we are continuously working to improve understanding and awareness regarding human rights through initiatives such as holding human rights awareness training for all Mitsui Fudosan employees. Our Efforts for Labor Issues Support for a Living Wage We conduct labor management while abiding by the labor laws and regulations of each country. In terms of wages, we have adopted a basic policy of not only following rules on minimum wages in each country, but also paying wages that exceed those requirements. In scal 2018, the average annual salary at Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. was \12.63 million. System Enabling Dialogue between Labor and Management Mitsui Fudosan works to ensure unity between labor and management by maintaining a framework for dialogue between employee representatives and company management in which they meet several times a year to discuss the appropriateness of work environments and work conditions. We also exchange views and coordinate based on the shared understanding that employee health and safety is an important issue. Preventing Child Labor and Forced Labor The Mitsui Fudosan Group has never used child or forced labor. Also, in order to guarantee that none is used in the future, we ensure that each business location thoroughly complies with the laws and regulations of its host country and conduct regular monitoring. In the unlikely event that such a violation is suspected to have occurred, we have also established a whistle-blowing contact point that employees can report to. Reducing Excessive Working Hours At Mitsui Fudosan, we have formulated a clear policy and are making the following efforts to reduce excessive working hours and overtime: Monitoring working hours and conducting interviews with employees Notifying both employees and their direct supervisors when they are in danger of overwork Utilizing a computer-usage time control system Establishing, promoting, and enforcing no-overtime days Sexual Orientation To prevent discrimination against LGBT (sexual minorities), Mitsui Fudosan is making the following efforts: We have stated clearly in the Mitsui Fudosan Group Compliance Policies that discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation is prohibited and inform all employees of this. Our harassment consultation services provide consultation of harassment relating to LGBT. We have formulated a set of Universal Design Guidelines which conform to the relevant laws, regulations, and ordinances, and established more than one multipurpose toilet in every lobby area for members of the LGBT community. Moreover, these multipurpose toilets have been tted in areas that are outside the line of sight of others. Employment Situation in the Mitsui Fudosan Group (As of March 31, 2019) Number of Employees by Business Segment (Entire Group) Business segment Number of employees Percentage Rental 1,153 6.0% Built-for-sale 1,273 6.7% Management 10,365 54.3% Mitsui Home 3,727 19.5% Other 2,210 11.6% Administration* 353 1.9% Total 19,081 100.0% *Employees belonging to administration departments who cannot be classied under a specic segment Employment Situation at Mitsui Fudosan (As of March 31 of each scal year) Employee Composition Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Male 869 929 949 (Regular employees) 685 728 734 (Irregular employees) 184 201 215 Female 528 597 628 (Regular employees) 247 269 294 (Irregular employees) 281 328 334 Total 1,397 1,526 1,577 *Excluding dispatched employees Employee Composition by Age (Fiscal 2018) 20s 30s 40s 50s 60s and older Male 147 233 220 272 77 Female 156 272 136 61 2 20s 30s 40s 50s 60s and older Total 303 505 356 333 79 *Excluding dispatched employees Trends in Number and Percentage of Male and Female Regular Employees Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female 1,172 1,081 91 1,183 1,081 102 1,187 1,067 120 General positions 92.2% 7.8% 91.4% 8.6% 89.9% 10.1% 7 7 0 27 25 2 40 36 4 Technical positions 100.0% 00.0% 92.6% 7.4% 90.0% 10.0% 181 0 181 189 0 189 194 0 194 Operational positions 0.0% 100.0% 0.0% 100.0% 0.0% 100.0% *Including dispatched employees Trends in New and Departing Employees Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 New employees (regular employees) 41 44 42 Mid-career hires (regular employees) 8 33 33 Rehired contract employees (regular employees after 10 25 31 mandatory retirement) Number of departing regular employees (excluding those rehired, including those departing due to 14 14 15 mandatory retirement) New hires (contract employees) 76 124 142 Number of departing employees (contract employees) 60 78 78 Departure rate of full-time employees Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Departure rate (regular employees)* 0.29% 0.79% 0.77% Departure rate (contract employees) 18.18% 24.07% 17.89% *Excludes users of the return entry system (system for re-employment of those who have resigned due to transfer of a spouse), and those departing due to mandatory retirement Health and Safety Our Efforts for Diversity Privacy Policy Basic Policy on Specic Personal Information Concerning Protection of Personal Information Concerning Cookies and Access Logs Usage Notice © 2019 Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. ⽇本語 English ESG Report Society Our Efforts for Diversity ESG Report TOP ESG Information SDGs and Neighborhood Creation ESG at the Mitsui Fudosan Regarding the Disclosure of our The Mitsui Fudosan Group: A Management’s Commitment Group ESG Report History of Value Creation Environment Society Governance Special Reports Third-party Verication The Mitsui Fudosan Group and SDGs List View of ESG Information Policy The logo adopted by the Mitsui Fudosan Group as a management philosophy represents the principles of coexisting in harmony with society, linking diverse values, and achieving a sustainable society. At Mitsui Fudosan, we are taking workstyle reform as a key initiative, and building an organization that allows personnel with diverse values, skills, and lifestyles to fully realize their individual capabilities, so we can respond to dramatically changing social needs and create new value. Our Efforts to Promote Active Roles for Diverse Employees Mitsui Fudosan has established an environment and institutional systems which allow people to work with respect for their individual values and lifestyles, regardless of sex, life events, or the existence of time constraints. Specic programs are as follows. Specic Programs In-ofce nurseries System for childrearing-father training leave (leave to support men's participation in childcare) Spouse maternity leave Subsidy system for babysitter and after-school childcare expenses Work-at-home system Flex-time system for reduced working hours during childcare Childcare leave that can be used for up to three years, longer than the legally mandated period Childbirth and childcare interview system Eruboshi Certication Mitsui Fudosan has received Eruboshi certication from the Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare. This system allows companies that have led based on the Act on Promotion of Active Participation by Women in their Work Life, which came into effect on April 1, 2016, and met certain criteria, to be certied as outstanding in terms of implementation of measures to promote active roles for women. Goals for Promoting Active Roles for Women Promoting workstyle reform to lay the groundwork for active participation by diverse personnel including women. Aiming to raise the number of women in management positions to more than 3 times the level in scal 2015 by 2020. Percentage of Women in General and Management Positions (As of April 1, including dispatched employees) General Positions Management Positions Employment of Seniors In order to ensure the sustainable growth of our company, and in line with the increased desire of seniors who have a wealth of knowledge and expertise to work with stability and peace of mind, we have raised the age of mandatory retirement from 60 to 65. Employment of People with Disabilities We are continually working to employ people with disabilities, based on perspectives such as corporate social responsibility and diversity, and going forward, we will continue developing an organization where diverse personnel can realize their capabilities to the fullest. In addition to Mitsui Fudosan Facilities Challenged*1, which we established in scal 2006, we launched the Challenged Center*2 within Mitsui Fudosan in scal 2018 to further promote employment of people with disabilities and provide them with work experience opportunities. *1: A special subsidiary of Mitsui Fudosan Facilities (a 100% subsidiary of Mitsui Fudosan). *2: A center composed of employees with intellectual disabilities and full-time advisors, integrating and undertaking xed jobs from various divisions. Labor Standards and Practices Human Resources Management Privacy Policy Basic Policy on Specic Personal Information Concerning Protection of Personal Information Concerning Cookies and Access Logs Usage Notice © 2019 Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. ⽇本語 English ESG Report Society Human Resources Management ESG Report TOP ESG Information SDGs and Neighborhood Creation ESG at the Mitsui Fudosan Regarding the Disclosure of our The Mitsui Fudosan Group: A Management’s Commitment Group ESG Report History of Value Creation Environment Society Governance Special Reports Third-party Verication The Mitsui Fudosan Group and SDGs List View of ESG Information Policy Under its Group Statement, Mitsui Fudosan aims to bring afuence and comfort to urban living. Moreover, since its founding, Mitsui Fudosan has inherited and nurtured a progressive spirit together with a free and open corporate culture, and used these as a driver for providing diverse, innovative solutions and services in connection with business and living. We see our people as an asset and the most important drivers in creating new value as a real estate developer. The basic approach to human resource management at Mitsui Fudosan is to treat each employee as an individual and create a stage on which they can sharpen their professional knowledge and abilities, increase their ability to create added-value, and transform team performance through the integration of diverse values and skills. Mitsui Fudosan aims to be a business and lifestyle solutions partner. In order to do so, Mitsui Fudosan is targeting the development of a diverse group of employees, who are able to make full use of their individual attributes, with both specialized and advanced business knowledge, and a broader perspective. In order to achieve this goal, we have adopted a basic policy on personnel development that broadens the capabilities of each individual by combining four opportunities for personnel development in accordance with the person's career. Management System (1) OJT We provide On the Job Training through work on-site as the basis for personnel development Through specic jobs in the workplace and communication between employees, we develop the capabilities necessary for job performance in a planned, continuous fashion. (2) Interviews with employees We emphasize face-to-face communication with each individual As part of our system, we provide employees with numerous opportunities to consult/discuss their career and capability development with the Personnel Department or their department manager. Every year, the Personnel Department conducts individual interviews with each employee, and ascertains information on their problems, development environment, work situation, worries, and other issues. In this way we develop and support capabilities in accordance with the hopes and vision of each employee. (3) Job rotation We develop professionals with a wide range of specialties. We conduct job rotation every few years. Our aim is to develop employees and an organization which can adapt to an ever-changing environment, and this is achieved by further deepening the experience and knowledge of each employee through work experience in multiple areas, while bolstering expertise through focus on work the employee is in charge of. (4) Training programs We have systematic training programs for improving diverse capabilities of employees We have systematic, diverse training programs, in areas ranging from basic abilities as a working adult to specialized skills and sharing of management awareness, in accordance with the respective role and capabilities of each employee, their personal progress in capability growth, and other factors. Examples of Training/Education for Employees' Personal Development Training programs that involve the sharing of MEET21 Training, Cross Expert Training management awareness and corporate culture Broadening/growth of capabilities and Long-term temporary assignment training outside the company, Cross Expert Training, training to develop perspectives people, MEET21 Training, assistance to pass the Information Technology Passport Examination Improving work execution capability and Registered real estate broker training, nancial accounting training, various types of distance learning courses specialization Overseas trainee programs (English-speaking countries, Chinese-speaking countries), overseas management Broadening basic abilities as global personnel training, global training for young and midlevel employees Fostering the mindset needed as a working adult Compliance training, human rights awareness training, CSR training, harassment training Deepening understanding as a member of an New employee training, new employee development instructor training, follow-up training in 1st and 2nd years organization after joining company, diversity management training for newly appointed executives Track record for scal 2018 Development of Global Personnel Rapid growth in our overseas business is a key element of our management strategy, and the market in Japan is becoming more and more globalized We are therefore working to enhance overseas assignment training and language programs to develop human resources who can act on the global stage. Assignment for Overseas Language Training (Global Training for Young and Mid-Level Employees) To build language skills, the ability to cope with different cultures, and overseas connections, we assign young employees (as a rule, all employees) and mid-level employees to overseas training for periods of 2-8 weeks. Trainee System We have an overseas trainee system for internships and language training in Europe, the USA, and Asia, for periods of 6 months to one year. Different employees are assigned to this program every year. Compliance Training Compliance training covering issues such as preventing corruption is held regularly at overseas locations for employees of local subsidiaries and local staff. Overseas Language Training Trainee System Time Spent Developing Employee Abilities Total time Mitsui Fudosan spent on capability development training and training time per employee in scal 2018 was as follows. Training Time for Capability Development (track record for scal 2018) Total time for capability development training: 24,036 hours Training time per employee: 16.9 hours Environmental Training and Education As a part of its environmental efforts, Mitsui Fudosan and Group companies train and educate their employees about the environment while also providing eco tours (tours of environmentally advanced facilities, etc.) and other activities to increase their interest in the environment. Environmental Training and Education Each year, Mitsui Fudosan conducts afforestation training for employees at forests owned by the Group in Hokkaido. We also continue to carry out forest conservation work in collaboration with the staff of the Tokyo Metropolitan Government Bureau of Waterworks at Mitsui Fudosan &EARTH FOREST TOKYO, a forest for water resource conservation in Tokyo. Group companies are also carrying out their own environmental training and education. Mitsui Fudosan Facilities provides environmental training as part of new employee training, and Mitsui Fudosan Residential Lease and Tokyo Midtown Management provides environmental education. Afforestation training (Mitsui Fudosan) Eco Tour (Mitsui Fudosan Facilities) Environmental Education Activities Number of Participants Type of Training (scal year) Afforestation training 24（2018） Forest conservation work at a Tokyo Metropolitan forest for water resource conservation 4（2018） Mitsui Fudosan Eco Tours（Tour of waste treatment facility） 20（2018） Shimokawa Town SDGs Training 13（2018） Environmental training in new employee training 183（2017） Mitsui Fudosan Facilities Environmental training through e-learning 1,362（2017） Eco Tours（Tour of waste treatment facility） 33（2017） Three types of posters that outline details and examples of the Company's environmental initiatives are display. Mitsui Fudosan Residential Lease ・Introduction to smart leasing properties ・Details of the Company's unique social and environmental contribution activities ・The merits of LED lighting and cost simulations Tokyo Midtown Management Bird watching event for employees and tenant staff 17（2017） Eco Test Mitsui Fudosan and Group companies encourage employees to take the Certication Test for Environmental Specialists (Eco Test) administered by the Tokyo Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Mitsui Fudosan Facilities and Tokyo Midtown Management have made the Eco Test a required certication. In addition, Mitsui Fudosan, Mitsui Fudosan Facilities and Mitsui Fudosan Residential Lease are identied as companies that promote the Eco Test on the Eco Test information site of the Tokyo Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Cumulative total of employees who have taken and passed the Eco Test (As of the end of scal 2018) Total number of employees Company name Positioning of Eco Test Pass ratio who have passed the test Mitsui Fudosan Recommended 381 Approx. 21.4% of all employees Approx. 92.5% of full-time and xed-term Mitsui Fudosan Facilities Required 1,439 employees, excluding junior employees Mitsui Fudosan Building Management Recommended 290 Approx. 28.0% of all employees Approx. 30.0% of all employees, excluding Mitsui Fudosan Architectural Engineering Recommended 37 dispatched employees Mitsui Fudosan Residential Lease Recommended 73 Approx. 10.0% of all employees Tokyo Midtown Management Required 62 Approx. 70.5% of all employees Our Efforts for Diversity Support for Work-Life Balance Privacy Policy Basic Policy on Specic Personal Information Concerning Protection of Personal Information Concerning Cookies and Access Logs Usage Notice © 2019 Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. ⽇本語 English ESG Report Society Support for Work-Life Balance ESG Report TOP ESG Information SDGs and Neighborhood Creation ESG at the Mitsui Fudosan Regarding the Disclosure of our The Mitsui Fudosan Group: A Management’s Commitment Group ESG Report History of Value Creation Environment Society Governance Special Reports Third-party Verication The Mitsui Fudosan Group and SDGs List View of ESG Information Policy Mitsui Fudosan is improving work efciency in all business divisions, thereby reducing employee working hours, and promoting an optimal balance between life and work. We believe appropriate work-life balance ensures a more fullling private life for employees, and is very effective for encouraging self-improvement and balancing work with child or family care. As a result, a workplace environment is established enabling diverse employees to fully realize their individual abilities, and this helps us create superior value and achieve sustained growth of our group. Our Efforts to Support Work-Life Balance The Mitsui Fudosan Group aims to create higher value by establishing an environment which accepts the diversity of employees, and allows individuals to fully realize their capabilities. Therefore, we aim to increase private time by improving work efciency, reducing work time, and achieving a more appropriate work-life balance. We believe that increasing opportunities to come into contact with different values through self-improvement and interaction outside the company helps to ensure sustained growth of our group. Major Initiatives (Examples) Flex-Time System Employees can exibly determine their time for starting and stopping work within a certain range. Return Entry System System for re-employment after resignation due to transfer involving the move of a spouse. Special Summer Leave, Special Consecutive Leave Special summer leave and special consecutive leave that can be taken freely in addition to the legally mandated annual paid leave. (Units: Days) Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Number of days taken 12.7 12.9 14.1 For regular and contract employees (those registered for the full year) Refreshment Leave Leave (5-10 days) and a commemorative prize (travel tickets) award in recognition of a certain number of years worked. Cafeteria Plan A benet program that can be used by selecting from a variety of options such as self-development or leisure/travel. Family Day A company event held every year with family participation to help deepen ties between employees and their families. The event serves as an opportunity for employees to deepen ties with their families, and think about work-life balance. Family Day Our Efforts to Support Childcare To support work balance for employees involved in childcare, we go beyond legally mandated programs, and provide programs such as in-ofce nurseries, childcare leave longer than the legally mandated period, and subsidies for the costs of raising children. In these and other ways, we are working to put in place an environment where it is easier to work, and employees can more fully realize their capabilities with peace of mind. Through these initiatives, we have continually maintained a 100% return rate from childcare leave for more than 20 years among regular Mitsui Fudosan employees. We are also focusing effort on fostering awareness and understanding of childcare among all members of the workplace. Childrearing-Father Training Leave We have established Childrearing-Father Training Leave to promote men's participation in and understanding of childcare. This program is used by many employees. Number of Employees Taking Childcare Leave and Childrearing-Father Training Leave (men's childcare leave) (Unit: People) Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Men 36 31 29 Women 12 17 15 Return Rate of Employees Taking Childcare Leave Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Regular employees 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% Contract employees 100.0% 87.5% 69.2% Excludes those departing due to use of the return entry system (system for re-employment of those who have resigned due to transfer of a spouse) Project for Working Side by Side with Children Throughout Japan, Mitsui Fudosan is deploying WORKSTYLING multi-site shared ofces for corporate clients. The Project for Working Side by Side with Children, conducted in August 2017 at WORKSTYLING Shiodome, was an experiment of a new workstyle balancing childcare and work, where people spend time with their children while working. The aim of WORKSTYLING is to offer spaces where employees can freely create new workstyles such as liberating themselves from longdistance commuting, and balancing between childcare, family care and work. WORKSTYLING Project Received 2017 Good Design Award Mitsui Fudosan's WORKSTYLING Project: Workstyle Reform Through Multi-Site Shared Ofces received a Good Design Award for scal 2017. This award recognized that WORKSTYLING provides a new solution to various workspace issues, and is highly regarded as a service that realizes diverse workstyles. Project for Working Side by Side with Children Our Efforts to Support Family Care To support work balance of employees engaged in family care, we are developing an environment that includes a work-at-home system and a system for subsidizing the costs of family care. In addition, our Care Design Department, which supports lifestyles in later life, collaborates with the Personnel Department to hold Care Seminars for employees and their families, and offer care consulting courtesy of a qualied specialist in family care. Employees Taking Family Care Leave (Unit: People) Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Men Women Return Rate of Employees Taking Family Care Leave Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Return rate Human Resources Management Workstyle Reform Privacy Policy Basic Policy on Specic Personal Information Concerning Protection of Personal Information Concerning Cookies and Access Logs Usage Notice © 2019 Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. ⽇本語 English ESG Report Society Workstyle Reform ESG Report TOP ESG Information SDGs and Neighborhood Creation ESG at the Mitsui Fudosan Regarding the Disclosure of our The Mitsui Fudosan Group: A Management’s Commitment Group ESG Report History of Value Creation Environment Society Governance Special Reports Third-party Verication The Mitsui Fudosan Group and SDGs List View of ESG Information Policy The Mitsui Fudosan Group aims to be an organization where personnel with diverse values and talents can actively participate, and we believe it is essential for the sustained growth of our entire group that employees select workstyles suited to their life stages, and fully realize their capabilities by exploiting their individual experiences. Major Initiatives At the Mitsui Fudosan Group, we promote workstyle reform in order to create a foundation enabling active participation by diverse human resources. The Workstyle Innovation Department aims to achieve outstanding value creation by changing mindsets to boost workstyle quality within xed working hours, and improving institutional systems and the workplace environment to support that. Reforming Awareness Utilize internal publicity/broadcasting and a portal site on workstyle reform to conduct educational activities and share expertise, including messages from top management. Provide opportunities for increasing self-awareness and reforming awareness of the entire workplace by supporting male participation in childcare and allowing fathers to take continuous leave through the establishment of a new system for childrearing-father training leave. Distribution of messages from top management to all employees Infrastructure Improvements Utilize the WORKSTYLING Shared Ofces provided by Mitsui Fudosan Introduce work-at-home system Support a variety of workstyles of employees through use of daycare centers inside worksites Lend laptops, smartphones, tablets, and other devices to employees Use a PC use time control system Partially subsidize expenses for babysitters, after school care programs, and nursing care services Work Reform in Organizational Units The Workstyle Innovation Department supports each department's initiatives, establishes customized workstyles, and promotes work efciency improvements. Support for Work-Life Balance Human Rights Privacy Policy Basic Policy on Specic Personal Information Concerning Protection of Personal Information Concerning Cookies and Access Logs Usage Notice © 2019 Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. ⽇本語 English ESG Report Society Human Rights ESG Report TOP ESG Information SDGs and Neighborhood Creation ESG at the Mitsui Fudosan Regarding the Disclosure of our The Mitsui Fudosan Group: A Management’s Commitment Group ESG Report History of Value Creation Environment Society Governance Special Reports Third-party Verication The Mitsui Fudosan Group and SDGs List View of ESG Information Policy The Mitsui Fudosan Group respects basic human rights and complies with the laws and regulations concerning worker's rights of each country in which we conduct business activities. We also support and respect the basic rights for workers set out in the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. The Mitsui Fudosan Group complies with applicable laws and regulations in each country and region where we conduct business activities. 1. We will eliminate all discrimination on the grounds of race, nationality, religion, sex, age, disability, or sexual orientation. 2. We will not tolerate any form of harassment, including sexual harassment or abuse of power. 3. We will not permit child labor or forced labor. 4. We respect freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining. Furthermore, we pursue methods to ensure that basic human rights are respected in countries and regions that do not adhere to internationally-recognized basic human rights. Policy Prohibiting Discrimination We will eliminate all discrimination on the grounds of race, nationality, religion, sex, age, disability, or sexual orientation. Policy Prohibiting Harassment We will not tolerate any form of harassment, including sexual harassment or abuse of power. Policy to Prevent Child Labor or Forced Labor We will not permit child labor or forced labor. The Mitsui Fudosan Group has never used child or forced labor. In order to ensure that none is used in the future, we ensure that each business location thoroughly complies with the laws and regulations of its host country and conduct regular monitoring. In the unlikely event that such a violation is suspected to have occurred, we have also established a whistle-blowing contact point that employees can report to. Policy to Support Freedom of Association and the Right to Collective Bargaining We respect freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining. Policy Supporting Rights to a Minimum Wage and Living Wage The Mitsui Fudosan Group conducts labor management while abiding by the labor laws and regulations of each country. In terms of wages, we have adopted a basic policy of not only following rules on minimum wages in each country, but also paying wages that exceed those requirements. In scal 2017, the average annual salary at Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. was \11.12 million. Principles and Procedures for Community Investment The Mitsui Fudosan Group carries out business activities that do not infringe on human rights, either inside or outside Japan, by ensuring respect for the human rights of all stakeholders including local residents and children. Through neighborhood creation, we are striving to form communities and create opportunities for interaction between diverse human resources, ultimately leading to new markets and employment. In this way, we offer various forms of value to the communities where we conduct business. By participating in and funding area management organizations, we invest in local communities, and work to increase the value of real estate. Major Initiatives Reducing Excessive Work and Overtime Work At Mitsui Fudosan, we have formulated a clear policy and are making the following efforts to reduce excessive working hours and overtime: Monitoring working hours and conducting interviews with employees Notifying both employees and their direct supervisors when they are in danger of overwork Utilizing a computer-usage time control system Establishing, promoting, and enforcing no-overtime days Our Efforts for Children’s Rights The Mitsui Fudosan Group supports the abolition of child labor inside and outside Japan, and respects the rights of children, namely: (1) The Right to Live, (2) The Right to Be Protected, (3) The Right to Be Nurtured, (4) The Right to Participate. We believe that ensuring healthy development of the children who will be the next generation-through neighborhood creation and operation of facilities-is essential for an afuent future, and based on that idea, we are making various efforts to support the human rights of children in our business activities and projects. Main Business Activities and Projects Relating to Children's Rights KidZania KidZania is a social education oriented theme park for children, and here we support the growth and independence of children by encouraging them to have fun while experiencing work, and learn about the structure of society. Mirai Kodomo Gakko The Mirai Kodomo Gakko (future children's school) is a platform for leaning that provides experience-based content at the Kashiwa-no-ha Campus (Kashiwa City, Chiba). A multi-faceted curriculum is provided through close collaboration of the board of education of the local government, the city's board of education, local universities, and community residents. Green Tours for Parent-Child Learning At Tokyo Midtown, we hold Green Tours that allow parents and children to learn about trees, owers, and other plants as they walk through Midtown Garden on the site. Establishment of an Internal Consultation Service Mitsui Fudosan has established internal contact points for consultation. These can be used by regular employees, and anyone engaged in work for our company on an individual labor contract (contract employee), temporary transfer agreement, worker dispatch contract, parttime contract, or other agreement. Two contact points, internal and external, have been established, and workers can consult with either. The external contact point is provided at a law ofce, and it accepts consultations from a neutral standpoint,*1 noties the company of the consultation content, and encourages a response. Topics for consultation include: wrongful conduct that violates laws, regulations, internal rules, general social norms, or corporate ethics; sexual harassment; abuse of power; other forms of harassment; employment problems; and issues with the workplace environment.*2 The privacy of those who engage in consultation is protected, and there is never any retaliatory action or disadvantageous treatment due to such consultations in terms of personnel decisions. Consultations can be conducted under a real name, or anonymously.*3 *1 Representatives of the law ofce cannot provide legal opinions as lawyers, or take a stance protecting the consulting person. *2 Simple expressions of opinion, dissatisfaction with personnel decisions, defamation of others, and similar issues cannot be the subject of consultation. *3 To achieve early discovery and response to compliance problems-the original purpose of the system-the consulting employee's standpoint and other information are conrmed even in the case of an anonymous consultation. Workstyle Reform Social Supply Chain Privacy Policy Basic Policy on Specic Personal Information Concerning Protection of Personal Information Concerning Cookies and Access Logs Usage Notice © 2019 Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. ⽇本語 English ESG Report Society Social Supply Chain ESG Report TOP ESG Information SDGs and Neighborhood Creation ESG at the Mitsui Fudosan Regarding the Disclosure of our The Mitsui Fudosan Group: A Management’s Commitment Group ESG Report History of Value Creation Environment Society Governance Special Reports Third-party Verication The Mitsui Fudosan Group and SDGs List View of ESG Information Policy As a corporate group supporting ofces, housing, and other infrastructure necessary for daily life, we at the Mitsui Fudosan Group recognize that it is our duty to fulll our social responsibility at an even higher level. To accomplish this, we believe efforts should be made throughout the entire supply chain to promote sustainable procurement and thereby help resolve ESG issues. We have formulated Sustainable Procurement Standards summarizing basic guidelines in this area. We published these standards on our website in December 2018, and have notied our main business partners. As items to be complied with or actively promoted by both the Mitsui Fudosan Group and its suppliers, our Sustainable Procurement Standards incorporate basic guidelines on (1) Compliance with Laws and Regulations, etc.; (2) Respect for Human Rights Related to Labor; (3) Secure Corporate Ethics; (4) Ensuring Quality; (5) Consideration for the Environment; (6) Information Security; and (7) Risk Management. The idea is to share these standards within the Mitsui Fudosan Group, build and operate an ordering and contract process in line with the nature of our business, and also notify and request the understanding of our business partners. To realize a sustainable society, we will work to promote sustainable procurement throughout our supply chain. Mitsui Fudosan Group, Sustainable Procurement Standards (Established in December 2018) 1. Compliance with Laws and Regulations, etc. Comply with laws and regulations of the countries in which business is undertaken, international treaties and social norms. 2. Respect for Human Rights Related to Labor Respect for basic human rights, freedom of association and collective bargaining rights Pay at least minimum wage and ensure health and safety Do not engage in child labor or forced labor Reduce excessive overtime work and prevent overwork Ban discrimination and ensure equal opportunity for workers Comply with countries' laws and regulations and standards in relation to the aforementioned items when conducting business 3. Secure Corporate Ethics Engage in fair and just trade Disclose corporate information in a timely manner Avoid business with anti-social forces Prevent corruption and do not engage in bribery Build an internal reporting system Show consideration for the protection of those making internal reports 4. Ensuring Quality Strive to ensure achievement and improvement of necessary levels of quality 5. Consideration for the Environment Strive to reduce resource use including energy, CO2 emissions and water use, etc. Manage and reduce in an appropriate manner contaminated substances and generation of waste materials Show consideration for biodiversity Preserve the environment, including the aforementioned items 6. Information Security Handle appropriately and protect condential information and personal information 7. Risk Management Build a risk management framework for accidents and disasters Diverse Collaborative Efforts In our Environmental Initiatives Policy, the Mitsui Fudosan Group strives for cooperation (collaborating and cooperating with various stakeholders). We respect human rights in our business activities through collaboration and cooperation with customers, business partners, local communities, government, and other involved parties. City Redevelopment Projects The Mitsui Fudosan Group aims to realize the principles of coexisting in harmony with society, linking diverse values, and achieving a sustainable society. Furthermore, our stance toward neighborhood creation encompasses the following three activity goals. Integration of diverse functions and features by promoting mixed use (combining applications and functions) and integrating the tangible and intangible aspects of the Group's operations. Creation of communities by connecting regions with the people who reside, gather in, or visit the area. Working beyond the simple creation of neighborhoods to address, through town management, specic needs as neighborhoods mature with age year after year. In ofce buildings and all other developments, we take into account access to public transport. Located near transport hubs, we offer convenience and safety, and we also promote environmentally friendly use of public transportation at retail facilities, hotels, and other places where many people gather, to contribute to the reduction of CO2 emissions. In all development, we evaluate accessibility people with disabilities, take measures within the scope stipulated by laws and regulations, and in some cases make additional efforts. Main Redevelopment Projects Tokyo Nihonbashi Area In collaboration with the local community, the Mitsui Fudosan Group strives to energize the Nihonbashi area by strengthening its function as a life science hub, while making use of the history and culture passed down from the Edo period in neighborhood creation and events. ⇒ Go to details page Kashiwa-no-ha Smart City The Mitsui Fudosan Group has positioned Kashiwa-no-ha Smart City (Kashiwa City, Chiba) as a cutting-edge model city to respond to a wide range of social challenges, including environmental challenges, a super-aging society, and economic stagnation. We are promoting the development of next-generation neighborhoods with participation from the public, private, industrial, and academic sectors. ⇒ Go to details page TOKYO MIDTOWN HIBIYA TOKYO MIDTOWN HIBIYA (Minato-ku, Tokyo), which opened on March 29, 2018, aims to create new future-oriented experiences and value while carrying on the history and tradition of Hibiya, which rst developed as a setting for social interaction and relaxation in the Meiji era, and played a major role in the modernization of Japan. ⇒ Go to details page Human Rights Consumer Issues Privacy Policy Basic Policy on Specic Personal Information Concerning Protection of Personal Information Concerning Cookies and Access Logs Usage Notice © 2019 Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. ⽇本語 English ESG Report Society Consumer Issues ESG Report TOP ESG Information SDGs and Neighborhood Creation ESG at the Mitsui Fudosan Regarding the Disclosure of our The Mitsui Fudosan Group: A Management’s Commitment Group ESG Report History of Value Creation Environment Society Governance Special Reports Third-party Verication The Mitsui Fudosan Group and SDGs List View of ESG Information Policy The Mitsui Fudosan Group emphasizes communication with customers, and we address customer feedback and requests with great seriousness. By working to resolve and address various consumer issues, we will promote neighborhood creation from the customer's perspective, and improve the quality of services provided to customers. Listening to Customers The Mitsui Fudosan Group undertakes a variety of activities as a part of efforts to listen to customers’ comments. CS surveys are conducted encompassing a wide area including tenant companies, residents of condominiums and detached housing as well as hotel guests. The feedback gained through these surveys is extremely helpful in improving the Group’s initiatives. We carefully monitor customer feedback received through boxes placed for this purpose at some of our commercial properties. These opinions and comments are used to improve operations in facilities and other areas, including store planning and design. Examples of Improvements Based on User Opinions Ofce Buildings Crime prevention Smoking area separation Improvements to common-use areas Improvements to elevator operating programs Improvements to restroom facilities Meetings to observe elevator rescue drills Tours to observe building facilities Retail Facilities Installation of additional coin lockers and larger coin lockers Refurbishments/enlargements made to kids spaces Installation of air puriers and microwave ovens in baby rooms Installation of curtains in diaper changing rooms Replacement of ooring materials and wallpaper in nursing rooms Refurbishments to women’s restrooms Increase in number of stroller pick-up locations (increase number of strollers) Increase in stroller drop-off locations Increase in cart drop-off locations Improvements to parking lot signs Installation of additional benches and signs within each property Improvements to smoking room doors Changes to rules on pets (reassess areas where pets are allowed) Logistics Facilities Improvements to smoking areas in common areas Increase in vehicle/bicycle parking areas Enhancement of shared amenities (setting up of Christmas trees, Kadomatsu Japanese New Year’s decorations, message cards, etc.) Barrier Free and Universal Design For all aspects of life, whether it be work, home life, recreation, or relaxation, the Mitsui Fudosan Group promotes the creation of urban environments and buildings that are easy for everyone to use, regardless of their cultural background, language, nationality, age, sex, or disability. Moreover, in our ofce buildings and other development projects, we examine ease-of-access using public transport and evaluate accessibility for people with disabilities. We ensure our measures are within the scope stipulated by laws and regulations, and in some cases make additional efforts. Selected as a Leading Project for Sustainable Buildings by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (MLIT) Mitsui Home’s endeavor to make temperature and humidity equipment barrier free was selected as a scal 2017 Leading Project for Sustainable Homes by the MLIT. Seeking to make home life more healthy, secure, and convenient, the system combines duct-type airconditioning systems and IoT technology to suppress indoor dust and thereby reduce cleaning frequency. The project also enables users to do such things as remotely ll their bathtubs. In this way, the burden and time spent on housework is lessened. Our Efforts to Improve Customer Satisfaction (CS) The Mitsui Fudosan Group works diligently to improve the quality of its customer-oriented products and services while consistently promoting communication as a part of efforts to satisfy each and every customer. All-Japan Customer Service Role-Playing Contest Every August, Mitsui Fudosan Retail Management holds the All-Japan Customer Service Role-Playing Contest for representatives who qualify through preliminary competitions at nationwide commercial facilities. The contest aims to increase the value of visiting retail properties for customers by raising the quality of customer interaction and service that can only be found at real stores. Contest participants Held 9th All-Out CS Contest On February 8, 2017, Mitsui Fudosan Hotel Management held its 9th All-Out CS (Customer Satisfaction) Contest. A total of 20 participants took to the stage and demonstrated the customer service skills they have rened through their daily work in the form of roleplay, and reafrmed the pleasure and importance of greeting the customer with a smile. Contest participants Efforts to Improve Employee Satisfaction (ES) By providing better work environments for employees in Mitsui Fudosan Group facilities, whom we regard as important partners, and in turn improving employee satisfaction (ES), we believe we can also enhance the level of customer service to lead to improved customer satisfaction (CS). Going forward, we will continue to improve our system and the functionality of facilities used by employees, and work to provide a working environment where all employees can comfortably work. Our Efforts to Improve ES (Some Examples) Renovation of Employee Lounges into Restful Spaces To improve the ES of employees working at commercial facilities, we are remodeling employee lounges. These cheerful, spacious lounges with a café atmosphere are decorated in a highly individualized style for each facility, and are restful spaces where employs can spend some relaxing time. Convenience has been enhanced by installing vending machines for foods and convenience store products. LaLaport TOYOSU LAZONA Kawasaki Plaza LaLa Garden NAGAMACHI Tools for Communication with Our Customers The Mitsui Fudosan Group offers a variety of communication tools to help build relationships with customers. In terms of content, these tools actively disseminate and exchange information primarily in areas such as housing, and support for improved customer safety, security and environmental awareness. Mitsui Fudosan Residential Lease Guide Book for Moving In A guidebook for customers issued by Mitsui Fudosan Residential Lease summarizes the key points of life in rental housing. http://mfhl.mitsui-chintai.co.jp/nyukyo/guide/ Mitsui Fudosan Residential 31sumai (Mitsui’s residence) A comprehensive information website for housing operated by Mitsui Fudosan Residential. https://www.31sumai.com/ Mitsui Fudosan Residential Everyone’s Home A communication forum where everyone talks about homes. https://37sumai.31sumai.com/ Mitsui Fudosan Group Healthy Forests and the Secrets of Trees This family-oriented pamphlet showcases the Mitsui Fudosan Group’s forest conservation activities. https://mitsuifudosan.co.jp/and_forest/ebook/ Mitsui Home Co., Ltd. Environmental and Social Activities http://www.mitsuihome.co.jp/company/kankyo/ Tokyo Midtown Management Co., Ltd On the Green http://www.tokyo-midtown.com/jp/about/csr/ Social Supply Chain Community Involvement and Development Privacy Policy Basic Policy on Specic Personal Information Concerning Protection of Personal Information Concerning Cookies and Access Logs Usage Notice © 2019 Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. ⽇本語 English ESG Report Society Community Involvement and Development ESG Report TOP ESG Information SDGs and Neighborhood Creation ESG at the Mitsui Fudosan Regarding the Disclosure of our The Mitsui Fudosan Group: A Management’s Commitment Group ESG Report History of Value Creation Environment Society Governance Special Reports Third-party Verication The Mitsui Fudosan Group and SDGs List View of ESG Information Policy The Mitsui Fudosan Group is working to coexist and collaborate with local communities and build new communities in accordance with the distinctive characteristics of each area and other factors based on our philosophy of coexisting in harmony with society, linking diverse values, and achieving a sustainable society. Furthermore, we have put in place a Policy for Social Contribution Initiatives to ensure that each Group company and department follows a common and uniform direction. Based on this policy, each and every member of the Group looks to contribute to society in four core areas: the global environment, local communities, culture and education, and international exchange. The Mitsui Fudosan Group's Policy for Social Contribution Initiatives(Formulated March 27, 2013) In line with our Group Statement that focuses on efforts to bring afuence and comfort to urban living, we actively contribute to society by revitalizing and creating urban areas while engaging in various activities from a global perspective, to provide afuence and comfort with the aim of achieving the sustained development of society and the economy. 1. We are primarily involved in four areas: the global environment, local communities, culture and education, and international exchange. 2. We strive to achieve harmony with local communities, and 3. We proactively make use of our own resources, including properties, networks, and personnel. Management System The ESG Management Committee under the ESG Promotion Committee, which is headed by the Representative Director, President and CEO, was established to promote social contributions throughout the Mitsui Fudosan Group. The ESG Management Committee formulates the principles and policies that dene the social contribution activities of Mitsui Fudosan and the Mitsui Fudosan Group. It also keeps up to date the social contribution targets, objectives and plans of each division and Group companies while monitoring and evaluating their progress toward targets and plans. The Social Contribution Activity Policy was created in March 2013 to serve as common ground for various activities to realize abundance and afuence in society from a global perspective. Record of Social Contribution Activities Mitsui Fudosan actively supports a wide range of social contribution activities. Specically, these include activities for culture and education, local communities, international exchange, and the global environment. We also promote a multitude of employee-led initiatives that support community creation. Record of Social Contribution Activities (Fiscal 2018) Total expenditures on social contribution activities in scal 2018 ¥6,082 million Trends in Expenditures on Social Contribution Activities Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal 2016 2017 2018 Expenditures on social contribution activities 5,547 6,033 6,082 (million yen) Percentage of ordinary income (%) 2.53 2.51 2.39 As of March 31 of each scal year Regional Revitalization and Community Creation Mitsui Fudosan plans and hosts a diverse range of events that promote community creation and regional revitalization. We also carry out activities that help to strengthen family ties, as well as hold various events that educate communities on future society and environmental issues. Our Efforts in the Nihonbashi Area Nihonbashi Cherry Blossom Festival Every year across March and April, Mitsui Fudosan holds the Nihonbashi Cherry Blossom Festival in the Nihonbashi area. The event is highly regarded for its economic ripple effects, its ability to increase customers and non-residents to the region, its effectiveness in disseminating information overseas, and the techniques and creativity that will inuence events held in the future. Mirai Kidai Shoran Nihonbashi Cherry Blossom Festival ECO EDO Nihonbashi Every year between July and September, Mitsui Fudosan holds ECO EDO Nihonbashi, an event featuring goldsh scooping, paper lanterns, summer kimonos, and other ways people in the Edo era kept cool during a Nihonbashi summer. ECO EDO Nihonbashi 2017, giant goldsh lanterns, scene on Naka Dori Street Mirai Kodomo Gakko: A Town-Wide Initiative The Mirai Kodomo Gakko (future children's school) is a platform for learning that provides experience-based content for students ranging from infants to high school students in the Kashiwa-no-ha Campus area of Kashiwa City, Chiba. With the backing of Kashiwa City, the Kashiwa City Board of Education, the Kashiwa Campus of the University of Tokyo, and Chiba University, a variety of people from throughout the neighborhood have acted as instructors-including teaching staff from elementary schools and universities, students, artists, residents, workers, and others from the local area-and a diverse curriculum has been provided. Since scal 2015, the school has been held more than 100 times. Mirai Kodomo Gakko Volunteer Cooperation with the Minna De Ecotto Project In Tokyo Midtown (Minato-ku, Tokyo), we participate as volunteers in events organized by the Azabu District General Branch Ofce of the Minato Ward Ofce, Tokyo Metropolitan Government. These events are held as part of the Minna De Ecotto Project for fostering concern for nature and living things among children in the area. Thinking About Energy and Environmental Problems: Let's Learn! Let's Play! Cool Choice Plaza In cooperation with local government, companies, NPOs, and other organizations, the Mitsui Fudosan Group holds an experiential learning event for the children of the future called Let's Learn! Let's Play! Cool Choice Plaza at its commercial facilities, where participants can learn about energy and environmental issues. Let's Learn! Let's Play! Cool Choice Plaza Consumer Issues Utilizing the Power of Sport in Neighborhoods and Communities Privacy Policy Basic Policy on Specic Personal Information Concerning Protection of Personal Information Concerning Cookies and Access Logs Usage Notice © 2019 Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. ⽇本語 English ESG Report Society Utilizing the Power of Sport in Neighborhoods and Communities ESG Report TOP ESG Information SDGs and Neighborhood Creation ESG at the Mitsui Fudosan Regarding the Disclosure of our The Mitsui Fudosan Group: A Management’s Commitment Group ESG Report History of Value Creation Environment Society Governance Special Reports Third-party Verication The Mitsui Fudosan Group and SDGs List View of ESG Information Supporting Community Creation through Sport As a Tokyo 2020 Gold Partner in the Real Estate Development category, Mitsui Fudosan actively supports formation of local communities through fun events and neighborhood creation based on the power of sports. These efforts are based on the slogan BE THE CHANGE: Cities Start World Changes. Mitsui Fudosan supports the Olympic and Paralympic Games Tokyo 2020 as a Gold Partner in the Real Estate Development category. Sports Academy for Children to Experience Competition The Mitsui Fudosan Sports Academy for Tokyo 2020 is a sports workshop that invites top-class athletes as instructors to introduce and give children the opportunity to experience Olympic and Paralympic sports, with the aim of creating a culture and increasing opportunities for people to enjoy sports. This workshop is sponsored by Mitsui Fudosan in cooperation with the Tokyo Organising Committee of the Olympic and Paralympic Games, and is slated to continue until 2020. By holding these workshops in areas we are developing, we are helping to invigorate communities and build excitement for the Tokyo 2020 Games. Climbing academy &EARTH x SOLTILO FAMILIA SOCCER SCHOOL This event is hosted in collaboration with the SOLTILO FAMILIA SOCCER SCHOOL—a project designed by professional soccer player Keisuke Honda—and has been held at LaLaport FUJIMI, Urban Dock LaLaport TOYOSU, LaLaport EXPOCITY, and other Mitsui Fudosan Group commercial facilities since 2017. During the event, soccer gear no longer in use is collected and donated to children overseas through the NPO Japan Relief Clothing Center. Through their activities, the staff of SOLTILO also contribute to local communities by providing soccer instruction to children inside and outside Japan. Pre-event Reception Soccer training held in Cambodia Children from Cambodia thrilled by gifts from Japan Mitsui Ofces Sports Festival for TOKYO 2020: FUTSAL CUP 2018 Using sports to stimulate interaction within companies and deepen interaction across corporate boundaries, Mitsui Fudosan holds the Mitsui Ofces Sports Festival for TOKYO 2020: FUTSAL CUP (a certied Tokyo 2020 Ofcial Programme) for people working at Mitsui Ofces. Futsal competition Community Involvement and Development Community Creation through Volunteer Activities and Reconstruction Support Privacy Policy Basic Policy on Specic Personal Information Concerning Protection of Personal Information Concerning Cookies and Access Logs Usage Notice © 2019 Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. ⽇本語 English ESG Report Society Community Creation through Volunteer Activities and Reconstruction Support ESG Report TOP ESG Information SDGs and Neighborhood Creation ESG at the Mitsui Fudosan Regarding the Disclosure of our The Mitsui Fudosan Group: A Management’s Commitment Group ESG Report History of Value Creation Environment Society Governance Special Reports Third-party Verication The Mitsui Fudosan Group and SDGs List View of ESG Information Social Contribution through Volunteer Activities &EARTH Clothing Support Project-Bring a Smile to the World with Your Clothes Mitsui Fudosan and Mitsui Fudosan Retail Management hold the &EARTH Clothing Support Project-Bring a Smile to the World with Your Clothes project at commercial facilities run by the Mitsui Fudosan Group. Unneeded clothing is collected, and then donated to refugees and disaster victims in countries all over the world through the NPO Japan Relief Clothing Center. Together with its customers in each region, the Mitsui Fudosan Group seeks to alleviate disparities and poverty, and realize a more afuent society, and as such has held the event twice a year since 2008. Reception Packaging Volunteers Held Happy Smile Festival At Gate City Osaki and COREDO Nihonbashi, we regularly hold events organized by the NPO Group Happy Smile to sell products handmade by disabled people from various welfare facilities, and proceeds are returned to the creators as wages. Mitsui Fudosan and Mitsui Fudosan Building Management provide a venue at no charge and participate as volunteers. Volunteers from tenant companies also participate, and everyone involved with the building works as a team to make a social contribution. Happy Smile Festival venue Thai curry a popular product Participation as Volunteers in Kokoro Theater In full support of its mission, Mitsui Fudosan Group employees participate as volunteers in the Kokoro Theater Project, an initiative organized by the Butai Geijutsu Center and the Shiki Theatre Company, held to enable children to enjoy the emotionally moving experience of theater. A scene from the musical Stadium Beautication Activities: KEEP THE STADIUM CLEAN As one part of its environemental conservation activities, the Mitsui Fudosan Group takes part in the KEEP THE STADIUM CLEAN initiative. The aim is to cultivate a litter-free neighborhood culture at sports stadiums, and to communicate this to the surrounding community as a legacy for future generations. Spectators are handed garbage bags and called upon to clean the stadium and around the spectator seating area after the game. Distribution of garbage bags Picking up garbage after a game Participation in Cleaning the Famous Nihonbashi Bridge Every year in July, Mitsui Fudosan employees and their families voluntarily take part in activities to clean the famous Nihonbashi bridge. The Meikyo Nihonbashi Preservation Council is an organization that aims to restore the view of Nihonbashi, whose beauty was lost when it was covered by the Shuto Expressway, and pass the bridge on in good condition to future generations. In accordance with this purpose, this event is a summer tradition in the Nihonbashi area that has continued since 1959, with the participation of local residents and company employees. Bridge cleaning Participating employees Communicating with Local Communities Following the Great East Japan Earthquake Mitsui Fudosan is strengthening ties with the Tohoku region in response to the Great East Japan Earthquake, and continuing a variety of efforts. Watasu Nihonbashi: A Center for Exchange with Earthquake Affected Regions Watasu Nihonbashi (Chuo-ku, Tokyo) was opened in March 2015 as a result of encounters with the people of Minamisanriku Town following the Great East Japan Earthquake. The center plays a role as an intermediary linking Tohoku and Nihonbashi, and includes the Watasu Dining & Bar (1F/2F) featuring ingredients from Minamisanriku and other parts of Tohoku, and the Watasu Room interaction space (3F) for online exchange with junior high school students from the local area, events and workshops relating to reconstruction, and other programs. Junior high school students from Minamisanriku Town visit Watasu Nihonbashi and the Nihonbashi 1-Chome Mitsui Building as part of their school trips and, among other activities, they exchange information relating to disaster prevention. Watasu Nihonbashi is continuing to broaden its efforts with local communities. Exterior view of Watasu Junior high school students from Minamisanriku Town Nihonbashi visiting Watasu Nihonbashi CSR Training in Earthquake Affected Regions CSR training has been conducted continuously since 2013 to improve awareness of disaster preparedness through experience of the situation in earthquake affected regions, and create opportunities for voluntary efforts and contribution to social issues. Employees visit Minamisanriku Town and regions within Fukushima Prefecture, both areas affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake. CSR training in earthquake affected regions Utilizing the Power of Sport in Neighborhoods and Communities Improving the Quality of Urban Development Privacy Policy Basic Policy on Specic Personal Information Concerning Protection of Personal Information Concerning Cookies and Access Logs Usage Notice © 2019 Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. ⽇本語 English ESG Report Society Improving the Quality of Urban Development ESG Report TOP ESG Information SDGs and Neighborhood Creation ESG at the Mitsui Fudosan Regarding the Disclosure of our The Mitsui Fudosan Group: A Management’s Commitment Group ESG Report History of Value Creation Environment Society Governance Special Reports Third-party Verication The Mitsui Fudosan Group and SDGs List View of ESG Information Policy The Mitsui Fudosan Group works diligently to ensure the quality management of its buildings as well as every other facet of its business operations, including products and services, as the foundation for providing safety, security, and comfort to its customers. We are convinced that the delivery of quality-based security, safety, and comfort is a prerequisite for realizing customer satisfaction (CS). Quality Management in Each Business Each business draws up its own design guidelines, manuals, etc. on quality management and puts them into practice to ensure quality is managed thoroughly. The guidelines, manuals, etc. are also reviewed and revised as needed to reect customer feedback, problems that have taken place, etc. Reviews of safety-related matters are carried out from time to time and following a disaster. Principal Guidelines, etc. of Each Business Area Ofce Buildings Business Ofce Building Design Manual (including BCP design manuals) Provides direction for planning and design by organizing and combining know-how on product planning and operational management. Ofce Building Business Standard Operation Flowchart Ofce Building Sign Planning Guidelines Ofce Building Backyard Standards Various Construction Quality Management Forms CO2 Reduction Measure Explanation Sheet Retail Properties Business Retail Properties Design Request Form Provides direction for planning and design by organizing and combining know-how on product planning and operational management. LaLaport Sign Planning Guidelines Tenant Interior Design Manual Design Criteria Built-for-Sale Condominium Business Total Quality Project Management (TQPM) Built-for-Sale Detached Residence Business Detached Housing Design Standards Unique design standards based on the Building Standards Act, the Japan Housing Finance Agency standards, and our abundant experience and achievements, to provide high-quality housing. Rental Housing Business PAX-M A quality management manual, compiled in scal 2007 and revised in March 2013, is still being used. Custom-Built Detached Residence Business Design Standards Product Specications Hotel Business TQPM Manual: Hotel Version Manual concerning the design and construction of Mitsui Garden Hotels. Logistics Business Logistics Facilities Design Request Form Mitsui Fudosan Logistics Parks Sign Planning Guidelines Mitsui Fudosan Logistics Parks Facility Design Guidelines Condominium Quality Management Process: Total Quality Project Management (TQPM) Having the seller's responsibility to hand over the condominiums promised to its customers by the dates promised, Mitsui Fudosan Residential utilizes the TQPM System, its proprietary quality management system, to fulll that responsibility. The system serves to conrm whether design and construction management have been undertaken in accordance with the respective roles of the designer, supervisor and builder. Mitsui Fudosan works to ensure a consistent level of quality management at all Mitsui built-for-sale condominiums. Under the TQPM System, there is compliance with design and construction standards and a design gate management process at the design stage as well as the witnessing of Key Quality Items (KQIs) and document verication at the construction stage. Performance Evaluations by Evaluation Bodies With the exception of certain properties, Housing Performance Indication System evaluation reports are obtained at both the design and construction stages for built-for-sale condominiums from a third party organization registered with Japan's Minister of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism as an objective evaluation of quality management. In addition, the custom-built detached residences of Mitsui Home Co., Ltd. are also constructed to perform to the high standards of the Housing Performance Indication System. Community Creation through Volunteer Activities and Reconstruction Support Basic Urban Development Design Privacy Policy Basic Policy on Specic Personal Information Concerning Protection of Personal Information Concerning Cookies and Access Logs Usage Notice © 2019 Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. ⽇本語 English ESG Report Society Basic Urban Development Design ESG Report TOP ESG Information SDGs and Neighborhood Creation ESG at the Mitsui Fudosan Regarding the Disclosure of our The Mitsui Fudosan Group: A Management’s Commitment Group ESG Report History of Value Creation Environment Society Governance Special Reports Third-party Verication The Mitsui Fudosan Group and SDGs List View of ESG Information Policy The Mitsui Fudosan Group realizes outstanding function and quality in basic designs for neighborhood creation, while always pursuing innovation. Our aim is to create new value for the future of the people who live in these neighborhoods. Our Efforts at Kashiwa-no-ha Smart City The Mitsui Fudosan Group has positioned Kashiwa-no-ha Smart City (Kashiwa City, Chiba) as a cutting-edge model city to respond to a wide range of social challenges, including environmental challenges, a super-aging society, and economic stagnation. We are promoting the development of next-generation neighborhoods with participation from the public, private, and academic sectors. Urban Design Center Kashiwa-no-ha Received Minister of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism Award The Urban Design Center Kashiwa-no-ha (UDCK) received the 6th Minister of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism Award for Urban Design Corporations (Urban Design Leader Support Category). Through public-private-academic collaboration, UDCK formulates project plans, coordinates designs, and conducts post-project space management, and then deploys the organizations to implement these and relevant management methods to other regions. In this way, UDCK contributes to energizing projects as a whole by supporting leaders of neighborhood creation. The award recognized these contributions. Urban Design and Management through Public-Private-Academic Collaboration Received the Ishikawa Award The Urban Design Center Kashiwa-no-ha (UDCK) is a public-private-academic cooperative effort between Kashiwa City, Mitsui Fudosan, the University of Tokyo, and Chiba University. The center's urban design and management work was awarded the scal 2016 Ishikawa Award bestowed by the City Planning Institute of Japan. Award recipients (from right: Hiroya Mimaki (Vice President, UDCK), Atsushi Deguchi (President, UDCK), Hiroyasu Akiyama (Mayor of Kashiwa City), Takeshi Ueno (Vice President, UDCK), Yoshikazu Kitahara (Executive Vice President, Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd.)) Large-Scale Rental Condominiums Designed for Those Raising Children In 2018, tenants began occupying large rental apartments, designed for those raising children, at Park City Kashiwa-no-ha Campus The Gate Tower West. Along with an on-site nursery school and after-school care facility for elementary school students, the complex features a pediatrics clinic and facilities for ill and convalescing children. The residence will provide an environment that is fully-equipped to enable even working parents to raise children with peace of mind.This approach is expected to help parents address such challenges as extended waiting periods for nursery school admission, and a lack of child-rearing environments designed to support working parents. Non-registered nursery for temporary and nighttime childcare Indoor play land where parents can work while watching their children Good Design Award Recipient for 19 Consecutive Years Mitsui Fudosan Residential's built-for-sale condominiums Park Court Aoyama The Tower and Park Court Akasaka Hinokicho The Tower received the Japan Institute of Design Promotion's Good Design award in scal 2018. Model room Preserving and Utilizing Landscapes and Streetscapes The Mitsui Fudosan Group has established its own guidelines for remaining in harmony with the surrounding environment and creating bustling spaces when forming neighborhoods, with the aim of preserving and utilizing landscapes and streetscapes. The Nihonbashi Revitalization Plan for Retaining, Revitalizing, and Creating Nihonbashi (Chuo-ku, Tokyo) has ourished as a center of commerce and culture since the Edo period. The Mitsui Fudosan Group's over three-hundred year history is closely associated with this area. To express our love and appreciation for Nihonbashi, we have begun the Nihonbashi Revitalization Plan with the concept of retaining, revitalizing, and creating the future, to stimulate the area and make it even more attractive. We are collaborating with the government, private enterprise, and local residents to create a new neighborhood that combines tradition and renewal. Fukutoku Garden was established as a spacious plaza covering more than a thousand square meters among the buildings of Nihonbashi that are undergoing redevelopment. It is a restful spot which utilizes the nature of Japan to reproduce the history and tradition the area has fostered. The greenery surrounding the adjacent Fukutoku Shrine andits approach enables visitors to enjoy the beauty of the four seasons. Fukutoku Garden Greenery symbolizing Fukutoku Garden Creating Neighborhoods by Creating Roads in Nihonbashi Nihonbashi in Tokyo ourished as the starting point of the ve major highways leading to other parts of Japan. Mitsui Fudosan is following a policy of Building Neighborhoods by Building Roads to avoid unplanned redevelopment in this area and ensure coexistence with the culture and tradition that is a product of Nihonbashi, with its historic buildings. As a rst step, we are preserving the appearance of the area by unifying the height of the lower oors of buildings along Nihonbashi's iconic main street at 31 meters. Furthermore, by developing facilities and creating green spaces suited to the characteristics of the streets that have been loved in the area from the distant past, we are creating spaces for people to gather and enjoy themselves. Edo was known for its extensive network of canals, and by restoring some of this network as well, we are using the creation of roads as a point of departure to create the Nihonbashi of the future. Nihonbashi, Chuo-dori (main street) Urban Development That Reects Local Cultures and Characteristics The Mitsui Fudosan Group strives to create compelling space designs, incorporating local avor in design and decor, so that domestic and international tourists and business travelers visiting our retail facilities and hotels can experience the distinctive characteristics of the regional history, culture and natural environment. Design of Hotel Spaces Full of Unique Regional Atmosphere In renovation of the Mitsui Garden Hotels managed by the Mitsui Fudosan Group, our designs incorporate the special characteristics of the locality. For Mitsui Garden Hotel Kyoto Sanjo (Nakagyo-ku, Kyoto City), we selected a scarlet hue, highly prized since ancient times, as the hotel's interior theme color. The renovated design is a fusion of traditional Japanese character with an exotic atmosphere that international travelers will appreciate. The inner garden is replete with Japanese atmosphere and the colors of the changing seasons, while printed silk wall art conveys the avor of Kyoto, transforming the hotel into a place of refuge for the heart. For the renovation of Mitsui Garden Hotel Hiroshima (Naka-ku, Hiroshima City), the fresh breeze from the Inland Sea and the local specialty, oysters, were used as a design motif throughout the hotel, creating a characteristic Hiroshima interior atmosphere. At Mitsui Garden Hotel Kumamoto (Chuo-ku, Kumamoto), the design incorporates the rich natural environment and culture of Kumamoto, and guest room layouts were modied to create even more functional, comfortable spaces. Guest rooms have a Land of Fire or Land of Water motif, and for families, there are the popular guest rooms with a Kumamon (the mascot of Kumamoto) motif. Lobby and restaurant furniture and fabrics were completely renewed, with artwork with motifs of temari balls, a traditional craft product of Kumamoto, as well as other folk craft toys. Mitsui Garden Hotel Kyoto Sanjo Mitsui Garden Hotel Kyoto Sanjo Mitsui Garden Hotel Hiroshima Mitsui Garden Hotel Hiroshima Lobby Guest room Lobby Guest room Mitsui Garden Hotel Kumamoto Mitsui Garden Hotel Kumamoto Lobby Guest room Restaurant Renovation at TOBA HOTEL INTERNATIONAL Using Local Lumber Local wood products and ceramic materials from Mie Prefecture were used in renovation of Mondo Misaki, the Japanese restaurant of the TOBA HOTEL INTERNATIONAL (Toba City, Mie). With the help of expert craftsmen from the prefecture, the interior design incorporates traditional Japanese techniques. Tiles are traditional Mie banko ware, the singleplank counter was fashioned from an Ise cypress over 300 years old, and interior ttings include traditional Japanese woodwork decorations. Single-plank Ise cypress counter Next-Generation Homes Barrier-free Temperature and Humidity Equipment Project by Mitsui Home Mitsui Home's endeavor to make temperature and humidity equipment barrier free was selected as a scal 2017 Leading Project for Sustainable Homes by the MLIT. Seeking to make home life more healthy, secure, and convenient, the system combines duct-type airconditioning systems and IoT technology to suppress indoor dust and thereby reduce cleaning frequency. The project also enables users to do such things as remotely ll their bathtubs. In this way, the burden and time spent on housework is lessened. Mute 45–50: Mitsui Home's High Sound-Insulating Floor System Mitsui Home's high sound-insulating oor system Mute 45-50 received an award in the Designs Contributing to the Safety and Security of Children category at the 11th Kids Design Awards. The system boasts excellent oor sound insulation and shock absorbing performance— at the highest level in the housing industry—which allows families rearing children to live freely, without worrying about sounds being transmitted to lower oors. Due to its outstanding shock absorbing performance, Mute 45-50 can also be used outside of homes in nurseries, kindergartens, and medical facilities to reduce impact on the body and improve safety in case of falls. Housing complex incorporating Mute 45-50 Improving the Quality of Urban Development Safe and Secure Neighborhood Creation Privacy Policy Basic Policy on Specic Personal Information Concerning Protection of Personal Information Concerning Cookies and Access Logs Usage Notice © 2019 Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. ⽇本語 English ESG Report Society Safe and Secure Neighborhood Creation ESG Report TOP ESG Information SDGs and Neighborhood Creation ESG at the Mitsui Fudosan Regarding the Disclosure of our The Mitsui Fudosan Group: A Management’s Commitment Group ESG Report History of Value Creation Environment Society Governance Special Reports Third-party Verication The Mitsui Fudosan Group and SDGs List View of ESG Information Policy The Mitsui Fudosan Group aims to ensure safety and security by creating disaster-resilient neighborhoods, while working to raise awareness of disaster countermeasures through routine training, inspection, and education. We go beyond simply protecting the safety of employees, tenants, and customers, and strive to expand and improve measures for disaster preparedness in collaboration with local communities. Disaster Countermeasures System To ensure safety and security for the employees, tenant companies, and visitors to buildings and facilities managed by the Mitsui Fudosan Group, we are promoting disaster countermeasure drills and lectures, and business continuity planning (BCP). To ensure the safety of its employees and tenants, implements training based on disaster countermeasure manuals and BCPs as part of its disaster countermeasures. Mitsui Fudosan has set up two dedicated Disaster Countermeasure Headquarters ofces at the Mitsui Building No. 2 (Chuo-ku, Tokyo) and Ginza 6-chome-SQUARE (Chuo-ku, Tokyo) that function as permanent bodies. The Company has also installed emergency power generators able to operate for approximately 72 hours. In the event of a major earthquake, Mitsui Fudosan has in place measures to set up an emergency headquarters that reports directly to the president. To ensure that the Company is better prepared to respond to any incidence of a disaster, employees in the disaster center take shifts and remain on duty during weekday nights and holidays. Our disaster response system coordinates with Group companies to ascertain the safety of employees and the status of damage to properties. Disaster Countermeasure Crisis Management Center(Ginza 6Headquarters (Mitsui Building No. chome-SQUARE) 2) Disaster Countermeasures and BCP at Our Buildings Since the Great East Japan Earthquake, tenant needs have increased for safety, security and business continuity planning (BCP). In response, Mitsui Fudosan has been implementing disaster countermeasures and BCP measures in its existing and newly built buildings to improve preparedness during normal times and responsiveness during emergencies. Examples of Our Disaster Countermeasures and BCP Mitsui Fudosan General Disaster Countermeasure Training The Mitsui Fudosan Group carries out disaster countermeasure training based on its disaster countermeasure manuals and business continuity plan (BCP). In coordination with group companies and tenants, companywide disaster countermeasure training for a large-scale earthquake is carried out twice a year, mainly on September 1 (Disaster Prevention Day) and March 11. Joint general disaster countermeasures drill for tenants of Shinjuku Mitsui Building (Shinjukuku, Tokyo) Disaster Countermeasures and BCP at Our Retail Facilities At retail facilities operated by the Mitsui Fudosan Group, we have enhanced practical measures—such as preparing disaster manuals compatible with all facilities and publicizing customers’ guided evacuation procedures as part of our initial disaster responses—and we pursue disaster countermeasure initiatives at our facilities. Company-wide Disaster Countermeasure Training: Assembly on Foot Mitsui Fudosan and Mitsui Fudosan Retail Management carry out company-wide disaster countermeasure training twice a year to verify coordination between facilities in the event of a disaster. Disaster preparedness training All Employees Participate in the Disaster Preparedness Program At Tokyo Midtown Management, all employees take part in practical simulation training at the Disaster Preparedness Training Center located in Tokyo Midown (Minato-ku, Tokyo). Through the three-day, eight-hour program, the goal is to develop disaster countermeasure skills including combatting res, administering rst aid, and carrying out rescue operations. Disaster preparedness lecture Entrance to the Disaster preparedness training Disaster Preparedness Training Center Quizzes and Workshops Promote Disaster Awareness Among Local Residents In cooperation with local governments, re departments, and other entities, Mitsui Fudosan and Mitsui Fudosan Retail Management hold a series of disaster-related informational events, dubbed &EARTH Learn About Disaster Prevention!—BOSAI Stamp Rally, at commercial facilities around the Tokyo metropolitan area, including LaLaports. Furniture stabilization AED lecture Survival kitchen Disaster Countermeasures and BCP (MFLP, Logistics Facilities) At Mitsui Fudosan Logistics Parks (MFLP), which are large-scale logistics facilities managed by Mitsui Fudosan, we are engaged in a wide range of efforts to bolster our BCP measures. Mitsui Fudosan Logistics Park Key Disaster Countermeasures and BCP Measures Seismic Isolation Structure Placing a layer of special rubber in a building’s foundations insulates them from the ground and, in turn, minimizes damage to buildings during large earthquakes. Emergency Power Generators We have installed emergency power generators as a backup electricity supply for lighting in common areas and ofce sections not only during blackouts but in cases of earthquakes and res. Vending Machines During Disasters We have installed vending machines set to provide free drinks during disasters. Disaster Stockpiles We maintain disaster stockpiles at multi-tenant warehouses (sufcient for one to three days depending on the property). Remote Monitoring Using Surveillance Cameras We have installed a surveillance camera system that enables disaster countermeasure headquarters to determine the situation on the ground. MFLP Ibaraki MFLP Inazawa Disaster Countermeasures and BCP (Hotels) To help ensure business continuity in our hotels, we have ensured that all of the elevators we operate are seismically resistant. All hotels are equipped with emergency backup generators capable of operating for approximately 24 hours, and a surveillance system connected with headquarters to monitor conditions at each site. Life Saving Courses for Our Employees Employees are training in lifesaving procedures using automated external debrillators (AED). By ensuring that there are certied employees at each worksite, we are working to raise the resustication rate for cardiac arrest. Positioning of AED pads Disaster Countermeasures Together with the Community and Society In addition to bolstering disaster preparedness in its buildings and facilities, the Mitsui Fudosan Group is working to strengthen preparedness in surrounding communities and neighborhoods. We are engaged in a wide range of activities to raise awareness of disaster preparedness among residents and those working in the area. The Community Comes Together to Participate in Nihonbashi Hands-on Disaster Preparedness Training With help from Tokyo's Chuo City government, Mitsui Fudosan and Nihonbashi Muromachi Area Management carry out disaster preparedness training in the Nihonbashi Area every March in conjunction with Fire Prevention Campaign Week in the spring. Nihonbashi Hands-on Disaster Preparedness Training Kumamoto Earthquakes Research Report Distributed to Related Government Ministries and Agencies as Well as Universities Since the Great Hanshin Earthquake of 1995, Mitsui Home has carried out inspections of all of its residences exposed to shaking of intensity 7 or greater. After the Kumamoto earthquakes of 2016, we sent over 1,600 people to investigate 1,263 Mitsui Fudosan-constructed residences in the affected area, and published the ndings in a research report. Of the buildings investigated, none were completely destroyed, and only 10 were slightly damaged. This result demonstrates the outstanding seismic resistance of Mitsui Home's 2x4 design and construction methods. We distributed the report, published in February 2017, to related government ministries and agencies as well as to universities, in order to share this earthquake-related data. Field Testing for Enhanced Disaster Preparedness Utilizing ICT In January 2018, Mitsui Fudosan teamed with Cisco Systems to form a committee to enhance safety and security during disasters in the Nihonbashi Muromachi Area, and has since carried out eld testing of disaster response services utilizing information and communications technology (ICT). The goal of the testing is to apply ICT when disasters occur to quickly ascertain conditions in our buildings and facilities as well as the whereabouts and safety of visitors and residents, provide optimal support in guiding people to shelters, and offer shelter to those who have been stranded due to public transport interruptions. Field Testing for Enhanced Disaster Preparedness Utilizing ICT ICT/IoT Utilization Concept for Safe, Reliable Nihonbashi Basic Urban Development Design Creating New Value and Markets through Neighborhood Creation Privacy Policy Basic Policy on Specic Personal Information Concerning Protection of Personal Information Concerning Cookies and Access Logs Usage Notice © 2019 Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. ⽇本語 English ESG Report Society Creating New Value and Markets through Neighborhood Creation ESG Report TOP ESG Information SDGs and Neighborhood Creation ESG at the Mitsui Fudosan Regarding the Disclosure of our The Mitsui Fudosan Group: A Management’s Commitment Group ESG Report History of Value Creation Environment Society Governance Special Reports Third-party Verication The Mitsui Fudosan Group and SDGs List View of ESG Information Policy The Mitsui Fudosan Group seeks to create new value and markets through the creation of neighborhoods with outstanding function and quality, while in constant pursuit of cutting-edge approaches. As such, we summarize our basic stance toward neighborhood creation in the following three points: The rst is to integrate diverse functions and features, which involves promoting mixed use (combining applications and functions) and integrating the tangible and intangible aspects of the Group’s operations. The second is to create communities, which entails connecting people who reside or gather in, or visit a particular area within that region. And the third is to work beyond the simple creation of neighborhoods to address specic needs as neighborhoods mature with age year after year through town management. By establishing a virtuous cycle that comprises these three activity goals, we strive to create new value. Major Initiatives Our Efforts at the Large-Scale Mixed-Use Facility: TOKYO MIDTOWN HIBIYA TOKYO MIDTOWN HIBIYA , which opened on March 29, 2018, in Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, is a largescale mixed-use complex with 35 oors above ground, four below, and 189,000 m2 of ofce, commercial and other space. During the Meiji era, Hibiya developed into a center of social gathering and culture transmission, and played a major role in the modernization of Japan. The goal of Midtown Hibiya is to continue that history and culture while offering a rened experience and creating innovation. Hibiya is a neighborhood with numerous distinctive characteristics: abundant open space with greenery that extends into the surrounding city and enriches the spirit; transmission of new arts, culture, and entertainment; and rich access to cultured stimulation where adults who recognize the real thing gather. By leveraging these advantages, we will encourage the concentration and exchange of diverse global cultures, sensibilities, and talents, creating a neighborhood where new, future-oriented experiences and values are born. TOKYO MIDTOWN HIBIYA BASE Q for Business Collaboration that Creates New Industries BASE Q is a place where people from startup companies, new business divisions of large enterprises, NPOs, and other organizations, people possessing diverse global culture, sensibilities, and talents, can gather and interact, and where that potential can be leveraged to give birth to new industries. It includes presentation spaces, interactive spaces, creation spaces and more. With spaces to suit any objective, BASE Q offers environments and structures ideal for forming new industries. BASE Q Communicating Arts and Culture as an Entertainment Hub TOKYO MIDTOWN HIBIYA features TOHO Cinemas Hibiya, a complex with 13 screens and approximately 2,800 seats, the largest complex of its kind in central Tokyo. Along with the nearby Nissay Theatre and Tokyo Takarazuka Theater, TOKYO MIDTOWN HIBIYA will collaborate with the community to transmit information about this arts, culture, and entertainment neighborhood. Our Efforts at Mitsui Fudosan Logistics Park (MFLP) Connecting Values Together with Customers and Creating New Values Together with Customers—based on this logistics business statement formulated in 2016, Mitsui Fudosan Logistics Parks (MFLP) are committed to creating value unbounded by existing categories. To that end, we are pursuing a wide range of measures. MMFLP locations are advanced physical distribution facilities delivering not only enhanced efciency, but also diverse benets for the surrounding community. They create job opportunities at tenant enterprises, provide consulting support for recruiting and retaining personnel, create jobs for local construction rms, and generate economic activity for businesses located near the parks and their workforce. These logistics parks are attracting attention as mixed-use facilities offering added value that suits conditions in surrounding communities. Exterior perspective, Mitsui Fudosan Logistics Park Funabashi Our Efforts in Kashiwa-no-ha Smart City: An Industry, Government, Academia, and Community Project Kashiwa-no-ha Smart City, in Kashiwa City, Chiba, is adjacent to Kashiwanoha-campus Station on the Tsukuba Express Line. Through industry, government, academia, and community collaboration, the project includes three models for addressing social challenges: Environmental Harmony City, Health and Longevity City, and New Industry Creation City. The goal is to achieve independent neighborhood creation to establish an image of a global future, sustainable in both tangible and intangible terms. Kashiwa-no-ha Smart City and Kashiwanoha-campus Station A neighborhood where working parents can raise children with peace of mind Park City Kashiwa-no-ha Campus The Gate Tower West is a large-scale rental condominium designed for those raising children. The goal is to provide residences that help parents address such challenges as extended waiting periods for nursery school admission, and a lack of child-rearing environments designed to support working parents. Along with an on-site nursery school and after-school care facility for elementary school students, the complex features a pediatrics clinic and facilities for ill and convalescing children. The residence will provide an environment that is fully-equipped to enable even working parents to raise children with peace of mind. This apartment complex has an on-site nursery school Asian Entrepreneurship Awards (AEA) In collaboration with universities and business incubators throughout Asia that focus on the development and support of entrepreneurs in the eld of technology, Kashiwa-no-ha Smart City has hosted the Asian Entrepreneurship Awards since 2012. The aim of this international business contest is to discover new startups in the elds of AI/IoT, medical, and healthcare, and to kickstart new industries. xLAB Summer Program on the Kashiwa-no-ha Campus Mitsui Fudosan works with Shinkenchiku-sha to hold the xLAB Summer Program. xLAB is an international think tank of the UCLA Department of Architecture and Urban Design, dedicated to research that pushes the boundaries of architecture and urban design. Through interdisciplinary collaboration, the thinktank researches structures for future environments and urban design strategies. Our Efforts in the Nihonbashi Area Promoting Open Innovation Through 31VENTURES Clip Nihonbashi Mitsui Fudosan operates 31VENTURES Clip Nihonbashi (Chuo-ku, Tokyo), which links startup companies and large enterprises to promote joint creation and business formation. 31VENTURES takes advantage of the Nihonbashi location to bolster business support programs and promote open innovation generated by person-to-person encounters. 31VENTURES Clip Nihonbashi exterior Entrance Promoting New Industry Formation by Bolstering Our Life Science Facility Life Science Innovation Network Japan (LINK-J), whose founders include Mitsui Fudosan and interested members of academia, was founded in 2016. The network promotes exchange, collaboration, education, and support activities in order to build ecosystems and advance open innovation in a wide range of life sciences, including medicine, personalized medicine, drug discovery, medical devices, healthcare IT, and even preventative treatment, presymptomatic diagnosis, and healthy longevity. The network bases its activities in Nihonbashi, an area associated with the pharmaceutical industry since the Edo period. Nihonbashi Life Science Bldg. Nihonbashi Life Science Bldg. 2 Nihonbashi Life Science Hub Tosho Building (Life Science Floor) Map of Nihonbashi Life Science locations Ties with Life Science Organizations Worldwide In order to promote new business creation through open innovation in the life sciences, LINK-J has signed a Memorandum of Understanding with various universities and organizations in both Japan and overseas to promote commercialization and industrialization in the life science eld. Akihiko Soyama Sarah Haywood, MedCity President and Chief CEO Executive Ofcer, LINK-J 31VENTURES MEET UP! Monthly Meeting Each month, up-and-coming startups present new business ideas to Mitsui Group companies at 31VENTURES MEET UP! Some of the ideas have already found matching sponsors, and the presentations are expected to contribute to the formation of new businesses. Joint Testing Aimed at Leveraging Big Data and AI In collaboration with Nikken Sekkei Research Institute and NTT, Mitsui Fudosan is testing an AI-powered area information platform, tentatively called AIxAI, in the Nihonbashi Area. The goal of the platform is to utilize smart approaches and Big Data to derive optimal solutions to community-, trafc-, energy-related and other issues. Going forward, we plan to pursue joint research outside the Nihonbashi Muromachi area and extend the system to airports and rail terminals, stadiums, and other large facilities. Our Efforts to Eliminate Redeliveries In response to the sharp increase in package delivery volume, which is becoming a social challenge, Mitsui Fudosan Residential and Fulltime System Co., Ltd. have formulated a project to improve efciency of delivery lockers at condominiums. The measures are outlined below: 1. Expand the number of delivery lockers to meet current needs through redesign 2. Raise the turnover rate of packages being placed in and removed from lockers 3. Reduce the number of deliveries made to lockers 4. Offer a locker status check service These four measures will be progressively introduced at selected Mitsui Fudosan Residential properties to enhance delivery locker efciency, beginning with Park Tower Harumi, a large-scale residence which was completed and began accepting residents in 2019. Park Tower Harumi is introducing measures to enhance efciency Delivery lockers (concept) Safe and Secure Neighborhood Creation Risk Management Privacy Policy Basic Policy on Specic Personal Information Concerning Protection of Personal Information Concerning Cookies and Access Logs Usage Notice © 2019 Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. ⽇本語 English ESG Report Governance Risk Management ESG Report TOP ESG Information SDGs and Neighborhood Creation ESG at the Mitsui Fudosan Regarding the Disclosure of our The Mitsui Fudosan Group: A Management’s Commitment Group ESG Report History of Value Creation Environment Society Governance Special Reports Third-party Verication The Mitsui Fudosan Group and SDGs List View of ESG Information Mitsui Fudosan Group Compliance Policy (established April 28, 2005; revised August 1, 2018) Introduction We have engaged in fair business activities based on the highest corporate ethics and worked diligently to garner trust and build a robust brand. However, these tireless efforts to build a robust brand strength can be lost in an instant by the erroneous actions of a single individual. As a result, proper decision-making and behavior will continue to increase in importance. To accomplish this, we regard the practice of compliance as one of our highest priorities for Group management and implement fair and highly transparent corporate activities in accordance with corporate ethics, in addition to observing laws and regulations as well as social norms. Denition of Compliance Ensuring legitimate and fair corporate activities by observing laws, regulations, and internal rules, and giving proper consideration to norms of ordinary society, and corporate ethics. Aims for Compliance Honest Conduct 1. We shall aim not simply to comply with laws and regulations, but rather recognize our company's social responsibility and be a good corporate citizen. 2. We shall ensure mutual respect of human rights, personalities, and values. 3. Even if news is bad, it shall be promptly reported to top management, and we shall strive to respond properly. 4. In carrying out work, the top priority shall be placed on the safety of customers and the workplace environment. Fair Conduct 1. We shall carry out corporate activities with fairness and a high degree of transparency, in accordance with corporate ethics. 2. We shall properly disclose information to society and ensure the transparency and soundness of our management. 3. We shall take an uncompromising stance toward antisocial organizations and reject any relationship whatsoever. 4. We shall not engage in wrongful discrimination based on nationality, social status, race, creed, gender, age, disability, sexual orientation, or gender identity (i.e., LGBT). Abiding by Rules 1. We shall abide by all relevant laws, regulations, and internal rules, and give proper consideration to social norms and corporate ethics 2. We shall carefully protect and manage personal information and other information requiring condentiality. 3. We shall not exchange gifts or provide entertainment to obtain illegitimate advantages. 4. We shall not pursue personal gain by using undisclosed or internal information. 5. We shall avoid conduct that may negatively affect our company's reputation or operations even outside of working hours. When Unable to Decide, Ask Yourself the Following… 1. Is my conduct honest? 2. Is my conduct fair? 3. Is it conduct you can explain to your family, friends, and the society at large without being ashamed? Risk Management System Under the Executive Management Committee, which supervises overall risk management for Mitsui Fudosan and the Mitsui Fudosan Group, the Strategy Planning Special Committee and the Risk Management Special Committee manage business risk*1 and administrative risk*2 respectively. The Risk Management Special Committee meets in principle once a month to identify and delineate risk issues and evaluate and propose preventative and response measures. Where required, the committee shares information and/or communicates in other ways with the Mitsui Fudosan Group. The Executive Managing Director acts as the person in charge of legal affairs and compliance, the Chief Risk Ofcer, the Chief Legal Affairs Ofcer, and the Chief Ofcer for Compliance, and he belongs to the Board of Directors and Risk Management Special Committee, and periodically reports on risk management to the Board of Directors. *1 Business risk: Business risk is primarily risk associated with advancing business and earning prots, including development risk, leasing risk, and market risk. *2 Administrative risk: Administrative risk is operational risk associated with regular administrative duties, including disaster risk, system risk, clerical risk, and compliance risk. Risk Management System Major Risks Major Risks Associated with Advancing Business Risk of natural disasters, man-made disasters, etc. Risk associated with changes in social structure (aging of society, population decline, etc.) Risk associated with uctuations in the economy and real estate markets Risk associated with interest rate rises Risk accompanying business expansion into new areas Risk accompanying exchange rate uctuations Risk accompanying rises in the cost of labor, raw materials, etc. Risk accompanying changes in economic activity due to the proliferation of ICT, etc. Major Risks Associated with Corporate Activity Information security risk Risk of compliance violations Risk associated with directors and employees related to illegal or improper conduct during the execution of duties, etc. Risk of accidents, etc., which affect the safety of customers, business partners, or employees Risk of defects in quality, etc., of products and services provided by the Group Risk associated with factors affecting the health and safety of employees,such as long work hours Supervision on Code of Conduct and ESG Risks The Board of Directors also monitors the conduct of the Company's business activities as well as environmental, social, and governance (ESG) risk. Risk Management Committee To manage business risk, the Risk Management Special Committee formulates risk management policies and plans, identies and assesses risks, formulates response measures, and issues instructions. The Risk Management Special Committee implements a PDCA cycle to comprehensively manage administrative risk, and it also precisely engages in preventative risk management while standing at the ready to respond in a crisis. When a compliance violation occurs, the Risk Management Special Committee orders an investigation and response, and monitors the situation. The Risk Management Special Committee fullls the following functions for Mitsui Fudosan and its Group companies. 1. Formulating risk management policies and plans 2. Improving risk management-related organizations, and clarifying roles and responsibilities 3. Understanding and assessing risks that require management, formulating response measures, and issuing instruction 4. Understanding and assessing the status of risk management, formulating improvement measures, and issuing instruction 5. Deliberating response measures and issuing instruction in cases of business risk arising from emergency incidents, accidents, etc. In scal 2018, the Risk Management Special Committee met, in principle, on a twice a month basis, to identify and grasp risk issues, and then evaluate and propose preventative and response measures. As necessary, the committee conveyed information to the Mitsui Fudosan Group. Main Agenda Items of the Risk Management Special Committee Report on condition of risk (incidents, accidents, etc.) Report on legal issues and compliance Plan and report on J-SOX compliance Plan and report on protection of personal information Inspect and report on information systems security Response to Compliance Violations When the Compliance Management Department determines that a particular matter involves a compliance problem, it conducts an investigation in collaboration with the relevant Company department. If necessary, appropriate action is taken with respect to the individuals who are out of compliance, as well as those individuals’ departments, after deliberation by the Risk Management Special Committee. Related Fines, Surcharges, and Arbitrations There were no major instances of legal non-compliance with our bribery prevention rules in 2018. As such, no nes, surcharges, or arbitration payments were made. Our Commitment to Auditors Mitsui Fudosan has established the Compensation Advisory Committee and the Nomination Advisory Committee to enhance transparency of the nomination process for corporate auditors. To ensure appropriate operation of the auditing function, we rotate our auditors in an appropriate way. The Audit Department periodically conducts audits to review observance with the Code of Conduct and Code of Ethics, and identify any compliance violations. Complying with the Antimonopoly Act The Mitsui Fudosan Group closely monitors its purchases from vendors for conformance with its Group Compliance Policies, and makes efforts to strictly comply with the Antimonopoly Act. Mitsui Fudosan will comply with all relevant laws, such as the Antimonopoly Act, and will avoid any conduct that could result in unfair transactions or unjust competition. We will engage with business connections sincerely as an equal partner and handle the procurement of goods and services based on fair standards. Responding to Antisocial Forces The Mitsui Fudosan Group Compliance Policy states, We shall take an uncompromising stance toward antisocial organizations, and reject any relationship whatsoever, and we ensure that all employees are aware of this policy. Mitsui Fudosan strictly forbids any kind of connection to organized crime and as a company, takes a rm stance in dealing with such groups. Each division of the Company also investigates and conrms that a transaction partner is not involved in organized crime before the transaction begins. Should the unlikely situation occur that forces the Company to face unwarranted demands or violent behavior from such organizations, it will contact the relevant police department and take any other action necessary, including legal measures. Information Security Management System Mitsui Fudosan appoints the chairperson of the Risk Management Special Committee as a general director of information security management. Under the general director’s supervision, a chief administrator, manager, group leader and other leadership are assigned at each organizational level to manage information security risk. Personal Information Protection Initiatives To appropriately utilize and manage personal information, in line with the Information Security Management System, the Mitsui Fudosan Group implements and manages its Personal Information Protection Policy in accordance with applicable laws and regulations. Moreover, we strive to reinforce the system and cultivate awareness through the following efforts. Formulation and application of Guidelines for Personal Information Protection Training through e-learning Formulation of personal information protection plan Thorough management of subcontractors Enhancing personal information protection by Group companies Creating New Value and Markets through Urban Development Corruption Prevention Creating New Value and Markets through Neighborhood Creation Corruption Prevention Privacy Policy Basic Policy on Specic Personal Information Concerning Protection of Personal Information Concerning Cookies and Access Logs Usage Notice © 2019 Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. ⽇本語 English ESG Report Governance Corruption Prevention ESG Report TOP ESG Information SDGs and Neighborhood Creation ESG at the Mitsui Fudosan Regarding the Disclosure of our The Mitsui Fudosan Group: A Management’s Commitment Group ESG Report History of Value Creation Environment Society Governance Special Reports Third-party Verication The Mitsui Fudosan Group and SDGs List View of ESG Information Policy to Prevent Bribery and Corruption The Mitsui Fudosan Group positions compliance as a management issue of the highest priority, and makes concerted efforts to maintain and improve its compliance structure. The Mitsui Fudosan Group Compliance Policy sets forth the relevant compliance denitions and conduct guidelines, and the detailed rules in the Compliance Manual outline conduct guidelines in areas such as eliminating organized crime, preventing money laundering, eliminating unfair transactions, preventing insider trading, prohibiting gifts and entertainment, and forbidding contributions to politicians and political organizations. In this way, we make consistent efforts to ensure compliance and prevent bribery and corruption. Mitsui Fudosan Group Compliance Policy (Excerpt) We have engaged in fair business activities based on the highest corporate ethics and worked diligently to garner trust and build a robust brand. However, these tireless efforts to build a robust brand strength can be lost in an instant by the erroneous actions of a single individual. As a result, proper decision-making and behavior will continue to increase in importance. To accomplish this, we regard the practice of compliance as one of our highest priorities for Group management and implement fair and highly transparent corporate activities in accordance with corporate ethics, in addition to observing laws and regulations as well as social norms. ⇒ Mitsui Fudosan Group Compliance Policy Enhanced Compliance The employee handbook includes a clear description of Group Compliance Policies. We also strengthen compliance and ensure broad dissemination of information by issuing Compliance news to all employees when appropriate. This news covers topics specied in the Compliance Manual (based on the Mitsui Fudosan Group Compliance Policy) such as eliminating organized crime, preventing money laundering, eliminating unfair transactions (abuse of superior bargaining position), preventing insider trading, prohibiting gifts and entertainment, and duty of condentiality regarding company information. Group Compliance Policies recorded in an employee handbook Prohibiting Bribery and Handling of Gifts and Entertainment Mitsui Fudosan has prohibited the illicit provision of benets to public ofcials and other individuals in similar positions. Also, in dealings with business connections and afliates, etc., a rule has been established preventing the giving or receiving of excessive gifts, entertainment, and the like. Also, the Company has established a structure and rules to be followed to prevent bribery and has formulated and is implementing Regulations for Preventing Bribery with the aim of preventing such conduct before it occurs. Our Efforts at Preventing Corruption The Company uses e-learning to train employees in corruption prevention and other issues. This training covers issues set forth in our Compliance Manual such as eliminating organized crime, preventing money laundering, eliminating unfair transactions (abuse of superior bargaining position), preventing insider trading, and prohibiting gifts and entertainment. We assess corruption risk and endeavor to control it when selecting new domestic and international business partners and entering new regions and business areas. We ask our prospective business partners to ll out a basic check sheet and a compliance check sheet, and also have our legal compliance department conrm the absence of any violations. In this way, we carry out a comprehensive examination in areas such as eliminating organized crime, preventing money laundering, eliminating unfair transactions, preventing insider trading, prohibiting gifts and entertainment, and forbidding contribution to politicians and political organizations. Businesses deemed to be at high risk of corruption are monitored closely by the Executive Management Committee and the Strategy Planning Special Committee, and they decide on an appropriate response in each case. The Board of Directors closely monitors the Corruption Prevention Policy. The Risk Management Special Committee supervises such areas as eliminating organized crime, preventing money laundering, eliminating unfair transactions, preventing insider trading, prohibiting gifts and entertainment, and forbidding contribution to politicians and political organizations, and regularly reports to the Board of Directors. We work to prevent corruption by providing the internal whistleblower system outlined below. Establishment of an Internal Consultation Service Mitsui Fudosan has established internal contact points for consultation. These can be used by regular employees, and anyone engaged in work for our company based on an individual labor contract (contract employee), temporary transfer agreement, worker dispatch contract, part-time contract, or other agreement. Two contact points, internal and external, have been established, and workers can consult with either. The external contact point is provided at a law ofce, and it accepts consultations from a neutral standpoint,*1 noties the Company of the consultation content, and encourages a response. Topics for consultation include: wrongful conduct violating laws, regulations, internal rules, general social norms, or corporate ethics, sexual harassment, abuse of power, other forms of harassment, employment problems, and issues with the workplace environment.*2 The privacy of those who engage in consultation is protected, and there is never any retaliatory action or disadvantageous treatment due to such consultations in terms of personnel decisions. Consultations can be conducted under a real name, or anonymously.*3 *1. Representatives of the law ofce cannot provide legal opinions as lawyers, or take a stance protecting the consulting person. *2. Simple expressions of opinion, dissatisfaction with personnel decisions, defamation of others, and similar issues cannot be the subject of consultation. *3. To achieve early discovery and response to compliance problems—the original purpose of the system—the consulting employee's standpoint and other information are conrmed even in the case of an anonymous consultation. Political Donations Mitsui Fudosan does not provide donations for political activities to any parties other than ofcial political parties and political fund-raising organizations. Furthermore, support for activities by political organizations is conducted appropriately in accordance with the Political Funds Control Law, laws and regulations connected to the Public Ofces Election Law, and other relevant laws and regulations. Fiscal 2015–2018 One donation each year, to The People's Political Association. Amount: ¥20 million No. of Compliance Violations Fiscal 2018 Cases handled by Risk Management Special Committee: 12 violations Risk Management Corporate Governance Privacy Policy Basic Policy on Specic Personal Information Concerning Protection of Personal Information Concerning Cookies and Access Logs Usage Notice © 2019 Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. ⽇本語 English ESG Report Governance Corporate Governance ESG Report TOP ESG Information SDGs and Neighborhood Creation ESG at the Mitsui Fudosan Regarding the Disclosure of our The Mitsui Fudosan Group: A Management’s Commitment Group ESG Report History of Value Creation Environment Society Governance Special Reports Third-party Verication The Mitsui Fudosan Group and SDGs List View of ESG Information Corporate Governance System The Mitsui Fudosan Group aims to create and maintain optimal corporate governance from the standpoint of improving the soundness, transparency and efciency of management in order to gain the trust of its stakeholders. Mitsui Fudosan has both a Board of Directors and a Board of Corporate Auditors. To ensure transparency with respect to director compensation and appointments of directors and auditors, we maintain a Compensation Advisory Committee and a Nomination Advisory Committee. In addition, we have adopted a corporate ofcer system to enhance the soundness and efciency of management by separating and strengthening management and executive functions. Mitsui Fudosan also invites and appoints outside directors in order to strengthen the oversight functions of the directors and enhance management transparency. In addition, auditors conduct audits in a bid to evaluate the status of business execution by directors while coordinating with the Corporate Auditor’s Department, which serves as the internal audit department of the Company, as well as certied public accountants. Moreover, steps have been taken to put in place the Mitsui Fudosan Group Compliance Policy as well as a structure that will ensure that Group directors and employees engage in business activities in an appropriate manner. Corporate Governance Structure (1) Board of Directors The Board of Directors is headed by Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Ofcer (Representative) Hiromichi Iwasa, and consists of eight internal directors (Hiromichi Iwasa, Masanobu Komoda, Yoshikazu Kitahara, Kiyotaka Fujibayashi, Yasuo Onozawa, Hiroyuki Ishigami, Takashi Yamamoto, and Wataru Hamamoto) and four outside directors (Masako Egawa, Masafumi Nogimori, Tsunehiro Nakayama, and Shinichiro Ito) and makes decisions on material issues of Mitsui Fudosan and monitors the business execution status of directors. In addition,under Article 373 (1) of the Companies Act, Mitsui Fudosan has designated a special managing director who may pass judgment on the urgent acquisition of assets via bidding, etc., when so empowered by the Board of Directors under Article 362 (4) of the Companies Act. The corporate auditors also attend meetings of the Board of Directors and provide opinions as necessary. Eleven Board of Directors meetings were held between June 28, 2018, and May 10, 2019, and each director achieved an attendance rate of over 90%. Number of Directors and Auditors (as of June 30, 2019) Directors 12 Independent outside directors 4 Female directors 1 Auditors 5 Independent outside auditors 3 (2) Compensation Advisory Committee The Compensation Advisory Committee, headed by President and Chief Executive Ofcer Masanobu Komoda, comprises one internal director (Yasuo Onozawa) and four outside directors (Masako Egawa, Masafumi Nogimori, Tsunehiro Nakayama, and Shinichiro Ito), for a total of six directors, and meets on matters pertaining to the compensation of managing directors. (3) Nomination Advisory Committee The Nomination Advisory Committee, headed by President and Chief Executive Ofcer Masanobu Komoda, comprises one internal director (Yasuo Onozawa) and four outside directors (Masako Egawa, Masafumi Nogimori, Tsunehiro Nakayama, and Shinichiro Ito), for a total of six directors, and meets on matters pertaining to the nomination of managing directors and corporate auditors. (4) Board of Corporate Auditors/Corporate Auditor's Department The Board of Corporate Auditors, headed by full-time auditor Kenji Iino, comprises two internal auditors (Kenji Iino and Masatoshi Sato) and three outside auditors (Yoshitaka Kato, Yasushi Manago, and Yukimi Ozeki), for a total of ve auditors, and formulates auditing policies and determines assignments. It also receives reports and discusses material items on audits conducted according to these policies and assignments. Note that the Corporate Auditor’s Department has been established specically to assist the corporate auditors with their work, and each corporate auditor has been assigned two dedicated employees. (5) Corporate Ofcer System Mitsui Fudosan has introduced a corporate ofcer system with the aim of creating a business execution framework that best suits its operating environment and activities. By promoting the separation and reinforcement of the management and executive functions, a role that was previously undertaken by company directors, the system enhances management soundness and efciency. In addition, seeking to further reinforce the management of the Mitsui Fudosan Group, we have expanded the range of managers across the Group and introduced a Group corporate ofcer system, under which executives at Group companies have been given a status and mission similar to those of the corporate ofcers. (6) Executive Management Committee The Executive Management Committee, consisting of executive corporate ofcers, has been formed to deliberate and report on important matters related to business execution and supervises internal control and risk management. Full-time corporate auditors also attend meetings to stay informed of important decision-making processes and the status of business execution, and provide opinions as necessary. (7) Financial Auditing Mitsui Fudosan has concluded an auditing contract with KPMG AZSA LLC as its certied public accountant, which conducts audits. There is no shared interest between the auditor and the Company, nor between employees conducting operations for the auditor and the Company. Strategy Planning Special Committee Formulates and deliberates Group strategy and management plans and supervises risk management, with the goal of discussing and managing the execution of those plans and other specic management issues. Risk Management Special Committee Manages business risk by formulating risk management policies and plans; tracking, evaluating and formulating responses to risk issues; issuing instructions, etc. ESG Promotion Committee Formulates ideas and policies, sets goals, creates activity plans, manages progress and evaluates results in order to promote action that contributes to ESG activities and the achievement of the SDGs. Board of Director Decisions and Reports The following matters shall be resolved by or reported to the Mitsui Fudosan Board of Directors as stipulated by laws and regulations, the Company’s Articles of Incorporation, and company rules such as those regarding the Board of Directors. (1) Matters related to shareholders’ meetings (2) Matters related to directors Preliminary selection of director candidates The appointment and dismissal of representative directors The appointment and dismissal of executive directors Compensation and bonuses for directors Other important matters (3) Matters related to the Company’s structure (4) Important matters related to compliance, etc. Formulating a compliance promotion plan for the scal year Reporting on the results of compliance promotion activities implemented during the scal year Formulating an audit plan for the scal year Reporting on audit activities implemented during the scal year Evaluating internal controls concerning nancial reporting during the scal year and formulating audit-related policy (J-SOX activities) (5) Important matters related to personnel The appointment and dismissal of corporate ofcers and executive corporate ofcers The appointment and dismissal of key employees Compensation and bonuses for corporate ofcers, etc. (6) Important matters related to nance and assets (7) Other matters that are especially important in regard to managing the Company or executing duties Internal control The Mitsui Fudosan Group sets up and manages an internal control system that conforms to the Companies Act. We endeavor to put in place systems to ensure that the execution of business by directors and employees complies with laws and regulations and the Company’s Articles of Incorporation. With this in mind, the Board of Directors of Mitsui Fudosan formulated the following basic policy and maintains its proper operation. Basic Policy to Put in Place an Internal Control System That Will Ensure the Proper Execution of Business Activities by a Company Limited by Shares 1. System to ensure that execution of business by directors conforms to laws and regulations and the Company’s Articles of Incorporation The Company is working to ensure compliance through formulation and implementation of a compliance promotion plan, based on its Compliance Rules and other internal rules. The Company has also established a Risk Management Special Committee and put in place a compliance structure to prevent violations of laws and regulations and its Articles of Incorporation. 2. System related to storage and management of information concerning the execution of business by directors All information is appropriately stored and managed according to internal rules, including the Document Rules, the Information Management Rules and the Information System Management Rules. 3. Regulations and other frameworks related to prevention of losses Based on Risk Management Regulations and other internal rules, the Executive Management Committee supervises and controls risk management items concerning the Company or the Mitsui Fudosan Group. It heads two committees charged with uncovering and comprehending risk issues and devising solutions for them—the Strategy Planning Special Committee, which handles business risk management, and the Risk Management Special Committee, which is responsible for management of administrative risk. 4. Framework for ensuring that the business of directors is executed efciently To promote the separation and strengthening of the management and executive functions for which directors are responsible, the Company has adopted a corporate ofcer system, part of a framework intended to ensure that the business of directors is executed efciently. Concerning the execution of business based on decisions of the Board of Directors, internal rules, including organizational rules and rules governing administrative authority, set forth who is in charge and their responsibilities and promote efcient business by also setting forth procedures for execution. 5. A system to ensure that the execution of business by employees conforms to laws and regulations and the Company’s Articles of Incorporation The Company is working to ensure compliance through formulation and implementation of a compliance promotion plan, based on its Compliance Rules and other internal rules. The Company also maintains a Risk Management Special Committee and a compliance structure to prevent violations of laws and regulations and its Articles of Incorporation. In addition, based on its Internal Control System Rules, the Company has established a point of contact for consultation regarding compliance problems inside and outside the Company. Further, based on Internal Audit Rules, the Internal Audit Department monitors the operation of the compliance framework as well as compliance with laws and regulations, and reports to the Board of Directors and the Board of Corporate Auditors. 6. Framework for ensuring appropriate business practices by the corporate group comprising the Company and its subsidiaries Through appropriate management of its Subsidiaries and Afliates Administration Rules and Overseas Afliates Administration Rules, the Company seeks to ensure the efcient execution of business by directors of its subsidiaries, while management is based on approval and monitoring by Mitsui Fudosan. Each Group company also has in place a compliance framework and Internal Control System based on the Mitsui Fudosan Group Compliance Policy. The Internal Audit Department conducts audits of the subsidiaries’ compliance frameworks and their compliance with laws and regulations, and reports to the Board of Directors and the Board of Corporate Auditors. 7. A system for employees to assist auditors with their duties and matters concerning the assurance of independence of these employees from directors and the effectiveness of instructions given to these employees The Corporate Auditor’s Department has been established specically to assist the corporate auditors with their work, and each corporate auditor has been assigned a dedicated employee. Said employee shall be under the chain of command of the corporate auditor, who shall also evaluate the employee’s performance. Transfer of said employee shall take place only upon prior discussion with the corporate auditor. 8. Frameworks for enabling directors and employees to report to the corporate auditors, for other reporting to the corporate auditors, and for ensuring that audits by the corporate auditors are conducted effectively Corporate auditors attend meetings of the Board of Directors. Full-time corporate auditors also attend meetings of the Executive Management Committee, which oversees internal controls and risk management, receives reports when necessary, and shares these at meetings of the Board of Corporate Auditors. In addition, the corporate auditors receive regular audit reports from the Internal Audit Department and the Company’s certied public accountant, and exchange information to build cooperation. Matters that have become subject to internal consulting are reported to the corporate auditors as appropriate via the Risk Management Special Committee, and the Internal Control System Rules contain provisions stating that the act of consulting itself will not be reason for detrimental treatment of the person requesting consultation. 9. Framework for enabling directors, auditors and employees of subsidiaries, or individuals receiving reports from those listed, to report to corporate auditors, and for ensuring that individuals providing such reports will not, by reason of having made said report, be subject to detrimental treatment as a result Full-time corporate auditors attend meetings of the Executive Management Committee, which oversees internal controls and risk management, receives reports as necessary, and shares them with the Board of Corporate Auditors. They also work to exchange information as appropriate with the directors and auditors of the Company’s subsidiaries, either directly or through relevant departments, and receive progress reports on implementation of internal audits at subsidiaries. Matters subject to internal consulting under the Internal Control System, of each Group company are also reported to the Company’s corporate auditors as appropriate via the Risk Management Special Committee or the department concerned. Rules regarding each Group company’s Internal Control System contain provisions stating that the act of consulting itself will not be reason for detrimental treatment of the person requesting consultation. 10. Policies regarding procedures for prepayment or reimbursement of expenses arising in the execution of the corporate auditors’ duties or related to processing of other expenses and liabilities arising from execution of those duties Expenses required for the execution of the corporate auditors’ duties shall be borne by the Company at cost. Internal Auditing System The Audit Department veries the effectiveness of risk management and internal control systems from the perspective of the entire Mitsui Fudosan Group. At the same time, the Department puts in place audit activity plans in order to evaluate and improve risk management and internal control systems, and undertakes internal audits following authorization by the Board of Directors. Results of the internal audits are reported to the ofcers in charge with feedback directed to the appropriate departments. Thereafter, followup activities are undertaken to assess the status of improvement progress. Moreover, details of audit activities are reported every six months to the Executive Management Committee, Board of Directors, and Board of Corporate Auditors. Every effort is made to share information and coordinate with auditors. Based on Japan’s Financial Instruments and Exchange Law, Mitsui Fudosan evaluates the status of internal control relating to the current Mitsui Fudosan Group nancial report at the end of each period. An Internal Control Report is then submitted and disclosed publicly. Results of the most recent Internal Control Report have been audited by KPMG AZSA LLC and deemed as appropriate. Reasons for Selecting Outside Directors and Their Attendance Mitsui Fudosan appoints its outside directors with the expectation that they will contribute their extensive experience and broad knowledge to the Company’s management, and that they will play an appropriate role in strengthening the audit function of the Board of Directors and ensuring transparency. The Company also appoints its outside auditors with the expectation that they will bring an objective stance to auditing the directors in the performance of their duties, based on their expert knowledge and extensive experience. Note that, in line with Tokyo Stock Exchange requirements for judging the independence of independent ofcers, the Company uses the following standards for judging said independence: whether there is a risk of conicts of interest with any of the Company’s general shareholders; whether any special interests exist with the Company; and whether in working to enhance the soundness and transparency of the Company’s management, the individual is capable of making objective, fair and impartial judgments. Reason for Selection as Outside Directors and Corporate Auditors Fiscal 2018 Attendance at Board of Directors Meetings Name Reason for Appointment and Board of Corporate Auditors Meetings As a current outside director of the Company, Masako Egawa has properly fullled her duty of strengthening supervisory functions and ensuring the transparency of the Board of Directors. The Company has Managing Director reappointed her as an outside director and independent ofcer in the expectation that she will make further 13/13 Masako Egawa contributions in this role, in addition to the fact that there are no concerns regarding conict of interest with general shareholders. As a current outside director of the Company, Masafumi Nogimori has properly fullled his duty of strengthening supervisory functions and ensuring the transparency of the Board of Directors. The Company Managing Director has reappointed him as an outside director and independent ofcer in the expectation that he will make 13/13 Masafumi Nogimori further contributions in this role, in addition to the fact that there are no concerns regarding conict of interest with general shareholders. The Company has appointed Tsunehiro Nakayama as an outside director and independent ofcer in the Managing Director expectation that he will use his wealth of experience as a manager and wide-ranging views to contribute Tsunehiro Nakayama various opinions that will strengthen supervisory functions and ensure transparency of the Board of Directors. There are also no concerns regarding conict of interest with general shareholders. The Company has appointed Shinichiro Ito as an outside director and independent ofcer in the expectation Managing Director that he will use his wealth of experience as a manager and wide-ranging views to contribute various opinions Shinichiro Ito that will strengthen supervisory functions and ensure transparency of the Board of Directors. There are also no concerns regarding conict of interest with general shareholders. Board of Director As a current outside corporate auditor of the Company, Yoshitaka Kato has demonstrated sufcient ability to Meetings: 12/13 Corporate Auditor audit the directors’ execution of their duties. The Company has reappointed him as a corporate auditor and meetings Yoshitaka Kato independent ofcer in the expectation that he will make further contributions in this role, in addition to the Board of Corporate fact that there are no concerns regarding conict of interest with general shareholders. Auditor Meetings: 11/12 meetings Fiscal 2018 Attendance at Board of Directors Meetings Name Reason for Appointment and Board of Corporate Auditors Meetings Board of Director As a current outside corporate auditor of the Company, Yasushi Manago has demonstrated sufcient ability Meetings: 13/13 Corporate Auditor to audit the directors’ execution of their duties. The Company has reappointed him as a corporate auditor meetings Yasushi Manago and independent ofcer in the expectation that he will make further contributions in this role, in addition to Board of Corporate the fact that there are no concerns regarding conict of interest with general shareholders. Auditor Meetings: 11/12 meetings Board of Director As a current outside corporate auditor of the Company, Yukimi Ozeki has demonstrated sufcient ability to Meetings: 13/13 Corporate Auditor audit the directors’ execution of their duties. The Company has reappointed him as a corporate auditor and meetings Yukimi Ozeki independent ofcer in the expectation that he will make further contributions in this role, in addition to the Board of Corporate fact that there are no concerns regarding conict of interest with general shareholders. Auditor Meetings: 12/12 meetings Executive Compensation Managing directors’ compensation consists of basic compensation in an amount within the scope set and approved by resolution of the 106th General Meeting of Shareholders, bonuses paid as short-term incentives that comprehensively take into consideration such things as business results achieved in each scal year which must be approved by resolution at the General Meeting of Shareholders, and stock options paid as mediumto long-terｍ incentives in an amount within the scope set and approved by resolution of the 95th General Meeting of Shareholders. Compensation paid to managing directors (outside directors) is solely basic compensation. Compensation paid to corporate auditors is solely basic compensation in an amount within the scope set and approved by resolution of the 106th General Meeting of Shareholders. In addition, the Company has established the Compensation Advisory Committee, comprising two internal directors and four independent outside directors, which the Board of Directors consults on managing directors’ compensation prior to decisions made at the Board of Directors. Compensation for the Company’s directors and corporate auditors for scal 2018 was as shown below. Compensation by Title, Amount of Compensation by Type and Number of Applicable Executives Amount of Compensation by Type (Millions of Total Compensation (Millions of Number of Applicable Title Yen) Yen) Executives Basic Compensation Bonus Stock Options Internal directors 1,027 537 406 83 8 Internal corporate auditors 104 104 2 Outside directors and corporate 94 94 7 auditors Compensation of Executives Exceeding ¥100 million Amount of Compensation by Type (Millions of Yen) Total Compensation Name Title (Millions of Yen) Basic Stock Bonus Compensation Options Hiromichi Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Ofcer (Representative) 117 93 17 228 Iwasa Masanobu President and Chief Executive Ofcer (Representative) 117 93 17 228 Komoda Yoshikazu Managing Director (Representative) 74 52 10 137 Kitahara Managing Director 26 39 8 Kiyotaka 110 President and Chief Executive Ofcer (Representative) of Mitsui Fudosan Fujibayashi 34 Residential Co., Ltd. Yasuo Managing Director 57 39 8 105 Onozawa Analysis and Evaluation of Board of Director Effectiveness Each year, the Company analyzes and evaluates the efcacy of the Board of Directors, aiming to further enhance its functions. An overview and results of our evaluation of the Board of Directors’ efcacy are provided below. (1) Evaluation method The Company conducted interviews with all directors and auditors and asked them to complete free-response questionnaires regarding Board of Directors' efcacy, conducting an analysis and evaluation at the Board of Directors meeting held on May 24, 2019. (2) Evaluation items Board of Directors structure (number of members, ratio of executive to non-executive members, diversity, etc.) Status of operation of the Board of Directors (number of meetings held, attendance rates, time spent for deliberation, number of items deliberated, provision of information, questions and answers, etc.) Other (issues raised in the previous evaluation of Board of Directors’ efcacy; Compensation Advisory Committee; Nomination Advisory Committee; meetings of outside directors and outside corporate auditors; etc.) (3) Evaluation results and future response To achieve sustained increases in the Group’s corporate value, it was conrmed that the Board of Directors efcacy was properly maintained. The results of this evaluation will be used to further improve the functioning of the Board of Directors. Shareholder Voting Rights The principle of one vote per share of stock shall be applied to all corporate voting matters Disclosure of voting results Shareholder appointment and dismissal of directors Corruption Prevention Privacy Policy Basic Policy on Specic Personal Information Concerning Protection of Personal Information Concerning Cookies and Access Logs Usage Notice © 2019 Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. ⽇本語 English ESG Report Third-party Verication ESG Report TOP ESG Information SDGs and Neighborhood Creation ESG at the Mitsui Fudosan Regarding the Disclosure of our The Mitsui Fudosan Group: A Management’s Commitment Group ESG Report History of Value Creation Environment Society Governance Special Reports Third-party Verication The Mitsui Fudosan Group and SDGs List View of ESG Information Third-party Verication Independent Third-party Verication Report To enhance the reliability of the ESG data disclosed in the 2019 Mitsui Fudosan ESG Report, selected data has undergone third-party verication by Deloitte Tohmatsu Sustainability Co., Ltd. In the information given below, the mark indicates scal year 2018 data that has undergone third-party verication. Water Usage Disposed Industrial Waste Energy Consumption Greenhouse Gas Emissions Health Checkup and Screening Rate List of annual data Environmental data Water Usage *1 Total water usage: The total of clean water, industrial water, and grey water usage. *2 Clean water and industrial water usage: Clean water and industrial water usage includes well water usage. *3 Amount of grey water usage: Amount of grey water usage is the total of kitchen and miscellaneous wastewater, some rain and other water processed, and recycled water purchased from the outside. Trends in the Amount of Water Usage Data with the third-party verication mark has been independently veried. Scope of Data Calculation The scope of data calculation for water usage encompasses, in principle, facilities for which disclosure is required under the Act on the Rational Use of Energy. However, some facilities are excluded. Scope of Data Calculation (Water Usage) Fiscal year Business Division Type 2016 2017 2018 No. of target facilities (facilities) 137 139 139 Overall Total oor area （m2） 5,599,861 5,938,901 6,379,120 No. of target facilities (facilities) 75 76 70 Ofce buildings Total oor area （m2） 2,462,672 2,648,216 2,886,933 No. of target facilities (facilities) 43 43 46 Retail facilities Total oor area （m2） 2,851,201 2,864,433 2,973,917 No. of target facilities (facilities) 12 12 14 Hotels Total oor area （m2） 151,626 150,619 158,761 No. of target facilities (facilities) 3 3 3 Logistics Total oor area （m2） 124,225 265,059 300,630 No. of target facilities (facilities) 4 5 6 Other Total oor area （m2） 10,138 10,574 58,879 Note: 1．Ofce buildings include Tokyo Midtown (Roppongi) and Kashiwa-no-ha Smart City Gate Square shops and the ofce building KOIL. 2．Resort hotels are included in the scope for hotels. 3．Facilities under the control of the General Administration Department as well as each branch have been included in Other. 4．Water usage in ofces is included. Disposed Industrial Waste Trends in Amount of Disposed Industrial Waste Data with the third-party verication mark has been independently veried. Note: The amount of disposed industrial waste is that which is in accordance with the Waste Management and Public Cleansing Act. Scope of Data Collation The scopes of data collation for hazardous and non-hazardous waste emissions encompasses, in principle, facilities for which disclosure is required under the Act on the Rational Use of Energy. However, some facilities are excluded. Scope of Data Calculation (Waste Emissions) Fiscal year Business Division Type 2016 2017 2018 No. of target facilities (facilities) 115 118 121 Overall Total oor area （m2） 5,339,523 5,803,409 6,247,209 No. of target facilities (facilities) 63 63 60 Ofce buildings Total oor area （m2） 2,429,400 2,628,289 2,857,052 No. of target facilities (facilities) 39 37 39 Retail facilities Total oor area （m2） 2,753,039 2,754,780 2,872,148 No. of target facilities (facilities) 12 12 14 Hotels Total oor area （m2） 151,626 150,619 158,761 No. of target facilities (facilities) 0 2 3 Logistics Total oor area （m2） 0 259,537 300,630 No. of target facilities (facilities) 1 4 5 Other Total oor area （m2） 5,459 10,183 58,618 Note: 1． Ofce buildings include Tokyo Midtown (Roppongi) and Kashiwa-no-ha Smart City Gate Square shops and the ofce building KOIL. 2．Resort hotels are included in the scope for hotels. 3．Facilities under the control of the General Administration Department as well as each branch have been included in Other. 4．Waste emissions in ofces are included. Energy Consumption and Greenhouse Gas Emissions Trends in the Amount of Energy Consumption Data with the third-party verication mark has been independently veried. Note: The amount of energy consumption is calculated in accordance with the Act on the Rational Use of Energy. Total greenhouse gas emissions by scope Data with the third-party verication mark has been independently veried. Note: Calculation of CO2 emissions is done based on the Manual for Calculation and Reporting of Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Ministry of the Environment; Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry). In calculating CO2 emissions for each scal year, we use the denitive values of CO2 emissions coefcients for electric power use in each previous scal year. Scope of Data Calculation The scope of data calculation for energy consumption and GHG emissions encompasses facilities for which disclosure is required under the Act on the Rational Use of Energy. Scope of Data Calculation (Energy Consumption, Greenhouse Gas (CO2) Emissions) Fiscal year Business Division Type 2016 2017 2018 Fiscal year Business Division Type 2016 2017 2018 No. of target facilities (facilities) 154 163 157 Overall Total oor area（m2） 5,673,109 6,024,150 6,400,710 No. of target facilities (facilities) 82 90 81 Ofce buildings Total oor area（m2） 2,482,891 2,728,958 2,897,021 No. of target facilities (facilities) 43 45 46 Retail facilities Total oor area（m2） 2,851,201 2,864,433 2,973,917 No. of target facilities (facilities) 12 12 14 Hotels Total oor area（m2） 151,626 150,619 158,761 No. of target facilities (facilities) 0 3 3 Logistics Total oor area（m2） 0 265,059 300,630 No. of target facilities (facilities) 14 13 13 Other Total oor area（m2） 63,168 15,080 70,380 Note: 1．Ofce buildings include Tokyo Midtown (Roppongi) and Kashiwa-no-ha Smart City Gate Square shops and the ofce building KOIL. 2． Resort hotels are included in the scope for hotels. 3．Facilities under the control of the General Administration Department as well as each branch have been included in Other. 4．Energy consumption and GHG emissions total oor area data takes into consideration the operating month 5．Energy consumption and GHG emissions at ofces are included. Social data Health and Safety Health Checkup and Screening Rate Record in scal 2017: 99.3% Record in scal 2018: 99.5% Goal for scal 2019: 100% Data with the third-party verication mark has been independently veried. Note: The health checkup and screening rate is the percentage of all steady-basis employees undergoing health checkups or health screening. The total of all steady-basis employees consists of regular and part-time steady-basis employees as of the end of the scal year, excluding those necessarily prevented from undergoing screening (due to international postings, childcare leave, health conditions, etc.). Privacy Policy Basic Policy on Specic Personal Information Concerning Protection of Personal Information Concerning Cookies and Access Logs Usage Notice © 2019 Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. ⽇本語 English ESG Report The Mitsui Fudosan Group and SDGs ESG Report TOP ESG Information SDGs and Neighborhood Creation ESG at the Mitsui Fudosan Regarding the Disclosure of our The Mitsui Fudosan Group: A Management’s Commitment Group ESG Report History of Value Creation Environment Society Governance Special Reports Third-party Verication The Mitsui Fudosan Group and SDGs List View of ESG Information The Mitsui Fudosan Group and SDGs The Mitsui Fudosan Group support the Sustainable Development Goals In September 2015, at the United Nations Sustainable Development Summit, the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development was adopted by all 193 member nations. The agenda is a guideline for how citizens, governments, businesses and international society as a whole shall work together to realize sustainability through the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)-composed of 17 larger goals and 169 smaller targets-to be completed by the year 2030. The Mitsui Fudosan Group carries out business projects that relate to the SDGs, as well as a variety of initiatives dealing with matters of the environment, society and corporate governance (ESG). How the Mitsui Fudosan Group is working toward achievement of the 17 goals and 169 targets of the SDGs is detailed below. Based on the principles of our logo, we will contribute to the achievement of the SDGs by tackling ESG-related issues and striving for a sustainable society. The SDGs The Mitsui Fudosan Group's Efforts Associated Targets End poverty in all its forms Implementing our international support activity, the 1.1 By 2030, eradicate extreme poverty for all people &EARTH Clothing Support Project-Bring a Smile to everywhere, currently measured as people living on less everywhere the World with Your Clothes, and donating clothes than $1.25 a day. to those in need through the NPO Japan Relief 1.2 By 2030, reduce at least by half the proportion of men, Clothing Center women and children of all ages living in poverty in all its dimensions according to national denitions. Carrying out neighborhood creation and community development with an awareness of 1.4 By 2030, ensure that all men and women, in particular the poor and the vulnerable, have equal rights to economic more vulnerable members of society, such as resources, as well as access to basic services, ownership women, children, the elderly and people with and control over land and other forms of property, disabilities inheritance, natural resources, appropriate new technology and nancial services, including micronance. End hunger, achieve food Donating disaster relief goods through a certied 2.3 By 2030, double the agricultural productivity and incomes NPO-run food bank of small-scale food producers, in particular women, security and improved indigenous peoples, family farmers, pastoralists and nutrition and promote shers, including through secure and equal access to land, sustainable agriculture other productive resources and inputs, knowledge, nancial services, markets and opportunities for value addition and non-farm employment. The SDGs The Mitsui Fudosan Group's Efforts Associated Targets Ensure healthy lives and Carrying out neighborhood creation that protects 3.4 By 2030, reduce by one third premature mortality from the vulnerable in society by creating local non-communicable diseases through prevention and promote well-being for all at communities and making them barrier free treatment and promote mental health and wellbeing all ages 3.6 By 2020, halve the number of global deaths and injuries Supporting new industry creation in the life science from road trafc accidents elds Promoting the spread of healthy living spaces ( smart wellness homes) Establishing safe infrastructure, such as roads, in our neighborhood creation Co-sponsoring the Asia Pacic Corporate Games held in Tokyo Ensure inclusive and Accepting trainees from overseas and providing 4.4 By 2030, substantially increase the number of youth and them with opportunities to develop their abilities adults who have relevant skills, including technical and equitable quality education vocational skills, for employment, decent jobs and and promote lifelong Implementing training programs to teach our entrepreneurship. learning opportunities for all employees about topics related to sustainable 4.5 By 2030, eliminate gender disparities in education and development, such as human rights and gender ensure equal access to all levels of education and equality vocational training for the vulnerable, including persons with disabilities, indigenous peoples and children in vulnerable situations. 4.7 By 2030, ensure that all learners acquire the knowledge and skills needed to promote sustainable development, including, among others, through education for sustainable development and sustainable lifestyles, human rights, gender equality, promotion of a culture of peace and nonviolence, global citizenship and appreciation of cultural diversity and of culture's contribution to sustainable development. Achieve gender equality and Opening day care centers in ofce buildings, and 5.1 End all forms of discrimination against all women and girls putting in place working environments that allow everywhere. empower all women and even those raising children to continue working 5.4 Recognize and value unpaid care and domestic work girls through the provision of public services, infrastructure and Focusing on diversity and equal opportunity social protection policies and the promotion of shared (including equal pay), and encouraging women to responsibility within the household and the family as take up leadership roles nationally appropriate. Creating facilities that support those raising children Creating comfortable working environments for women, such as by increasing the number of women's toilets Ensure availability and Mitigating impact of our business on local 6.1 By 2030, achieve universal and equitable access to safe communities and efciently using water resources and affordable drinking water for all. sustainable management of by promoting use of rainwater and grey water water and sanitation for all 6.2 By 2030, achieve access to adequate and equitable sanitation and hygiene for all and end open defecation, Installing water-saving devices in our facilities and paying special attention to the needs of women and girls homes and those in vulnerable situations. Managing a water conservation forest in collaboration with the Tokyo Metropolitan Government's Bureau of Waterworks Ensure access to affordable, Promoting installation of chargers for electric 7.1 By 2030, ensure universal access to affordable, reliable vehicles and plug-in hybrids and modern energy services. reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all Promoting the supply of energy through our mega solar projects Introducing wind and biomass power generation Promote sustained, inclusive Creating better environments in our ofces and 8.1 Sustain per capita economic growth in accordance with facilities (making them places to work, gather, and national circumstances and, in particular, at least 7 per and sustainable economic cent gross domestic product growth per annum in the relax) to increase workers' motivation levels growth, full and productive least developed countries. employment and decent Implementing workstyle reform through our 8.2 Achieve higher levels of economic productivity through work for all WORKSTYLING ofces diversication, technological upgrading and innovation, including through a focus on high-value added and labourSupporting startups and other companies through intensive sectors. partnerships across our 31VENTURES platform 8.3 Promote development-oriented policies that support Stimulating the tourism industry and creating new productive activities, decent job creation, jobs through our regional development entrepreneurship, creativity and innovation, and encourage the formalization and growth of micro-, smalland medium-sized enterprises, including through access to nancial services. 8.9 By 2030, devise and implement policies to promote sustainable tourism that creates jobs and promotes local culture and products. The SDGs The Mitsui Fudosan Group's Efforts Associated Targets Build resilient infrastructure, Developing infrastructure through our 9.1 Develop quality, reliable, sustainable and resilient neighborhood creation and other development infrastructure, including regional and transborder promote inclusive and infrastructure, to support economic development and projects sustainable industrialization human well-being, with a focus on affordable and and foster innovation Bringing together life science technologies in the equitable access for all. Nihonbashi area and promoting the creation of new 9.2 Promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and, by industries in the drug development elds 2030, signicantly raise industry's share of employment and gross domestic product, in line with national Driving innovation with neighborhood creation at circumstances, and double its share in least developed Kashiwa-no-ha through collaboration between the countries. public, private, and academic sectors Reduce inequality within and Fighting discrimination, such as over economic 10.2 By 2030, empower and promote the social, economic and status political inclusion of all, irrespective of age, sex, disability, among countries race, ethnicity, origin, religion or economic or other status. Fighting discrimination, such as over economic status Make cities and human Creating sustainable neighborhoods and homes 11.4 Strengthen efforts to protect and safeguard the world's whose attractiveness increases as they mature and cultural and natural heritage. settlements inclusive, safe, age 11.b By 2020, substantially increase the number of cities and resilient and sustainable human settlements adopting and implementing integrated Promoting the spread of smart wellness homes policies and plans towards inclusion, resource efciency, that maintain good health mitigation and adaptation to climate change, resilience to disasters, and develop and implement, in line with the Creating sustainable communities using renewable Sendai Framework for Disaster Risk Reduction 2015-2030, energy and ICT holistic disaster risk management at all levels. Preserving and restoring biodiversity in urban environments Redeveloping the Nihonbashi area with the concept of retaining, revitalizing and creating Building hotels that take into account the local area's past, present, and future Constructing homes, buildings, and facilities that are highly resistant to natural disasters Establishing a Crisis Management Center that is constantly on hand to take in those unable to return home following a disaster Ensure sustainable Reducing the amount of resources we use and 12.2 By 2030, achieve the sustainable management and appropriately managing and reducing waste efcient use of natural resources. consumption and production materials patterns 12.3 By 2030, halve per capita global food waste at the retail and consumer levels and reduce food losses along Establishing a paper recycling loop system production and supply chains, including post-harvest losses. Creating a recycling system for used uorescent lights and batteries 12.4 By 2020, achieve the environmentally sound management of chemicals and all wastes throughout their life cycle, in Implementing a recycle loop, where used coffee accordance with agreed international frameworks, and beans are made into fertilizer to grow vegetables signicantly reduce their release to air, water and soil in for consumption order to minimize their adverse impacts on human health and the environment. Minimizing scrap & build by improving the service life of buildings Appropriately storing, managing and disposing of PCB waste Creating initiatives to promote local production for local consumption Take urgent action to Certication and recertication of our facilities as 13.3 Improve education, awareness-raising and human and Excellent Designated GHG Ofces by the Tokyo institutional capacity on climate change mitigation, combat climate change and adaptation, impact reduction and early warning. Metropolitan Government its impacts Carrying out activities to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions Effectively managing energy usage through our Building Energy Management System (BEMS) and other measures Conducting employee training regarding climate change Developing low-carbon model cities Switching out our company vehicles for more environmentally friendly models The SDGs The Mitsui Fudosan Group's Efforts Associated Targets Conserve and sustainably Preventing water pollution 14.2 By 2020, sustainably manage and protect marine and coastal ecosystems to avoid signicant adverse impacts, use the oceans, seas and Creating and restoring marine habitats including by strengthening their resilience, and take action marine resources for for their restoration in order to achieve healthy and Preserving water environments productive oceans. sustainable development Reducing our greenhouse gas (CO2) emissions to minimize ocean acidication Protect, restore and promote Creating and restoring land habitats 15.1 By 2020, ensure the conservation, restoration and sustainable use of terrestrial and inland freshwater sustainable use of terrestrial Preserving and utilizing the roughly 5,000 hectares ecosystems and their services, in particular forests, ecosystems, sustainably of Group-owned forest in Hokkaido wetlands, mountains and drylands, in line with obligations manage forests, combat under international agreements. Acquiring sustainable forestry management desertication, and halt and 15.2 By 2020, promote the implementation of sustainable certication from the Sustainable Green Ecosystem reverse land degradation management of all types of forests, halt deforestation, Council restore degraded forests and substantially increase and halt biodiversity loss afforestation and reforestation globally. Preserving pre-existing trees during our development Promote peaceful and Maintaining our compliance structure 16.1 Signicantly reduce all forms of violence and related death rates everywhere. inclusive societies for Preventing violence and harassment in the sustainable development, workplace 16.4 By 2030, signicantly reduce illicit nancial and arms ows, strengthen the recovery and return of stolen assets provide access to justice for Eliminating anti-social organizations and combat all forms of organized crime. all and build effective, Enforcing a ban on bribery and corruption 16.5 Substantially reduce corruption and bribery in all their accountable and inclusive forms. institutions at all levels Maintaining and strengthening our corporate 16.7 Ensure responsive, inclusive, participatory and governance structure representative decision-making at all levels. Disclosing information Ensuring inclusive decision-making Promoting engagement with stakeholders Strengthen the means of Supporting startups and other companies through 17.9 Enhance international support for implementing effective partnerships and targeted capacity-building in developing countries to implementation and support national plans to implement all the Sustainable revitalize the Global Providing employees with training and developing Development Goals, including through North-South, Partnership for Sustainable their abilities South-South and triangular cooperation. Development Accepting trainees from abroad Entering into an agreement with the SDGs Future City of Shimokawa in Hokkaido to engage in comprehensive coordination to create a sustainable regional society *The text quoted in the The SDGs column is taken from the SDG Compass, a guide published by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the UN Global Compact and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). *The text quoted in the Associated Targets column is taken from the 169 targets listed on the United Nation's Sustainable Development Goals website. *Items located in the The Mitsui Fudosan Group's Efforts column that contribute to the achievement of multiple SDGS, are listed alongside the goal they primarily contribute to. Privacy Policy Basic Policy on Specic Personal Information Concerning Protection of Personal Information Concerning Cookies and Access Logs Usage Notice © 2019 Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. ⽇本語 English ESG Report The Mitsui Fudosan Group: A History of Value Creation ESG Report TOP ESG Information SDGs and Neighborhood Creation ESG at the Mitsui Fudosan Regarding the Disclosure of our The Mitsui Fudosan Group: A Management’s Commitment Group ESG Report History of Value Creation Environment Society Governance Special Reports Third-party Verication The Mitsui Fudosan Group and SDGs List View of ESG Information The Mitsui Fudosan Group: A History of Value Creation Since the beginning, the Mitsui Fudosan Group has been dedicated to creating value through the creation of neighborhoods. Our efforts support healthy lifestyles, and value a balance between society and the environment. Our history is a story of value creation, and our vision for the future promises to add exciting new chapters to that story. Let's take a closer look. Neighborhood Creation to Meet Future Needs The Mitsui Fudosan Group has continued to create new lifestyles with forward-looking neighborhood creation. Enterprising Spirit and Dedication to Customers Takatoshi Mitsui Founds Echigo-ya Roughly 340 years ago, Takatoshi Mitsui founded the Echigo-ya clothing emporium in the Nihonbashi area of Edo, now Tokyo. Takatoshi revolutionized the business with fair and affordable cash transactions. Echigo-ya eventually grew to become Mitsui Company, and the Mitsui Echigo-ya clothing emporium in Edo Japan Fudosan Group inherited his enterprising spirit and dedication to customers. Built to Withstand the Strongest Earthquakes Mitsui's Symbol of Recovery Approximately six years after the Great Kanto Earthquake, builders put the nishing touches on the Mitsui Main Building. This modern ofce building, famously built to withstand an earthquake twice as powerful as the 1923 temblor, rose from the rubble as a symbol of recovery, bringing hope and energy to the people of Tokyo. It is also where the roots of our commitment to safety and security can be found. The new Mitsui Main Building (Chuo-ku, Tokyo) Mitsui Fudosan is Established The Real Estate Department of Mitsui Company, which was founded in 1909, was responsible for managing Mitsui's real estate. In 1941 the department was split off as Mitsui Fudosan ( Mitsui Real Estate ). Since then, our mission has been to contribute to Japan's development, and through neighborhood creation, we continue making contributions to society. The interior of Mitsui Fudosan at the time of its establishment Reclaiming Land from the Sea The Keiyo Rinkai District Land Reclamation Project To meet the growing need for residential development and space for manufacturing facilities in the late 1950s, Mitsui Fudosan began work to reclaim Tokyo Bayfront land in the Rinkai District of Chiba Prefecture. This new concept-of creating space instead of searching for itcontributed to the formation of large-scale manufacturing complexes and industrial parks. Eventually, new residential developments and ofce buildings were established in this area, and today it is a place where Keiyo Rinkai District numerous people live, work, and visit. Support for the Opening of Tokyo Disneyland * In 1960, Mitsui Fudosan participated in the founding of Oriental Land Co., Ltd. which today manages Tokyo Disneyland. After negotiations with Disney, Oriental Land nally opened the park in 1983. It was the rst Disneyland to be located outside the US, and its opening after an extended period of gestation raised the curtain on a new era of entertainment in Japan. Tokyo Disneyland under construction *Business entity: Oriental Land Company Co., Ltd. ©Disney Skyscrapers Make Urban Plazas a Reality The Kasumigaseki Building The growth of buildings into skyscrapers was balanced by the creation of broad green spaces at their feet. The Kasumigaseki Building pioneered the era of ultra-high rise buildings in Japan, and was an epochal step forward in an urban renewal movement incorporating a vision of human and social potential. The newly-completed Kasumigaseki Building (Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo) New Japanese Residential Concepts Mita Tsunamachi Park Mansion and Sun City On the heels of the Kasumigaseki Building, Mitsui Fudosan pursued the creation of new value in residential environments with the construction of Mita Tsunamachi Park Mansion, Japan's rst high-rise apartment complex. Our built-for-sale Sun City condominium pioneered the concept of neighborhoods whose attractiveness increases as they mature and age. To help create a neighborhood where, like a growing forest, people would gather to live and form a growing web of Mita Tsunamachi Park Mansion (Minato-ku, Tokyo) connections with others, the residents and others joined in the planting of around 50,000 trees. Today, Sun City is an oasis of green in a highly urbanized setting. Mitsui Fudosan continues to apply this concept of neighborhoods whose attractiveness increases as they mature and age in its neighborhood creation today. Sun City today, surrounded by trees (Itabashi-ku, Tokyo) Creating New Lifestyles Mitsui Shopping Park LaLaport TOKYO-BAY LaLaport TOKYO-BAY gave rise to a new lifestyle concept-weekend shopping excursions. LaLaport is more than a commercial facility; as a hub for the local community, it plays an important role in neighborhood creation. The newly-opened LaLaport TOKYO-BAY (Funabashi City, Chiba) Expanding Globally The Halekulani Hotel Halekulani Corporation, a subsidiary of Mitsui Fudosan America, was established in 1984 as part of the Group's international expansion. The corporation thoroughly rebuilt and refurbished Hawaii's agship Halekulani Hotel, and has managed it since then. The Halekulani Hotel today (Oahu, Hawaii) Solving the Challenges Facing Cities Okawabata River City 21 Okawabata River City 21, a major collaboration between the public and private sectors, was designed to address challenges faced by cities, including spiraling land prices and shrinking resident populations. With a full mix of residential, commercial, and ofce space as well as other urban amenities, the development is surrounded by abundant greenery and represents a futuristic waterfront development model. Okawabata River City 21 (Chuo-ku, Tokyo) &History 02 Privacy Policy Basic Policy on Specic Personal Information Concerning Protection of Personal Information Concerning Cookies and Access Logs Usage Notice © 2019 Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. ⽇本語 English ESG Report The Mitsui Fudosan Group: A History of Value Creation ESG Report TOP ESG Information SDGs and Neighborhood Creation ESG at the Mitsui Fudosan Regarding the Disclosure of our The Mitsui Fudosan Group: A Management’s Commitment Group ESG Report History of Value Creation Environment Society Governance Special Reports Third-party Verication The Mitsui Fudosan Group and SDGs List View of ESG Information The Mitsui Fudosan Group: A History of Value Creation Since the beginning, the Mitsui Fudosan Group has been dedicated to creating value through the creation of neighborhoods. Our efforts support healthy lifestyles, and value a balance between society and the environment. Our history is a story of value creation, and our vision for the future promises to add exciting new chapters to that story. Let's take a closer look. Creating New Value in Harmony with History and Culture The Mitsui Fudosan Group has revitalized neighborhoods, centralizing advanced functions while retaining the region's natural environment and culture. Developing Japan's First Outlet Mall MITSUI OUTLET PARK OSAKA TSURUMI This was Japan's rst outlet mall, following a trend that began in the US in the 1980s. Mitsui Outlet Parks feature daring new approaches and offer new value to society. These commercial facilities typify the Mitsui Fudosan Group's basic stance. MITSUI OUTLET PARK OSAKA TSURUMI (Tsurumi-ku, Osaka) Japan's First Real Estate Securitization After the collapse of Japan's speculative bubble, the real estate industry faced a pressing need to rethink their business model. To promote real estate securitization, Mitsui Fudosan created Nippon Building Fund Inc. and listed it on the Tokyo Stock Exchange Real Estate Investment Trust Securities Market (J-REIT). This move opened new avenues to procure funds to support neighborhood creation. Retaining, Revitalizing, and Creating Nihonbashi Revitalization Plan The Nihonbashi bridge, in the Tokyo district that shares its name, was the starting point of the ve major highways that led to other parts of Japan from Edo. The district still boasts numerous historic structures and traditional neighborhoods featuring commercial establishments founded generations ago. Nihonbashi is the birthplace of the Mitsui COREDO Muromachi 1 and 3 (Chuo-ku, Tokyo) Group and Mitsui Fudosan's home ground. The Nihonbashi Revitalization Plan brings together the public and private sectors with local residents to stimulate the neighborhood and generate new appeal. With a core concept of retaining, revitalizing, and creating, we are combining a making things hardware approach (city block redevelopment) with a making experiences software approach (community activities, events, and more). The plan began in earnest with the 2004 launch of the COREDO Nihonbashi shopping center. The transformation of Fukutoku Shrine into a new regional community core in the fall of 2014 marked the start of the plan's second stage. Going forward, we will aim to further enhance the energy level in Nihonbashi and do our part to reinforce Tokyo's international competitiveness through imaginative, distinctive neighborhood creation. Retaining At Mitsui Fudosan, we see coexisting with traditional culture, historic structures, and regional communities, and preserving them for future generations, as our mission. Buildings surrounding the Mitsui Main The Mitsui Memorial Museum houses a Building, an Important Cultural Property, diverse collection of artworks were designed to harmonize with this historic structure Revitalizing By studying history and adopting the knowledge of our forebears, we are working to restore lost aspects of neighborhoods and restore their vitality. We helped restore the main building of ECO EDO Nihonbashi is a summer event Fukutoku Shrine, whose history goes back that revives the way Edo-era people kept more than a millennium cool, with a modern touch Creating With our eyes on the future, the Mitsui Fudosan Group creates value needed in every era, with respect for history and culture. Our goals range from revitalization of Nihonbashi to the revitalization of Japan as a whole. A wide range of events to vitalize Nihonbashi Information Center is staffed neighborhoods with foreign concierges Diversity and On the Green Are Neighborhoods Where the Natural Environment and the Local Community Coexist Tokyo Midtown Tokyo Midtown, which opened in 2007, exemplies the Mitsui Fudosan Group's efforts to create neighborhoods. Situated on a large site that retains the greenery of the former Japan Defense Agency (JDA) facility, the mixed-use urban complex includes ofce, commercial, residential, and hotel space. It is a place where the new is coming into being continuously as people gather: design and art that convey Japanese Tokyo Midtown (Minato-ku, Tokyo) values and sensibilities, seasonal events that stimulate the surrounding community, and more. Greenery from the original site was relocated Approximately 40% of the developed area and retained was reserved for open space with abundant foliage 21_21 DESIGN SIGHT, a source for Extensive green space provides a stage for advanced design a wide variety of events &History 01 &History 03 Privacy Policy Basic Policy on Specic Personal Information Concerning Protection of Personal Information Concerning Cookies and Access Logs Usage Notice © 2019 Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. ⽇本語 English ESG Report The Mitsui Fudosan Group: A History of Value Creation ESG Report TOP ESG Information SDGs and Neighborhood Creation ESG at the Mitsui Fudosan Regarding the Disclosure of our The Mitsui Fudosan Group: A Management’s Commitment Group ESG Report History of Value Creation Environment Society Governance Special Reports Third-party Verication The Mitsui Fudosan Group and SDGs List View of ESG Information The Mitsui Fudosan Group: A History of Value Creation Since the beginning, the Mitsui Fudosan Group has been dedicated to creating value through the creation of neighborhoods. Our efforts support healthy lifestyles, and value a balance between society and the environment. Our history is a story of value creation, and our vision for the future promises to add exciting new chapters to that story. Let's take a closer look. Creating New Futures to Realize a Sustainable Society Guided by its new vision, the Mitsui Fudosan Group, will endeavor to create smart neighborhoods to leverage human potential in new ways. Building Smart Cities to Address National Challenges Kashiwa-no-ha Smart City Kashiwa-no-ha Smart City (Kashiwa City, Chiba) is a collaboration between the public, private, and academic sectors for advanced neighborhood creation. It is Japan's rst mixed-use smart city development, with residential, ofce, commercial, hotel, meeting hall, and international exchange space. The development aims to actualize future concepts, and is designed to promote next-generation lifestyles p , g p g y Kashiwa-no-ha Smart City (Kashiwa City, Chiba) and society under three themes: environmental harmony, health and longevity, and new industry creation. The Mitsui Fudosan Group aims to create such advanced neighborhoods in Japan and abroad to serve as model solutions for global challenges. Environmental Harmony Cities Optimizing energy use throughout a neighborhood can resolve environmental and energy challenges and ensure secure lifelines when disasters occur. Using the most advance technologies available, the Mitsui Fudosan Group is working to create neighborhoods that exist in harmony with the environment. Kashiwa-no-ha Smart Center monitors Rooftop solar panels at LaLaport regional energy supply and demand KASHIWANOHA Health and Longevity Cities Our goal is to create neighborhoods where everyone from children to the elderly can lead healthy lives. To this end, we are collaborating with the public sector in such efforts as health businesses and model towns where these concepts can be eld tested. A-Shi-Ta health research stations promote A-Shi-Ta also offers unique health promotion wellness programs New Industry Creation Cities New industry creation cities are home to incubation facilities to support new businesses and entrepreneurs, as well as knowledge institutions such as universities and research institutes. They nurture and support new industries that will bring new vitality to Japan. KOIL innovation center (Kashiwa-no-ha International business contests are also held Open Innovation Lab) The Three Core Concepts of Mitsui Fudosan Group Smart Cities In addition to its Kashiwa-no-ha development, the Mitsui Fudosan Group is promoting smart city development in Nihonbashi (Chuo-ku, Tokyo); Hibiya (Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo), Yokohama (Yokohama City, Kanagawa Prefecture), and elsewhere, where we are undertaking to address the challenges facing humanity in the areas of smart energy, harmony with the environment, safety and security, health and longevity, and new industry creation. Our aim is to create people-centered, growing neighborhoods whose attractiveness increases as they mature and age. 1 Neighborhoods that respond to the challenges facing humanity Challenges requiring response: energy, harmony with the environment, safety and security, health and longevity, new industry creation, etc. 2 Challenges requiring response: energy, harmony with the environment, safety and security, health and longevity, new industry creation, etc. Goal: Green (energy-efcient, eco-aware) &Resilient Neighborhoods where customers can experience the value that technology creates 3 Growing neighborhoods through synergistic value and town management Create synergy through multiple use and enhance sustainable value-added through town management Advanced Logistics Facilities that Contribute to the Region and Enhance Working Environments Mitsui Fudosan Logistics Park (MFLP) MFLPs are advanced logistics facilities meeting recently diversifying requirements s as a result of the growth of third-party logistics and eMFLP Ibaraki, completed 2017 (Ibaraki City, Osaka Prefecture) commerce. As of the end of August 2018, there were 33 MFLPs in operation across Japan. These facilities contribute to their local communities in numerous ways, not only with more efcient distribution, but also as locations for green space and certied nursery schools. Furthermore, tenant companies create employment opportunities, and local contractors are hired for construction projects. MLFPs are also working to improve working environments in order to secure human resources. This can be seen in their activities to enhance shared spaces such as cafeterias, collaborate with personnel service companies to offer employment support, and offer exclusive discounts for LaLaport employees. MFLP Inazawa, completed 2017 (Inazawa City, Aichi Prefecture) Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. becomes a Olympic and Paralympic Games Tokyo 2020 Gold Partner Preparing for the Olympic and Paralympic Games Tokyo 2020 Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. has signed a Tokyo 2020 Gold Partner agreement with The Tokyo Organizing Committee of the Olympic and Paralympic Games. As a Tokyo 2020 Gold Partner in the Real Estate Development, Mitsui Fudosan will engage in broad-based promotion of Japan's appeal, to contribute to the success of the Olympic and Paralympic Games Tokyo 2020. Creating Future-Oriented Experiences and Values While Leveraging Unique Neighborhood Characteristics TOKYO MIDTOWN HIBIYA TOKYO MIDTOWN HIBIYA had its grand opening on March 29, 2018, in Tokyo's Hibiya district, which has a long history as an area for arts, TOKYO MIDTOWN HIBIYA (Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo) culture, and entertainment. The new complex is a mixed-use city promoting synergy between a diverse spectrum of culture, styles, and talent from around the world. In addition to ofce and retail space, restaurants, and a cinema complex, it serves as a nexus of commercial collaboration to support the formation of new industries. TOKYO MIDTOWN HIBIYA preserves the character and history of its namesake district and offers visitors high-quality experiences. Its aim is to realize a vision of creating future-oriented experiences and values. An urban landscape with abundant parks &History 02 Privacy Policy Basic Policy on Specic Personal Information Concerning Protection of Personal Information Concerning Cookies and Access Logs Usage Notice © 2019 Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. ⽇本語 English ESG Report Special Reports &Nihonbashi New Nihonbashi Muromachi Mitsui Tower ESG Report TOP ESG Information SDGs and Neighborhood Creation ESG at the Mitsui Fudosan Regarding the Disclosure of our The Mitsui Fudosan Group: A Management’s Commitment Group ESG Report History of Value Creation Environment Society Governance Special Reports Third-party Verication The Mitsui Fudosan Group and SDGs List View of ESG Information Nihonbashi Muromachi Mitsui Tower stands at the corner of Chuo-dori and Edo-dori Avenues, and is a major new addition to the Nihonbashi area, which lies between the Kanda and Tokyo Station areas. The building features a hall and conference facilities suitable for a wide range of uses, a large outdoor plaza with an extensive roof and landscaping rich in greenery to provide liveliness, and a commercial area with 31 shops, including eslite spectrum nihonbashi and another Japan-rst outlet. Through its mixed-use and intangible value-added features, the building exemplies a mixed-use facility development that will energize a diverse range of visitors. Moreover, the development includes an energy plant that is part of the Nihonbashi Smart Energy Project. Under this project, the rst in Japan, the plant is capable of suppling not only the building but the surrounding area with electric power and heat on a stable basis. This enhances energy resilience with uninterrupted energy supply in emergencies,* as well as energy efciency and CO2 reduction for eco-friendly neighborhood creation. Mitsui Fudosan will continue to promote Urban Smart Cities to meet ESG challenges. *Energy resilience: robustness of energy supply networks Nihonbashi Muromachi Mitsui Tower (Chuo-ku, Tokyo) (1)Office Sky Lobby Expanded membership facilities and services for tenant enterprises with diverse workstyles To create more richly evolved ofces serving not only as places to work, but as places to actualize enriched business life, we offer Mitsui Ofce for Tomorrow, a shared space on the fth and sixth oors where tenant enterprise members can Lounge space Conference room foyer access facilities and services. (2)Commercial floors COREDO Muromachi Terrace September 2019 grand opening 31 shops including eslite spectrum nihonbashi and another Japan-rst outlet We’re giving customers a new experience in historic, B1 commercial facility Lively dining 1F commercial facility Comfortable oor with direct subway access gathering space connected to the traditional Nihonbashi, with places where they can spend lively plaza quality time. These include two shops opening in Japan for the rst time (one of them being eslite spectrum nihonbashi), ve opening for the rst time in the Kanto area, 10 opening for the rst time in commercial facilities, and 10 with unique new business models. In all, there are 31 shops offering rst-class A lifestyle and reading culture domestic and international dining as well as merchandise and wonderland and a source for creative experiences for the discerning. and diverse cultural information 2F eslite spectrum nihonbashi (3)Energy plant The Nihonbashi Smart Energy Project is renewing the energy supply of the entire Nihonbashi area and promoting Urban Smart Cities Mitsui Fudosan, in collaboration with Tokyo Gas Co., Ltd., has built an energy plant in the complex to supply energy to nearby buildings and commercial facilities on an ongoing basis, not only in emergencies. This is the rst energy network of its kind in Japan. Generating power with gas from a medium-pressure line, which is highly reliable in disasters, ensures stable energy supplies and enhanced, multifaceted energy resilience, and contributes to the creation of reliable, safe neighborhoods. The aim is to realize local energy consumption supported by local production, with energy efciency and CO2 reduction for eco-friendly neighborhood creation, by making effective use of waste heat produced during the power generation process. A large outdoor plaza (approx. 1,500 Gas cogeneration m2) with an extensive roof and landscaping rich in greenery to provide liveliness &People Diverse workstyles and a diverse workforce &Global Newyork Manhattan Hudson Yards London Television Centre Privacy Policy Basic Policy on Specic Personal Information Concerning Protection of Personal Information Concerning Cookies and Access Logs Usage Notice © 2019 Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. ⽇本語 English ESG Report Special Reports &Global Newyork Manhattan Hudson Yards London Television Centre ESG Report TOP ESG Information SDGs and Neighborhood Creation ESG at the Mitsui Fudosan Regarding the Disclosure of our The Mitsui Fudosan Group: A Management’s Commitment Group ESG Report History of Value Creation Environment Society Governance Special Reports Third-party Verication The Mitsui Fudosan Group and SDGs List View of ESG Information This property is one of a group of buildings comprising Hudson Yards, the largest-scale mixed use redevelopment project in Manhattan. At approximately 118,000 m2 of oor area, 55 Hudson Yards is the largest ever ofce building development by a Japanese company in Manhattan. This state-of-the-art ofce building is adjacent to the nearest subway station and Hudson Boulevard Park at its main entrance. The building features excellent vistas of the Hudson River to the west and Hudson Boulevard Park to the east, with an expansive 360 degree terrace at the top of the podium and additional tower and podium terraces to make the most of the views. It offers superior environmental performance and is expected to achieve LEED Gold certication, a oor plate that allows an efcient layout, and a stunning exterior that incorporates the historic cast iron architecture, which was widely used in the Manhattan/SoHo area in the 19th century. The total project value is approximately ¥150 billion, of which Mitsui Fudosan’s share is 90%. Tenants are mainly nancial companies and major law rms, which represent two of Manhattan’s main business sectors. Hudson Yards Television Centre is located approximately 3.7 miles (approximately 6 km) west of London’s West End, and forms part of a wider regeneration area. The Mitsui Fudosan Group has been pushing the redevelopment project forward after acquiring the site and buildings from the UK public broadcaster the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) in July 2012. Combined with the redevelopment project at the adjacent White City Place, acquired from the BBC in June 2015, the total site area of approximately 1,338,000 ft2 (approximately 124,000 m2) and total oor space of approximately 4,263,000 ft2 (approximately 396,000 m2) is the largest-ever city development in London by a Japanese company. Television Centre is a transformation of the recording studios and ofces once used by the BBC into a mixed-use facility comprising of ofces, residential housing, a hotel, and other facilities. The original building and many iconic features, which many will remember as features of the BBC, have been largely retained thereby creating new charm and value in a British heritage. Television Centre Redevelopment Project &Nihonbashi New Nihonbashi Muromachi Mitsui Tower &Culture Tokyo Midtown Hibiya Privacy Policy Basic Policy on Specic Personal Information Concerning Protection of Personal Information Concerning Cookies and Access Logs Usage Notice © 2019 Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. ⽇本語 English ESG Report Special Reports &Culture Tokyo Midtown Hibiya ESG Report TOP ESG Information SDGs and Neighborhood Creation ESG at the Mitsui Fudosan Regarding the Disclosure of our The Mitsui Fudosan Group: A Management’s Commitment Group ESG Report History of Value Creation Environment Society Governance Special Reports Third-party Verication The Mitsui Fudosan Group and SDGs List View of ESG Information Hibiya has a long history, dating to the Meiji era, as a setting for social gatherings and relaxation. It also played a key role in Japan's modernization. The famed Rokumeikan, a Western-style guest house for foreign visitors, stood in Hibiya, as well as the storied Imperial Hotel, said to be the rst of its kind in Japan. Tokyo Midtown Hibiya, which opened on March 29, 2018, inherits Hibiya's living history and traditions, and aims to realize a vision of creating future-oriented experiences and values. This large-scale multifaceted facility is equipped to serve in diverse capacities with commercial, ofce, gathering and event space, and more. To realize the Mitsui Fudosan Group's concept of neighborhoods whose attractiveness increases as they mature and age, the complex utilizes new-generation HiDAXR seismic-energy damping systems, which have gained worldwide attention for their damping efciency. Tokyo Midtown Hibiya also boasts top-class safety and business continuity infrastructure. Moreover, it is equipped to contribute to the security of the surrounding neighborhood in the event of a disaster. For example, it can serve as a shelter for up to 3,000 persons if public transportation is disabled. Innovative gathering spaces attract diverse Bringing a new nexus for arts and culture to a individuals and give rise to new industries district famous since the Showa era for its cinemas and theaters Hibiya has a long history as a gathering place for domestic and foreign individuals of distinction. To leverage Hibiya's Hibiya acquired its reputation as a center for entertainment in potential as a birthplace for new industries, we designed Tokyo the Showa era, with numerous cinemas and theaters, including Midtown Hibiya to serve as a place where people from around the renowned Tokyo Metropolitan Hibiya Public Hall and the the globe with diverse culture, styles, and talents can gather Tokyo Takarazuka Theater. Tokyo Midtown Hibiya will continue and interact. this tradition, coordinating with the district to promote Hibiya as an arts, culture, and entertainment center. Hibiya Step Plaza BASE Q A stairway leads to a circular plaza With its Hall, Kitchen, Studio, Lounge, TOHO Cinemas Hibiya Atrium roughly 30 meters across, suitable for and Café, BASE Q is an ideal various events and activities springboard for business This cinema complex is the largest in A three-story atrium has the feel of a collaboration. central Tokyo, with 13 screens and theatrical space and makes for a approximately 2,800 seats. suitable entrance to an entertainment complex. Hibiya is more than a center of commerce, business, and culture. It is adjacent to Hibiya Park, a precious environmental resource in central Tokyo, and a place where visitors can enjoy a lush natural setting. Mindful of its relationship with the adjoining Hibiya Park, the designers of Tokyo Midtown Hibiya were careful to augment the existing greenery on the site by selecting from tree species present in the park, to create a unied feel with the park foliage. Approximately 2,000 m2 of greenery was deployed on site, not only around the structures but in the Parkview Garden (sixth oor) and the Sky Garden (ninth oor), as well as on the roof and walls of the structure. At the same time, pedestrian-only walkways were derived from the surrounding road network, and numerous installations of foliage and benches were placed along the way, creating relaxing green spaces. By taking into account the proximity of the foliage in Hibiya Park, carrying out planting based on existing species, and taking other measures to create new green spaces, we formed a network of foliage in the Hibiya area, helping to create spaces where birds and other wildlife can coexist with people. Parkview Garden Wall and roof foliage Sky Garden Pedestrian walkway with abundant greenery Greenery and water features on the Wall and roof foliage extends from This aerial oasis of greenery is located terrace give visitors the sense that they Parkview Garden (6th oor) to Sky near ninth oor ofce space and Route 136 in Chiyoda was converted to are part of Hibiya Park with its stunning Garden (9th oor) adjacent to the Sky Lobby. a pedestrian walkway with abundant foliage spread out below. foliage selected from the species in the park, creating a feeling of unity with the park. An Exciting Hibiya, Where You Never Know What You Will Encounter Hibiya offers something for everyone—from theaters, cinemas, and the park to eateries under the railroad tracks, all in one compact area. With Tokyo Midtown Hibiya in the mix, we expect new vitality and the cultivation of even more new culture. The opening of the complex marks the launch of full-scale neighborhood creation. In collaboration with local communities, we want to lure a stream of visitors and create an exciting Hibiya, where you never know what you will encounter. Koichi Ota Hibiya Urban Planning and Development Department (now in Kashiwanoha Urban Planning and Development Department) Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. &Global Newyork Manhattan Hudson Yards &Smart Kashiwa-no-ha Smart City London Television Centre Privacy Policy Basic Policy on Specic Personal Information Concerning Protection of Personal Information Concerning Cookies and Access Logs Usage Notice © 2019 Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. ⽇本語 English ESG Report Special Reports &Smart Kashiwa-no-ha Smart City ESG Report TOP ESG Information SDGs and Neighborhood Creation ESG at the Mitsui Fudosan Regarding the Disclosure of our The Mitsui Fudosan Group: A Management’s Commitment Group ESG Report History of Value Creation Environment Society Governance Special Reports Third-party Verication The Mitsui Fudosan Group and SDGs List View of ESG Information The Mitsui Fudosan Group is positioning the concept of model smart cities as a response to a wide range of social challenges, including environmental challenges, a super-aging society, and economic stagnation. We are promoting the development of next-generation neighborhoods with participation from the public, private, and academic sectors. Kashiwa-no-ha Smart City, in Kashiwa City, Chiba prefecture, is adjacent to Kashiwanohacampus Station on the Tsukuba Express line. The project saw its full-scale launch in 2011 and offers three models for social problem solution: Environmental Harmony City, Health and Longevity City, and New Industry Creation City. These models are structured as at platforms open to anyone wishing to participate in neighborhood creation, including universities, enterprises, and citizens. Our goal is to achieve independent neighborhood creation to establish an image of a global future, sustainable in both tangible and intangible terms. In February 2018, tenants began occupying rental condominiums designed for those raising children, at the large-scale Park City Kashiwa-no-ha Campus The Gate Tower West. The goal was to create residences that help parents address such challenges as extended waiting periods for nursery school admission, and a lack of child-rearing environments designed to support working parents. Along with an on-site nursery school and after-school care facility for elementary school students, the complex features a pediatrics clinic and facilities for ill and convalescing children. The residence will provide an environment that is fully-equipped to enable even working parents to raise children with peace of mind. Cicol Nursery School and Cicol After School Parents can work and keep an eye on their children support working parents at Cicol Park and Cicol Work Cicol Nursery School is a non-registered entity offering child These facilities include Cicol Park, an indoor play land with a care services during regular operating hours as well as wide range of toys for children to enjoy, and Cicol Work, a temporary care and night care until 22:00. Cicol After School is space where parents can work while monitoring their children. a facility designed for elementary school students and cultivates their capacity to be active in international society. Cicol Nursery School Cicol Park Pediatric care day and night, 365 days a year Caps Clinic Kashiwanoha offers pediatric medical services day and night, 365 days a year. Ohana Kids Care, located next door, is equipped to care for ill and convalescing children. Caps Clinic Kashiwanoha Kashiwa-no-ha Campus Clinic is a member of the Sesame Street Pediatric and Dental Education Program from Sesame Workshop, a US non-prot organization. We Offer Rental Accommodations Designed to Fulll Needs with WellEquipped Common Space The residential complex at Park City Kashiwa-no-ha Campus The Gate Tower West offers a range of support for child rearing, including a residents-only nursery school and 365 days a year pediatric care. It also features an attractive selection of common-use facilities, including a free natural hot spring bath, a tness gym, and study rooms with full Wi-Fi. . Safety and security are outstanding: the tower structure incorporates base-isolation technology to mitigate the effect of earthquakes, the premises are fully secure, and there is emergency electrical power supply. We hope you will visit Kashiwa-no-ha and experience the atmosphere of the community as well as the allure of The Gate Tower West. Masahiro Sato Kashiwanoha Urban Planning and Development Department Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. &Culture Tokyo Midtown Hibiya &Society Using the Power of Sports to Create Neighborhoods Privacy Policy Basic Policy on Specic Personal Information Concerning Protection of Personal Information Concerning Cookies and Access Logs Usage Notice © 2019 Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. ⽇本語 English ESG Report Special Reports &Society Utilizing the power of sports in neighborhood creation ESG Report TOP ESG Information SDGs and Neighborhood Creation ESG at the Mitsui Fudosan Regarding the Disclosure of our The Mitsui Fudosan Group: A Management’s Commitment Group ESG Report History of Value Creation Environment Society Governance Special Reports Third-party Verication The Mitsui Fudosan Group and SDGs List View of ESG Information Sports not only improves the mental and physical health of people through actions such as doing, watching, and supporting, it also creates new connections and has the power to revitalize communities. The Mitsui Fudosan Group Statement includes our aim to bring afuence and comfort to urban living. In line with this, our goal is to create neighborhoods whose attractiveness increases as they mature and age, and we see sports as an important element in creating attractive neighborhoods. Consequently, we are promoting neighborhood creation that harnesses the power of sports. BE THE CHANGE: Cities Start World Changes. With this slogan, and with Communicate, Connect, and Accept as themes, we aim to change ourselves and generate positive change in people, communities, and society with neighborhood creation as our point of departure. Mitsui Fudosan Sports Academy for Tokyo 2020 Nihonbashi city dressing for Tokyo 2020 Mitsui Fudosan Sports Academy invites world-class From October 28, 2017—exactly 1,000 days before the athletes to give talks on Olympic and Paralympic opening of Olympic Games Tokyo 2020—to the following competition, and offer students a chance to experience these November 29, Mitsui Fudosan carried out a city dressing events themselves. These classes are held at elementary and campaign in Nihonbashi using the games logo and images of junior high schools in areas where Mitsui Fudosan is creating athletes. Nihonbashi supported the games with a project neighborhoods, and commercial facilities including LaLaport named WE MAKE 2020. It was an experiential event showing locations and Mitsui Outlet Parks throughout Japan. Direct that everyone—that is, not just athletes but spectators and contact with accomplished athletes creates personal supporters— will have an important part to play in the Tokyo connections between many different people, including local 2020 Games. children, and stimulates the neighborhood community. Our aim is for these effects to form an intangible legacy that is sustainable into the future. Mitsui Main Building Dressing Dressing concept Climbing Academy Mitsui Fudosan supports the Olympic and Paralympic Games Tokyo 2020 as a Gold Partner in the Real Estate Development category. On August 18 and 19, 2017, as one part of our environmental conservation activities, we carried out a program dubbed KEEP THE STADIUM CLEAN at Chichibunomiya Rugby Stadium, in conjunction with the opening four matches of the Japan Rugby Top League. The program's aim was to cultivate a litter-free neighborhood culture in and around the competition venue, and to communicate this to the surrounding community to leave this culture as a legacy for future generations. Students and athletes volunteered to participate, and invited the approximately 19,000 spectators to join in picking up litter after the matches. Over two days, 13,500 trash bags were distributed. Many spectators accepted trash bags and helped tidy up the stadium. We plan to extend this beautication program to other sports events. Example of volunteer beautification activities of competition venue 1.Gathering at venue 2.Inviting volunteers to participate Participants are oriented to the day's activities. Stadium visitors are invited to take a trash bag and participate. Athletes also took part. 3.Trash bag distribution complete 4.Activity promotion using stadium 5.Post-competition monitor Spectators and other volunteers picked up every piece of litter. These students and athletes volunteered to distribute During half time, as well as at other points during the trash bags. matches, the stadium monitor displayed an appeal for volunteers to help pick up litter. Extending a Litter-free Culture from the Competition Venue to the Surrounding Community In scal 2017, in addition to the opening matches of the Japan Rugby Top League, we engaged in beautication activities during a total of 18 rugby matches at eight venues, as well as at matches of The W League of the Japan Women's Basketball League, and the Takamadonomiya Cup of the U-18 Soccer League. In each instance, we distributed trash bags at the venue and volunteers called on fans to participate. I noticed many of the fans tidying up not only around their seats, but across a wide area. As the Olympic and Paralympic Games Tokyo 2020 approach, our goal is for activities like these to extend to beautication of neighborhoods, and for this culture to continue taking root after the games. Chiemi Nagasaki Planning and Research Department Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. &Smart Kashiwa-no-ha Smart City &Forest Carrying abundant forest resources into the future Privacy Policy Basic Policy on Specic Personal Information Concerning Protection of Personal Information Concerning Cookies and Access Logs Usage Notice © 2019 Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. ⽇本語 English ESG Report Special Reports &Forest Carrying abundant forest resources into the future ESG Report TOP ESG Information SDGs and Neighborhood Creation ESG at the Mitsui Fudosan Regarding the Disclosure of our The Mitsui Fudosan Group: A Management’s Commitment Group ESG Report History of Value Creation Environment Society Governance Special Reports Third-party Verication The Mitsui Fudosan Group and SDGs List View of ESG Information The Mitsui Fudosan Group owns roughly 5,000 hectares of forest (equivalent to 1,063 Tokyo Domes*) in 31 cities, towns and villages in Hokkaido. Over 60% of these forests consist of planted Sakhalin r, and we are conducting planned planting and appropriate management and cultivation. Thinned and regular timber from these forests is used as material for construction, furniture, and other purposes, encouraging forest renewal and never-ending forests. The remaining nearly 40% of trees are natural Mongolian oak and other species. These trees are managed minimally to preserve them as much as possible in their natural state. *Calculation based on Tokyo Dome covering 4.7 hectares. Creating a sustainable local society based on never-ending forests In July 2017, Mitsui Fudosan and Minato Estate Co., Ltd., which cultivates and manages forest land, concluded an agreement with Shimokawa Town, Hokkaido, to engage in comprehensive coordination to create a sustainable regional society based on neverending forests. ◆ Sustainable forest management ◆ Sustainable consumption and production with appropriate utilization of forest resources Signing ceremony with Shimokawa Town, ◆ Climate change response and energy security from multifaceted forest functions Hokkaido The agreement seeks to achieve: Tokyo Waterworks: Enterprise Forest To preserve the upper reaches of the Tama River for the future, the Tokyo Metropolitan Government Bureau of Waterworks has formulated a plan to involve average citizens in creating water conservation forests. Creating forests with citizens, enterprises, and many others promotes understanding of the importance of preserving water resources. Mitsui Fudosan agrees with the goals of this plan. In June 2017, it acquired naming rights for one part of Tokyo Waterworks: Enterprise Forest from the Bureau of Waterworks, and in collaboration with the bureau, implemented a forest preservation work experience program for Group employees. Through this and other program features, the Mitsui Fudosan Group is working to preserve water conservation forests. Experiencing work in water conservation forests In 2017 and 2018, at the Mitsui Fudosan & EARTH FOREST TOKYO in Koshu City, Yamanashi Prefecture, we gave Group employees rst-hand experience in forest preservation. As preparation for tree planting, six Group employees participated in ground clearing activities in November 2017, collecting fallen branches, underbrush and other forest detritus. In June 2018, 11 employees participated in planting seedlings in the same location. Ground clearing Ground clearing complete Tree planting Working with personnel from the Tokyo Metropolitan Government Bureau of Waterworks, participants gathered fallen branches and timber. Remembering the Importance of Preserving Water Resources Healthy forests absorb and store water and help prevent ooding and landslides. They also have other benets, such as mitigating global warming and preserving the biosphere. In collaboration with the Tokyo Metropolitan Government Bureau of Waterworks, we visited the forest and experienced work activities relating to water supply and the sense of mission that comes with such work. This experience reminded me of the importance of water resource-promoting forests. As a water user, I felt motivated personally to do more than simply use less water to protect water resources. I hope to continue my research and planning to share this outlook with as many employees as possible. Miyuki Tateno Social Contribution and Environment Promotion Department Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. &Society Using the Power of Sports to Create Neighborhoods &Nihonbashi Privacy Policy Basic Policy on Specic Personal Information Concerning Protection of Personal Information Concerning Cookies and Access Logs Usage Notice © 2019 Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. ⽇本語 English ESG Report Special Reports &Nihonbashi ESG Report TOP ESG Information SDGs and Neighborhood Creation ESG at the Mitsui Fudosan Regarding the Disclosure of our The Mitsui Fudosan Group: A Management’s Commitment Group ESG Report History of Value Creation Environment Society Governance Special Reports Third-party Verication The Mitsui Fudosan Group and SDGs List View of ESG Information Along with the Nihonbashi Preservation Council, local organizations, and enterprises, Mitsui Fudosan is a participant in the ECO EDO Nihonbashi Steering Committee, supporting events aimed at stimulating the Nihonbashi district. These events convey to modern people the spirit of coexistence that was so important during the Edo era, and create new styles that truly reect Nihonbashi. A diverse range of events is held on an ongoing basis throughout the year to communicate this allure, helping to bring visitors to the district, encouraging interchange, and contributing to economic knock-on effects. The 2016 Nihonbashi Cherry Blossom Festival, held from March to April, was honored with the Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry's Prize for Excellence, awarded by the Japan Association for the Promotion of Creative Events (JACE) for the event's effectiveness in city-branding over a wide area. Furthermore, Mirai Kidai Shoran ( Nihonbashi Future ), an audiovisual work shown during the Nihonbashi Kidai Festival (September to October 2016) received the Prize for Excellence in an Audiovisual Work at the Golden Cube Awards, hosted by the Japan Institute of Architects (JIA). The video presented elementary school students' conception of what they would like to see in a future Nihonbashi, in the style of an Edo-era picture scroll. Mirai Kidai Shoran Winner, JIA Golden Cube Awards Nihonbashi Cherry Blossom Festival 2016 Recipient, 3rd JACE Event Award Nihonbashi Cherry Blossom Festival 2017 ECO EDO Nihonbashi 2017 Edo Summer: An Nihonbashi Kidai Festival Appeal to the Senses Nihonbashi is renowned for its many cherry tree Visitors to this autumn festival can enjoy viewing spots. This event invites visitors to enjoy This event featured goldsh scooping, paper Nihonbashi's traditional culture and fascinating artistic ower viewing courtesy of digital technology, lanterns, summer kimonos, and other ways people in streets, thanks to collaboration between old eat different types of food along the way, search for the Edo era kept cool during a Nihonbashi summer. established shops and local enterprises. The festival hidden treasure, and more. The event was held for the tenth time in 2017. was held for the second time from October 20 to November 7, 2017. Nihonbashi Muromachi Area Management and Mitsui Fudosan hosted disaster preparedness training on March 7, 2017. Nihonbashi is an area with a diverse mix of people, including business proprietors, company employees, local residents, and visitors. Disaster preparedness training involving only facility and business proprietors may be unlikely to produce an adequate response in the event of a real disaster. To address this challenge, the joint drill involved the entire neighborhood and saw participation from approximately 1,200 people, including local school children, business proprietors in COREDO Muromachi, employees working in This earthquake chair simulates the effects of a temblor based on data from major quakes Nihonbashi Mitsui Tower, and local residents. To This small simulator brings home the importance of disaster preparedness. Participants have a vivid, virtual-reality experience of the violent shaking of a major earthquake, based on actual data. encourage greater disaster awareness, for the rst time participants were able to experience a simulated large-scale earthquake in virtual reality, and other experiential disaster simulations. The effort contributed to greatly enhancing local disaster response capabilities, and to making Nihonbashi Japan's safest neighborhood. Rescue, relief, rst aid, and moving drills Food distribution courtesy of Ninben Creating a disaster map of the Nihonbashi Muromachi area Participants learned how to use crowbars, wood and Ninben is a famed purveyor of dried bonito akes, a other implements to free trapped people, how to key element of Japanese cuisine. The business dates Participants walked the streets to conrm the move the injured using blue tarps, and other practical to 1699, and today COREDO Muromachi features locations of shelters, re hydrants, and other relevant knowledge and techniques. one of their shops. During the drill, Ninben distributed points. The resulting data, along with information approximately 200 servings of miso soup avored concerning what actions to take during a disaster, with seaweed. and points to note when seeking shelter, were incorporated into a disaster response map. I Want to Convey Nihonbashi's Appeal to Everyone through Events To really understand what's great about Nihonbashi, you actually have to visit, walk its streets, check out its shops, and meet with its people. Once you experience what's great about Nihonbashi for yourself, I'm sure you'll discover places you want to visit and people you want to meet. That's why it's important for us to create opportunities for people to visit. We're planning the Nihonbashi Cherry Blossom Festival as an event to attract a wide range of visitors. I hope it will be an opportunity for them to directly experience Nihonbashi's appeal. Aya Sakamoto Nihonbashi Urban Planning and Development Department Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. &Forest Preserving Precious Forest Resources for the Future &People Diverse Workstyles Utilizing Diverse Human Resources Privacy Policy Basic Policy on Specic Personal Information Concerning Protection of Personal Information Concerning Cookies and Access Logs Usage Notice © 2019 Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. ⽇本語 English ESG Report Special Reports &People Diverse workstyles and a diverse workforce ESG Report TOP ESG Information SDGs and Neighborhood Creation ESG at the Mitsui Fudosan Regarding the Disclosure of our The Mitsui Fudosan Group: A Management’s Commitment Group ESG Report History of Value Creation Environment Society Governance Special Reports Third-party Verication The Mitsui Fudosan Group and SDGs List View of ESG Information Mitsui Fudosan's Multi-Site Shared Ofce WORKSTYLING Project, which was launched to help realize new ways of working, won the scal 2017 Good Design Award. As society ages and the working population continues to shrink, enterprises must enhance productivity and utilize a diverse range of human resources. Furthermore, excessive working hours represent a challenge. We have entered an era that calls for work that is unprecedentedly efcient as well as creative. WORKSTYLING responds to these social trends and offers new solutions to a wide range of workspace challenges. The project's recognition with the Good Design Award reects the high evaluation it has received as a service that enables employees of large enterprises to practice a diverse range of workstyles. Spaces that allow free choice of workstyle WORKSTYLING is a shared ofce system for employees from a wide range of enterprises. It enables employees to use teleconferencing and other advanced technologies without restriction by time or location. WORKSTYLING ofces are also equipped with advanced security systems. As of June 2018, WORKSTYLING FLEX the network had grown to 32 locations in major cities throughout Japan. WORKSTYLING offers new ways of working that free workers from long commutes, and enable them to combine work and family duties. Moreover, in response to input from enterprises, in scal 2018 we launched two new services, WORKSTYLING FLEX and WORKSTYLING STAY. The former offers additional exibility WORKSTYLING STAY with respect to user numbers and contract term, while the latter features workspaces with access to overnight accommodations exclusively for corporate clients. The goal of WORKSTYLING is to drive the evolution of the workplace. Implementing the Telework Days Plan In 2017 and 2018, to help accelerate acceptance of telecommuting, WORKSTYLING introduced Telework Days at selected locations for customers wishing to telecommute. This initiative is also intended to support the Olympic and Paralympic Games Tokyo 2020 through various working styles, and going forward, will be further enhanced. The Mitsui Fudosan Group believes that when our employees, as well as those of our valued partners working in customer contact positions in hotels and commercial facilities, are able to enjoy their jobs with a smile, the result is enhanced customer service. As such, working to devise systems, settings and other measures to enhance employee satisfaction (ES) leads to customer satisfaction (CS). Enhanced ES means greater CS Mitsui Fudosan creates work environments with appeal Through events such as the All-Out CS Contest (for all hotels under management), the MGH Award, and numerous incentive At Urban Dock LaLaport and other systems, we are working to raise ES and thereby CS, TOYOSU and other commercial with gratifying results. facilities, we are renovating employee lounges with a relaxing café concept, to enhance their effectiveness as spaces for rest and Employee lounge, Urban Dock LaLaport TOYOSU rejuvenation. Going forward, we will continue our efforts to All-Out CS Contest (Mitsui Fudosan Hotel Management) create work environments that raise employee motivation. Employee lounge, LaLaport SHIN Women's powder room for This Credo summarizes the policies followed by employees of The MISATO employees, LaLaport SHIN MISATO Celestine Hotels and Mitsui Garden Hotels (Mitsui Fudosan Hotel Management) Meticulous Service Supports Workstyle Innovation for a Diverse Workforce The WORKSTYLING Project's meticulous attention to meeting the special requirements of large enterprises, including its outstanding security standards and advanced worker attendance management, led to it receiving the scal 2017 Good Design Award. The project was also recognized for its effectiveness in unlocking the potential of personnel for whom conventional commuting is challenging due to factors such as child or family member care responsibilities. This award is further encouragement for us to enhance and reinforce our services that make the utilization of diverse personnel and the creation of diverse workstyles possible. Ryohei Takagi Workstyle Promotion Dept., Ofce Building Division Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd. &Nihonbashi &Nihonbashi New Nihonbashi Muromachi Mitsui Tower Privacy Policy Basic Policy on Specic Personal Information Concerning Protection of Personal Information Concerning Cookies and Access Logs Usage Notice © 2019 Mitsui Fudosan Co., Ltd.
