CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 lyreco.com CONTENTS CSR CSR VISION STRATEGY AND 2019 GOVERNANCE 2025 06 30 Delivering sustainably • 08 Economics • 32 Sustainability performance • 10 Environment • 44 Pioneer state-of-mind • 11 Supply Chain • 54 Global compact commitment • 12 People • 58 The SDGs we focus on • 13 Governance • 60 Certifications • 18 Community • 62 Sustainability governance • 21 Conclusion • 70 Stakeholder’s voice • 26 Materiality matrix • 28 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2020 lyreco.com “In line with our company vision, sustainability is a fundamental part of the “Great Working Day” that we strive to deliver to all customers and employees. “ EDITORIAL — As an international leader in the workplace supplies market, we have been committed for decades to ensuring that every step we take to satisfy our customers is carried out with the utmost respect for people and for the planet. In line with our company vision, sustainability is a fundamental component of the “Great Working Day” that we strive to deliver to all our customers and employees. This is why sustainability is a pillar of Lyreco’s mission: pioneer in delivering sustainably what any workplace needs so its people can focus on what matters most”. In 2020, we are taking a major step forward by making the Circular Economy a priority lever to deliver even more sustainable products and solutions and achieve ultimately responsible growth. Through our Circular Economy Pledge, we will, together with our co-workers, suppliers and partners, develop by 2025 fully “circular” solutions, from products, to packaging, from the collection of used workplace supplies to recycling solutions. This commitment is now a priority action in our Corporate Social Responsibility strategy 2019-2025 and a strong lever of progress for our sustainability performance. I wish you all a Great Working Day! Grégory LIENARD • CEO Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 • 5 A GREAT WORKING DAY. DELIVERED. The Lyreco group is the European As a specialist of the work environment, Lyreco’s leader and the third largest expertise keeps on extending to cover all workplace needs. distributor of workplace products and services in the world. The A privately owned company since 1926, Lyreco has constantly adapted to the evolutions of workplace group directly operates in 25 and work practices thanks to its constant focus countries in Europe and Asia and on excellence in customer experience, strong covers 17 additional markets on partnerships with renowned suppliers, and efficient 4 continents through a network logistics. of distribution partners. Lyreco’s 10,000 employees share a common mission: pioneers in delivering sustainably what any workplace needs, so that its people can focus on what matters most. As a leading player on the workplace market, we support our customers and all our stakeholders in making workplaces a lever of sustainability performance. VISION & GOVERNANCE — KEY FACTS AND FIGURES Privately-owned 25 17 10,000 company countries in additional markets Employees Europe and Asia through our partner network Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 • 7 DELIVERING SUSTAINABLY WHEREVER WE OPERATE 15 SUBSIDIARIES & 1 SAFETY EXPERTISE CENTER 25 COUNTRIES Cascading and adapting to local rules Lyreco Group CSR strategy EUROPE Austria, Belgium, Czech Rep., Denmark, France, Finland, Germany, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Luxemburg, The Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, UK​ ASIA Hong-Kong, Korea, Malaysia, Thailand, Singapore 15 DISTRIBUTION PARTNERS IN 17 COUNTRIES Dialoguing and fostering commitment to CSR tangible actions NORTH AMERICA Canada, United States EUROPE Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania, Russia, Turkey​ ASIA-PACIFIC Australia, China, India, Japan, New-Zealand, Taiwan​ SOUTH AMERICA Argentina, Brazil, Mexico CSR VISION & GOVERNANCE Scope of reporting The scope of this 2020 report covers our 15 Lyreco subsidiaries’ operations in 25 countries in Europe and Asia. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 • 9 MAKING WORKPLACES A LEVER OF SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Our clients aim to provide their SUSTAINABLE employees with a working environment that brings ALL ALONG a tangible contribution to THE WAY reducing their environmental impact. Beyond Lyreco’s own responsibility as a company and as a civil society player, supporting our customers to develop sustainable working practices is the driving force behind our CSR commitments. DELIVERING EXCELLENCE Ensuring ethics and compliance UP TO in the supply chain, SUSTAINABILITY wherever we operate. Delivering excellence is about quality products and outstanding services. It is also about ensuring that every step we make to surprise Providing and delight our customers is achieved in the a sustainable most sustainable way: alternative for all product ranges. By continuously improving our process, all along the customer journey, from ordering to delivery to product end-of-life, with the objective to reach climate and environmental neutrality Reducing packaging, By constantly improving our process, all along the customer journey By ensuring ethics and compliance across our supply chain With the objective to reduce continuously Offering collection our impact on the planet solutions for used-products. Developing low-emission delivery solutions. TACKLING GLOBAL WARMING WITH A PIONEER STATE-OF-MIND CSR VISION & GOVERNANCE CIRCULAR In February 2020, the members our Executive Committee have ECONOMY officially pledged to develop — by 2025 fully “circular” solutions for our customers, A MAJOR STEP from products to packaging to TOWARDS products end-of-life management. RESPONSIBLE GROWTH The acceleration of Climate Change and its dramatic impacts remind us more than ever our duty to RESPECT the Environment, and to support our customers and suppliers in their ambition to act in this way. We truly believe that the Circular Economy is the best way to achieve responsible growth. By converting our business to the Circular Economy by 2025, we are taking a decisive step on the path to conciliate even further our performance objectives with our sustainability commitments. To promote this engagement to all our stakeholders all employees, customers & prospects, suppliers and manufacturers, strategic partners we have defined a Pledge that covers 5 priorities that we will develop over the next 5 years. More information on page 36. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 • 11 GLOBAL COMPACT COMMITMENT A CONTINUED SUPPORT In 2004, Lyreco was the 10 GLOBAL first company in the Office Supplies industry to join COMPACT the UN Global Compact PRINCIPLES Initiative, demonstrating HUMAN RIGHTS the company’s long term commitment to sustainability. Support and respect the protection of internationally By joining the UN Global Compact, Lyreco proclaimed Human Rights commits to integrating 10 principles in the Make sure that they are not areas of Human Rights, labour, environment complicit in Human Rights and anti-corruption into its strategy, policies abuses and procedures to establish a culture of integrity. LABOUR This document is Lyreco’s Communication on Progress (COP) 2020 and can be found Support and uphold the both on the UN Global Compact and Lyreco’s freedom of association and website. the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Support the effective abolition of child labour Support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ENVIRONMENT Support a precautionary approach to environmental issues Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility challenges Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies ANTI-CORRUPTION Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery CSR VISION & GOVERNANCE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, adopted by all United Nations Member States in 2015, provides a shared blueprint for peace and prosperity for people and the planet, now and into the future. It includes 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and 169 targets. They cover the three interconnected dimensions of sustainable development: economic, social and environmental. This commitment calls for the shared and collaborative contribution from Governments, NGOs, Companies and citizens. THE 4 UN SDGs WE FOCUS ON As an international private company and a leader on the workplace market, directly or indirectly operating worldwide, Lyreco has a particular responsibility in contributing to the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals defined by the United Nations. As a player in the distribution of products and solutions for the working environment, we focus particularly on 4 Sustainable Development Goals. Corporate Sustainability Report 2019 • 13 THE SDGs WE FOCUS ON AS A WORKPLACE PRODUCT DISTRIBUTOR AND A LOGISTICS ACTOR Lyreco offers an extensive range of workplace products under its own private label. Ensuring that its manufacturers and importers respect human rights and the environment throughout the supply chain is of utmost priority. These requirements are applied in all our subsidiaries. Suppliers that would not comply with Lyreco policy in THE OBJECTIVES this field are black-listed. WE CONTRIBUTE TO 8.5 • A chieve full and productive employment MANUFACTURERS AUDITS & and decent work for all women and men. IMPROVEMENT PROGRAMME 8.7 • T ake measures to eradicate foced labour, modern slavery. 100% of Lyreco product manufacturers operating in risk countries* are audited 8.8 • Protect labour right and promote safe & each year by duly recognized audit firms or secure working environments. directly at the production site by the Group QSS team. The audit process uses de SEDEX SMETA 4-pillars and BSCI as international standards. These audits are accompanied by an KPI improvement programme and the monitoring of suppliers’ progress. Factories audited:100% Supplier sustainability assessment: 3,32/5* VIGILANCE PLAN *1 being the best score Produced yearly this vigilance plan aims to identify the risks of potential severe impacts on human rights, fundamental freedom, health and safety of its direct and indirect activities. SUPPLIER CODE OF ETHICS & FRAMEWORK AGREEMENT Together with the supplier Code of Ethics, the Lyreco Business Supplier Agreement sets up the principles in terms of business ethics, compliance on working conditions and human right that apply to all suppliers. CSR VISION & GOVERNANCE From paper to plastic items such as pens and office stationery, most workplace supplies have a short lifespan, are disposable and natural resource consuming. Continuously promoting to all our customers worldwide more sustainable products and solutions has THE OBJECTIVES been a major commitment for Lyreco for many years. WE CONTRIBUTE TO 12.1 • Implement the 10 year programme on Sustainable consumption and production. 12.2 • S ustainable management and efficient use of natural resources. LYRECO GREEN TREE 12.5 • R eduction of waste generation through In 2012, Lyreco was the first company in the prevention, reduction recycling and workplace supply industry to develop its own reuse. methodology and label: LYRECO GREEN TREE. The goal is to support customers in selecting sustainably-preferred KPI products. The methodology covers both officially eco-certified products and selfclaimed ones. Green Tree products sales: 42,6% of total sales, in progression of 34,8% since 2012. CIRCULAR ECONOMY Waste recycling: 90% of waste generating by Lyreco recycled in 2019. In 2020, Lyreco has pledged to convert its offer to the Circular Economy by 2025. This major step towards a zero-waste alternative has as an ambition to cover all product categories, providing recycle-ready alternatives, extended collection and recycling solutions for used-items. COLLECTION OF USED PRODUCTS To promote and encourage recycling of paper, plastic cups and bottles, Electronic devices, used-products collectors and reverse logistics solutions are regularly extended to new product categories. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 • 15 THE SDGs WE FOCUS ON AS A WORKPLACE PRODUCT DISTRIBUTOR AND A LOGISTICS ACTOR Reducing CO2 emission across the entire value chain, from our suppliers to our customers, is a priority goal in our efforts to mitigate Lyreco environmental impact. In 2019, Lyreco reduced its Greenhouse Gases emission by 19,3% compared to 2010. NEW CLIMATE POLICY THE OBJECTIVES In 2020, new Science-based CO2 reduction WE CONTRIBUTE TO targets in line with the Paris Agreement on Climate Change will be set to extend the 13.1 • Strengthen resilience to climate-related scope of measurement and reduction to hazards. Scope 3 (indirect emissions) for Lyreco own 13.3 • Improve education and awarenessbrand products. raising. LOW-EMISSION TRANSPORT & LOGISTICS Lyreco subsidiaries develop low-emission KPI solutions with a focus on urban delivery, CO2 emission: 19,6% since 2010 sales cars and delivery trucks fleet and route optimization. Supplier Performance Improvement Programme on Sustainability: 100% Group SUPPLIER PERFORMANCE suppliers assessed IMPROVEMENT PROGRAMME Sustainability represents 25% of the evaluation criteria, at equal level with Competitiveness, Category Management and Logistics. ENDORSEMENT OF THE NEW YORK DECLARATION ON FORESTS CIRCULAR ECONOMY Through this endorsement, Lyreco commits The ultimate goal of our commitment to to joining the efforts of stakeholders already convert our offer and business to Circular engaged in tangible actions to halve Economy by 2025 is obviously to significantly deforestation by 2020 and to end it by 2030. reduce our carbon print. CSR VISION & GOVERNANCE Education is a long term commitment and a cause supported across all Lyreco subsidiaries LYRECO FOR EDUCATION Since 2008, this programme has been supporting the development of projects and infrastructure in the poorest countries. THE OBJECTIVES Funds are mainly raised internally through WE CONTRIBUTE TO fundraising actions organised by Lyreco teams in all our subsidiaries 4.1 • E  nsure that all girls and boys complete Lyreco For Education has intervened in free, equitable and quality primary and 6 countries in Asia, Africa and South secondary education. America: Bangladesh, Vietnam, Brazil, Togo, Madagascar and Cambodia. CONTRIBUTION TO LOCAL EDUCATIVE PROJECTS KPI In addition to this common programme, Lyreco subsidiaries are developing local 3 million euros raised since 2008 charity actions in this field. 116 572 children enrolled in schools 60 schools built or renovated © Nicolas Axelrod Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 • 17 CERTIFICATIONS A LONG-TERM COMMITMENT TOWARDS SUSTAINABILITY PEF EU PEF Lyreco joins the EU PEF pilot phase. GREEN TREE LABEL Lyreco implements its unique green products assessment methodology and its own Green Tree label. GLOBAL COMPACT Lyreco is the first company in the Office Supplies industry to join the UN Global compact. SEDEX & BSCI Lyreco selects SMETA (Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit) and BSCI as validated standards for the social accountability audits of the factories that manufacture Lyreco branded products. EU ECOLABEL Lyreco starts to apply the EU Ecolabel for its own branded products. 2004 2009 2012 2013 2014 CSR VISION & GOVERNANCE CIRCULAR ECONOMY Lyreco launches its circular economy pledge, committing to a more sustainable production, use and reuse of workplace products FSC Lyreco becomes a member of FSC SBTi Lyreco endorses the Science-Based Targets HUMAN Initiative (SBTi) to define RIGHTS pef its new CO2 reduction targets. EU CLUB Lyreco joins the Human Rights Club EU PEF of the UN Global Compact. Lyreco is the first company to assess the Lyreco laundry liquid with the European Product Environmental Footprint (EU PEF) methodology NORDIC NYDF SWAN Lyreco endorses the New York Declaration on Forest Lyreco selects the Nordic Swan label whose goal is to halve deforestation by 2020 and for its remanufactured toner cartridges. end it by 2030. 2017 2018 2019 2020 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 • 19 CERTIFICATIONS COMMITMENTS AND ACTIVITIES ENDORSED AUDIT INITIATIVES STANDARDS UN Global compact SEDEX Launched in 2000, the United Nations SEDEX is the world’s largest Global Compact is both a policy collaborative platform to share platform and a practical voluntary responsible sourcing data on supply framework for companies that are chains, used by more than 43,000 committed to sustainability and members in over 150 countries. In responsible business practices. In 2013, Lyreco 2004, Lyreco was the first company selected SMETA (Sedex Members in the Office Supplies industry Ethical Trade Audit) as a validated to join the UN Global compact standard for the social accountability and it keeps on strengthening this audits of the factories that manufacture commitment publishing its Sustainable Lyreco branded products. Development report on the Global Compact platform every year. BSCI The Business Social Compliance New York Initiative is a leading supply chain Declaration on Forests management system that supports The New York Declaration on Forests companies in their drive towards social is a voluntary partnership of compliance and to make improvements governments, companies, indigenous at the factories in their global supply communities, organizations and NGOs chains. In 2013, Lyreco selected BSCI who strive to halve deforestation as a validated standard for the social by 2020 and to end it by 2030. By accountability audits of the factories joining the declaration, companies like that manufacture Lyreco branded Lyreco commit to creating responsible products. partnerships with forest countries and taking deforestation out of their supply LIFE-CYCLE chains, tipping the balance against forest disappearance. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Human Rights Club MEASUREMENT The United Nations Human Rights Club is a place of exchange and expertise EU PEF for the members to jointly progress on this theme. In 2017, Lyreco joined pef EU The European Union Product Environmental Footprint is a European the Human Rights Club of the UN Commission initiative which aims Global Compact, strengthening its at developing a harmonised commitment towards prevention, methodology for the calculation of the management and development of environmental impact of a product, Human Rights by companies. based on a 14-point assessment of all its lifecycle’s steps. In 2014, Lyreco joined the EU PEF pilot phase. CSR VISION & GOVERNANCE ECO LABELS FOLLOW THE GREEN TREE! EU Ecolabel SEDEX is the world’s largest Lyreco green products collaborative platform to share Since 2012, green products assessed responsible sourcing data on supply by Lyreco are identified by a specific chains, used by more than 43,000 icon, a green tree, indicating that members in over 150 countries. In Lyreco’s assessment methodology is 2013, Lyreco applied. The “Lyreco Green Product selected SMETA (Sedex Members Assessment” has been reviewed by Ethical Trade Audit) as a validated SGS and was found to be in general standard for the social accountability compliance with the principles of audits of the factories that manufacture the ISO 14020 standard and the ICC Lyreco branded products. (International Chamber of Commerce) framework for environmental claims. Nordic Swan The Business Social Compliance Initiative is a leading supply chain management system that supports companies in their drive towards social compliance and to make improvements at the factories in their global supply chains. In 2013, Lyreco selected BSCI as a validated standard for the social accountability audits of the factories that manufacture Lyreco branded products. FSC The Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) and the PEFC are environmental labels whose purpose is to ensure that the production of wood-based products (mostly paper) comply with procedures that ensure sustainable forest management. In 2018, Lyreco became a member of FSC. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 • 21 SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE AN INTEGRATED MANAGEMENT SYSTEM GOVERNANCE To define and implement a CSR strategy BODIES that ensures that key business decisions include Quality, Environment, Health, Safety, Sustainability management is fully integrated Sustainability and Ethics aspects. in the organization of the Group Operations, T o ensure the Group standards are led by a Group Chief Operating Officer. respected by our internal and external The strategic execution of the Corporate operating stakeholders. Responsibility policy is led by a Group QSS director. Each of Lyreco entities includes a To manage international best practices, QSS director. At the Group level, the mission action plans and internal communication. of the Group QSS director is: Chief Executive Officer Group Chief Chief Chief Europe Asia Group HR Operating Finance Information Managing Managing Innovation Director Officer Officer Officer Directors Director Director CERTIFICATION PROCESS To ensure a common qualitative and environmental practice across our subsidiaries, EcoVadis is an independent, non-financial rating Lyreco uses the recognised international agency that monitors the sustainability ratings at standards ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 to which the global organisations. Integrated Management Systems are certified. Its methodology is based on international This ensures that quality and environmental Sustainable Development standards such as ISO matters are handled at a level trusted by 26000, the Global Reporting Initiative and the interested parties and understood by United Nations Global Compact. employees. Aligned with the Quality & It is overseen by a scientific committee of CSR Environmental Management System, Health and Supply Chain experts to ensure a reliable & Safety management is based on Lyreco’s third-party CSR assessment. Lyreco is now part of guidelines referring to the OHSAS 18001 the top 1% of companies evaluated by Ecovadis. standard and local legislation, applied in the subsidiaries by the Senior Management Teams. An on-going increase In 2012, ISO 26000, the guideline for of our rating Corporate Social Responsibility, was adopted 74 71 to provide structure to the sustainability journey. 64 In addition, some countries have also chosen to 60 obtain further certifications. TOP 1% IN JUNE 2019 2012 2013 2014 2015 & ever since CSR VISION & GOVERNANCE WORLDWIDE CERTIFICATION ISO 26000 guidelines (not subject to certification) ISO 9001 ISO 14001 CERTIFICATION DEPENDING ON THE COUNTRY OHSAS 18001/ISO 45001 (Occupational Health & Safety Management System) — ISO 50001 (Energy Management Standard) — FSC CoC Certification (Forest Stewardship Council – Chain of Custody) — AEO (Authorized Economic Operator): The AEO status is an internationally recognized quality mark. It indicates that the company’s role in the international supply chain is secure, and that customs controls and procedures are efficient and compliant. FORE IS O S TR 5000 Y 1 OHSAS 18001 FSC ISO AEO ISO 45001 CoC 50001 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 • 23 SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE AN INTEGRATED MANAGEMENT SYSTEM HOW DO WE WORK WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS OUR CUSTOMERS Omni-channel Customer Service. Engaging our stakeholders over the long-term in our Corporate Responsibility strategy and Satisfaction surveys. actions is essential to reach our sustainability Thematic events and meetings. goals and to support continuous improvement across all of our activities. Environmental calculation tools. Sustainable days and Sustainability awards. 10,000 EMPLOYEES Dialogues with social partners. Annual performance reviews. Internal, change and M&A communication. CSR actions involvement. Internal Opinion Barometer (IOB) for continuous improvement. International meetings with all subsidiaries. INNOVATION ECOSYSTEM Hackathon. Circular economy think tank. OUR KEY MULTI-STAKEHOLDERS INITIATIVES STAKEHOLDERS Global compact membership. and the way we Human Rights Club membership. New York Declaration on Forests. engage with them Rajouter FSC Membership. GOVERNMENTS & LEGAL AUTHORITIES Secretariat member to EU Product Environmental. Footprint pilot phase. CSR VISION & GOVERNANCE COMMUNITIES 97 BRAND Lyreco For Education programme INTERNATIONAL SUPPLIERS in partnership with NGOs. International continuous improvement programme. Local communities programme. Suppliers’ Day and awards. Partnership with social entreprises. Purchasing policy. Code of Ethics. Green products. Sustainability due diligence. 40 LYRECO OWN BRAND SUPPLIERS Sustainability audits. Social audits. Continuous improvement programme. Code of Ethics. OUR LOGISTICS PARTNERS & SUPPLIERS Co-development of low-emission projects. Sustainability clauses in contracts. 15 DISTRIBUTION PARTNERS Dedicated Lyreco coordinator. CSR policy review. Yearly progress monitoring. CERTIFICATION BODIES, ESG RATING AGENCIES Audits. Assessments. Ecovadis • BSCI • SEDEX Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 • 25 STAKEHOLDER’S VOICE LYRECO AND INTERSAFE SUPPLIER A supplier of Intersafe and Lyreco Benelux, EMMA Safety Footwear (Hultafors Group)’s mission is to develop and produce the safest foot protection in a socially responsible manner. In 2019, EMMA Safety Footwear achieved its ambition to develop a 100% Circular shoes collection. “ As distributors of Personal Protection Equipment, Lyreco has a leading role in increasing awareness around sustainable and circular workwear. NEDERLANDSE SPOORWEGEN “ For their office supplies, NS (Nederlandse Spoorwegen), the Dutch Iris van Wanrooij national railway, chose Lyreco as a Program Manager Corporate Social Responsibility, EMMA Safety Footwear recognized supplier because of its sustainable vision and approach in the field of workplace solutions. In addition to the sustainability of the products, the circular characteristics of a product are also considered. “ When collecting small office equipment, Lyreco ensures that as many products as possible are recycled and the raw materials are returned to producers for new products. “ Leo Stoelinga Procurement manager CSR VISION & GOVERNANCE LYRECO CUSTOMERS “ The total consumption of office supplies has an impact on the environment. It is our RAMBOLL responsibility to ensure that eco-friendly Ramboll is a major Lyreco international purchases are made. Lyreco constantly customer in Scandinavia, Finland and the provides us with information on what makes UK. Ramboll is constantly working to raise the sustainabilty and circular economy possible level of sustainability in the company, so that in the workplace and highlights areas for equipment for the employee is optimized, improvement. especially in relation to Circular Economy. “ Helene Byskov Christiansen Lead Consultant Global Procurement, Ramboll IDEA Bank & Lyreco IDEA BANK “ Idea Bank has been cooperating with By replacing them with glass jugs, we reduced by more than 60% the use of Lyreco for more than 10 years and plastic bottles in our workplaces. considers Lyreco as a business partner with significant experience in CSR. “ To support IDEA BANK in reducing the use of disposable plastic bottles by employees, Lyreco Poland proposed Idea Bank to replace them with glass jugs. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 • 27 MATERIALITY MATRIX The strategic issues on 11 SHARED which Lyreco focuses its corporate responsibility are PRIORITIES based on the most relevant 11 priorities issues have been identified. matters to stakeholders They are the foundation of our new corporate and the company itself. responsibility guiding principles and strategy that have become effective since The fundamental environmental, social and January 2019. economic challenges that are linked both to the way Lyreco manages its business and to the changes in our customers’ working 1. Customer satisfaction environment have long been integrated into 2. Employee health and safety our sustainability strategy. These main issues were reflected in our 2012 • 2018 ECO 3. Human Rights in the supply chain FUTURE strategy and the related data 4. Regulatory compliance monitored over the last 7 years. 5. Ethical business practices In 2017, a materiality matrix involving our main stakeholders has raised additional 6. Product & service quality challenges that have led us to extend our 7. Employee well-being responsibility and sustainability commitments. 8. E nvironmental standards in the supply chain 9. S ocial standards in the supply chain 10. Human capital management 11. Customer partnership concerning on sustainability Based on these priorities, we ECONOMICS have defined 6 guiding principles Develop customer excellence driving our new CSR strategy and promote a sustainablelaunched in January 2019. preferred offer. ENVIRONMENT Minimize Lyreco’s environmental impacts across the entire value chain, from our suppliers to our customers. CSR VISION & GOVERNANCE 3 2 1 6 4 IMPORTANCE TO THE SOCIETY 7 5 8 9 10 11 IMPORTANCE TO THE BUSINESS PEOPLE COMMUNITY Offer the greatest employee Place education as the core of experience. So that our people the Lyreco Charity Programme delight our customers. at the global and local levels. SUPPLY CHAIN Develop a sustainable and GOVERNANCE ethical preferred supply Conduct risk and compliance base that enhances Lyreco’s management programmes competitiveness and as an integrated part of the innovation, and bolsters the business. success of our customers. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 • 29 KEY ECONOMICS 8,53/10 PERFORMANCE Recommendation rate INDICATORS 42,66% Sales of green producs 2020 RESULTS ENVIRONMENT -3% CO2 emissions compared to 2018 1 Product assessed by the EU PEF method CSR STRATEGY 2019•2025 — SUPPLY CHAIN PEOPLE 3,32/5* 40,5 Supplier Sustainability Days of recruiting time Assessment Score 18,73% 22 Turnover rate Awareness and action Programmes 2,24% *1 being the best score Absenteeism rate GOVERNANCE 2 COMMUNITY Areas covered with a Risk 249,043 € management approach. Raised for our Charity (quality and environment) programme Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 • 31 GOALS & KPI Develop customer excellence ECONOMICS and promote to all our customers an always more sustainable preferred offer, in strong cooperation with our business partners. Delivering excellence is about quality products and outstanding services. It is also about ensuring that every step we make to surprise and delight our customers is achieved in the most sustainable way. 2 OBJECTIVES Maintain and develop excellence all along our customers’ journey, from ordering to delivery and beyond. Promote and support Environmental preferable products purchasing KEY ACTIONS Proximity and efficiency in logistics Products and services in line with all usages Digital transformation Develop and promote sustainable product alternatives in all categories Convert our products and services offer to the Circular Economy. KEY 2019 INDICATORS 8,53/10 42,6% Recommendation Environmental rate. Customer preferable products satisfaction is purchasing Sales measured through of Green products, a bi-annual survey based on the Lyreco managed by Common Range. Customer experience teams. OPERATION EXCELLENCE AT THE CORE OF CUSTOMER SATISFACTION ECONOMICS CUSTOMER SALES FOCUSING ON MARKETING MODEL CUSTOMERS’ SATISFACTION AUTOMATIZED DATA DRIVEN MARKETING TAILOREDSALES APROACH Customer satisfaction is the first priority identified by both our internal and external stakeholders in the Lyreco Materiality Matrix. The core principle of this programme is a CUSTOMER deep customer-centric approach that PERFORMANCE prioritises a merger of the best of human talent and commitment with the best-in-class digital solutions. Our business model is based on : ENHANCE ADAPTED TO CUSTOMER SERVICE CUSTOMERS NEEDS A deep understanding of our customers expectations. A business model that integrates corporate CUSTOMER social responsability into Lyreco activities. E-COMMERCE CARE PARTNER OF OUR CUSTOMERS’ TEAM WORKING FROM HOME In 2020, Lyreco took a step forward in customer satisfaction during the COVID19 crisis by launching our “Home Office Offer” in almost all of our markets in Europe and Asia in a record time. All Lyreco people from Logistics, Customer Services, E-commerce and Marketing involved in this home delivery project have contributed to keeping our customers’ employees safe while supporting them with the products and services essential to their day-to-day activities. Agility combined with our operational excellence to deliver an efficient day at work at home even in difficult times. AT HOME Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 • 33 ENVIRONMENTAL PREFERABLE PRODUCTS FOSTERING GREEN PRODUCT SALES GROWTH GREENER 2012-2019 WORKPLACES 42% 45% 42,6% 36% Purchasing “environmentally friendly” 34.2% 34% products requires the provision of clear 31.6% information to the customers. By putting 26% responsibility at the core of our business, we commit to helping our customers select 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 products with lower environmental impacts. Raw materials EUROPEAN Packaging PRODUCT ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT pef EU WHAT IS THE EU PEF? A new method to measure the environmental End-of-Life Manufacturing footprint of our products. Lyreco is the first BtoB company to officially assess one of its own label products with this new method. WHAT’S NEW? Distribution A comprehensive & transparent method the EU PEF methodology measures the environmental impact... global warming water scarcity land use acidification WHY LYRECO SUPPORTS THIS METHOD? ozone human toxicity marine eco-toxicity depletion (non cancerous eutrophication freshwater Because our customers strive for a greener effects) workplace ! And Lyreco strives for continuous improvement in close cooperation with suppliers to always provide always more terrestrial particulate resource use fossils energy sustainable products and transparent eutrophication matter (mineral) resource use information. aquatic human toxicity ionising photo-chemicals freshwater (cancerous radiation ozone formation eutrophication effects) ECONOMICS LYRECO GREEN TREE LABEL WHAT IS OUR GREEN TREE LABEL? Green tree label is Lyreco’s self-declared environmental claim. It has been created in 2014 to provide our customers with clear information about the products they buy. In Lyreco’s catalogue and webshop, assessed green products are identified by a green tree, indicating that Lyreco’s assessment methodology is applied. A RELIABLE AND TRUSTFUL METHODOLOGY Our method relies on international recognized standards and organizations : The international ISO 14020 The International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) SGS approval Our system is also the same for all products, in all our subsidiaries, resulting in a consistent green product labelling across the countries. 12 CRITERIA ASSESSED... THROUGH EACH STEP OF THE LIFECYCLE To obtain the green tree label, the product must include the MANUFACTURING following criteria: Compostable Degradable RAW Designed for disassembly MATERIAL Extended life product Recovered energy Recyclable Recycled content Reduced energy consumption PRODUCT IN USE Reduced resource use Reduced water consumption PRODUCT LIFESPAN & Reusable and refillable END-OF-LIFE Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 • 35 CIRCULAR ECONOMY TOWARDS ZERO-WASTE WORKPLACE CLOSING THE LOOP In 2019, in the frame of our commitment towards Circular economy, Lyreco participated in the Nordic Environmental Footprint Group From 2020 to 2025, we commit in Copenhagen to present our progress with to making Circular Economy a the EU PEF method. During this conference, priority lever to accelerate the we reaffirmed our engagement to the development of integrated European Commission Sustainability journey, making the PEF a cornerstone of our circular sustainable business solutions economy strategy. for our customers. The Circular Economy is a strong enabler to achieve Lyreco sustainable goals as well as a strong response to the increasing customer demands for integrated sustainable business products, solutions and practices. The 5 commitments of Lyreco 2025 circular economy pledge: Circular Economy Be the first company Provide end-of-life Ban single-use Remove all Develop a standard in our industry collection and recover or non-Circular non “Circular” for Circularity for the with a full range of material assets back plastics from packaging from workplace industry recycle-ready items. into the manufacturing all our offices. the products we with European chain. sell stakeholders. 2025 PLEDGE ECONOMICS Lyreco Toner cartdridges launched in 2018 meet the highest standard with regards to the environment, quality and health. APPLYING CIRCULAR ECONOMY PRINCIPLES TO PRINTING Lyreco has developed a high quality, What does it mean to be a environmentally friendly range of responsible company? remanufactured cartridges that We cannot continue to have a product apply the circular economy lifecycle that involves using things once. principles to printing. Circular Economy is truly the future: it is about making sure that we can give Lyreco products How do you see the future a second or a third life. of printing? Beyond the products, it is also about how to Our customers strive for sustainable printing deliver it and develop services around it, such practices. Cartridges play a key role in this as the collection of used cartridges. field. Combining sustainability with a quality Lyreco sees this as a key element of its product and integrated services is a winning company vision: offering products and combination. services with the most environmentally sound Lyreco develops environmentally friendly methods. products in partnership with manufacturing suppliers who use the Circular Economy as a lever to tackle this challenge. Bruno Pluchart Tech & Print International Lyreco toner cartridges are recycled to Category Manager, Lyreco produce new cartridges. They are collected, Group reshaped, cleaned, have parts replaced and are refilled with toner... so they can be used again. This means that fewer raw materials are used. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 • 37 TOWARDS “ZERO WASTE” WORKPLACES LYRECO CIRCULAR ECONOMY PLEDGE FROM A CUSTOMER POINT OF VIEW A single office employee generates an average of 130 kg of waste per year*. The primary ambition of Lyreco Circular Economy’s commitment is first and foremost to help our customers make faster progress towards a drastic reduction of non-recyclable waste in the workplace, and ultimately reduce their impact on the environment. 3 out of 5 objectives of Lyreco Circular Economy Pledge concern the products we sell. * Source: Easy Recyclage, 2017 ECONOMICS SECTION 4 A RECYCLE-READY REMOVE ALL ALTERNATIVE FOR ALL “NON-CIRCULAR” THE PRODUCTS WE SELL PACKAGING By 2025, Lyreco will propose a By 2025, Lyreco will reduce ‘recycle-ready’ alternative for any packaging use and ban nonproduct the customer wishes to recyclable plastic packaging purchase. “Recycle-ready” items for any product. are products made ‘from materials Reduction of packaging size that can be re-inserted into the and quantity. end-to-end value chain. Criteria for recyclability or recycled contents 100% plastic packaging will be assessed according to ISO recyclable, reusable and 14021 standards. compostable. Easy identification and selection. 100% plastic packaging Information on recyclable effectively recycled, reusable materials and environmental or compostable. footprint. A CIRCULAR COLLECTION MEANS ECONOMY STANDARD AND SECOND-LIFE FOR THE WORKPLACE TRACKING FOR ALL INDUSTRY “RECYCLABLE-READY” By 2025, Lyreco will work with PRODUCTS European authorities and Circular Economy key actors to By 2025, Lyreco will provide define a standard for the a collection solution for all workplace. “recyclable” products, ensuring their effective recycling, and Endorse major Circular provide information on their future Economy Trusty-Third parts. use (e.g. Waste notes). Contribute to regulations and Extend collection solutions. certifications framework at European level. Communication on collection and environmental savings. Share best practices to define process and standards. Tracking system. Assess process by certifications organisations. BAN INTERNALLY SINGLE-USE AND NON-CIRCULAR PLASTICS By 2025, Lyreco will ban single-use and non-circular plastics from all our premises. Acting in an exemplary way is a pre-requisite to engage our customers. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 • 39 CLOSING THE LOOP WITH... LYRECO POLAND & IDEA BANK: Customer IDEA BANK REPLACING Sector Bank and Insurance PLASTIC WATER A Lyreco customer since 2010 BOTTLES WITH GLASS JUGS Idea Bank has been cooperating with Lyreco KEY 2019 for more than 10 years and considers Lyreco INDICATORS as a business partner with significant experience in CSR. In line with its corporate social responsibility objective to significantly reduce its ecological footprint, Idea Bank encourages its staff to adopt green working practices. Among the concrete actions developed by the company, one of the main challenges was to reduce the use of -60,31% 34 disposable plastic bottles by employees. To Disposable plastic Glass water jugs support this effort, Lyreco Poland proposed to bottles ordered by with a set of filters Idea Bank to replace them with glass jugs with Idea Bank. bought. water filters in all the company’s premises. A significant reduction in orders for water in disposable plastic bottles was achieved. Lyreco support IDEA BANK by delivery of Circular Economy & CSR solutions. Lyreco Corporate Account and QSS team presents CSR & Circular solutions tailored to the needs of IDEA Bank. ECONOMICS LYRECO BENELUX & NS : NS NEDERLANDSE COLLECTING Customer SPOORWEGEN STATIONERY Sector Railways AND ENSURING A Lyreco customer since 2011 IT IS EFFECTIVELY RECYCLED In 2020, the first steps towards circularity For their office supplies, NS (Nederlandse were taken on Lyreco’s initiative. In addition Spoorwegen), the Dutch national railway, to the sustainability of the products, the chose Lyreco as a recognized supplier circular characteristics of a product are also because of its sustainable vision and considered. When collecting small office approach in the field of workplace solutions. equipment, Lyreco ensures that as many The years of cooperation with Lyreco have products as possible are recycled and the raw materials are returned to producers for made an important contribution to NS in the new products. These initiatives therefore fit following areas: perfectly into the circular policy of NS. This Proactive account management has far exceeded our CSR objectives. Cost savings for office supplies An important contribution to making our product choices more sustainable Creating awareness among the purchasers Start of a fully circular process “ When purchasing products, we take a critical look at the composition of products, “When collecting small office the possibilities for reuse, but also the equipment, Lyreco ensures that necessity of them: are there more sustainable as many products as possible are alternatives? We also take into account the recycled and the raw materials are returned to producers for new way in which the products arrive at our products.” locations. Lyreco strives for an equivalent mode of transport like the NS. This means that Lyreco delivers every delivery CO₂-neutral to our locations throughout the Netherlands. “ The NS have been transporting passengers climate neutral since 2018. The aim is for the entire rail sector to be climate neutral from 2050 onwards, thereby emitting a megaton less CO₂ every year. If our suppliers can Leo Stoelinga contribute to this, this is something we would Procurement Manager, NS like to see. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 • 41 SUSTAINABILITY IN PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT HOW EMMA SAFETY FOOTWEAR ACHIEVES BOTH CIRCULARITY AND SAFETY In 2019, EMMA Safety Footwear What are the characteristics of (Hultafors Group) achieved its EMMA’s circular approach? ambition to develop a 100% A NEXT-USE FOR EACH MATERIAL Circular shoes collection Our “circular” products are made according to the principles of design for longevity and EMMA’s mission is to develop disassembly. All materials are (re-)assessed on and produce the safest material health and material reutilization. For each material, a next-use application has been foot protection in a socially determined. All products are registered in responsible manner, so that a material bank The return of safety shoes is everyone can carry out ensured by an external partner. their work comfortably. What were the main challenges you managed to overcome in this project? And how? Suppllier EMMA Substituting materials that were not Product Category PPE environmentally friendly, such as PVC: all our production processes were based on these Supplier since 1990 Intersafe materials and had to be adjusted, resulting 2015 Lyreco Benelux in higher manufacturing prices that were covered by the company. We also define the specifications so we receive the right material data sheets from our suppliers and work with them on improvements. Evaluation of impact reduction of What are the main rooms for EMMA circular approach based progress in terms of Sustainability and Circularity on the safety and on main raw materials EMMA workwear markets shoe of 650gram (1.3kg / pair): THERE ARE 3 MAIN CHALLENGES 1. A  lack of awareness and skepticism PLASTIC METAL LEATHER around sustainability: Communication is essential to ensure that our customers not -564 -320 -282 only buy our circular range but also, when grams grams grams the shoes are used, ensure that they are collected for recycling. We invest a lot of time and energy in informing people on Savings per pair our ‘circular journey’ and our progress. WATER 175,32 liter / pair 2. C  ompliance with safety standards: our ENERGY 22,21 KWh / pair development guideline is clear: safety first, comfort second and circularity third. CO2 35,22 kg / pair We work with our suppliers to look for sustainable alternatives without sacrificing safety and comfort. ECONOMICS Iris van Wanrooij Program Manager Corporate Social Responsibility, EMMA Safety Footwear 3. T  he volume of recyclable materials that most important partners of EMMA Safety we recover from our customers is still Footwear as distributor and in the roll-out of too small to interest recycling companies. our sustainability and circular system. You We created the Circular Footwear Alliance are directly in touch with the people wearing with a major competitor in the Dutch our shoes, so you have an important role in market, Allshoes, and FBBasic. This is a increasing the awareness around sustainable unique cooperation in the PPE sector. Our shoes and sustainable activities. common interest goes beyond commercial interest. By joining the Hultafors Group, EMMA is also able to create a greater environmental impact, as we are now joining forces in our sustainable activities within the group. How do you consider the role of a distributor like Lyreco and Intersafe in the objective to support the development of Circular “workplaces” and working practices As a market leader in the distribution of PPE, Lyreco/Intersafe also has a leading role in these matters. Lyreco and Intersafe are the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 • 43 GOALS & KPI Minimize Lyreco environmental As a major occupier of cities ENVIRONMENT impacts across the entire value space, Lyreco has a key role chain, from our suppliers to our to play in tackling climate customers with a strong focus on change when operating. By the fight against Climate change. taking into account the entire scope of our value chain and re-thinking delivery to 2 OBJECTIVES customers, Lyreco takes action Identify and evaluate opportunities to reduce to reduce its CO2 emissions. environmental impacts. Ensure that our operations and projects are managed in accordance with accredited quality (ISO 9001) and environmental management (ISO 14001) systems to include sustainability priorities. KEY ACTIONS Making our fleet and buildings greener Managing waste and offering recycling services to our customers Applying the EU PEF methodology to our product assessment Committing to circular economy projects and strategies KEY 2019 INDICATORS MAKE THE -3% 1 CHANGE CO2 emissions Product assessed compared by the EU PEF 2018 • POLAND to 2018 method.. All Poland fleet changed to hybrid 11 186 282 km travelled -33.56T CO2 compared to 2017 CO2 EMISSIONS ENVIRONMENT EXPERIMENTING NEW WAYS OF TRANSPORT THINK THE Wherever we operate, we commit to supporting cities efforts ROAD to reduce the environmental impact of delivery transport while 2018 • SPAIN continually supporting customer satisfaction. Optimization of the routes -10% CO2 emissions 2019 • ITALY 22 natural gas vans TOMORROW compared to 2017 1 million km travelled New trucks fuelledwith agricultural waste -15% CO2 — 10 full electric vans Getting RDC closer to city centres to increase the 250 000 km travelled number of electric vehicle 0 direct CO2 emissions deliveries RICKSHAWS IN THE CITY 2019 • SWITZERLAND 6 E-Rickshaws on Tour 155 000 boxes delivered 120 000 km distance covered by E-Rickshaws 20T C02 emissions reduction CARGO BIKES DELIVERY 2020 • UK 2 month trial in the West End of London Reduction of cost per delivery Delivery in car-free areas Up to 150kg of parcels delivered per cargo-bike Near zero carbon footprint Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 • 45 FIGHT AGAINST DEFORESTATION MITIGATING CLIMATE CHANGE FIGHTING AGAINST DEFORESTATION Deforestation is a primary contributor to climate change. With wood being the main raw material for the paper industry, forest management is a key sustainability issue. We commit with our suppliers, trusty third parties like FSC and initiatives like the New York Declaration on Forests to reducing the impact of our activities on raw resources scarcity. NEW DECLARATION Through this signature, we join the efforts of more than 150 endorsers of the Declaration ON FOREST engaged in tangible actions to reduce CO2 emissions through the fight against In September 2019, in the deforestation. As a workplace specialist framework of the 2019 United distributor, we have long had a strong Nations Climate Summit, Lyreco environmental commitment to reduce our Group strengthened its commitment environmental footprint and support our to fight against deforestation and customers by: Climate change by signing the New Extending an environmentally preferable York Declaration on Forests. The paper offer in close cooperation with our New York Declaration on Forests suppliers, is a partnership of governments, multinational companies, indigenous Improving our environmental impact assessment process: e.g. adoption of the EU peoples and NGOs who strive to Product Environmental Footprint assessment halve deforestation by 2020 and methodology in addition to trusted renown to end it by 2030. certifications such as FSC, EU Ecolabel Engaging with suppliers to develop innovation projects in line with the Circular Economy principles. ENVIRONMENT PLANTING TREES IN DENMARK In 2019, Lyreco Scandinavia bought 500 trees to support ‘Danmark planter træer’ (Denmark plants trees). The initiative is a collaboration between TV2 and The Danish Society for Nature Conservation and is aimed at securing more forests in Denmark to absorb and retain CO2. With time, the new forests will also make valued habitats for animals and plants. In 2019, in the frame of our commitment towards SDG 13 Climate action, Lyreco participated in the UN Climate Change Summit & Climate Week. Nasser Kahil, Group QSS Director, Lyreco Group with Madeline Craig, New York Declaration on Forests. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 • 47 FIGHTING AGAINST CLIMATE CHANGE 2020 LYRECO NEW The Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi) is a joint initiative by CDP, the UN Global CLIMATE POLICY Compact, the World Resources Institute and WWF. In 2020, Lyreco defines its new Climate Its goal is to increase corporate ambition on Policy, setting new CO2 reduction targets climate action by mobilising companies to set based on the Science-Based Targets Initiative greenhouse gas emission reduction targets (SBTi) methodology. to less than 1.5ºC / 2°C, in line with the Paris Endorsing the initiative, Lyreco will first Agreement on Climate Change. define targets based on 2 Key Performance Indicators : 1st 2nd Reduction of Reduction of greenhouse greenhouse gas emissions gas emissions relating to Scope 1 relating to Scope (direct emissions) 3 (other indirect and Scope 2 emissions) that are (indirect energy under Lyreco’s emissions). control, namely business travel, waste and Lyreco branded products (1) A pilot will be launched by the end of 2020, led by the Lyreco Scandinavian subsidiary. EMISSION CO2 REDUCTION VS 2010 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 -1,82 -6,4% -14% -16% -16% -17% -18% -19,3% ENVIRONMENT ADOPTING Customer RAMBOLL RESPONSIBLE PEN Sector Construction Engineering CONSUMPTION A Lyreco customer since 2016 Helene Byskov Christiansen Lead Consultant Global Procurement, Ramboll Each year, millions of pens are disposed of without recycling solutions. In 2020, Lyreco What have been your employees’ engaged a project with Ramboll, a major thoughts and reactions? customer in Finland, Denmark and the UK, to act upon one of one of the biggest concerns R: It’s still early days, but employees in terms of environmental impact of general understand the reason for the range being office products: plastic disposable pens. ‘slimmed’ down in favor of more sustainable products. Besides, since we have chosen Why do you consider pens as a major to cooperate with Pilot which delivers high quality, it mostly means an improvement in the concern in terms of environmental product itself. impact? What are your next main steps in the Ramboll : As a signatory of the UN Global Compact we promote increased environmental field of sustainable workplace and responsibility and sustainability across our working practices? operations. This also means being cognizant about the impact of our purchases. As a R: We are working on ensuring that all our sustainable society consultant, Ramboll workplace furniture for future purchases is recognizes that we can have a significant eco-labeled, qualitative and adaptable enough impact on the environment through our to meet the expectations we have about consumption of office supplies, and through flexibility and waste reduction in the future of choosing a supplier that considers circularity the workplace. and promotes sustainability in its production. It is our responsibility to ensure that eco-friendly How do you consider Lyreco’s purchases are made and to channel our needs contribution to your sustainable towards environmentally friendly products. goals for now and for the future? R: We use the UN Sustainable Development Goals as a yardstick to measure our impact 2 MAIN ACTIONS and believe that a transformation in materials management is crucial to credibly contribute to SDG 12 for responsible consumption and production. This is why we closely follow what Lyreco can offer, especially when it comes to PPE. We are committed to reducing PEN RANGE ECO-FRIENDLY the environmental impact of transporting REDUCTION PEN RANGE the products we order. Therefore, we will Lyreco proposed a The dedicated range increasingly look at what can be optimized reduced offer of 13 is composed of Pilot in the existing logistics set-up, including references (vs 200 recycled and refilled gathering as many relevant purchases as before) available to pens. possible. Ramboll’s employees. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 • 49 RESPONSIBLE PACKAGING POLICY A NEW OUR GOALS OUR GOALS COMMITMENT FOR A LONG TERM 100% CERTITUDE Of Lyreco plastic packaging will be Packaging has an important role to play by reusable, recyclable or protecting the quality of our products and compostable by 2025 allowing them to be stored, transported and used safely. However, packaging also presents some 25% challenges. It uses valuable resources in its conception and generates waste when not Of our plastic packaging recycled. will come from recycled plastic content Our Responsible Packaging Policy aims to address these issues with a continuous improvement mind-set. It defines the guiding principles and the strategy that must be supported daily across all our subsidiaries, across our whole organization and activities. It also fixes a strict frame to legitimate the relevancy of our pledge. A KEY GOAL IN OUR CIRCULAR ECONOMY ROADMAP Through the Lyreco Circular Economy pledge, we commit to reducing packaging use and banning non-recyclable plastic packaging for any product by 2025 ENVIRONMENT 2020 RESPONSIBLE Sign the New Plastics PACKAGING POLICY Economy commitment Raise customer Expand and suppliers responsible awareness paper-based packaging Provide Enlist preferred transparency materials to through plastic replace non packaging volume responsible ones Promote refill reporting options Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 • 51 ENVIRONMENT LOCAL INITIATIVES SWITZERLAND THIS SUMMER, CHOCOLATE COMES IN A HEMP BAG. How can we make sure that even in hot weather, food that is likely to melt arrives intact at our customers’ offices? In Switzerland, Lyreco solved the problem: since 2018, all chocolate products from our Swiss catering services have been shipped in thermal hemp bags. A natural and responsible product FRANCE Hemp offers optimal protection of the COVERING THE LAST products against high or low temperatures. Besides, hemp packaging is environmentally MILE BY THE RIVER friendly as it is fully compostable and 100% made from renewable natural raw materials. In 2019, Lyreco France launched a test with Fluidis to deliver our customers in Paris through the river Seine. Thanks to a 100% electric warehouse boat and a fleet of rickshaws, we cover the last kilometre while drastically reducing the CO2 emissions linked to our activity. The project has started with a test phase in 2019. MONITORING OPTIMIZATION OF THE LIGHT WORKERS’ MOVEMENT In Poland Lyreco has drastically reduced the energy Limiting our impact is everyone’s business. By consumption in the warehouses thanks to simple committing to a new responsible travel policy. In actions. spain, Lyreco succeeded in reducing drastically their CO2 emissions. Lower lighting rails. From 7.6 to 4.5 mm Encourage video conference Light bulbs reduction Promote train travels versus flights Partial illumination of the warehouse Prefer hybrid cars in the rented cars fleet 206,000 KWH Avoid unnecessary travel Saved per year -17,96% -3,32% Emissions due to less emissions due professional trips by to travel by plane train in 2019 in 2019 ENVIRONMENT ZERO UK & IRELAND A LONG TERM COMMITMENT FOR VANS EMISSION REDUCTION BY Vans play a key role in distribution efforts for many of the countries large 2028 fleets, mainly due to their ability to navigate inner city traffic effectively. In the UK and Ireland, Lyreco has long been aware of the importance of reducing their impact on the environment. DRIVING CLEAN VAN BEHAVIOUR COMMITMENT MONITORING Lyreco joined the Clean FIRST ELECTRIC All Lyreco vans Van Commitment (CVC), VANS are equipped with a scheme put in place Lyreco is one of the first a tracking system by Global Action Plan workplaces supplies solutions companies to monitoring the driving behaviors to reduce fuel striving to reduce van emissions in cities to -15% invest in electric vans. consumption. zero by 2028. fuel/delivery consumption (2013-2020) 2009 2014 2020 ITALY ZERO EMISSIONS WEBSITE In Italy, Lyreco employees compensated the emissions from the www.lyreco.it website by planting 12 trees in the city of Milan. Rete clima provided us with a one year certificate, assessing our website as zero CO2 emission. Rete Clima is a non-profit ETS (Third Sector Body) , which promotes Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and sustainability actions in the private sector and public procurement. More information on reteclima.it Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 • 53 GOALS & KPI Develop a sustainable and Lyreco has developed an SUPPLY CHAIN ethical preferred supply extensive range of own brand base that enhances Lyreco’s products. More than 1,500 competitiveness, innovation items are now proposed to our and success of our customers. customers with the objective to align highest quality and value As one of the first distributors of workplace for money with sustainability supplies across the world, Lyreco has a special responsibility in ensuring that the and ethics in the supply chain. business conduct of suppliers is socially, ethically, environmentally and legally To ensure that our responsibility and compliant. This is why Supply chain has sustainability standards are constantly met, the become a dedicated principle of the Lyreco group QSS team audits yearly and directly onCSR strategy 2019-2025. site our manufacturing partners with a specific focus on risk countries*. Our objective A PROCESS AND FRAMEWORK To guarantee our customers both the best EXTENDED TO OUR NEW value for money in products and solutions and ACQUISITIONS sustainability and ethics in the supply chain. In 2019, Lyreco acquired Intersafe, a European specialist in personal protective KEY ACTIONS equipment, and Deskright, a distributor Supplier sustainability and ethics of general office supplies in Singapore. assessment LYRECO’s audit process and performance evaluation methodology has been extended to Business supplier agreement follow-up 2021 Deskright product selections. Supplier education and awareness The first audits of Intersafe’s private label manufacturers were carried out in early 2020 Internal education and awareness and will be continued once the COVID-19 global health crisis is over. KEY 2019 INDICATORS 22 3,32/5* PAPER AND PPE Awareness actions Supplier Sustainability UNDER CLOSER WATCH and programmes Score Supplier In a global context of major warning on Events or meetings Sustainability deforestation and on labour and human rights organized with Assessment Score in emerging countries, Lyreco has set-up a suppliers around evaluated yearly in the Due-diligence process dedicated to: CSR at group and framework of the Lyreco Paper that may be sourced from a country local levels. Supplier Performance subject to deforestation allegations. Improvement Programme considering PPE (non-Lyreco branded & non directly all the Group suppliers. imported by Lyreco) coming from risk *1 represents the best score. countries in terms of social accountability (e.g. Malaysia, Sri Lanka, Bangladesh). MANUFACTURER AUDITS & IMPROVEMENT PROGRAMME SUPPLY CHAIN A Lyreco products’ manufacturer in China, January 2020 100% LYRECO PRODUCTS’ MANUFACTURERS AUDITED IN 2019 As part of the 2020 selection, all the factories producing Lyreco branded products or directly imported by Lyreco from risk countries have been audited – in line with the Lyreco policy. This means 49 factories for products selected by Lyreco Group and 10 factories producing local references for our subsidiaries In addition to the mandatory yearly audit, several factories have been subjected to additional audits: announced & unannounced. In September 2019, Lyreco had unfortunately to blacklist a Group supplier following the outcomes of an unannounced audit. AUDITS FRAMEWORK International standards SEDEX Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) 4-pillars: Labour, Health & Safety, Environment and Business Ethics. BSCI Scope All Lyreco products Group and 16 subsidiaries sourcing. Excluding Intersafe and Deskright. Project in progress 49 manufacturers and importers Up to Third Tiers subcontractors. Internal frameworks Vigilance plan Purchasing policy Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 • 55 SUPPLIER SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE CONTINUOUS SUPPORTING IMPROVEMENT OUR SUPPLIERS When room for progress is identified, Lyreco IN ELIMINATING defines with the suppliers an improvement RISKS ON HUMAN plan that covers the 4 areas of the audit: labour, Health & safety, Environment RIGHTS ABUSE and Business ethics. This improvement Lyreco has accompanied its suppliers in its programme applies both to Lyreco own efforts to eliminate such risks. Direct audits brand manufacturers and suppliers branded have been led by Group QSS Direction in products. close cooperation with some subcontractors. In line with Lyreco Vigilance plan and purchasing policy, Corrective Action Plans were deployed, whose results were assessed by a SEDEX audit in 2019. A Lyreco products’ manufacturer in China, January 2020 SUPPLY CHAIN SUPPLIER The CSR evaluation covers 5 categories: PERFORMANCE The environmental characteristics EVALUATION: of the products. SUSTAINABILITY NOW The CSR organization and governance ACCOUNTING FOR of the supplier. 25% OF THE RATING The Environmental Management System. The Supplier Performance The Health & Safety Management System. Improvement Programme (SPIP) Social Accountability, Supply Chains and covers 4 performance criteria: Business Ethics. Competitiveness, Category Management, Logistics and In addition to the results of the evaluation, Sustainability. each supplier receives an individualized action plan, with possible progress tracks. In 2019, Sustainability, which previously accounted for 20% of the performance This program has been in place since 2015. rating, has been increased to 25%, on a par with the other 3 criteria. 97 suppliers have been evaluated, 100% of Lyreco international SUPPLIER PERFORMANCE suppliers’ base. PROGRAMME 4 97 Equal Suppliers Criteria assessed INTERNATIONAL SUPPLIER AWARDS 2019 OFFICE TECH & PRINT LIFE@WORK INDUSTRIAL category category category category Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 • 57 GOALS & KPI DELIGHT RESPONSIBLE PEOPLE OUR CUSTOMERS WORKPLACE Offer the greatest employee ENVIRONMENT experience so that our people IS EVERYONE’S BUSINESS can delight our customers. At Lyreco, we believe that joining everyone forces in collective actions is key to fight Lyreco considers employee excellence as a against climate change. prerequisite to achieve customer excellence. Employee well-being is therefore of utmost As a leader in the workplace market, we must priority. act with exemplarity in our own premises. Our 10,000 employees commit to developing KEY ACTIONS concrete actions towards responsibility and reduction of our environmental impact. Green and low impact initiatives encouraged among our employees Effective well being at work Inclusion and diversity measures KEY 2019 INDICATORS 40,6 2,24% Days of Absenteeism rate recruiting time Recruiting time 18,73% is measured by calculating the Turnover rate from when the The employee job requisition turnover rate is was received (RR) calculated by until the offer was dividing the number accepted by the of employees who candidate for each left the company by job filled during the average number the measurement of employees in a period. certain period in time. At Lyreco Headquarter, plastic cups have been replaced by glas jags and mugs. LEADING BY EXAMPLE REDUCING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT IN OUR PREMISES SUPPLY PEOPLE CHAIN 4 WAYS TO PROVIDE A GREENER WORKPLACE TO YOUR EMPLOYEES IN SPAIN BAN SINGLE-USE ITEMS GREENIFY YOUR In most of our headquarters, our CLEANING SERVICES teams have got rid of single-use In Spain, we replaced the items such as disposable cups and plastic bags used in the bins by plastic bottles in order to reduce biodegradable ones (made with waste. Glass bottles, seaweed cups, starch). Cleaning services were also drinking fountains a lot of solutions asked to use environmentally friendly have been successfully launched products : since 2018, all cleaning as alternatives for more sustainable products are saline based and habits. without toxic content. GET RID OF INDIVIDUAL BINS AVOID UNNECESSARY  aking our workplace greener often M PRINTING means changing daily practices. By  eplacing your former machines R removing individual bins in common by multifunction ones to scan areas, Lyreco has reduced by documents instead of printing it, 27,000 per year the use of plastic displaying posters with the costs of bags in its Spanish headquarter. black & white and colour printing, asking your people to only print when required. A few examples from our Spanish subsidiary that helped them to reduce their consumable usage by 58,05% from 2018 to 2019. WWF CERTIFIED BUILDING IN FINLAND In Finland, people focus on making their workplace greener. Since 2010, Lyreco headquarters in Vantaa are WWF Green Office approved. WWF Green Office is a management system and certificate for offices based on the following environmental criteria : committed management, frequency of communication and level of engagement, energy and water consumption, procurement decisions, recycling, sorting and cleaning waste, travel management and choices in terms of food. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 • 59 GOALS & KPI Conduct risk and compliance GOVERNANCE: GOVERNANCE management programmes as an integrated part of the business. BUSINESS MODEL REQUIREMENT With 15 subsidiaries directly operating in 25 countries, a business unit dedicated to safety, 15 partners accompanying us on Lyreco Risk Management 17 additional markets and a global supply process covers quality and chain, the international dimension of Lyreco environmental aspects. business model requires a solid quality and environmental risk management system covering all our operations. In 2019, in the framework of the new CSR strategy 2019-2024, KEY ACTIONS Lyreco has extended it to new areas: Lyreco has extended it to Risk management organisation. new areas such as corruption. Risk matrix. Risk and opportunities training and awareness. KEY 2019 INDICATORS French law requires large companies to prevent Human Right abuses and environmental 2 damages throughout their production chain, including their subcontractors. As a result of its Areas covered activities, Lyreco risks mainly concern Lyreco Quality & Environment are covered by subsidiaries and suppliers of products (Group all our subsidiaries worldwide. products and local products). The latest Company Vigilance Plans’ have been issued in July 2020. The identification of risks was carried out with a “Life Cycle” approach, covering activities under Lyreco control and influence. Based on this analysis, an action plan has been set up for each step of the lifecycle: RISK MANAGEMENT SYSTEM AND COMPLIANCE GOVERNANCE A REINFORCED ETHICS & LYRECO ETHICS & COMPLIANCE MANAGEMENT COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE Raising awareness and ensuring strict The committee is composed of adherence to ethical business practices 4 permanent members in all Lyreco activities, by all employees and Lyreco Group CEO and President of the with all our business partners is an ongoing Committee: Grégory Liénard. concern. In 2020, Lyreco has therefore Lyreco Group Chief Finance Officer and strengthened its ethics and compliance vice-président. management and communication process. Lyreco Group Chief People & Culture An extended Ethics and Compliance Officer. Committee. Group Compliance officer and committee The nomination of a Group Compliance secretary. officer and dedicated Ethics Referents in all The Committee is responsible for Lyreco subsidiaries. overseeing ethics and compliance in the A reinforced Code of Ethics and Business following areas: conduct. Anti-Corruption. The improvement of the “Raise your alert” Fight against discrimination and harassment. system. Data protection. A  ny other ethics and compliance matters requested or referred to the Committee. VIGILANCE PLANS Resources & Storage/ Product Distribution Usage manufacturing Preparation end-of-life Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 • 61 GOALS & KPI Supporting equal access COMMUNITY to education in the poorest countries Committing all our employees to devote time to charitable operations is part of Lyreco company culture. Through the Lyreco For Education programme, Lyreco employees develop fund raising actions to give children living in poor conditions better access to education. Funds are raised through various activities and initiatives across our global subsidiaries. Our objective Increase school enrolment and reduce school drop out rate by improving the quality of education and learning conditions. KEY ACTIONS School infrastructures. Teacher training. Health and hygiene education. Scholarships. Child protection training. Lyreco subsidiaries Countries supported by LFE KEY 2019 INDICATORS 6 COUNTRIES €249 043 SUPPORTED Raised for our Cambodian SINCE 2008 programme From all fundraisings and actions organized Since 2010, Lyreco For Education has by our subsidiaries. supported 6 countries in their ambition to support equal access to education for children. After Bangladesh, Brazil, Vietnam, Togo and Madagascar, Lyreco For Education is now supporting Cambodia. EDUCATION AT THE CORE OF LYRECO’S CHARITY PROGRAMME COMMUNITY CAMBODIA 2019 • 2022 VIETNAM 2009 TOGO BANGLADESH 2011 • 2014 2008 BRAZIL MADAGASCAR 2010 2015 • 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 • 63 LYRECO FOR EDUCATON CAMBODIA 2019 • 2022 CAMBODIA RATANA 2019 • 2022 KIRI After Bangladesh, Brazil, Vietnam, Togo, and Madagascar, the next country that Lyreco For Education will support is Cambodia. Since January 2019 and over 4 years, our 10,000 employees will take action to raise 1 million euros to directly support around 10,000 children and teenagers enrolled in 8 primary and 18 secondary schools in the MONDUL regions of Ratana Kiri and Mondul Kiri in KIRI North-Eastern Cambodia. The objective of this new programme is to increase school enrolment and reduce school drop out rate by improving the quality of education and learning conditions, in particular for ethnical minorities. Developing Health and Building a boarding house Hygiene education for 60 students OBJECTIVES 2019-2022 Supporting child Supporting scientific protection training and and digital education by awareness programmes training 92 teachers and implementing laboratories and IT equipment in 3 schools 11,000 26 1M€ CHILDREN SCHOOL RAISED ENROLLED FACILITIES* Building and renovating sanitary infrastructures* Funding 60 scholarships *in 8 primary schools and 3 high schools 60 92 SCHOLARSHIPS TEACHERS TRAINED To ensure the development of this project Lyreco works in partnership *Class rooms and school with the NGO CARE. facilities built or renovated COMMUNITY A new boarding house is under construction in a school supported by Lyreco For Education in the Mondul Kiri region. It will welcome 60 students in 2020. The development of digital skills is supported through teacher training and IT equipment. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 • 65 © Nicolas Axelrod Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 • 67 LOCAL INITIATIVES POLAND SUPPORTING THE VOLUNTEER FIRE BRIGADE In August 2019, Lyreco provided support for the second time to the Volunteer Fire Brigade in Falenty and made its facility available for training tracking dogs. The training was attended by representatives of the search and rescue groups of the Volunteer and State Fire Service, police officers and members of civil search and rescue and tracking groups. The training consisted of utility tracking, in which a dog is taught to track a specific person after showing him the article belonging to him. UNITED KINGDOM SUPPORTING PEOPLE IN NEEDS IN TELFORD In England, Lyreco is part of the “Telford and Crisis Network”, which aims at making businesses work together with groups from the public, voluntary and community sectors with the common objective of supporting people in crisis in the Telford area, where our head offices are located. As a member of “Telford and Crisis Network”, Lyreco is able to participate in many opportunities for employee engagement, such as collections and donations of goods and food, help and guidance to people in need. COMMUNITY THAILAND CLEANUP DAY ON YOA BEACH On May 2019, 47 employees in Lyreco helped clean the Yao Beach in the South of Thailand. The operation was organized by Lyreco QSS and People and Culture teams in association with Naval officer. By the end of the day, the participants had cleaned 2 kilometers of beach and collected 30 kilos of COVID-19: In May, Lyreco Hong Kong donated 30 SUPPORTING desktops and 3 LCD monitors to the school/ non profit organization in order to help PEOPLE ON THE students and children who need equipment FRONTLINE in the quarantined situation. In Thailand, Lyreco teams made DIY face During the lockdown, our employees shields and collected alcohol gel sanitizer, have initiated 79 local solidarity surgical masks and gloves to donate to people actions to support local companies, on the field. employees or colleagues on the field, with product donations, customer & supplier co-actions and delivery services. few examples of initiatives. This has been the living proof of Lyreco solidarity spirit and of our determination to make a positive impact on our social and natural environment, whatever the circumstances. In Spain, Lyreco donated 200 notebooks to a retirement home to be used by the residents In Poland, when a customer ordered Home Delivery products, 5% of the value of the order was dedicated to support hospitals in the fight against the epidemic. In Malaysia, Lyreco donated pantry and PPE products to local front line enforcement teams on lockdown (called “Movement Control Order”). Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2020 • 69 “ Circular economy shows our pioneering ambition to scale up our sustainable solutions and offer. “ CONCLUSION — This report is an important milestone in Lyreco’s Sustainable Journey, as it clarifies Lyreco corporate CSR goals for 2025, starting with our Circular Economy Pledge. With the current sanitary situation, sustainable growth remains a challenge for business. For Lyreco, sitting on the side-lines is not an option. The strong commitment of Lyreco Group Executive Team about Circular Economy shows our pioneering ambition to scale up our sustainable solutions and offer. For the period to come, the top 3 new key focus will be as follows: Launch of our Circular Economy organisation and first operational projects associated to our Pledge. Strengthen our 2019-2025 CSR Strategy, by linking it with our Corporate Strategy (under definition). Put into practice our Climate Policy for 2025. This will come in addition to the other long term commitments that enabled us to have a consistent and reliable sustainability journey e.g. unique Environmentally Preferable Products Assessment, on-going knowledge about our Supply Base to mitigate social and environmental risks within the supply chain, etc. Like all Lyreco employees, I’m proud of the work we do and I continue to be inspired by the many positive ways people are providing our products and services around the world. Nasser KAHIL • QSS Director Rue du 19 mars 1962 • 59770 Marly • France +33 (0)3 27 23 64 00 lyreco.com
