Title Subtitle 1 Our Sustainability Approach A Sense of Tomorrow Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach 2 Title Subtitle Sustainability is key to securing the long-term viability of our business: it allows us to drive responsible growth, create new opportunities and share success. Table of contents 4 Our sustainability approach 8 Sourcing for Shared Value 15 Innovating Responsibly 21 Acting for Our Environment 26 Our People and Partners 31 External environment 32 Policy and regulations 35 Supported initiatives and strategic memberships 41 Materiality and stakeholders 42 Stakeholder engagement 44 Our material topics 54 The principles of the UN Global Compact 55 The Sustainable Development Goals Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach Introduction 3 Introduction About this report Our reporting suite 2019 Our activities have an impact that goes far beyond the Readers are advised to consult our entire reporting suite to get economic result: to be successful in the long run, we need to a complete overview: align our business performance with the expectations of our stakeholders and with society in general. Sustainability is – The Integrated Annual Report offers a holistic explanation therefore an intrinsic part of our strategy and of our dayof our value creation, financial and non-financial capitals and to-day business. This is why, since 2016, we have committed performance, including governance, compensation to integrated reporting, showing how non-financial capital and financial highlights. contributes to our growth and development. – The Governance, Compensation and Financial Report More and more sustainability information has been comprises the full governance report, compensation report integrated into the Annual Report, showing that it really and financial statements including the external assurance is at the core of our business. Today, detailed, specific statement. information on sustainability can be found in separate documents. Our Sustainability Approach gives a comprehensive – The Company Highlights presents the most important strategic overview of our fundamental approach towards information from the Integrated Annual Report and the sustainability. This document is designed to include essential Governance, Compensation and FInancial Report in a information about our sustainability approach, ‘A Sense of condensed form. It is published in March 2020. Tomorrow’, policy and regulations, supported initiatives and strategic memberships. It also explains the basis of our – The Sustainability GRI Index answers all GRI disclosures report preparation, which consists of understanding the most related to A Sense of Tomorrow and serves as well as our relevant concerns of different stakeholder groups and Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact. It is mapping out the material topics that reflect the importance available in our online annual report and as PDF. to Givaudan and its partners as well as the magnitude of economic, environmental and social impacts. – The Sustainability Highlights offers case studies, data as well as content on progress and achievements covering all Cross-references help readers navigate through the reports: the focus areas of A Sense of Tomorrow. It is published in a GRI icon signals information related to GRI Disclosures; SDG March 2020. icons are used to show which content contributes to the ten United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) we –O  ur Sustainability Approach offers a strategic believe we can have the most impact on; and the magnifying overview of A Sense of Tomorrow, the approach for each of glass icon refers the reader to a specific page in the report or to the three focus areas, and related topics such as stakeholder the website or to another publication for further information. engagement and material topics. References used References to other pages, reports, Indicates GRI Standards Indicates UN Sustainable documents or websites for more disclosures Development Goals Givaudan information contributes to Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach 4 Our sustainability approach Our sustainability approach A Sense of Tomorrow Innovation, integrity and Increasing momentum behind sustainable business now puts us in an even better position, together with our partners and responsibility are at the heart stakeholders, to make a positive contribution and create and share increasingly more value, capturing opportunities and of our business and our managing risks, measuring and quantifying the difference we collaborative mindset focuses are making in terms of the economy, environment and society. on contributing to delightful When thinking about the future, consumers are increasingly aware of the unprecedented social and environmental taste or scent experiences and challenges created by climate change, population growth, resource scarcity and poverty. They are concerned about memories, while taking care of the planet as well as their own well-being, and demand that society and our planet. companies be more transparent about how they operate. Business models are now inextricably linked to sustainability. Our approach to sustainability helps customers create products Our values and culture give the Company its framework for that set them apart and address consumer demand and continuously improving the sustainability of our business in all societal expectations. that we do, guiding our own actions and those of our partners to maintain the long-term value of our business. Givaudan’s That is, sustainability offers exciting opportunities to ambition is to be the most collaborative and trusted Company add value to our business. By expanding sustainable practices in the flavours and fragrances industry, providing leading linked to how we source materials, develop products and innovations to help our customers enhance the health and reduce our environmental footprint, we can better meet our well-being of consumers, wherever they are. customers’ needs and share that value. This also allows us to anticipate changing needs and ultimately to transform the Meeting today’s needs without compromising the interests of challenge of sustainability into new possibilities for our future generations has then been fundamental to our business business and our customers. Our commitment to a more model. While providing our customers with a rich variety of sustainable future also comes from a belief that corporations flavours and fragrances, we ensure that our raw materials are must be leaders in a movement to safeguard the planet and be sourced in a way that respects people and the environment, prepared to put sustainability at the forefront of their and significantly contributes to reducing the footprint of the strategies. For Givaudan, being a responsible and sustainable products we manufacture. company means securing our long-term economic growth, positively impacting the environment and society, all while meeting stakeholders’ expectations. Our approach to meeting these goals is A Sense of Tomorrow, a framework that extends our vision to 2030 and beyond. It sets new performance targets and provides structures for designing innovative products that contribute to a sustainable world while helping to secure the viability of our business. We strive to go beyond responsible growth and benefits for our shareholders: we target long-term success for our customers, consumers, society and the planet. A Sense of Tomorrow is built on the three pillars of Sourcing for Shared Value, Innovating Responsibly and Acting for Our Environment. Initiatives target our supply chains, further investment in innovative new products, the minimisation of our carbon footprint and climate change mitigation. Still, we Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach Our sustainability approach 5 cannot do this alone. None of it would be possible without and Par eople tne the support of our people and partners: managing the u rP rs talent of those who are passionate about their work and O r Our Envir committed to creating a sustainable society is key to meeting fo on ng m our business and sustainability goals. Choosing like-minded ti e Ac nt partners is essential. e d V alue Our initiatives support our own objectives, but also address I n n o v a ti n g no fewer than 10 of the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals. In focusing our own priorities on global har aspirations such as, for example, dietary shifts (Goal 2: Zero Hunger), well-being, (Goal 3: Good health and well-being) rS Re and environmental protection (Goal 15: Life on Land and po fo Goal 13: Climate Action), we show our commitment to s ns ng ibl rci sustainability and how we apply creativity and innovation to y Sou achieving it. Customers can be confident that our products have been produced in a responsible way. Meeting needs today. Deﬁning what’s next. Material topics SDGs ––Biodiversity ––Deforestation ––Human rights ––Local community development Sourcing for ––Responsible sourcing ––Raw material availability Shared Value ––Traceability ––Consumer health and well-being ––Product environmental and societal footprint ––Product quality and safety Innovating Responsibly ––Climate change ––Waste management ––Water stewardship Acting for Our Environment ––Diversity and inclusion ––Employee health, safety and well-being ––Labour/management relations ––Talent management Our People ––Women’s empowerment and Partners ––Economic performance ––Good governance and business conduct ––Transparency and reporting Please note that Biodiversity, Human rights, Product environmental and societal footprint and Local community development are cross-focus area topics. Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach 6 Our sustainability approach A Sense of Tomorrow is then another step in our long history of end, Innovating Responsibly means considering the impact of high ethical standards in our interactions with all stakeholders. our products and services on society and the environment and The initiatives support our goal of making Givaudan the most leading change for the better by working to benefit both. trusted partner in taste and scent and help ensure that our 250-year-long journey of passion and performance continues. page 15 They will allow us to keep delighting people with unique sensory experiences that they can feel good about. Acting for Our Environment Management Approach 103 – 2: Topic 201, pages 4 – 6 We constantly improve operational processes to reduce our environmental footprint and contribute to climate change mitigation. We are committed to reducing absolute scope 1 Sourcing for Shared Value and 2 greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) by 70% and target a drop Givaudan depends on natural resources and the in scope 3 emissions of 20% between 2015 and 2030.¹ We aim for people that produce them: our sourcing promotes stability for 100% renewable electricity by 2025 and a 4% year-on-year producers and the local environment. We call this Sourcing for average reduction in waste. We reached our goal of reducing Shared Value as it brings new value to those involved in the global water consumption per tonne of production by 15% by sourcing of our natural raw materials. It is based on three 2020 three years in advance and are reviewing new water practices. Responsible Sourcing means auditing suppliers and reduction targets. The real footprint of a product includes every assessing supply chains to work with our suppliers on driving step in the supply chain that gets it to market. This is why we compliance and continuous improvements against norms in are also collaborating with our suppliers to reduce their own health and safety, social, environmental and business integrity footprint, minimising the overall environmental impact of each practices as defined in our Responsible Sourcing Policy. Sourcing product consumed. This has a direct, positive impact on local at Origin focuses on direct collection networks and partnerships producer communities and the supply of the natural ingredients with farmers, distillers and producer groups. It secures the we rely on. These efforts lead to a continuous and successful long-term and balanced supply of natural ingredients from reduction of our GHG emissions, waste production, water fragile ecosystems while boosting the local economy through consumption and support our shift to renewable electricity. knowledge transfer and more stable incomes. Social and environmental projects help build more secure futures for the page 21 Communities at Source and their environments. Together, these three practices move us closer and closer towards our goal of sourcing all materials responsibly. Our People and Partners Our ambitious goals can only be met with the help page 8 and commitment of employees and partners who are dedicated to forming a sustainable society. We support them by providing opportunities for people of all backgrounds, Innovating Responsibly gender and origins, making sure our staff reflects the societies Givaudan has always pursued a culture of innovation, and cultures in which we operate. An example is our approach exploring timely questions in sensory experience. Today’s most to a better balance: a good mix of nationalities and gender pertinent questions surround sustainability: the curiosity that reinforces our inclusive culture and is essential for achieving our has always driven us is helping us to find answers. We look to business goals. We will continue to build a diverse workforce, make sustainability part of every breakthrough and add value representing a balanced mix of backgrounds, gender and origin by enhancing research and developing products that benefit in our leadership teams. Safety, health and well-being are also both society and the environment. We look to improve the critical to our approach: we target these areas through resource efficiency of Naturals, while also developing awareness campaigns and specific training programmes. We alternative sources of key raw materials, helping to protect develop talent through a comprehensive approach embedded fragile natural resources. Enabling dietary shifts towards in a culture of continuous learning and curiosity. Managing plant-based foods and promoting odour’s positive impact can sustainability issues is a huge undertaking with diverse help promote Health and Well-being. Efforts in Sustainable challenges. Effective, long-term solutions can only be found by Processes evaluate and improve the sustainability of our developing strong partnerships; for example we work with production methods: this leads to a continuous reduction of suppliers, associations and non-profit organisations to tackle impact, increase in efficiency and improved response to these challenges in an efficient, mutually beneficial manner. consumer needs. Green chemistry, biodegradability and the optimisation of biotransformation and upcycling opportunities page 26 also help us develop the ingredients palette of the future. In the 1. Consistent with limiting global warming at 1.5°C, the 2017 science-based target to reduce absolute scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 30% by 2030 has been raised to 70% in 2019. Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach Our sustainability approach 7 Sustainability governance The Executive Committee usually meets monthly to discuss The Head of Global Procurement and Sustainability, a member general Company business and strategy and sustainability is a of the Executive Committee (EC), heads the Company’s recurrent point on the agenda. The meetings, which take place sustainability approach. He is supported by a dedicated at various sites, provide the EC an opportunity to interact with Sustainability Leadership Team (SLT) led by the Global Head of local management and to visit Givaudan locations across the Sustainability. This team is made up of internal specialists in globe. Each major region is visited at least once a year to ensure corporate responsibility and sustainability as well as dedicated a close interaction with all the different business areas. business partners to implement the approach. The Head of Global Procurement and Sustainability reports The SLT is the strategic and operational body that supports the annually to the Board of Directors on sustainability matters. organisation in the implementation of the approach to meet Givaudan’s sustainability goals. The team meets every six 2019 Integrated Annual Report – Governance report weeks and on an ad-hoc basis for specific purposes. Disclosure 102 – 18 Board of Directors The Head of Global Procurement and Sustainability confers with the Board of Directors on the sustainability agenda annually. re m e nt o cu Hu Pr m an ur Res Executive Committee ou Partners and advisors Fl a The Global Head of vo r ce The Company reaches out Sustainability regularly Global Head of s to these external bodies updates the Executive Committee on the Sustainability and for collaboration on sustainability matters. Fragranc sustainability agenda. Sustainability S af e t y Leadership Team e h& Driving and coordinating the a lt sustainability agenda He Co en t, m m m un i c at ir on ion s E nv Internal Multi-stakeholder Stakeholders platforms and The Sustainability Leadership associations Team is represented in all relevant The Company liaises with internal stakeholder governance industry and other stakeholders touchpoints. on projects and positions. Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach 8 Sourcing for Shared Value Sourcing for Shared Value Our business depends on natural Our targets: resources and the communities ––All audited suppliers are compliant by 2020. ––90% of our raw materials volume of natural who grow them: Sourcing origin is responsibly sourced by 2020. We aim to address the remaining volume by 2030. for Shared Value brings new advantages to all involved. We are committed to ensuring that our raw materials are transition of children from labour to quality education; sourced responsibly and we work with suppliers who and that people under 18 shall not be employed at night or demonstrate respect for people and the environment. We seek in hazardous conditions. to bring long-term stability to both our supply chains and to the communities from which we source. Wherever possible, we www.ethicaltrade.org/eti-base-code source directly from producers, developing exclusive farming partnerships and collection networks.In collaboration with NGOs, other local partners and the communities themselves, As a member of the AIM-PROGRESS organisation, we follow we run a variety of projects around the world. From promoting its recommendations on human rights issues. Givaudan is schools and good agricultural practices to finding ways to also a member of the Natural Resources Stewardship Circle, mitigate climate change, we help strengthen the social, which is strongly involved in defending human rights and environmental and economic fabrics of these communities labour standards, particularly in remote local communities. while supporting the continued successful growth and supply We comply with the California Transparency in Supply Chains of the raw materials we rely on. We call our approach Sourcing Act (California Senate Bill 657), which requires retail and for Shared Value because it brings new value to all who are manufacturing companies to disclose the precautions they involved in the sourcing of our raw materials. have taken or will take to eliminate slavery and human trafficking from their supply chains. Our commitment to Givaudan’s approach to sourcing springs from a principled eradicating human trafficking and slavery from our operations commitment to deal ethically and respect human rights and direct supply chain is expressed through our compliance wherever we have influence and do business. We naturally to the UK Modern Slavery Act (2015 Bill S.54). expect the same of our suppliers and seek to work with those who have strong business ethics and demonstrate respect for people and environment. Our approach is rooted in our Principles of Conduct, which in turn reflect initiatives including the United Nations Global Compact, a framework that targets, among other goals, the elimination of forced, compulsory and child labour. According to principles 7 – 9 of the Global Compact, we also expect suppliers to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, to take initiatives that promote greater environmental responsibility and to encourage the development and implementation of environmentally friendly technologies. We are committed to the Ethical Trade Initiative Base Code, which states that there shall be no new recruitment of child labour; that companies shall develop or participate in and contribute to policies and programmes that provide for the Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach Sourcing for Shared Value 9 Our approach allows us to satisfy our own ethical convictions, processing techniques. We look to promote a reduction in the but also those of consumers. Inspired by a flavour or a degradation of natural habitats, halt the loss of biodiversity fragrance, they increasingly want to know where ingredients and restore degraded land and soil. Finally, we ask that our come from and be assured that they have been produced in a suppliers maintain the highest degree of business integrity, sustainable way: the transparency ingrained in our supply chain carefully adhering to laws, standards and conventions on issues helps our customers meet this consumer need. We do this such as bribery, gifts and fair competition. through the three practices – Responsible Sourcing, Sourcing at Origin and Communities at Source – that make up Sourcing We target improvement in respect to our Responsible Sourcing for Shared Value. Programme at every level of our supply chains, from primary producers of raw materials to intermediary suppliers, service Responsible Sourcing Programme providers, workers and employees. The approach also helps We source more than 10,000 raw materials from all over us serve our customers, who increasingly seek to understand the world and managing supply chains at scale is a complex the impact of their supply chains and ask for more data on task. We are nonetheless committed to working with our environmental and social aspects. We are working towards all suppliers to create transparent supply chains. Apart from our of these goals through a two-pronged approach: we work with expectation that suppliers meet legal requirements, we also our main direct suppliers through site audits and we assess call on all of them, including smallholders, to make continuous the full length of supply chains for strategic raw materials of improvements in regard to our Responsible Sourcing Policy. natural origin. The policy, published in 2016, sets out high standards in terms of health and safety as well as social and environmental Engaging with direct suppliers to meet audit goals responsibility and business integrity. We ask our suppliers We aim to ensure that all main direct suppliers comply with for collaboration in supporting the policy and disclosing our Responsible Sourcing Policy and our target is to have all of information that could help drive improvements. them reach full compliance with their audits by 2020. Our Procurement team and implementation partners work closely The policy stipulates, for instance, that suppliers should provide with these suppliers to guide them through the Responsible safe workplaces and accommodation that is hygienic, with Sourcing Policy, identify gaps, agree on remediation plans and clean drinking water and adequate sanitation. We emphasise prepare for the audit. The sites of direct suppliers are audited our respect for human rights: employment should be freely according to Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA), entered into; we do not use child labour; workers are to be one of the most widespread ethical audit formats in the world, treated equally and with respect. We respect the land rights or by an equivalent protocol that can be used instead. Auditing of local communities and producers. suppliers accordingly allows them to benefit from a mutual recognition agreement among the members of the AIMWe also encourage sustainable food production systems and PROGRESS platform: they can avoid audit duplication because resilient agricultural practices including environmental suppliers are encouraged to share audit reports with the management principles and the use of best agricultural and largest number of customers. Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach 10 Sourcing for Shared Value Assessing end-to-end supply chains Improving farming capabilities and contributing to more for raw materials of natural origin stable incomes helps improve livelihoods of these communities A raw material of natural origin is considered to be sourced and avoid the socio-economic instability that could responsibly when 1) best practices are identified or 2) compromise the long-term supply of valuable crops and improvement plans are in place when gaps in reference to the ingredients. Today, we have our own field teams deployed in Responsible Sourcing Policy are found. Our target is to ensure several supply chains, reaching thousands of smallholder that 100% of raw materials volume of natural origin are farmers. One example, managed through a joint venture, responsibly sourced by 2030. We aim to reach 90% already by involves field teams sourcing vanilla beans directly from 2020, but reaching 100% will take considerable effort. The smallholder farmers, through a collection network. Responsible Sourcing Programme is applied to supply chains made up of thousands of people and businesses in many different www.givaudan.com/sustainability/sourcing-for-shared-value/ parts of the world: integrating all of them requires a substantial working-together/madagascar-vanilla review of our practices and partnerships so that we can fully identify the specific needs and requirements of each one. Even when our teams cannot be in the field, we can bring The ability to map the supply chain and gather data on all and transparency and stability to our supply chains by partnering each of the intermediary suppliers, right back to the farmers with direct suppliers on improved sourcing models. For and smallholders, is critical when it comes to raw materials of example, to secure the production of quality chillies in southern natural origin. Givaudan organises the mapping of natural India, we partner with our local supplier to build a traceable ingredients to provide full life-cycle transparency, including the sourcing network of over 100 smallholder farmers and promote role, importance and geographical location of all suppliers. more sustainable methods of production, which also generate Field assessments, hotspot identification and remediation more value from their crops. plans are also implemented at the local level with the support of third-party field experts. These authorities, such as The www.givaudan.com/sustainability/sourcing-for-shared-value/ Forest Trust (TFT) or Control Union, are fundamental to working-together/india-chilli-pepper supporting smallholders in assessing their management practice against the standards of our Responsible Sourcing Policy. When the assessment reveals gaps, these field partners Overall, Sourcing at Origin makes our activities increasingly also identify the most appropriate remediation plan. transparent and generates key benefits. Our strong presence on the ground gives us a clear view of the supply chain and this Management Approach 103 – 2: Topic 308, 407, 408, 409, 414, helps us make it less vulnerable, more efficient, and ensure pages 8 – 10 traceability: it allows us to tell our customers where our ingredients come from and how they are produced. Sourcing at Origin  For more information on Sourcing at Origin: Our business relies on the secure, long-term supply of many raw www.givaudan.com/sustainability/sourcing-for-shared-value/ materials of natural origin. As a key actor in these supply chains, sourcing-at-origin we can work to safeguard the sustainability of the most vulnerable natural ingredients. Our Sourcing at Origin initiatives involve the direct sourcing of raw materials by working with local smallholder farmers, intermediate suppliers and partners to secure the long-term supply of these ingredients. These initiatives also strengthen the fabric of the local economy by contributing to more stable incomes for thousands of farmers. Our dedicated procurement teams are based where our natural raw materials are produced. Operating in countries all over the world, these field teams travel to remote sourcing regions to visit and buy directly from farmers, distillers and producer associations. Through personal relationships with producers, we are able to build trust and work together to ensure the long-term future of raw materials. These teams are also responsible for ensuring opportunities for knowledge transfer on technical solutions and practices that enable smallholder farmers to enhance the quality of their crops, gaining more value from cultivation or distillation. Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach Sourcing for Shared Value 11 Communities at Source the producers, suppliers and/or other organisations such as Producers of raw materials of natural origin we rely on make an NGOs. We support projects in education, health and nutrition important contribution to our business. In return, we are as well as good practice in agriculture and production. We also committed to supporting them to build stable lives. We have assist producing communities in safeguarding their supported local producer communities for more than a decade environment and natural resources. through a variety of social and environmental projects. Since 2014, we have been working through a partnership with the Through Communities at Source initiatives we run 18 social and Givaudan Foundation, a not-for-profit organisation that funds environmental projects in 8 countries that touch more than projects to help build more secure futures for communities 30,000 beneficiaries as well as their families and communities. and their environments. Management Approach 103 – 2: Topic 203, 413 Depending on the challenges identified for a particular supply chain, targeted action plans are developed in cooperation with Givaudan Foundation The Givaudan Foundation is a One of the causes supported by the works closely with and relies on non-profit organisation created foundation is to safeguard the future resources provided by Givaudan to in 2013 as a result of Givaudan’s of communities and their fragile conduct and monitor its projects. desire to reinforce its commitment environment. There is a specific focus The Foundation also operates with towards the communities in on three areas in which Givaudan as local partners to ensure the efficient which it operates. The foundation’s a Company is already engaged and deployment of projects and their purpose is to initiate and support where its expertise and experience can relevance to those who are intended projects as well as to grant be leveraged to make a difference: to benefit from them. donations in the areas defined by communities at source, blindness and its vision and mission. nutrition. The Givaudan Foundation www.givaudan.foundation.org Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach 12 Sourcing Title Subtitle for Shared Value Lavender, lavandin France Cistus Labdanum Chilli Spain India Benzoin Laos Geranium Vetiver Egypt Haiti Responsible Ylang ylang Sourcing Tonka bean Patchouli Comoros Venezuela Indonesia Sourcing at Origin Communities at Source Guarana Clove leaf oil, vanilla Brazil Madagascar Vetiver in Haiti Guarana in Brazil A cooperative of A cooperative of producer vetiver farmers benefits families receives technical from technical support and and agricultural training. The price premiums, which are cooperative uses modern used to fund development equipment to improve projects such as the repair production processes and of an important local road. boost quality. The vetiver cooperative and our local oil producer in Haiti are certified Fair for Life by Ecocert. Cistus Labdanum in Spain Tonka bean in Producers of labdanum Venezuela gum benefit from our Tonka bean collectors, a collaboration with a local large community of families, supplier to increase receive incentives and production efficiency, technical assistance in return improve working conditions for their commitment to and joint efforts to monitor the local forest preserve the local natural and its biodiversity. environment. Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach Sourcing for Shared Value 13 Vanilla in Madagascar Vanilla farmers and their communities take part in a programme to develop local education and healthcare infrastructure and to promote food security. Their vanilla beans are certified Ecocert Organic. Benzoin in Laos Benzoin producing communities benefit from educational infrastructure in their villages to improve Ylang ylang in Comoros access to secondary schooling Lavender, lavandin Clove leaf oil in Ylang ylang oil producer in rural areas. in France Madagascar communities are supported A cooperative of lavender A large Givaudan collection through social and Patchouli in Indonesia producers will benefit from network of smallholder environmental projects. A large Givaudan collection our partnership with research producers supplies our clove Energy efficient equipment for network of smallholder institutes to fight plant leaf oil. Sustainable production the distillation of ylang ylang producers on the island of diseases and to promote the is supported via a natural oil is used to boost the yield Sulawesi supplies our long-term future of the crop. resources preservation and reduce the impact on the patchouli oil. They benefit We also collaborate with project, which plants environment. from training in sustainable producers to improve quality. thousands of trees for production methods to reduce firewood per year. Producer the impact on the associations we work with environment. have achieved Fair for Life certification. Chilli in India Numerous chilli producers benefit from assistance to increase productivity and reduce the impact of their production processes on the environment. Geranium in Egypt A partnership with a local supplier to secure a highquality and consistent long-term supply of geranium oil by sourcing from a modern, large-scale plantation. Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach 14 Sourcing for Shared Value Biodiversity We also join forces with international organisations such as As populations grow and levels of consumption rise, natural the Natural Resources Stewardship Circle (NRSC) to contribute ecosystems are being replaced by agriculture, means of to enhancing biodiversity in the areas where we source producing energy, and settlement. In addition, climate change our natural raw materials. As NRSC members, we follow is undermining the ecological processes that support healthy, their guidelines on best practice, which define the technical productive landscapes. specifications and processes for reducing the environmental and societal impact on the species that we buy. The In addition to the compelling ethical reasons for halting the loss recommendations address soil health and fertility, reforestation of biodiversity, there are many practical motivations directly and natural resources use efficiency. related to our business. These developments are posing a challenge to the sustainable and profitable growth of many Management Approach 103 – 2: Topic 304, page 14, supply chains as well as the socio-economic stability of the Topic 204, pages 8 – 14 communities that depend on them and this has immediate consequences for our sourcing activities. We therefore consider it to be part of our business as well as our responsibility to join forces with local stakeholders to preserve the delicate equilibrium of the landscapes from which we source: our Responsible Sourcing Policy requires all suppliers of raw materials to conserve biodiversity. We strive to prevent the loss of species and support the implementation of best management practices and climate adaptation strategies that can help preserve yield and income, sustaining the long-term viability of complex value chains of smallholder farmers, small traders and transformers. Access and Benefit-sharing The Convention on Biological Diversity is the main international instrument giving a general framework for the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity and the fair and equitable sharing of the benefits arising from its use. The Nagoya Protocol implements Article 15 of the convention, which covers access to genetic resources – and associated traditional knowledge – and sharing of monetary and nonmonetary benefits linked to their use. Because the flavour and fragrance industry uses natural ingredients or their transformations, we have identified the potential implications of the Nagoya Protocol and its access and benefit sharing (ABS) framework on our activities in order to comply with all our obligations. Biodiversity conservation We support our Foundation in engaging with local and international NGOs that are involved in the conservation of vulnerable ecosystems such as, for example, Conservation International. We form partnerships with local stakeholders to conserve local landscapes and genetic resources. For example, we have been collaborating for about a decade with the University of California, Riverside to support the care and preservation of one of the world’s most extensive, unique and diverse citrus collections, encompassing more than 1,000 different varieties. The Company also supports The Givaudan Citrus Variety Collection Endowed Chair with the aim of helping to conserve this genetic diversity for generations to come. Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach Innovating Responsibly 15 Innovating Responsibly We aim to integrate sustainability We are addressing these issues through the development of flavours and fragrances that promote health and well-being, into every breakthrough, a sustainable approach to the demand for natural ingredients and products and, finally, a focus on processes that minimise developing products that benefit the impact on the environment. That is, innovation at society and the environment. Givaudan goes beyond simply creating better solutions for our customers: Innovating Responsibly means considering the impact of our products and services on society and the Since its founding, Givaudan has pursued a culture of environment and taking the opportunity to lead change for innovation by encouraging its scientists, technologists, the better by benefiting both. flavourists and perfumers to explore timely questions in sensory experience. Is it possible to intensify floral essences? Innovation for sustainable flavours Where can the earth’s rarest and most wonderful essences Food has a critical role to play in a sustainable future. As a be sourced? What happens if you dehydrate a flavour and major player in the industry, Givaudan can make a significant reproduce it in powdered form? Which olfactive notes touch contribution to enabling the dietary shifts that will benefit peoples’ hearts? Finding answers to such questions has been both human health and the environment. In Flavours, our main key to our success, allowing us to produce novel ingredients motivation is finding ways to promote access to safe, nutritious that enable our customers to differentiate themselves in and sufficient food for all in a sustainable way. We are building the marketplace. on our heritage in natural ingredients and our longstanding tradition of exploration and discovery to innovate in this area, Some of today’s most pertinent questions are linked to particularly in terms of the efficient use of natural resources. sustainability. How can we increase access to nutritious food? How can we increase overall well-being and mental health? The role of diet in human health is becoming increasingly clear. How can we best meet demand for natural products? How can Eating more plant-based food and reducing the intake of we improve processes to make them more sustainable? The ingredients such as salt, sugar and fat is beneficial to our curiosity that has always driven our innovation is helping us to health. What is more, leading-edge researchers in the fields of find answers to these questions. Creating and collaborating food, nutrition and environment recommend that we eat a throughout Givaudan, with external organisations and more plant-based diet because it is one of the main ways in with our customers, we look to make sustainability part of which we can reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. The every breakthrough and add value by enhancing scientific Oxford Martin Programme on Food estimates that shifting to a research and developing products that benefit both society plant-based diet could save up to 8 million lives by 2050, reduce and the environment. food-related GHG emissions by two-thirds, and lead to healthcare-related savings and avoided climate-related Among the key trends guiding our innovation is an damages of US $1.5 trillion. 1 Finding ways to enable these shifts increasing need to address issues linked to health and wellwhile meeting growing demand for natural ingredients in a being. Improved diets with more plant-based foods benefit sustainable way is what motivates us every day. both people and the planet, while heightened well-being and mindfulness boost the quality of our daily lives. A While creating the flavour palette of the future – and becoming growing emphasis on health and feeling good means the ‘go to’ provider of natural flavours for all customers by consumers are increasingly drawn to ingredients from natural providing the best and most sustainable range of ingredients – sources they recognise in both food and the products they we have to do all we can to limit the potential impact of our use and we must figure out how to meet this increased products on the environment and make the most efficient use demand in a sustainable way. of what we have. Our flavour innovation programme focuses 1. Analysis and valuation of the health and climate change co-benefits of dietary change. Marco Springmann, H. Charles J. Godfray, Mike Rayner, and Peter Scarborough, https://doi.org/10.1073/pnas.1523119113 Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach 16 Innovating Responsibly on natural enabling technologies that allow us to provide ‘kitchen ingredients’ to our customers: harnessing the power of nature through enhanced fermentation and new technologies, we convert raw materials into highly desirable natural flavour ingredients. Health and well-being Providing access to safe, nutritious and sustainable food is the key food challenge of our time. Our pioneering processes and technologies allow our customers to introduce exciting, great-tasting plant-based foods and meat substitutes, enabling the dietary shifts that will help promote consumer health and reduce the impact on the environment. Shift towards a plant-based diet As we explore how the world’s growing population can be nourished in a sustainable way, the transition to more plantbased diets will play an increasingly important role. Research has shown that meat consumption impacts our consumers who consciously reduce the amount of meat they health as well as the environment: pound-for-pound, galloneat and have ‘meat-free’ days, is on the rise. We have dedicated for-gallon, animal-sourced foods use more resources to considerable effort to understanding such trends and to produce than plant-based foods and produce more GHG developing tools to transform vegetable proteins into a real emissions. Meat and dairy products provide just 18% of calories meat experience. and 37% of protein and use 83% of farmland and produce 60% of agriculture’s GHG emissions. 2 The very lowest impact meat Exploration in these areas is supported through our and dairy products cause much more environmental harm than involvement in a number of research programmes. For growing the least sustainable vegetables and cereals. example, the Plant Meat Matters Consortium at Wageningen University in the Netherlands is looking for solutions that More people would be willing to move away from a carnivorous address the taste and texture challenges of non-animal protein diet if they did not have to sacrifice the visual or taste appeal. and we are working with students to design flavours and They are also concerned about making sure they get enough smells that can be used to create enticing plant-based meat protein. This is where we can play a big role, using our food alternatives. Work with the University of California, Berkeley technology and flavour expertise to find ways of making has focused on specific technical challenges such as introducing plant-based food effectively mimic real meat and taste great. ‘meat-like colour’ to plant-based meat substitutes. We have developed expertise in creating consumer-preferred flavours for meat-like products and are elevating vegetable Helping to make food more nutritious proteins to the high expectations of flexitarian taste and According to the World Health Organization (WHO), an designing meat substitutes that recreate the experience and estimated 2.5 million deaths could be prevented each year if enjoyment of real meat. We have also developed taste-masking global salt consumption was reduced to the recommended solutions to enhance the palatability of high-protein drinks and level. 3 Similarly, the organisation has recommended that both other products. adults and children reduce their intake of free sugars and fats. 4,5 Our new technologies and solutions in the area of meat Enticing consumers away from ingredients such as salt, sugar substitutes and alternatives enable our customers to innovate, and fat is then another element of promoting healthier diets. expanding the segment and enabling more people to eat Food manufacturers have tried to reduce the levels of such plant-based diets. This directly addresses the demands of ingredients, but fear that consumers might turn away from consumers, who have been looking to cut down on their meat these variants because they do not think they taste as consumption in an effort to improve their own health as well as satisfying as standard products. that of the planet. Flexitarianism, a trend that refers to 2. Reducing food’s environmental impacts through producers and consumers, J. Poore, T. Nemecekc Science, 01 Jun 2018: Vol. 360, Issue 6392, pp. 987 – 992, DOI: 10.1126/science.aaq0216 3. http://www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/salt-reduction 4. https://www.who.int/mediacentre/news/releases/2015/sugar-guideline/en 5. http://www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/healthy-diet Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach Innovating Responsibly 17 We are looking to provide customers with solutions for flavours that satisfy requirements for ‘clear’ labels. Some of our healthier products such as TasteSolutions® Salt to help reduce approaches include a search for and the use of alternative, sodium levels in existing branded lines; TasteSolutions® sustainable plants that contain ingredients that can be used Sweetness for unique taste, mouthfeel and aroma and, finally, as natural flavour; natural conversions, which are precursor TasteSolutions® Mouthfeel, which aims to minimise fat by ingredients that can be converted by mimicking the tools replicating the satisfying mouthfeel that comes from high that nature has developed for itself; fermentation, or levels of the ingredient. biotransformation, which uses micro-organisms to convert raw materials; isolation methods that use new technologies to Naturals and Sustainable Processes fractionate extracts from natural sources and, finally, kitchen Consumer interest in health and well-being is driving demand processes, which entail looking at what cooks do at home and for natural ingredients and clean and clear labels listing in restaurants, combined with scientific insights. Such ingredients they recognise rather than numbers or letters. processes are often more sustainable than conventional/ Understanding ‘natural’ as meaning ‘as intended by nature’, synthetic processes and produce less hazardous side streams. they seek products they can trust: the less processed or complex the product, the more natural and healthy it is New sources of raw materials perceived to be. Creating new sources of key raw materials also plays an important role in enabling us to maintain constant supply to While natural flavours are still acceptable to many consumers, our customers and alleviate the pressure on some natural there is an evolving preference for simple, recognisable natural products. Take the example of citrus, a flavour that consumers ingredients. As one of the largest buyers of natural raw increasingly seek in beverages and other products. This rise in materials in the industry, we have an important role to play in demand comes as some of the key citrus growing areas have ensuring that this increased demand can be met in a been under threat, for example from diseases like the citrus responsible, sustainable way. greening disease, which causes the tree to die if left untreated, or from natural phenomena like hurricanes. The resulting We have been making and providing great tasting solutions reduction in yield and quality has put considerable pressure on from real food ingredients since 1907 and our natural the supply of citrus worldwide. ingredients heritage is rooted in a longstanding tradition of exploration, discovery and innovative thinking. Today, New sources of key citrus raw materials allow us to provide we are using our know-how in cultivation processes and security of supply to our customers: our SunThesis® citrus biotechnology to increase yield and go beyond fully natural ingredients collection, a range of natural citrus oil replacers, ingredients: we are well positioned to alleviate pressure function like original citrus oil, are at least as stable, and on sourcing and supply chains as well as the planet’s provide great citrus flavour even though they come from limited resources. non-citrus sources. When developing our new flavour ingredients, we always Furthermore, we are working and sharing knowledge with consider the impact on the environment and target local communities to investigate and develop alternative sustainable innovation through natural processes. We look sources of key natural raw materials. This helps us protect to use as few resources as possible and incorporate circular fragile resources while expanding our customers’ access to the thinking, also using our scientific knowledge to replicate natural ingredients and solutions they seek. traditional natural processes on a large scale to produce desirable flavour ingredients. Kitchen Ingredients Under the term Kitchen Ingredients, we have created a portfolio of ingredients which are derived directly from recognised foods and are minimally processed, e.g. herbs and spices, extracts, stocks and other natural ingredients. Our flavour innovation programme focuses on natural enabling technologies that allow us to provide these ingredients to our customers: harnessing the power of nature through enhanced fermentation and new technologies, we convert raw materials into highly desirable natural flavour ingredients. We continue to innovate in this area, using natural technologies such as bio-fermentation to produce natural Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach 18 Innovating Responsibly Upcycling We are also continuing to explore possibilities for upcycling – the use of natural waste materials to create high added value and sustainable flavour ingredients – to ensure maximum natural resource efficiency. These can be our own side streams, or indeed those of customer or others in the industry. We look to inform our approach with the latest best practices by participating in EIT Food’s Zero waste agenda and in FReSH’s Food Loss and Waste workstream. We also continue research in the areas of variety selection and cultivation, sourcing, plant cell cultures and holistic flavour creation. We would also like to participate in the creation of inter-company logistics networks to support side-stream valorisation and promote more innovative and eco-efficient upcycling models. Innovating Responsibly in Fragrances Critical questions in Fragrances surround how we can improve people’s well-being, their moods and emotions, enhancing the daily lives of people while minimising impact on the self-esteem and a positive mindset. environment. Consumers want to look good and feel good, and seek products that promote mental and bodily health and In Active Beauty, we create products that enhance skin and well-being as well as beauty and sustainability. Consumers look hair throughout life, while our growing understanding of the for fresh scents that can banish bad odours in clothing and in skin microbiome is allowing us to develop more personalised the environment, boosting self-confidence, enabling social solutions for better skin for everyone. inclusivity, and seek fragrances that positively influence how they feel. Ageing, active populations want to live better as they Impact of fragrance on emotion and behaviour are living longer and we are looking to address such issues. Watching a film or listening to a song can trigger emotional Inspiring a sense of well-being that contributes to a positive reactions because of sensory process called ‘transduction’: state of mind is our goal as well as a key strategy for many of converting light and sound into electrical signals that combine our customers and consumers. with chemical neurotransmitters, it forms the essence of how our brain thinks, feels and behaves at every moment of the day As in Flavours, naturalness is an important driver of demand in and night. Our sense of smell is also managed through our market: consumers seek and trust products from transduction. Research has shown that odours that evoke recognised natural sources. We look to respond to these positive memories may increase positive emotions, decrease demands while respecting the planet. We seek to maximise the negative mood states, disrupt cravings, and reduce value from nature but at the same time going beyond fully physiological indices of stress, including systemic markers of natural fragrances by increasing the use of biotechnology. This inflammation. will allow us to offer fragrance ingredients and design solutions that meet this consumer demand for our customers. We can Our specialists in neuroscience, psychology, sensory science give access to different options of fragrance design, making and fragrance design have undertaken scientific testing and sure we respect the planet at the same time. analysis on a range of topics at our state-of-the-art Health and Well-being Centre of Excellence in Ashford, UK. Already leading An essential element of developing a more sustainable palette the industry in researching effects of odours on emotion, we for perfumers is more efficient use of resources, greater have expanded this research to include behavioural responses adoption of cleaner and more environmentally sound such as sleep. This is allowing us to develop a new range of technologies and industrial processes. We take the principles of solutions, designing complex fragrances covering different Green Chemistry into account and look to reduce waste olfactive directions to create a better night’s sleep. generation through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse. Feeling fresh in daily life Health and well-being Consumers wish to feel and smell fresh as they go about their We work closely with our customers to develop and maximise busy lives, reducing interfering odours from their clothing and the growth of their brands by offering novel sensory environment, and to remain integrated in society. To address experiences and unique solutions to help them promote this need, our Health & Well-being Centre of Excellence has a consumer health and well-being. Health and well-being boils dedicated programme of innovation focused on malodour down to helping people feel better throughout their lives and control and oral care. The teams are working on the promotion we approach this in multiple ways. With over 30 years of of health and well-being through the removal of negative experience we are able to leverage creation to influence influences such as malodour and using fragrance to positively Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach Innovating Responsibly 19 influence mood and behaviour. For oral care we are also Our ability to offer these alternatives in a sustainable way working on the delivery of positive experiences in the mouth depends heavily on various innovative processes. Our objectives and oral hygiene. are to use the latest and emerging science to find new ways of making existing products through sustainable methods as well Looking good, feeling good as new sustainable chemistry and biotechnology to deliver How we look also contributes to our sense of well-being and carbon-efficient molecules. This will help us meet long-term self-esteem and in Active Beauty we are developing products ingredient needs while keeping perfumery creation relevant to that address this need. To further our knowledge in skin health the future expectations of consumers. and extend our expertise, we have established a dedicated research centre. The Skin Expertise Technical Centre in Making the most of what we have Pomacle, France has the mission to accelerate cosmetic One way of improving yields is to look at new cultivation research and development projects, using high throughput methods combined with novel breeding when possible. One screening capabilities to more rapidly identify and select lead example is our patchouli programme in Indonesia where a new compounds with new biological activities. patchouli breed, Patchoulina, developed locally is more tolerant to disease and so provides farmers with a higher yield both in The work we lead in our Applied Microbiomics Centre of terms of biomass and essential oil. Excellence in Toulouse (France) on the skin microbiome is another key approach of how we strive to offer our customers We also look to make more efficient use of natural resources products that they can use to improve the lives of consumers. through, for example, a novel technique that allows us to Billions of micro-organisms known as ‘microbiota’ live on the produce more fragrance with less material. By concentrating surface of our skin and just as each of us has our own set of citrus molecules we can yield intensely powerful notes and genes, our personal community of microbiota, or ‘microbiome’, obtain a multiplier effect at low quantities. This approach has is unique too. Understanding it is essential if we want better been used to create several Citrus Coeur qualities, which now health and skin: any imbalances can manifest in skin conditions form part of our exclusive Citrus Collection. such as eczema, allergies, dandruff or acne. Givaudan’s approach to Green Chemistry Naturals and Sustainable Processes The 12 principles of Green Chemistry came about as a response At Givaudan we are looking to go beyond fully natural fragrances to the need to reduce the environmental impact in chemical and develop highly sustainable options that meet consumer manufacturing and it is now an integral part of our sustainability demand and consider both human safety and the environmental approach, helping us to produce fragrances that are safe for impact. In providing our perfumers with the best palette of consumers, conserve resources and reduce environmental ingredients, we need to innovate to make more efficient use of impacts. It is an approach to chemistry that aims to maximise natural products and get the most out of side streams. In this efficiency and minimise hazardous effects on human health and way, our customers can continue to develop differentiating the environment as outlined by Anastas and Warner. olfactive signatures. Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach 20 Innovating Responsibly The principles underpin efforts to be more sustainable and by quickly, all while side-stepping the ethical dilemmas posed by following them we ensure that ingredients are safe by design using sentient creatures for commercial gain. and that our manufacturing processes optimise energy use, make efficient use of materials and reduce water and waste. The We were the first fragrance company to invest in exploring approach also contributes to our commitment to responsible alternatives to animal testing and we are leading in their sourcing: scientists can take abundant, simple ingredients or development with, for example, the Organisation for Economic waste materials and produce molecules that could otherwise be Co-operation and Development (OECD) guidelines of difficult to obtain. This helps us to keep the cost of quality KeratinoSens® as well as bioaccumulation assessment in the ingredients low, ensure continuity of supply and reduce pressure field of perfumery. The KeratinoSens® assay tests for skin on scarce resources. sensitisation and we made the decision to make this in-vitro assay openly available, working with the OECD to adopt and Our approach to putting the principles into practice focus on promote it. The OECD adopted it in 2015 and it is regarded as an the areas where we can make the biggest difference. We are essential tool for cosmetics companies, many of whom we count particularly focused on Waste Prevention; Less Hazardous as customers. We have also partnered with BASF and The Chemical Syntheses; Safer by Design; Use of Renewable Institute for In Vitro Sciences (IIVS) to validate another assay Feedstocks; Catalysis; Design for Degradation and Real-time originally invented at Givaudan, the Kinetic Direct Peptide analysis for Pollution Prevention. We have appropriate Reactivity Assay (Kinetic DPRA) to predict skin sensitisation. monitoring in place at our ingredients factories to ensure we can improve chemical processes, quickly respond to any Another test, the Trout Liver S9 Fractional Assay, has also been changes in output and meet our legal requirements for the approved by the OECD. Mainly developed by the U.S. locations concerned. Environmental Protection Agency, we were in 2014 the first company to publish a study proving the use of the approach for We have several external collaborations and partnerships in the fragrance molecules. It allows us to test whether molecules are field of Green Chemistry, including active participation in eliminated by the liver – an indication of its bioaccumulative Europic, a European forum of industry and academia to share potential – in fish liver enzymes rather than in fish themselves. experience and expertise in process intensification. Upcycling Biotechnology Upcycling, also known as creative reuse, refers to the Modern biotechnology techniques enable us to produce existing transformation of co-products, waste materials, useless or molecules or create new captives. For instance, by following unwanted products into new materials or products of better Green Chemistry techniques such as biocatalysis, in which quality and environmental value. At Givaudan, we obtain such enzymes from microorganisms or plants are used as catalysts materials by valorising side streams (natural or not) that are to perform chemical transformations, we ensure ingredients are normally disposed or downgraded by transforming them into designed in an efficient manner and that our manufacturing ingredients used in fragrance creations. One example is using processes make efficient use of energy and materials, while upcycling methods to produce Apple Oil directly from fruit puree, reducing water consumption and waste. a process side stream of juice production. In Active Beauty, we are creating active cosmetic ingredients In Active Beauty, we are using upcycling as a way to unlock through the use of micro-organisms (fermentation and the skin care benefits of plants in our portfolio of sustainably bioconversion) or enzymes (biocatalysis) allowing us to create sourced natural ingredients, which have historically provided products that are more eco-responsible, require less energy and raw materials for our fragrance creations. Creative, sustainable generate less waste. One example is BisboLife™, a form of innovation such as this ensures we can do more with less, by alpha-bisabolol produced through fermentation bringing quality finding two applications from just one source. This concept aims with lower impact on the environment. to use all parts of the plant to optimise the usage and reduce waste, further emphasising the synergies between fragrance and Safe by Design the cosmetics world. Safe by Design™ is part of Givaudan’s vision to develop new molecules more efficiently and shows our commitment to An example is Vetivyne™, made using a water-soluble extract increasingly using non-invasive test methods to screen them: from exhausted Haitian vetiver roots, a by-product of the research on alternatives to animal testing form the basis of the extraction procedure used to produce vetiver oil for fragrances. approach. It makes development more efficient, but also speeds These ground-breaking Upcycling approaches reduce waste and up the product development process in a cost-effective way. minimise our environmental impact. This leads to safer products that can be brought to market more Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach Acting for Our Environment 21 Acting for Our Environment We continue to pursue excellence the steps in the supply chain that lead to the market, we are also collaborating increasingly with our suppliers to reduce in our operations while helping their own footprints, helping us minimise the true environmental impact of a given product. By working with our partners improve supply chain suppliers, we contribute to overall climate change mitigation: efficiency. this has a direct impact on local producer communities and a positive effect on the supply of the natural ingredients and all of the raw materials we rely on. Climate change has a direct impact on the availability of our key natural resources because it alters ecosystems and disrupts Through this collaborative approach, we seek to reduce food production and water supplies. As such, it poses a greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and improve water significant risk to our operations. Motivated then by both stewardship and waste management and have correspondingly ethical and business concerns, we are going to great lengths to ambitious targets. We assess our activities and those of our continuously improve processes, reduce our environmental suppliers to find opportunities to limit our environmental footprint and mitigate the effects of climate change. We seek impact, from purchasing 100% renewable electricity to to optimise the environmental impact of our products within encouraging zero deforestation. Our targets to reduce GHG the entire supply chain, carefully examining how they are emissions are approved by the Science Based Targets initiative designed, manufactured and ultimately used by the consumer. and are aligned with the global effort to limit climate change. We have introduced an ambitious agenda that aims to protect As a signatory to the International Council of Chemical the environment across our operations and throughout our Associations Responsible Care Global Charter, Givaudan value chain. Because the real footprint of a product includes all commits to actively strengthen Responsible Care worldwide by dedicating its people, technologies and business practices Our targets to the charter’s six elements, which target continuous improvement in environmental, health and safety performance. Greenhouse gas emissions Reduce absolute scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by Our Responsible Care Management System provides the 70% between 2015 and 20301 framework within which our environment, health and safety Additional goal to reduce Scope 3 GHG emissions (EHS) policy, procedures and daily activities operate. This by 20% over the same time period framework is structured around the Responsible Care Charter, ISO standards, industry best practices, and regulatory requirements. It is an established and successful initiative to Renewable electricity improve performance in environmental protection, and 100% renewable electricity by 2025 occupational health and safety and builds on existing EHS policies and procedures, providing a coherent framework to bind them together. Total weight of incinerated and land‑filled waste by type and disposal 4% reduction, per tonne of product, year on year on average (baseline 2015) Water 15% reduction, per tonne of product, by 2020 (use of municipal and groundwater; baseline 2009) 1. Consistent with limiting global warming at 1.5°C, the 2017 science-based target to reduce absolute scope 1 and 2 GHG emissions by 30% by 2030 has been raised to 70% in 2019. Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach 22 Acting for Our Environment Target setting, documentation and performance monitoring Emissions are aligned with the requirements and principles of the ISO We are committed to reducing absolute direct (scope 1 and 2) 14001 Environmental Management System. emissions by 70% by 2030 compared to 2015 levels and aim to reduce indirect (scope 3) emissions – those produced by our Our management team of experts, including members of the entire value chain – by 20% over the same period. Environment Centre of Expertise, the Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) field organisation, operations, supply chain and Scope 1 + 2 Emissions procurement functions, develops the global roadmap and Scope 1 emissions are defined as those generated by Givaudan’s supports and encourages every part of the business and its production. Such emissions come from the combustion of fossil leadership in efforts to meet environmental targets. It drives fuels (gasoline, diesel, fuel oil, natural gas, propane) consumed progress on the material aspects of climate change, water to produce heat and steam on our facilities or to operate our stewardship, waste management, transparency and reporting, vehicles. Scope 2 emissions come from the production of as well as the environmental and societal impact of our electricity, steam, or other sources of energy (e.g. chilled water) products. The ultimate mission is to translate targets and generated upstream by another organisation using fuels such commitments into concrete plans and identify future as coal, fuel oil, natural gas, waste, and others, to do so. opportunities to improve environmental performance. Different means of ensuring that our targets are met include 100% RENEWABLE ELECTRICITY site-specific goals, dedicated employee teams as well as As part of its commitment to reducing GHG educational workshops. All production sites have Site Ecoefficiency Plans (SEEP), which set individual eco-efficiency emissions, Givaudan will ensure that all of targets meant to be achieved over a period of two to three the electricity it buys will come from renewable years. This work is supported by Green Teams, cross-functional groups of volunteer employees at each site who identify sources by 2025. additional eco-efficiency projects or seek to improve existing ones: the Executive Committee recognises the most successful projects annually with awards. We are a member of RE100, and have committed to converting our entire electricity supply to fully renewable sources by 2025. We have introduced regular eco-efficiency performance This is a fundamental element of our comprehensive plan to reporting at the site, regional, divisional and global levels. We reduce scope 2 emissions. We are at the same time leading have also implemented the ‘Green Chapter’ for capital significant energy consumption reduction projects across expenditure project proposals. The Green Chapter must include operations and making improvements through investment and an outline of the eco-efficiency aspects, a cost/benefit analysis effort in energy saving workshops, eco-efficiency plans and and elements related to a ‘price on carbon’ concept of the targeted projects. proposed investment. We are now investigating various means of achieving this goal, looking to go beyond green tariffs. This may involve, for instance, investing directly into renewable power or, for Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach Acting for Our Environment 23 example, having power purchase agreements with other We are also targeting a decrease in such emissions through a companies. We have also started some relevant projects joint effort with suppliers to reduce the carbon footprint of such as the investigation of the use of solar heat in industrial purchased goods and services and associated transport. processes. In an EU-funded pilot project, for instance, we are We have joined the CDP Supply Chain, which will enable us coupling solar thermal collectors with special hybrid heat and our suppliers to identify ways to do so, focusing especially pumps to provide flexible and cost-efficient cooling systems on opportunities in transport, packaging and purchasing for industrial applications in our Sant Celoni site in Spain. of raw materials. For example, achieving sustainable transport and logistics requires good planning, which in itself depends on At the same time, we are introducing significant energy good communication and organisation both within the consumption reduction projects across operations and making business and with our customers. This could allow us to, for improvements through the investment and effort that goes instance, replace some air cargo with sea freight, which is into energy saving workshops and site eco-efficiency plans. cost-effective and generates less GHG emission. Energy saving workshops are meant to improve overall Management Approach 103 – 2: Topic 302, 305, pages 22 – 23 employee awareness by asking them to see energy use in a new light. Workshops typically begin with an explanation of different ways of identifying inefficiencies, reviewing Water and Effluents internal technical infrastructures such as pipes and machinery Water is an essential element in our manufacturing activities and looking at essential data relating to energy, waste and as well as in our entire value chain and Givaudan is striving to water. Teams formed within the workshop then review be an industry leader in conservation and stewardship. We different operational technologies to identify where are looking to consume and discharge this increasingly precious improvements and savings might be found. The teams then natural resource in a socially equitable, environmentally have an opportunity to present projects to the regional sustainable and economically beneficial manner. operational management teams and they lead to real change in site performance and efficiency. Our strategy for monitoring and reducing water consumption is embodied in our Water Stewardship Programme, which is Scope 3 Emissions also used to guide our growth strategy in terms of location, We define scope 3 emissions as those that come from all technology and procedures to ensure water risks are sources of emission in our value chain excluding those already managed and monitored. We are putting a priority on places covered under scope 1 and 2. Scope 3 refers then to items where water stress is expected, carrying out risk assessments including but not limited to the production of purchased goods, to develop water mitigation action plans including efficiency goods transport, packaging, capital goods, waste disposal and improvements and water reuse opportunities. employee commuting and business travel. Water Risk Assessment To get a more detailed picture, we carry out a periodic corporate water risk assessment that allows an exhaustive identification of relevant exposures and a specific analysis related to the context at the watershed level. This process applies to both the operations and the supply chain as they are the most material stages of our value chain in terms of water consumption. This water risk assessment includes all Givaudan manufacturing facilities and takes into account six indicators from two water risk mapping tools – the Water Risk Filter and WRI Aquaduct – that cover all water risk aspects: physical, regulation & reputation. In addition, we use a set of criteria on production volume, water withdrawal, level of risks for each indicators and internal knowledge to prioritise the facilities. All prioritised facilities have to fulfil a Local Water Risk Assessment aiming to get contextual information and develop mitigation plans. Because of the transparency of the data source and the global coverage of the WRI Aqueduct and WWF-DEG Water Risk Filter tools, both tools were selected to identify risks in our operations. Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach 24 Acting for Our Environment A corporate water footprint based on ISO 14046 and using a metric-based methodology has also allowed us to identify hot spots in terms of countries and products. The goal of this project was to perform a screening corporate water footprint assessment of Givaudan’s activities, specifically aiming to: quantify the total water consumption of our activities, taking into consideration the whole value chain from raw materials extraction to product use and end-of-life; quantify the water scarcity footprint to highlight water consumption located in water stressed areas along the value chain; provide a detailed breakdown of the water footprint to identify main contributors and, finally, to identify water hotspots and physical water risks along the value chain. This allows us to set priorities for reducing water use and a mitigation plan is under development. Additionally, our most important suppliers are annually evaluated through the SEDEX platform and SMETA audits to assess water risks in our supply chain. Both tools were selected because of their application to a broad range of users. Actions Our actions already include reducing water withdrawal, recycling water and making use of other sources such as rainwater. Some approaches have included switching processes that currently use municipal water to our existing cooling tower loop, meaning we reduced the amount of municipal water required for cooling. Another is the installation of automatic valves to manage water needed for purging product dust from the recirculating scrubber water. This allows the unit to stop adding water when product is not being dried. These are just a few of the many water-saving Materials and Waste initiatives ongoing at Givaudan sites worldwide, from on-site We work hard to limit the amount of waste we produce biological treatment of waste water and subsequent reuse in the through a four-pronged process based on the key concepts of Netherlands to rainwater harvesting in India. ‘reduce,’ ‘reuse,’ ‘recycle’ and ‘recover.’ We are reducing the amount we create as a by-product of our processes; then Due to very efficient water reduction programmes we reuse where possible and recycle in an effort to move away implemented at our production sites, Givaudan achieved its from disposal in landfill or by incineration. Where waste is 2020 water reduction target three years in advance. Today we incinerated, we recapture the energy. Our target is to reduce are assessing a new target and are looking into how to increase incinerated and landfilled waste production per tonne of our impact for global water stewardship. We will soon publish a product by an average of 4% year on year against the 2015 relevant new target. baseline figure. In parallel, we work with key suppliers and help them manage One of the ways we are getting closer to our waste their own environmental footprints by asking them to report management targets is by putting more emphasis on notions water use, risks and management strategy including targets engrained in the idea of the circular economy, a generic term and actions that they are taking to reduce their impact. We use for an industrial economy that produces little or no waste. this collected information to create partnerships to put into It is estimated that 90% of the raw materials used in place collaborative measures that contribute to our Water manufacturing become waste before the product leaves the Stewardship Programme. We also aim to work with local factory, and that 80% of products made are thrown away communities through our Communities at Source programme within the first six months. 1 In the circular economy model, to help them figure out solutions for improving water and various measures can be taken such as, for instance, managing sanitation management. biological materials so that they can be returned to the biosphere without contamination. We are also working to ensure that the wastewater from our operations is discharged responsibly. 1. Rubbish: Dirt on Our Hands and Crisis Ahead, Richard Girling, Transworld Management Approach 103 – 2: Topic 303, 306, pages 23 – 24 Publishers Limited, 2005 – Nature – 414 pages. Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach Acting for Our Environment 25 An example is our biorefinery that produces hyaluronic acid (HA), used in moisturising and anti-ageing products, and dihydroxyacetone (DHA), the essential active ingredient in self-tanning products. It operates in a circular fashion in that, for example, water is generated as a by-product from sugar beets and reused in specialised products and processes; CO2 resulting from fermentation is captured for use in the carbonation of beverages; ethanol is recycled and finally, effluents are sent to a retention and purification plant for downstream spreading on fields. The use of fertiliser is kept low thanks to the reuse of effluent from the purification plant. We are continuing to investigate ways of introducing similar concepts into our daily business. Management Approach 103 – 2: Topic 301, 306, pages 24 – 25 Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach 26 Our People and Partners Our People and Partners Managing and encouraging One way we promote this is through our approach to a better balance: a good mix of nationalities and gender reinforces our people and protecting the health inclusive culture and is essential to achieving our business goals. Evolving the balance of nationalities and genders in our and safety of our employees management teams over time will lead to steady, sustainable and contractors is critical change, not quick or superficial fixes. We are committed to providing and contributing to a work environment that is based to meeting our business and on mutual respect among people and is free from harassment. sustainability goals. Leadership path open to all The path to leadership is open to all motivated, talented and qualified people and we are committed to equal opportunity. People who are passionate about our work and committed to Our Principles of Conduct state that it is our policy to recruit, creating a sustainable society make significant contributions to employ and promote people on the sole basis of the the success of our business. We are a leading employer in the qualifications and abilities needed for the work to be performed industry, with a global staff of around 14’900, including more without regard to race, age, gender, national origin or any other than 90 nationalities: we reflect the societies and cultures in non-relevant category. which we operate by providing opportunities for people of all backgrounds, gender and location. We believe that diversity and While we believe it is fundamentally right to do so, it also makes inclusivity add strength and balance to our workforce and we sound business sense. Highly qualified candidates may be more look to contribute to full and engaged employment and decent likely to consider working for a company if they believe work for all. opportunities for economic growth will be available to them as they demonstrate their value, regardless of their gender or Part of our commitment to decent work is our insistence on fair nationality. Companies who compensate men and women and compensation, labour rights and good labour/management people from all backgrounds equally will have access to a larger relations as well as continuous development of the skills of our talent pool when recruiting and hiring, and are more likely to talented workforce. We are opposed to all forms of forced retain these highly talented people. labour and exploitation of children. Finally, health and safety are critical elements of our work as we strive to get ‘Everyone Home Safe, Everyday.’ Promoting diversity and managing talent under fair conditions Diversity is critical to helping us manage our complex operating environment and serving our customers in the best possible way. Equal opportunity is necessary to cultivate leaders with legitimacy and to make better business decisions. Managing talent allows us to attract and keep the best and the brightest. We embrace diversity throughout our organisation and are fully committed to increasing inclusiveness. We produce analytics to assess and review the numbers of our balanced workforce (in particular relating to gender and nationality) and we track progress in this regard, including the percentage of women and high growth market nationalities in leadership positions. Our Diversity Position Statement outlines our commitment to ensuring a representative workforce that reflects the diverse communities in which we operate. Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach Our People and Partners 27 Equal pay and talent development We are particularly attentive to the remuneration of women compared to that of men and we strive to have equal pay for work of equal value. This is a priority topic at Givaudan and we have conducted studies in some of our key markets because equal pay for equal responsibilities is our target. We also focus on talent development to improve skills and engagement. This helps reduce costs and increase our revenue and it also provides an engaging and inspiring environment for employees to realise their career aspirations. This enables us to retain and motivate qualified people. Our drive to develop and engage our talented professionals is reflected in projects such as our regional ONE Givaudan onboarding initiative – a programme that allows new employees to acquire fundamental knowledge about our Company and its rich heritage, our business and our DNA; a set of customised management training programmes called Leadership Senses; a yearly performance cycle including talent compensation to the evolution of the Givaudan share price reviews and career discussions; and a culture of continuous and long-term business objectives through the award of learning, curiosity and feedback. Performance Shares. Management Approach 103 – 2: Topics 202, 404, 405, 406, Finally, benefit plans seek to address current and future pages 26 – 27 security needs of employees and generally include retirement, health, death and disability benefits. Fair working conditions Fair and competitive compensation is essential to attract, Respecting human rights motivate and retain the best talent in the industry and we We respect, protect, and fulfill human rights within our sphere recognise that managing and encouraging our talent is critical of influence and contribute to eradicating inequality and unfair to meeting our business and sustainability goals. This is why labour conditions wherever we do business. We strive to make our remuneration policy is based on the principles of pay for a positive impact on the communities in which we are present. performance; external competitiveness; internal consistency and fairness: internal pay scales reflect job level, function and Specifically, we are particularly opposed to all forms of forced geographic market. We pay fair wages, do not demand labour and exploitation of children. Our Principles of Conduct excessive working hours from our employees and comply with stipulate that we do not practice or tolerate any form of child all applicable wage and hour laws. exploitation or forced labour. We do not provide employment to children before they have completed their compulsory We review all salaries by taking into account macroeconomic education and, in any event, not before they reach the age of 15. data such as cost of living and market evolution and salaries We do not engage with suppliers who exploit or use child or may be reviewed more frequently than once a year in forced labour. high-inflation countries. This process includes all markets where we operate, all job functions and all levels. Furthermore, We fully support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, all employees are paid at least – and in most cases well the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and above – the minimum salary stipulated by law or collective the United Nations Global Compact’s (UNGC) guiding agreements and a robust and continuously updated rewards principles. We also follow the principles of the fundamental strategy is in place. conventions of the International Labour Organisation (ILO), the Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning Multinational In addition, our people may benefit from additional forms of Enterprises and Social Policy of March 2006 and the OECD compensation. The Profit Sharing Plan is designed for nonGuidelines for Multinational Enterprises of June 2011. management employees and payouts are based on yearly evolution of Group EBITDA. The Annual Incentive Plan covers We conduct general employee training on our Principles of all managers and executives globally, rewarding participants Conduct, which covers Corporate Social Responsibility topics. for the achievement of financial targets and other We also train employees in health and safety aspects. organisational and individual objectives. The Performance Share Plan (PSP) links executives and selected manager Management Approach 103 – 2: Topics 408, 409, 412 Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach 28 Our People and Partners Good relations with our employees Another element of constructive dialogue is our global Genuine conversations improve mutual understanding and Employee Engagement Survey, which offers all employees the help us find resolutions to potential conflicts and we have a opportunity to have their say. The survey is anonymous and proud history of constructive dialogue with employee conducted by an external agency, providing employees with representatives. For example, over recent years we have assurance they can speak freely and that their voice will be successfully modified our benefits plans, a process which heard. The impressive response rates show us that our required solid labour/management relations. These relations employees feel empowered to speak up and create change. are crucial for continued success. We protect labour rights and Following these surveys, results are communicated to support the freedom of individuals to join trade unions or employees; local sites and countries are encouraged to take other employee representative bodies. Givaudan does not ownership of their results to build on their strengths and discriminate based on employee membership of, or association address opportunities and global actions are reviewed by with, these bodies and seeks to enter into constructive the Executive Committee. discussions when issues arise. Givaudan always consults with the employee representatives. Management Approach 103 – 2: Topics 402, 407 Givaudan regularly consults with employee representatives, for example continuing to hold regular European Works ‘Everyone Home Safe, Everyday’ Council consultations with a group of employees, which Ensuring the safety, health and wellness of our staff are represents works council members from all European Union an essential part of being a responsible company and member states where we have operations. The purpose is employer and we actively promote safe and secure working to inform and consult employees about significant changes in environments for all. We strive to manage risks that are the organisation, ensure the right to freedom of association associated with working in industrial environments and and collective bargaining is not put at risk, and to report any with hazardous chemicals as well as air, water and soil feedback to the Executive Committee. pollution and contamination. Our mission is therefore to empower all of us to safeguard the environment and Communication is particularly important when employees are protect people’s health and safety. affected by significant operational changes and we respect legal local notice periods before implementing them. We Our goal at Givaudan is to eliminate accidents and get specify minimum notice periods regarding operational changes ‘Everyone Home Safe, Everyday’. We engage our employees to in countries where there are collective agreements and where actively contribute to this target through awareness it is mandatory. The minimum notice period may be as long as campaigns and specific training programmes and look to three months, depending on the country and based on local ingrain these reflexes into our very culture. laws and practices. Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach Our People and Partners 29 Our primary means of achieving this is through a behaviouralAll these activities are aligned with and contribute to our EHS based safety awareness programme designed to reinforce a Management System. The EHS Management System provides a strong culture in which every employee takes responsibility for framework for implementing our engagement towards EHS on his or her own safety, the safety of the people around them a day-to-day basis. It describes and explains how all elements and the safety of the environments in which we operate. Our interact and relate to each other and provides guidance on how approaches consist of safety leadership training for line to translate our Global EHS policy into strategies and processes managers, a set of Safety Ground Rules and globally rolled-out that drive continuous improvement. Our system is structured employee awareness training that covers the behavioural around the Responsible Care® charter – a voluntary aspects of occupational health and safety. The introduction of commitment by the global chemical industry to drive SafeStart™ training, a programme that promotes behavioural improvement and excellence in environmental, health and safety, also helped with the implementation of safety contacts safety performance – along with ISO standards, industry best as well as periodic workplace inspections. In addition, every practices and regulatory requirements. location receives a yearly pre-defined local safety target that is aligned with and contributes to the global objective in The execution of our Global EHS strategy is helped by our accident reductions. network of local, regional and global EHS professionals, who are valued partners to our operations and business teams. Guidance, In this way, our EHS mission goes beyond rules and processes project management support and governance advice is provided by aiming to empower all employees to take shared by our corporate EHS Centres of Expertise in the fields of: responsibility in safeguarding the environment and protecting their own health and safety as well as that of their colleagues. ––environmental sustainability and protection: optimal Our goal is to enhance this EHS mindset in the daily activities of eco-efficiency targets and action plans, data reporting and all employees so it becomes second nature as well as the right analysis, support for ‘Green Chapter’ capital expenditure and thing to do. We are executing our EHS 2020 strategy, which encouraging local Green Teams. builds on the successful platform of the past and focuses on areas that need reinforcement to achieve continued success. ––material stewardship and hazardous material compliance: industrial safety, dangerous goods transport, data compliance Embedding EHS in our culture management, packaging and hazard communication channels To reach our goals, we have created an EHS Excellence model. It like labels and safety data sheets. uses a workshop approach to raise the visibility and strengthen the impact of our EHS culture. It also helps our leadership ––occupational health: identification, evaluation and control teams assess their sites and functions in terms of the desired of potential health hazards in the workplace, medical culture and, in turn, agree on how to improve them. Training surveillance and documentation. new EHS facilitators in a way that differs from the traditional ‘centre outwards’ approach will further development in ––occupational safety: technical safety, behavioural this area. This programme also enhances and supports local based safety. ownership of EHS matters. The people trained will gain external accreditation from IOSH (the UK-based Institution ––process safety management: standardised approaches to of Occupational Safety and Health) as part of our investment process risk assessment, odour emissions control, in their skills and development. We plan to implement the engineering support, internal audits, business continuity programme on all sites. The programme teaches employees planning and global safety laboratory. how to avoid unsafe situations, how to keep themselves and others healthy, and how to look after the environment. It also Empowering everybody to safeguard the environment and facilitates the ‘See something – say something’ approach protect people’s health and safety continues to be embedded as well as the examination of events that might have had in our culture. We know that a safe place to work is also a serious consequences. great place to work. EHS events on sites around the world are highly successful in engaging and energising our people. We We in any case manage occupational health and safety in see a clear increase in the number of people watching out for numerous ways, including prevention measures and emergency themselves and their colleagues and will continue to build on management, in addition to documentation and guidelines that our EHS events to help in executing our EHS strategy. help spread information. We track our efforts through leading indicators such as the number of hours spent on training, Management Approach 103 – 2: Topic 403, pages 28 – 29, and by measuring the number of safety contacts (proactive Topic 401, pages 26 – 29 behavioural safety audits) and near-miss reports, thus reducing exposure to work-related risks or incidents. Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach 31 External environment In this section 32 Policy and regulations 35 Supported initiatives and strategic memberships Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach 32 Policy and regulations Policy and regulations We adhere to the highest ethical Finally, in terms of product and service labelling, our Regulatory and Product Safety teams provide the critical information that standards in the way we interact enables customers around the world to use our products in the knowledge they are safe and compliant for the intended use. with all our stakeholders in all Anti-corruption communities in which we operate. Keeping our business free from corruption issues is a key concern to Givaudan. It reflects the high ethical standards that High ethical standards are essential to how we interact with are the basis of our DNA. Most countries where we operate all our stakeholders, everywhere – customers, suppliers, also have anti-bribery laws. Some of them apply even shareholders, employees, competitors, government agencies extraterritorially, such as the UK Bribery Act, the US Foreign and the communities in which we operate. Being open, Corrupt Practices Act or the French Loi Sapin II. Nontransparent and honest in our dealings with these compliance with these and other anti-corruption laws may stakeholders, presented in more detail in the following chapter, expose us to fines and reputational damage, which may lead to allows us to grow responsibly and share our success. loss of customers. Ethical behaviour by our employees, agents and business Anti-corruption compliance is managed as one of the partners is of utmost importance: we can be held responsible compliance risk areas within our Compliance Management for our own actions as well as for the actions of our agents, System as follows: consultants and other business partners. Our corporate governance systems ensure that our Company is managed in Policies the interests of shareholders and other stakeholders. Our Our Principles of Conduct, last updated in 2018, state that management systems include checks and balances to control Givaudan has zero tolerance of bribery and corruption and do risk and oversee management accountability. The penalties for not make facilitation payments. This principle is further violating bribery and corruption laws are severe, including detailed in two policies: prison sentences and significant fines. We also know that mere allegations of bribery or corruption can damage our reputation. 1. Givaudan’s Global Anti-Bribery, Gifts, Entertainment and Hospitality policy, first enacted in 2011 and last amended Our Principles of Conduct apply to all the employees of any in 2018 to take into account recent changes in French antiGivaudan company across the world. corruption law (Loi Sapin II) includes prohibitions on corruption, bribery, inappropriate gifts as well as Our expectations of business integrity also extend to our mechanisms for approval and reporting of gifts, suppliers, who are expected to maintain the highest degree of entertainment and hospitality. business integrity as described in our Responsible Sourcing Policy. They must abide by local laws and international 2. Global Charitable Giving and Community Support policy, standards and conventions on bribery, gifts, entertainment and also last amended in 2018 to reflect the French Loi Sapin II, hospitality, money laundering, fraud, fair competition, provides mandatory guidelines of permitted charitable confidential information and reporting. The implementation causes, due diligence on recipients and reporting. of such a comprehensive policy across a global network of suppliers is an enormous task, but we view the implementation The Principles of Conduct, as well as the two policies are of the policy as an opportunity to transform the supply chain. available to employees in all major Company languages. Our approach is to work hand-in-hand with the suppliers to help them achieve compliance with the requirements. Compliance Risk Assessment Givaudan’s Responsible Sourcing Programme aims to Corruption and bribery risks are regularly reviewed by the implement the policy while encouraging supplier leadership Corporate Compliance Officer as part of a compliance risk and fostering supply chain innovation. assessment, which is done at local and corporate level. The results are presented to the Executive Committee, the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors. Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach Policy and regulations 33 Training Consumer health and safety Givaudan has included corruption and gifts/entertainment in As new regulations are proposed and implemented in the its basic compliance training for all permanent employees. global flavour and fragrance industry, we are at the forefront Moreover, we have introduced specific anti-bribery training of ensuring our products comply with the relevant changes. for employees with material outside stakeholder relations. We work closely with our customers to help them understand Both courses are available in all major Company languages. the changes as well as the impact they will have on their consumer products. Due Diligence Givaudan has a process for the selection and engagement Beyond this direct support of our customers’ needs, we of sales agents and distributors that includes a formal due continue to lead efforts to help shape the industry landscape diligence review and minimum requirements for agent by committing resources and sharing expertise. This advocacy, contracts and payments. support and expertise is provided by 200 employees at over 25 locations with different skills, ranging from scientists to Detection / Due Diligence trade and safety and toxicology experts. Givaudan established a helpline to allow employees to report compliance issues in confidence. This compliance helpline is We are committed to ensuring that our products are safe for serviced by a third-party provider and is available at all sites consumers, workers and the environment when used as worldwide and in all major languages spoken at the Company. intended, and that these products are compliant in the In addition, we have a dedicated grievance e-mail to allow third markets around the world where we sell. We are a business-toparties to report alleged non-compliances. All reported cases business organisation and as such we do not sell products are reviewed and investigated as appropriate. directly to the end-consumer, but we are responsible for providing safe products to the businesses we sell to, and we Monitoring and Reporting seek to ensure the health and safety of our customers when Monitoring is done via a number of measures, including an handling our products. annual compliance certificate by all Local Compliance Officers, regular reporting by the Corporate Compliance Officer to the Givaudan has a long history of investing in safety evaluation Executive Committee, the CEO, the Audit Committee and the of its raw materials and we develop critical data to support Board of Directors. In addition, Givaudan discloses completion these evaluations along with our suppliers. This enables us to rates for compliance trainings and charitable contributions and comply with safety regulations around the world. With our sponsorship in its annual report. regulatory expertise, we not only provide essential advice to our customers, but also ensure that our products meet or Management Approach 103 – 2: Topic 205, pages 32 – 33 exceed all requirements. Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach 34 Policy and regulations Regulatory assessments Product and service labelling Our flavour ingredients are subject to regulatory oversight Transparency is increasingly expected in all areas of our business, and/or assessment by government agencies and international from supply chain data to R&D information and formulas. It is organisations worldwide that approve their use based on their important that we provide all the necessary information for the origin and/or a review of their safety profile. These include the proper handling of materials we sell to enable our customers to US Food and Drug Administration (FDA); the Flavour and Extract manage any EHS risks associated with the use of our ingredients. Manufacturers Association of the US (FEMA); the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA); the International Organization of the Givaudan operates different Centres of Expertise in the Global Flavour Industry (IOFI); and the Joint Expert Committee on Food EHS organisation to coordinate and reinforce expertise on Additives of the World Health Organization (JECFA). classification, labelling and packaging activities, ensuring compliance of our products with local regulations. We evaluate Fragrance materials meet mandatory International Fragrance all the ingredients used in our formulas for any EHS impact Association (IFRA) requirements for safety in addition to and this information is disclosed and filed with the relevant specific country or regional regulatory requirements, such as regulatory bodies whenever necessary. those of the European Chemicals Agency and U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. As a business-to-business organisation, our marketing communication is not aimed at consumers, but it is crucial that REACH regulation update it accurately reflects the reality of our products and services. REACH – the EU Regulation on Registration, Evaluation, Quality and environmental data about our products, including Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals – aims to ensure a safety and technical information, are made available to the users high level of protection of human health and the environment through product labels, safety data sheets (SDS) and technical from risks that can be posed by chemicals and to promote data sheets (DTS). The SDS, which are available in more than alternative test methods. Givaudan has ensured that all the 45 languages, are attached to every consignment and readily ingredients we manufacture and purchase to minimise risk in available to customers on request. For flavour products, our supply chain within the scope of REACH have been information related to allergens, ingredient, GMO, organic, registered. A dedicated cross-functional team also ensured that nutritional and religious criteria can be provided. The businesses suppliers have registered the ingredients we purchase from we sell to have the information needed to handle our products them. We tackled a huge challenge for the 2018 REACH correctly and deliver safe products to the consumer. registration deadline, completing more registrations compared with registrations done before the previous deadline. We Management Approach 103 – 2: Topic 417 ensure REACH compliance, not only for Givaudan but also for our customers in the EU and the end consumer.  w ww.givaudan.com – Our company – Corporate Governance – Principles of conduct Management Approach 103 – 2: Topic 416, pages 33 – 34 Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach Supported initiatives and strategic memberships 35 Supported initiatives and strategic memberships Overview We endorse and participate in United Nations external global commitments Global Compact and initiatives that promote CDP sustainable business practices. We engage in a series of external initiatives and strategic collaborations with relevant organisations and partners to Science Based Targets initiative support and inform our work on the most material sustainability issues. Collaboration across our supply chain as well as with other businesses and non-profit organisations The Global Reporting is essential; the more we do together, the quicker we drive Initiative sustainable solutions. This chapter details some external initiatives and some of the most relevant strategic partners: Sedex (Supplier it is not meant to be exhaustive. Ethical Data Exchange) External initiatives United Nations Global Compact RE100 The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is a strategic policy initiative for businesses committed to aligning their operations and strategies with 10 universally accepted EcoVadis principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We have been signatory since February 2010 and we measure our progress towards sustainability against its principles. Our GRI reporting also AIM-PROGRESS serves as a communication on progress (COP) towards the implementation of these principles and also achieving our sustainability targets. We are also involved with the UNGC Natural Resources Stewardship Circle Swiss Network, allowing us to participate in conferences and share best practices with other members. Roundtable on w ww.unglobalcompact.org Sustainable Palm Oil American Cleaning Institute French Alliance for Sustainable Palm Oil World Business Council for Sustainable Development Earthworm Foundation Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach 36 Supported initiatives and strategic memberships CDP The Global Reporting Initiative We demonstrate our commitment to monitoring and reducing We have used the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines, our greenhouse gas emissions and safeguarding water the leading and most widely adopted global standards for resources through our involvement with CDP, formerly known sustainability reporting, since 2010. They allow for better as the Carbon Disclosure Project. comparability, greater transparency and accountability and align with other prominent standards including: the OECD CDP is an international, non-profit making organisation that guidelines for multinational organisations; ISO 26000; the uses investor and buyer power to motivate companies and United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human governments to disclose their impact on the environment and Rights: Implementing the United Nations ‘Protect, Respect and take meaningful steps to address climate change, deforestation Remedy’ Framework; the UNGC’s Ten Principles and the and water security. CDP works with institutional investors with United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals. Givaudan assets of USD 100 trillion; in 2017, more than 6,300 companies has been applying the GRI Standards, the newest evolution with 55% of the global market capitalisation disclosed of the GRI guidelines, since the reporting period 2017. environmental data through CDP. This is in addition to more than 500 cities and 100 states and regions that have also  w ww.globalreporting.org disclosed through the platform. We recognise that there are tangible business benefits to Sedex (Supplier Ethical Data Exchange) disclosure and action because this helps us ensure long-term Sedex is a not-for-profit membership organisation dedicated sustainability and profitability and equips us to respond to to driving improvements in responsible and ethical business regulatory and policy changes such as the Paris Agreement. We practices in global supply chains. Givaudan engages with Sedex aim to communicate with our stakeholders as transparently as for the assessment of both its production sites and suppliers. possible on strategic direction, motivation, goals, development The registration of our production sites with Sedex is an and progress and our CDP disclosure is part of that effort. We ongoing process related to acquisitions and the opening of new report annually on greenhouse gas emissions, energy use and production sites. To ensure high standards, we are committed the risks and opportunities associated with climate change. to starting the registration process soon after an acquisition We have disclosed our greenhouse gas emissions as well as our has been announced or a new facility has been commissioned. reduction strategy and performance for both investor and Givaudan has been an active user of the Sedex platform since supply chain surveys every year since we began participating in 2008 and reviews and updates the SAQ every year. the CDP Climate Change programme in 2007.  w ww.sedexglobal.com  w ww.cdp.net EcoVadis Science Based Targets initiative EcoVadis aims to improve environmental and social practices The Science Based Targets initiative champions science-based of companies by leveraging the influence of global supply target setting as a powerful way of boosting companies’ chains. EcoVadis’ reliable ratings and easy-to-use monitoring competitive advantage in the transition to the low-carbon tools allow companies to manage risks and drive ecoeconomy. It is a collaboration between CDP, World Resources innovations in their global supply chains. Givaudan completed Institute (WRI), the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF), and the EcoVadis CSR assessment for the first time in 2008 and the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and one of the We has received several outstanding recognitions since then. Mean Business Coalition commitments. The initiative defines and promotes best practice in science-based target setting,  w ww.ecovadis.com offers resources and guidance to reduce barriers to adoption, and independently assesses and approves companies’ targets.  http://sciencebasedtargets.org Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach Supported initiatives and strategic memberships 37 RE100 Natural Resources Stewardship Circle RE100 is a collaborative, global initiative that unites more than The Natural Resources Stewardship Circle (NRSC) is a group 100 influential businesses committed to 100% renewable of leading industry organisations in beauty, flavours and electricity and to working to increase demand for and delivery fragrances taking collective action to reduce their negative of renewable energy. It is organised by The Climate Group, an impact on biodiversity, taking the social and economic international non-profit organisation, in partnership with development of local communities into account. Givaudan is CDP (see above), both part of the We Mean Business coalition. participating in several working groups with the objective of RE100 shares the compelling business case for renewables, transforming practices in different supply chains for the better. including factors such as greater control over energy costs, By working with our suppliers we are developing an in-depth increased competitiveness, and delivery on emissions goals. It understanding of traceability and risk all along the complex also highlights business action on renewables and encourages palm oil supply chain. Our engagement with the NRSC supplier engagement, while working to address barriers to addresses the material topics of biodiversity; consumer health companies reaping the benefits of going 100% renewable. and well-being; deforestation; human rights; local community Companies joining RE100 set a public goal to source 100% of development; raw material availability; responsible sourcing; their global electricity consumption from renewable sources by traceability and transparency and reporting. a specified year. They disclose their electricity data annually, and RE100 reports on their progress. As part of its ‘Road to w ww.nrsc.fr Paris’ commitments in 2015, Givaudan committed to procure 100% electricity from renewable sources by 2025. Progress is reported in our annual reporting suite. Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil The Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) is an http://there100.org international, multi-stakeholder organisation and certification model to advance the production, procurement, finance and use Disclosure 102 – 12, pages 35 – 37 of sustainable palm oil products. Givaudan joined the RSPO in 2011 to promote the production and use of sustainable palm oil. We continue to support the aim of sustainable production of Membership of associations palm oil and palm oil derivatives. Our ultimate objective is to The strategic organisations we are currently engaged with obtain all of our palm oil and palm oil derivatives from certified include: traceable sources once they become technically and commercially available. Since 2012, 100% of the palm oil and AIM-PROGRESS palm kernel oil we source is covered by Green Palm Book and AIM-PROGRESS is an association of consumer goods Claim certificates, unless already sourced with RSPO Mass companies seeking to enable and promote responsible sourcing Balance or Segregated certification. From 2017 the Book and practices and sustainable production systems. We have been Claim certificates provided by Green Palm are replaced by RSPO an active member of AIM-PROGRESS since 2012 and regularly Credits provided through PalmTrace. This supports our attend conferences that focus on responsible sourcing commitment to eliminate deforestation from our supply chain; practices. Through our membership, we enhance our supplier to address key issues such as traceability and to create a positive and customer partnerships to help create a more responsible difference for workers, farmers and local communities. supply chain. Our engagement with AIM-PROGRESS addresses Givaudan’s annual communication on progress is available on the material topics of deforestation; diversity and inclusion; the RSPO website. Our engagement with RSPO addresses the employee health, safety and wellness; governance and business material topics of biodiversity; consumer health and well-being; conduct; human rights; responsible sourcing; traceability and deforestation; economic performance; product environmental transparency and reporting. and societal impact; product quality and safety; responsible sourcing; traceability and transparency and reporting. w ww.aim-progress.com w ww.rspo.org www.rspo.org/members/882/Givaudan-SA Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach 38 Supported initiatives and strategic memberships American Cleaning Institute Our engagement with the WBCSD addresses the material The American Cleaning Institute (ACI) is an association that topics of biodiversity; climate change; consumer health and aims to support the sustainability of the cleaning product and well-being; deforestation; diversity & inclusion; economic oleo chemical industries. Givaudan has been an ACI member performance; human rights; local community development; since 2012 and is a recognised member of the ACI sustainability product environmental and societal impact; responsible programme in North America. Our engagement with ACI sourcing; traceability; transparency and reporting; waste addresses the material topics of climate change; and product management; water stewardship; and women’s empowerment. quality and safety. w ww.wbcsd.org  w ww.cleaninginstitute.org Earthworm Foundation French Alliance for Sustainable Palm Oil Givaudan became a member of the Earthworm Foundation The French Alliance for Sustainable Palm Oil is an association (formerly The Forest Trust) in 2017. The global non-profit of French companies that promotes the use of sustainable palm organisation is focused on transforming supply chains for the oil, which is produced without causing deforestation and with benefit of nature and people. Earthworm supports Givaudan in respect for the needs of local populations. Our engagement with implementing its Responsible Sourcing Programme through the French Alliance for Sustainable Palm Oil addresses the supply chain assessments and, where needed, co-designing material topics of biodiversity; consumer health and well-being; innovative solutions with supply chain partners that create deforestation; economic performance; product environmental value for all. This engagement addresses the material issues of and societal impact; product quality and safety; responsible product environmental and societal impact; raw material sourcing; traceability; and transparency and reporting. availability; responsible sourcing and traceability.  w ww.stop-deforestation.org w ww.earthworm.org www.huiledepalmedurable.org Disclosure 102 – 13, pages 37 – 38 World Business Council for Sustainable Development The World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) is a global, CEO-led organisation of more than 200 leading businesses and partners working together to accelerate the transition to a sustainable world by focusing on the maximum positive impact for shareholders, the environment and societies. We are also active members of WBCSD’s programme FReSH – Food Reform for Sustainability and Health – particularly in terms of their transformational goal on dietary shifts. The FReSH programme was launched in November 2016 by the WBCSD together with the EAT Foundation, a global strategic initiative linking food, health and sustainability policies, with the purpose of accelerating transformational change in global food systems. To achieve its ambitious goals, FReSH is drawing together key stakeholder groups including leading global companies, policy and scientific experts such as the distinguished Lancet Committee. The group is working to establish targets for healthy and sustainable food systems. By participating in FReSH, we contribute to transforming global food systems for improved sustainability and health. Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach 39 Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach 40 Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach 41 Materiality and stakeholders In this section 42 Stakeholder engagement 44 Our material topics 54 The principles of the UN Global Compact 55 The Sustainable Development Goals Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach 42 Stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement Listening to our stakeholders is a When we set out to develop a materiality matrix in 2011, we carried out a wide-ranging assessment of our stakeholders to core element of our sustainability determine who had the greatest impact on us and on whom we had the most effect. We identified six key stakeholder management. groups from a list of more than 200 organisations: customers, suppliers, investors, public and government agencies, local communities and employees. Identifying and selecting stakeholders How we identify and select our stakeholders Givaudan has developed specific tools to support interaction Working systematically with interested parties and evaluating with the various stakeholder panels at both global and local their perspectives on economic, social, environmental, ethical levels. We also review and evaluate diverse stakeholder and governance issues can help us strengthen the dialogue engagement initiatives that exist across the Company and and better address their concerns and manage the direct or continuously monitor their relevance in a two-stage process. indirect impact on Givaudan. This approach can be used as a strategic management tool, it helps build stronger and lasting First, we map each direct engagement with an external relationships with key stakeholders, allows us to manage organisation by considering its relevance to several areas: our business successfully and also lays out the basis for our our stakeholder groups; the key issues in our materiality matrix; materiality assessment. the three focus areas of our sustainability approach and to the Stakeholder dialogue Customers Suppliers Employees ––Ongoing dialogue ––Assessments ––Works Council consultations Dialogue ––Customer sustainability requests ––Supplier audits ––Employee engagement initiatives channel ––Audits ––Collaborations to improve performance ––Annual performance dialogue ––Customer innovation days ––Multi-stakeholder groups ––Talent management processes ––Conferences and events ––Supplier events: capacity building, ––Learning and development ––At associations and advocacy discussing issues opportunities organisations ––Direct engagement with supplier ––Green Teams, engagements and relationship managers ongoing dialogue ––Climate change ––Responsible sourcing ––Employee health, safety and wellness Key topics and ––Consumer health and well-being ––Raw material availability ––Diversity and inclusion ––Human rights ––Talent management ––Product environmental and social ––Women’s empowerment concerns raised impact ––Product quality and safety ––Responsible sourcing ––Transparency and reporting ––Traceability Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach Stakeholder engagement 43 Sustainable Development Goals on which we have an impact. confirm which they see as the most important topics, and Then we look at every current or potential external engagement which they would like to discuss or know more about. and assess it against several criteria: local or global engagement; membership criteria and membership fees; participating The process gives stakeholders a genuine role in setting the customers and suppliers; participating competitors; participant direction of our sustainability approach and prioritising the profiles; type of sessions; size of groups; impact on our issues in the matrix. Ultimately, through stakeholder dialogue, sustainability approach; risks and benefits. Based on the outcome, we seek to identify opportunities to improve management we decide whether to pursue a current engagement or seek and our relationships, as well as create projects for our opportunities with new organisations. We then suggest actions mutual benefit. This allows us to focus our drive for greater to be taken within the engagement for the next three years. sustainability in those areas that are most important to our key stakeholders. Givaudan has many channels for stakeholder Disclosure 102 – 42, pages 42 – 43 dialogue spread across different departments and teams; this also includes the information and feedback we receive during the ordinary course of business. Stakeholder groups engaged by Givaudan Listening to our stakeholders is a core element of our Disclosure 102 – 43 sustainability management practice. Their feedback helps us understand expectations and it contributes to the development of our overall sustainability approach. We gather the views of our stakeholders by inviting them to discuss critical issues and strategic priorities. We create dialogue groups to understand how our business affects stakeholders and to determine the most material impacts to be managed. The sustainability aspects listed in the Givaudan materiality matrix are presented to the stakeholders to allow them to Owners and investors Local communities Public and regulatory agencies ––AGM/half-year meeting ––Community development programme ––UNGC consultation Dialogue ––Annual investor road show survey ––Industry association consultation and channel ––Briefings with analysts ––Local site community engagement commenting on emerging regulations ––Conferences with investors and other programme ––CDP project workshop financial stakeholders ––Ongoing dialogue with local authorities ––Membership of working groups/forums and community organisations ––Media ––Green Teams engaged in social activities within the communities we operate ––Givaudan Foundation ––Local partners (NGOs or cooperatives) acting as Givaudan agents ––Economic performance ––Employee health, safety and wellness ––Product quality and safety Key topics and ––Raw material availability ––Consumer health and well-being ––Responsible sourcing ––Talent management ––Product environmental and social ––Product environmental and social ––Transparency and reporting impact impact concerns raised ––Human rights ––Employee health, safety and wellness ––Diversity and inclusion ––Transparency and reporting ––Transparency and reporting ––Human rights Disclosure 102 – 40, 102 – 44, pages 42 – 43 Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach 44 Our material topics Our material topics Our materiality assessment helps We use the Givaudan materiality assessment to prioritise aspects identified as being of most concern to our customers to align our business with the and other key stakeholders. The matrix is reviewed through discussion with the main stakeholders and our materiality expectations of our stakeholders cycle aims to conduct a comprehensive assessment of surveys and with society in general. and interviews every four years. We address critical issues and strategic priorities, look for opportunities to improve management and relationships, and identify possible projects Defining report content and topic boundaries to work on together. In the middle of each cycle, we conduct A critical part of our sustainability approach involves identifying a review based on the opportunity to acquire meaningful and prioritising the issues of the greatest material importance information about changes and emerging topics. to Givaudan: this is also the basis for defining reporting content and the boundaries of the topics. The process follows the The elements now considered material are those that had principles of stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability context, already been identified in the last materiality assessment as materiality and completeness according to the GRI Standards. having a substantial influence on the decisions of the main stakeholders and a significant impact on Givaudan’s business Materiality assessment performance as well as a wider social, environmental and Our activities have an impact that goes far beyond economic economic impact in terms of how we create new value to be results. To be successful in the long run, we need to align shared by all stakeholders in our supply chains. our business performance with the expectations of our stakeholders and with society in general. To achieve this goal, Disclosures 102 – 46, 102 – 49 a deep understanding of the most relevant topics for the different groups of stakeholders is essential. In this spirit, we have developed our materiality assessment to help shape our strategy, to strengthen our commitment to dialogue and to support our assumptions and our reports. Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach Our material topics 45 Materiality matrix 2018 Product quality and safety Higher Responsible sourcing Human rights Transparency Consumer health and reporting and well-being Diversity and inclusion Level of importance to stakeholders Raw material availability Economic Traceability performance Deforestation Product environmental and social impact Climate change Employee health, Local community development safety and wellness Governance and business conduct Talent management Water stewardship Women’s empowerment Medium Biodiversity Waste management Labour/ management relations Medium Higher Level of influence on business success Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach 46 Our material topics List of material topics Our list of material aspects is mapped against the GRI Standards topics and the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to show that they are fully consistent with the most commonly used sustainability frameworks. The list of all material aspects identified in this process is as follows: Materiality topic Equivalent GRI topic UNGC Principles SDGs mapping Biodiversity 304: Biodiversity Climate change 102 – 11: Precautionary principle Principle 201: Economic performance 7, 8, 9 302: Energy 305: Emissions Consumer health & 416: Customer health and safety well-being Deforestation 204: Procurement practices Principle 8 301: Materials 308: Supplier environmental assessment Diversity & inclusion 405: Diversity and equal opportunity Principle 6 406: Non-discrimination Economic performance 201: Economic performance Employee health, safety and 403: Occupational health and safety wellness Good governance and 102 – 16: Values, principles, standards, Principle 10 business conduct norms of behaviour 102 – 18: Governance structure Human rights 102 – 41: Collective bargaining agreements Principle 406: Non-discrimination 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 407: Freedom of association and collective bargaining 408: Child labour 409: Forced or compulsory labour 412: Human rights assessment 414: Supplier social assessment Labour/management 102 – 41: Collective bargaining agreements Principle relations 402: Labour/management relations 1, 2, 3, 4 414: Supplier social assessment Local community 203: Indirect economic impacts Principle 1 development 413: Local communities Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach Our material topics 47 Materiality topic Equivalent GRI topic UNGC Principles SDGs mapping Product environmental and 301: Materials Principle societal impact 302: Energy 7, 8, 9 305: Emissions Product quality and safety 416: Customer health and safety 417: Marketing and labelling Raw material availability 301: Materials Responsible sourcing 204: Procurement practices Principle 205: Anti-corruption 1, 2, 4, 8, 10 308: Supplier environmental assessment 414: Supplier social assessment Talent management 401: Employment Principle 6 404: Training and education 405: Diversity and equal opportunity Traceability 204: Procurement practices Transparency and reporting 102 – 54: Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 102 – 55: GRI Content Index 102 – 56: External assurance Waste management 306: Effluents and waste Principle 8 Water stewardship 303: Water Principle 8 306: Effluents and waste 308: Supplier environmental assessment Women’s empowerment 202: Market presence Principle 6 405: Diversity and equal opportunity 406: Non-discrimination Disclosure 102 – 47, pages 46 – 47 Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach 48 Our material topics Biodiversity Definition Boundaries Contributing to biodiversity conservation and the preservation Within Givaudan of a rich diversity. We abide by global rules and policies on biodiversity conservation. Why is the issue material? Our business relies on a supply of diverse natural resources for Outside Givaudan the creation of our flavour and fragrance products. However, We help to reduce the pressure on natural resources by climate change and the loss of habitats pose a threat to securing responsible sourcing as well as efficient use of the biodiversity that underpins the sources of those natural naturals and alternative sources of key natural raw materials. materials. For that reason, a combination of protection, sustainable management and, where necessary, restoration is needed at a landscape scale to ensure the future of a diverse, living planet. It is essential for the long-term future of our Company that we assist in the effort to conserve biodiversity. Climate change Definition Boundaries Mitigating effects on climate change by reducing emissions Within Givaudan and supporting adaptation along Givaudan’s value chain. We work to improve the eco-efficiency of our manufacturing sites, with a focus on reducing greenhouse gas emissions, Why is the issue material? including supplying electricity from renewable sources. Climate change has a direct impact on the availability of our We constantly assess and mitigate the risks posed by climate key natural resources because it causes fundamental changes change and drive adaptation and remediation in the in ecosystem functioning and impacts the environment and affected areas. human society. As such, climate change poses a significant risk for Givaudan, but it also presents an opportunity to adapt Outside Givaudan our processes and act to mitigate its effects. We involve our supply chain, from the raw material suppliers to indirect materials and service providers, in an effort to reduce GHG emissions and the impact on the ecosystems. Consumer health and well-being Definition Boundaries Developing products and services that promote the health Within and outside Givaudan and well-being of people as they experience our ingredients We create great tastes and smells to evoke a sense of wellin everyday consumer products. being and encourage consumers to choose healthier foods and adopt good hygiene practices. Why is the issue material? As a key player in the food chain we are in a position to influence the well-being of society. For example, by developing great tasting flavour solutions for foods with lower levels of sugar, fat and salt we can encourage the uptake of healthier diets. In addition, fragrance contributes to the sense of well-being and can be used around the world to drive consumers to choose products with desired health benefits. Management Approach 103 – 1 for all material topics, pages 48 – 53 Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach Our material topics 49 Deforestation Definition Boundaries Identifying raw materials linked to deforestation and Outside Givaudan collaborating with suppliers and other key partners to halt We map our supply chains for deforestation, and where deforestation and support reforestation along Givaudan’s necessary engage suppliers in activities to end it. supply chain. Why is the issue material? As population and consumption levels rise, natural ecosystems are being replaced by agriculture, energy, and settlement. Deforestation and land degradation put at risk the ecosystems and biodiversity that underpin the sources of natural ingredients that we buy for our flavour and fragrance products. Diversity & inclusion Definition Boundaries Having a balanced workforce which reflects the societies in Within Givaudan which Givaudan operates, including efforts to eliminate all We embrace diversity throughout our organisation and recruit discrimination and to ensure the opportunity for people from to build a representative and inclusive workforce. all backgrounds to succeed. Why is the issue material? Givaudan operates in many different countries around the world, and in order to be effective, we need to understand the cultural differences that we encompass. Sensitivity to diversity and promoting inclusion is key to developing a broad range of views within the Company. We believe equal opportunities for everyone is important to our success. Economic performance Definition Boundaries Operating a profitable business model for the long-term Within Givaudan viability of the Company. We ensure that our business is financially sustainable from the short to the long-term. Why is the issue material? Our 2020 strategy of ‘Responsible growth. Shared success’ Outside Givaudan focuses on economic performance, which is the shortto We support our customers’ own market expansion plans and long-term measure of Givaudan’s success. The strategy also provide them with growth opportunities through the use views economic success as inseparable from high standards in of our products. Meanwhile, we work in partnership with environmental and social stewardship. producers and suppliers to transform the way we source; to secure supply and create new value to be shared by all stakeholders in our supply chains. Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach 50 Our material topics Employee health, safety and wellness Definition Boundaries Providing a safe and healthy working environment and Within Givaudan encouraging responsible employee behaviours. We reduce the number of health and safety incidents by improving the workplace environment, safety behaviour Why is the issue material? and awareness. Givaudan’s ongoing success depends on the health and safety of our employees and our efforts to always improve their well-being in and outside the workplace. Good governance and business conduct Definition Boundaries Ensuring business practices are in alignment with international Within Givaudan standards, local laws and Givaudan standards in countries We ensure our practices are aligned with international of operation. Safeguarding the effective functioning of the standards and we safeguard the function of our own governing bodies of Givaudan. governing bodies. Our management systems include checks and balances to control risk and to oversee Why is the issue material? accountability of management. Corporate governance systems ensure that our Company is managed in the interests of shareholders (including minority shareholders) and stakeholders, while complying with international laws. Human rights Definition Boundaries Ensuring that Givaudan respects human rights by acting Within Givaudan with due diligence, as defined in the UN Guiding Principles for We ensure that we respect human rights by acting with due Business and Human Rights. diligence, as defined in the UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights. Why is the issue material? Respect for human rights is an essential guide to the right way Outside Givaudan to do business. A commitment to high ethical standards, as well We work with our suppliers to help them adhere to the as transparency and honesty in our dealings with customers, same principles. suppliers, employees and the communities where we operate, enables us to grow responsibly and share our success. Labour/management relations Definition Boundaries Fostering collaborative labour relations with employees and Within Givaudan employee-elected representatives. We encourage good labour and management relations and follow commonly recognised best practices. Why is the issue material? Good relations between management and staff are necessary to the operation of a sustainable and viable business. Staff should be respected, listened to and provided with adequate working conditions. Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach Our material topics 51 Local community development Definition Boundaries Recognising and supporting the broader development goals of Outside Givaudan local communities where Givaudan operates in and sources from. We work with local communities on projects and causes that benefit them. Why is the issue material? Maintaining a good reputation in communities where we have a manufacturing or commercial presence helps to attract the right talent and personnel to the Company. In areas where we source raw materials, we can help to secure the long-term supply of those ingredients by supporting the development of local communities. By fostering good relations we can work together on causes that benefit the community; help to protect local ecosystems; and support livelihoods. Sourcing is one of the most significant areas of interest for our stakeholders, especially our customers. Product environmental and societal impact Definition Boundaries Optimising the impact of our products within our whole supply Within Givaudan chain, in the way they are designed, manufactured and We develop new technologies and processes to limit the ultimately used by the consumer, both in terms of environmental environmental impact of our products and encourage positive impact and ability to positively affect societal issues. consumer behaviour. Why is the issue material? Outside Givaudan We want to make a positive impact on the environment and We engage with customers to develop new products and society. This is a central concern for our customers and their technologies that are healthier and more sustainable. consumers and it is key to improving our own performance. But we must also anticipate and influence change. Givaudan has the ambition and ability to shape the future of the flavor and fragrance industry. We can design tastes and smells that encourage positive behaviour. Our approach to Innovating Responsibly considers the potential impact of our processes and products on the environment and also where we can have a positive impact on society. Product quality and safety Definition Boundaries Ensure our products are safe and comply with all applicable Within and outside Givaudan laws, regulations as well as customer requirements. We ensure our products are safe for people and the environment when used as intended and that they comply Why is the issue material? with all local laws as a minimum requirement. We gather The safety of our products and the safety of the consumer are information on the origin of ingredients to support compliance of the utmost importance. We have to provide our customers and to contribute to food safety and issue management. with products and services that meet all agreed requirements and applicable legislation or we run the risk of extra costs and damaging our reputation. The quality of our products is the key to our success and that of our customers. We place their need for quality at the heart of everything we do. Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach 52 Our material topics Raw material availability Definition Boundaries Ensuring a stable supply of raw materials used in Outside Givaudan Givaudan’s products. Our procurement teams work closely with suppliers to monitor supply risks and ensure continuity of supply. We build Why is the issue material? relationships with local producers around the world and work In order to operate a successful business we need to ensure in partnership to secure the long-term future of the crops and continuity of supply. However, each raw material we purchase natural raw materials on which we depend. has a potential supply risk that we need to understand and mitigate. This is a key activity of our procurement department. Responsible sourcing Definition Boundaries Fostering compliance with high standards in health, Outside Givaudan safety, social, environmental and business integrity in the We work with our suppliers to make sure they have plans in way we source. place to meet our sourcing standards. Why is the issue material? By expanding our responsible sourcing initiatives we are able to reduce our environmental and social impact. Our sourcing strategy also helps to mitigate the risks inherent in our complex supply chains. Talent management Definition Boundaries Effectively recruiting, developing, engaging, deploying Within Givaudan and retaining a balanced workforce that meets future There is an engaging and inspiring environment for employees business imperatives. to realise their career aspirations. We foster proactive talent development, offer targeted technical and functional support Why is the issue material? and work to strengthen our leadership capabilities. In addition, We focus on employee development to improve skills and we underpin the growth of a strong workforce by nurturing a productivity; to constantly adapt skills to requirements and pipeline of industry experts and future leaders to develop skills to offer the best opportunities to our people. This helps for sustained success; similarly we seek to attract local talent to improve retention of staff, reduce costs and increase our and industry experts to support growth in all markets. revenue. It also makes Givaudan a great place to work. Traceability Definition Boundaries Understanding the supply chain and tracing the provenance of Outside Givaudan raw materials we use from their origin to the final formulation. We work with our direct suppliers to map our supply chains. Mapping helps us to understand how a supply chain is Why is the issue material? organised and to collect data on the number of intermediary Our customers increasingly seek assurances on the provenance suppliers involved, their role, importance and geographical of raw materials and their production; also that we adhere to location. In this way we are able to identify any potential risk responsible supply chain practices. of non-compliance with our Responsible Sourcing Policy and to work with our suppliers on a solution. Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach Our material topics 53 Transparency and reporting Definition Boundaries Disclosing an adequate level of information and data in Within and outside Givaudan alignment with recognised frameworks and in compliance We have to be open to sharing data and information, with local laws and regulations. internally and externally within the confines of data protection laws. Why is the issue material? Transparency is expected in all areas of our business, from supply chain data to R&D information, formulas and business processes. Increased transparency has a positive impact on our reputation, which boosts loyalty among customers and employees, and therefore our bottom line. Waste management Definition Boundaries Pursuing a culture of waste elimination by adequately Within and outside Givaudan managing all Givaudan’s waste streams. We work to reduce waste through recycling and reuse or ensure that it is recovered and/or disposed Why is the issue material? of in an environmentally sustainable way. Waste management helps to limit our negative impact on the environment, and reducing waste production cuts costs. Water stewardship Definition Boundaries Optimising the use of intake water and ensuring the quality Within and outside Givaudan of discharged water. Assessing and addressing water risks at We make efficient use of this increasingly precious natural owned operations and in our supply chain. resource and limit the environmental impact of the way we consume and discharge water. Why is the issue material? Water is essential in our manufacturing activities as well as in our value chain. But there is increasing competition for access to water in areas where availability is limited due to climate change. Therefore we need to use water efficiently in order to keep our operations running; consumers are also seeking products that are manufactured in a water-efficient way. Women’s empowerment Definition Boundaries Implementing policies and programmes that are consistent Within Givaudan with promoting equal opportunities for all. We implement policies and programmes that are consistent with promoting equal opportunities for all. Why is the issue material? Equal treatment of women and men is not just the right thing to do – it is also good for business. The full participation of women at Givaudan makes sound business sense now and in the future. A broad concept of sustainability and corporate responsibility that embraces women’s empowerment as a key goal will benefit us all. Women’s empowerment is essential to expand economic growth and promote social development. Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach 54 The principles of the UN Global Compact The principles of the UN Global Compact The UN Global Compact asks Human rights Principle 1 companies to embrace, Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights support and enact, within Principle 2 their sphere of influence, a Make sure that they are not complicit in human set of core values in the areas rights abuses of human rights, labour Labour Principle 3  standards, the environment Businesses should uphold the freedom of and anti-corruption: association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6  The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Environment Principle 7 Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach The Sustainable Development Goals 55 The Sustainable Development Goals Sustainable development calls for The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), adopted by the United Nations and entered into force on 1 January 2016, build concerted efforts towards building on the success of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). The ambitious goals shall be achieved by 2030 through an inclusive and sustainable effective action taken through both the public and private future for people and planet. sector in all countries. Goal 1: End poverty in all Goal 7: Ensure access to Goal 13: Take urgent its forms everywhere affordable, reliable, action to combat climate sustainable and modern change and its impacts energy for all Goal 2: End hunger, Goal 8: Promote inclusive Goal 14: Conserve and achieve food security and and sustainable economic sustainably use the improved nutrition and growth, employment and oceans, seas and marine promote sustainable decent work for all resources agriculture Goal 3: Ensure healthy Goal 9: Build resilient Goal 15: Sustainably lives and promote infrastructure, promote manage forests, combat well-being for all at all sustainable desertification, halt and ages industrialization and reverse land degradation, foster innovation halt biodiversity loss Goal 4: Ensure inclusive Goal 10: Reduce Goal 16: Promote just, and quality education for inequality within and peaceful and inclusive all and promote lifelong among countries societies learning Goal 5: Achieve gender Goal 11: Make cities Goal 17: Revitalise the equality and empower all inclusive, safe, resilient global partnership for women and girls and sustainable sustainable development Goal 6: Ensure access Goal 12: Ensure to water and sanitation sustainable consumption for all and production patterns SDGs Givaudan explicitely contributes to according to its mapping of material issues (see pages 44 – 47). www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach 56 Title Subtitle Givaudan SA Chemin de la Parfumerie 5 1214 Vernier, Switzerland General information T + 41 22 780 91 11 Media and investor relations T + 41 22 780 90 53 Concept, design, consulting and realisation: PETRANIX Corporate and Financial Communications AG www.PETRANIX.com Our Sustainability Approach is published in English. All trademarks mentioned enjoy legal protection. This document may contain forward-looking information. Such information is subject to a variety of significant uncertainties, including scientific, business, economic and financial factors. Therefore actual results may differ significantly from those presented in such forward-looking statements. Investors must not rely on this information for investment decisions. © Givaudan SA, January 2020 www.givaudan.com Givaudan – Our Sustainability Approach
