2019 Annual Report Contents 2019 in brief OUR BUSINESS Important events and trends This is SEB Cover The global economy was fragile but gradually stabilised Statement from the Chair 2 while central banks’ quantitative easing continued. Statement from the President 4 At the end of the year, the Swedish central bank ended Business environment 6 a five-year period of negative interest rates. Our customers 8 Strategy and business plan 12 Corporate customers were active with high demand for Sustainability 20 advisory services, banking and capital market financing. SEB in society 23 Financial institutions handled the challenging interest Our employees 24 rate environment with caution, while demand for illiquid Overall targets and outcome 26 investments increased. Long-term value creation 28 SEB as an investment 30 Private customers’ demand for household mortgages grew and SEB’s market share for new mortgage loans REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS in Sweden improved. Sustainability report 32 Sustainability became an even stronger factor for Financial review of the group 39 customers and demand for green products grew. Risk, liquidity and capital management 52 Regulatory requirements 58 SEB signed the UNEP FI Principles for Responsible Corporate governance 60 Banking. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES The fight against financial crime and money laundering continued with further development of advanced Financial statements 76 technology solutions and refined working processes. Notes to the financial statements 86 Five-year summary 170 OTHER INFORMATION Proposal for the distribution of profit 172 Signatures of the Board of Directors Key targets and figures and the President 173 Auditor’s report 174 Board’s financial targets 2019 2018 Definitions 179 Dividend payout ratio at 40 per cent or more of earnings per share, per cent 671) 762) Calendar and publications Cover Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio of around 150 basis points over requirement3) , basis points 250 270 Pages 32–173 constitute SEB’s formal annual report. Return on equity competitive with peers, per cent 2) 13.8 13.4 Key figures Operating income, SEK m 50,134 45,868 Operating profit, SEK m 24,894 27,285 Return on equity, per cent 13.7 16.3 Cost/income ratio 0.46 0.48 Earnings per share, SEK 9.33 10.69 Dividend per share, SEK 6.251) 6.50 Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio, per cent 17.6 17.6 Leverage ratio, per cent 5.1 5.1 Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR), per cent 218 147 1) Based on the Board proposal. 2) Excludes items affecting comparability. 3) Applicable regulatory requirement: 15.1% (14.7). Our customers and stakeholders Our customers’ needs are at the core of our business. Their high expectations for both personal and digital service, for quality advice and for sustainable solutions drive SEB’s business development and offerings. Our 15,000 employees work as a team to serve our customers and create value for our shareholders as well as society as a whole. Large corporations Shareholders 2,000 265,000 Financial institutions Employees 1,100 15,000 Small and Society medium-sized companies Society at large 400,000 Of these, some 272,000 are home bank customers. Private individuals 4,000,000 Of these some 1.5 million are home bank customers. We have a unique customer base and market position, serving our customers in our home markets and beyond. FINLAND NORWAY SWEDEN St. Petersburg ESTONIA LATVIA DENMARK LITHUANIA UNITED New York KINGDOM Beijing GERMANY Warsaw Kiev New Delhi Luxembourg Shanghai Hong Kong Singapore São Paulo Home markets International network Our business is strong and diversified, creating value for all our stakeholders. Diversified income 2019, % Financial value created 2019, SEK 65 bn 64 40 Retail banking 19  Interest paid to customers and bondholders 14 Dividends paid to shareholders 12 Asset management 12 Salaries, pensions and benefits to employees 7 Life insurance 41 Large corporates and institutions 9 11 Payments to suppliers 4 23 7 Taxes and social security charges 1) I ncome breakdown for Swedbank, Nordic SHB, Nordea, Danske Bank and DNB. peers1) SEB Business units only (indicative). 2 Regulatory fees We are well positioned versus our peers with a track record of strong profitable growth. Our peers 2019 Our profit development1), SEK bn Cost/income ratio1) 0.8 50 0.6 +5 % 2) 25 +4 % 2) 23 0.4 13 Return on 8 +8 % 2) equity (%)1) 3 0.2 2 6 10 14 18 1990 2000 2010 2019 SEB Nordic peers Income Expenses Operating profit European peers Size of circle indicates CET 1 ratio (less or more than 15%) 1) Excluding items affecting comparability. 1) For Nordic banks, excluding items affecting comparability 2) Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR). This is SEB SEB enables people to realise their dreams, ambitions Return on equity and business ideas. Being the Nordic region’s leading corporate bank with an international perspective, innovation and entrepreneurship are part of our DNA. 13.8% excluding items affecting comparability We are driven by engagement and curiosity about Cost/income ratio 0.46 the future. This has been our approach ever since we welcomed our first customer more than 160 years ago. Our vision is to provide world-class service to Earnings per share our customers. We do this by building long-term relationships, providing personal and proactive advice and serving our customers on their terms – face to face 9.33 SEK or in the digital realm. Dividend per share We take responsibility for how we conduct our business and how we affect our customers, employees, 6.25 SEK as proposed by the Board of Directors shareholders and society at large. We support our customers in the transition to a more sustainable world and we contribute to the development of the communities in which we operate. Business bank of the year 2019 according to Finansbarometern Our business – Statement from the Chair Long-term partnerships in a changing world At SEB we aim to be a long-term partner to our customers and create shareholder value by building relationships based on mutual trust. As the world around us continues to change at an ever-increasing speed, it is our ambition to stay even closer to our customers and support them with personalised and proactive advice as well as innovative financial services. As we enter the 2020s we can look back and new technologies within artificial investments, and we support our corpoon a decade of fast-paced technological intelligence, the internet of things, blockrate and institutional customers in their development, macroeconomic turbulence chain and 5G. This shift is transforming transition to more sustainable business and shifting geopolitical power in the companies and entire industries, providing models. world. 2019 was a year characterised by opportunities both for us as a bank and political and economic uncertainty, with for our customers. It is also paving the A business of trust low interest rates and continued expanway for digital entrepreneurs, dynamic SEB’s most important asset is trust. We sionary monetary policies. The long Brexit start-ups and new, innovative and somecherish our relationships with customers, process has formally come to an end, and times disruptive businesses. investors and shareholders, and we do our when the UK–EU separation eventually SEB’s role in this digital landscape is utmost to live up to our high internal and does come into effect, there will be tanto support a new generation of entrepreexternal standards of business conduct. gible consequences for both people and neurs looking to quickly grow their busiThe Board of Directors works together businesses. nesses and to contribute to our existing with the Group Executive Committee to Protectionist tendencies in many parts customers’ innovation journeys, supportnavigate the changing financial landscape of the world are still of concern. There is ing them in their transformation. As SEB and to make sure that SEB is financially a growing need to safeguard multilateral itself becomes even more data-driven, we stable and competitive in the long term. trade, openness and democracy. The can understand and meet our customers’ SEB’s solid balance sheet is a precondition World Trade Organisation’s e-commerce behaviours and future needs even better. for the bank to safeguard a robust finantrade negotiations could become an imWe also continue to develop new financial position and to be able to stand by portant regulatory framework for future cial services, enabling our customers to our customers in good times and bad. business opportunities. Fair and free trade engage in new business opportunities The Board continually works to ensure is a prerequisite for business growth and where SEB can be part of their digital that SEB has the highest standards of a foundation upon which our societies rely. ecosystems. corporate governance, compliance and risk management. At SEB we are conValue creation in the new The future is green stantly improving our ways of working and digital landscape Sustainability has been high on SEB’s sharpening our technological and other For more than 160 years SEB has been agenda for many years. As the effects tools to meet the ever-changing regulatoeager to understand what the future of climate change become more tangible, ry requirements in the financial sector. holds. We embrace innovation and we do our customers’ demand for sustainable These measures are helping SEB to imour best to predict, understand and adapt products and services is increasing. The prove and strengthen the ongoing work in to the trends of tomorrow so that we can financial industry is now at the verge of compliance, risk mitigation and reporting. create value over time. We live in symbia shift towards offering truly sustainable Banks’ and society’s efforts to fight osis with our customers. By helping them finance, as climate risk partially translates money laundering is an area where prosper, we create long-term value for into investment risk. regulations have focused and improved our shareholders and contribute to society Corporate customers are ready to make over time. Financial crime affects society at large. This is important in today’s rapidly the transition towards a low-carbon econas a whole, but banks have a central role changing environment, with the financial omy, and many entrepreneurs want to in preventing that the financial system sector undergoing structural change in do good for the climate. Private customers is utilised. At SEB we take this seriously. several areas, such as changing customer are eager to invest in green technology We have been engaged in the Baltic behaviours, increased regulation, new and want to place their savings where it countries since the turn of the century, competitors, and the formation of new can benefit the next generation. Our role and together with other Nordic banks we digital and financial ecosystems. at SEB in sustainable finance is to provide have played a vital role in supporting the History shows that technological shifts solutions so that individual customers long-term transformation of the three come in major steps. We are passing can fulfil their needs and reach their Baltic democracies in the period following through a second wave of digitalisation, objectives. We innovate new sustainable their independence from the former Soviet driven by increased computational power financial services, we provide advice and Union. SEB has consistently taken business 2 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Our business – Statement from the Chair “We strive to be the leading Nordic corporate bank with an international perspective, connecting Nordic corporates and institutions with the rest of the world.” decisions based on a strategy that is grounded in supporting our balanced growth in the Baltic countries. Over the years, SEB’s ability to prevent, detect and report suspected cases of financial crime has strengthened. Knowing that criminal intent is a moving and evasive target, we continue to invest in competence, artificial intelligence and other technologies to further improve our abilities. The leading Nordic corporate bank Looking to the future, our long-term vision and our financial targets still stand – in the Nordic and Baltic countries as well as our other home markets. We strive to be the leading Nordic corporate bank with an international perspective, connecting Nordic corporates and institutions with the rest of the world. Curiosity has always been a hallmark for SEB. We believe that the best recipe for long-term success is to build on our long-term partnerships with our customers and explore the future together with them. At SEB, we believe that by building our diversified full-service business model, we continue to create long-term value for our shareholders, whilst supporting our customers’ entrepreneurial ambitions. Stockholm, February 2020 Marcus Wallenberg Chair, Board of Directors Our business – Statement from the President Creating shareholder value by embracing transformation SEB’s diversified business model continues to support our vision of delivering world-class service and shareholder value. While this enables us to operate from a position of strength, we also embrace the transformational trends of digitalisation and sustainability to meet our customers’ needs and expectations. Closing the books for 2019, I am pleased Digital banking We increased our advisory capabilities to see that our strategic decision to furwith customers in focus during the year, not least within the energy ther invest in our business has resulted in We want to meet our customers on their sector, and this is an area where I see a a higher transformational pace, improved terms, and as our customers become growing demand over the coming years. customer satisfaction and stronger finanmore digital, they also expect more perOur customers’ interest in sustainable cial results. Our solid operating income sonalised and proactive advisory services. financial solutions continues to grow, growth was in large part driven by SEB’s Today, mobile interactions represent more with sustainability-linked loans, impact lending and investment banking activities. than 80 per cent of all customer interacfunds and ESG-related advisory services Yet our ambitions remain high for 2020, tions within the Corporate & Private Cusbeing some of the main drivers. SEB was not least within the savings area, where tomers division, and we continue to see a partner when the World Bank issued its we plan to strengthen our efforts going increasing digital activity. We are respondfirst Green Bond for institutional investors forward. ing to this development by digitalising and in 2008, and we continue to be one of the 2019 was also the first year of our automating our business, and improving leading Green Bond underwriters in the current business plan 2019–2021. Our the digital customer experience. In doing world. With the ambition of remaining at actions have been concentrated to our so we are also freeing up time for our the forefront we continue to innovate and strategic focus areas of advisory leaderadvisors to focus more on meetings that in 2019 we arranged our first Blue and ship, operational excellence and extended add value for customers, also in person. Red Bond, focusing on clean water and presence, and we are making progress Among other tools in our digital transvaccines. This is a growing market, but the broadly in line with our plan. formation toolbox, we offer investment sustainable bond universe still represents banking advisory services on digital less than one per cent of all outstanding Strategy for long-term growth business models and strategies through bonds globally. The transition has only Banks have a unique role in connecting SEB Singular, while our innovation studio just started. ideas with people and capital. SEB SEBx – which is real-time, smart and We have long been committed to enables individuals and companies to cloud-based – is making life and business initiatives such as the UN Global Comachieve their aspirations by providing easier for small entrepreneurs, also called pact and the Principles for Responsible good advice combined with access to solopreneurs. Investments. We want to make a differinvestment opportunities and lending. ence by changing the green playing field Over the years our corporate custoEnabling sustainable for the financial sector, and this requires mers have grown, and so have we as transformation collaboration. In September we signed we support them around the globe. SEB has an important role to play in the the UN Principles for Responsible Banking, SEB is present in some 20 countries, and shift towards a low-carbon economy by by which we undertake to continuously financial growth has been broad-based supporting our customers in their transforstrengthen our positive impact and align across our geographies. Our ability to mation and by aligning our own business our activities over the coming years with serve customers locally is one of our model with our continuously increasing the UN Sustainable Development Goals core strengths, and we aim to develop standards. and the Paris Agreement. this as we move forward. As climate change represents a tangible Our work to constantly improve our risk, both today and in the future, we all Trust is our licence to operate business would not be possible without need to reconsider our ways of doing Ever since we welcomed our first custoour 15,000 employees who turn strategy business. We expect our customers to mer in 1856, SEB has kept a long-term into action. Based on our belief that peostrive towards the objectives of the Paris perspective. Trust is our licence to operate ple are at the core of everything we do, Agreement, yet there are industries that – it is a prerequisite for us to be able to I am encouraged to see that we reached have steeper slopes to climb and we conduct successful business that benefits new heights in our employee engagement realise that each customer journey will our shareholders. As a bank, we have a survey in 2019. be different. By advising our customers responsibility to continuously monitor and enabling them to reach their goals transaction patterns in order to prevent, alongside ours, we can achieve real impact. detect and report suspicious activity, 4 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Our business – Statement from the President “SEB enables individuals and companies to achieve their aspirations.” with the aim of countering financial crime. public-private partnerships. The proposed and support our customers throughout Here SEB has an important role to play. legislative changes that we presented business cycles. With this long-term perWe are continuously improving our routines, through the Swedish Bankers’ Association spective, combining customer satisfaction processes and systems, however, neither to the Swedish government last year is a with a robust balance sheet and sound regulations nor the banking system’s step in that direction. credit exposure, we create value for our ability have been sufficiently efficient shareholders as well as society at large. to manage the risks of money laundering Strengthening our resilience historically. By continuing to invest in protecting SEB Stockholm, February 2020 If we want to achieve real results in from money laundering and other financial countering financial crime, this cannot be crime, we aim to strengthen trust with a done by individual banks alone. We need solid financial position. By having a strong a risk-based approach combined with capital and liquidity position, we strive to information sharing between banks and achieve resilience and flexibility, enabling Johan Torgeby authorities across national borders, in us to adapt to changing market conditions President and Chief Executive Officer SEB Annual Report 2019 — 5 Business environment The gradual macroeconomic slowdown with negative interest rates is impacting the operating environment for banks. Global climate issues and digital development remain high on the agenda. At the same time, the ability of the financial system to fight financial crime has been and will continue to be in focus. Commentary from Robert Bergqvist Upside down – adapting to a changing world “We are in the midst of structural macroeconomic change. The world seems abnormal in many ways and the unknown territories require fresh thinking and creativity among policy makers and others. Economies are slowing down after the historically long expansion period. Demographic headwinds are strengthening in many countries with negative impact on economic growth and state finances while savings surpluses increase. In parts of the world, the globalisation trend is being abandoned for regional priorities. In 2019, the global economy faced several headwinds. The export-dependent Swedish economy Robert Bergqvist, SEB’s chief economist was no exception and the Swedish krona depreciated significantly. Continued disputes over trade and The negative-yield phenomenon has turned the world technology contributed to lower activity as well as on its head; draining pension funds and investors of countryand region-specific cyclical and structural a reliable source of income, requiring life and pension factors for the telecom and auto industries. Their insurance companies to take positions to offset combined impact disrupted investment and global growing pension liabilities with falling discount rates, production cycles as well as interand incentivising risk-inclined companies national trade. The outbreak of the to take on more debt. coronavirus, COVID-19, in late 2019 “The world is facing Pessimists read recession and deflaadded uncertainty regarding global predictable tion scenarios into interest rates and growth. unpredictability.” yields. Optimists see a chance for the In the current low inflation environpublic and private sectors to borrow ment, many central banks responded at no real cost for investments in clito downside growth risks by lowering interest rates. mate solutions and technology. The world is facing Although the risk spectrum justified accommodative predictable unpredictability.” monetary policy, doubts continued to rise over its effectiveness on a stand-alone basis. 6 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Our business – Business environment Current trends Climate high on the agenda role in the shift to a low-carbon world. In signatories to steadily increase their The climate issue is one of the greatest 2018, the European Commission launched positive impact on society and adapt their challenges facing the world, and in 2019 it an action plan for the financial sector that business strategies so that they are congained new momentum when the younger outlines its part in achieving the climate sistent with, and contribute to, the UN’s generation, as well as corporate leaders, and energy targets needed to meet the Sustainable Development Goals and the became increasingly engaged around goals of the Paris Agreement. This work Paris Agreement. the world. World leaders met at the UN’s is being conducted by a number of expert The climate issue is also the sustainaClimate Action Summit in New York and groups and is expected to result in a joint bility issue that once again was ranked Climate Change Conference in Madrid to classification system that defines which highest by SEB’s customers according to a discuss the additional steps needed to economic activities that are sustainable survey we conducted of the bank’s mutual achieve the Paris Agreement goal to limit from a climate perspective. fund investors. the increase in global temperature In 2019, the UN launched the UNEP FI See p. 22. to 2 degrees Celsius. Principles for Responsible Banking, where During the last few years it has become 131 banks from 49 countries, including clear that the financial sector has a key SEB, have committed themselves as Digital opportunities prominent trends globally is the formation second are a manifestation of the human/ For most parts of society, digitalisation is of function-based ecosystems, commonly machine symbiosis, where machine intelleading to enormous changes and signifreferred to in the financial industry as ligence can create more accurate pricing icant improvements in customer experiOpen Banking. Sharing of information is models, proactive advice and recomence. In financial services, technological opening up new possibilities and a wide mendation models. Personal advice will advances are opening up a wealth of array of new services, such as seamless increasingly be dependent on machines opportunities, where exponential growth accounting, digital wallets and expense extracting meaningful information from of both data volumes and capabilities is management, on a single digital platform. large and growing datasets. Artificial intelcreating new ways of meeting customers’ All this is revolving around the customer ligence and machine learning capabilities needs, while simultaneously automating journey, and we are currently witnessing are increasingly integrated into cloudinternal processes. In the new decade, an interesting flow of new, innovative based software. Cloud solutions are drivenabling real-time and effective solutions solutions and collaborations taking place. ing more efficient ways of implementing that empower companies, entrepreneurs full-scale machine learning applications and people will be based on an expanding Machine intelligence and thereby possibilities to improve opernetwork of data interaction. Improvements in research related to comations, develop new customer offerings, panies, macroeconomics and customer and provide better customer service. Financial ecosystems advice are closely linked to better data See p. 17. in the making access and advanced algorithms that The landscape of the financial services uncover valuable insights. Algorithms that industry is transforming. One of the most analyse large datasets in fractions of a Collaboration needed in all banks are subject to the risks posed by the fight against financial crime financial crime. New regulations Money laundering and other types of If the work on countering financial crime Several regulations for financial stafinancial crime are a challenge for society is to be successful, more collaboration bility, market conduct and consumer as a whole, and banks play a key role in and information sharing is needed. One protection are being gradually intropreventing criminals from exploiting the such initiative is being conducted through duced through international direcfinancial system. the Swedish Bankers’ Association, which tives and local legislation. While the The financial sector’s ability to prevent, has proposed that the Swedish parliament pace of introduction is slowing, detect and report suspicious activity has work for a legislative change that would compliance monitoring is increasing, strengthened over time. Regulations have enable banks to access, handle and share resulting in new requirements on been successively toughened, awareness relevant information while allowing relebanks, such as to deliver detailed has increased, and routines, processes vant authorities to share their knowledge real-time reporting to the authoriand systems are being constantly improand information with the banks. ties. See p. 58. ved. Like many banks, SEB is continually Efforts are also ongoing to spur more investing in both competence and employee international co-operation. Together with training as well as new technology – other Nordic banks and the police, SEB is employing machine learning and artificial working long term to strengthen socieintelligence – to further strengthen the ty’s and the banking system’s defences bank’s defences against being used for against financial crime. criminal purposes. Still, at any given time, See p. 56. SEB Annual Report 2019 — 7 Our customers The customers in our four main customer segments demand the same thing – smart digital solutions and personal relationships. They are looking for a partner who is proactive, who provides a long-term perspective and can offer objective advice in order for them to reach their ambitions. CUSTOMER SEGMENTS Large corporates Financial institutions We have enduring and uniquely strong relationSEB serves approximately 1,100 financial instituships with our large corporate customers in Swetions and acts as an intermediary between Nordic den and the other Nordic countries. We support and global financial markets. We offer our services them in their business and their international to pension fund and asset managers, hedge funds, expansion and stay with them as a partner through insurance companies, state-owned investment good times and bad. SEB serves some 2,000 large funds as well as other banks and SSAs (sovereigns, corporations across a broad spectrum of indussupranationals and agencies). We have a strong tries. Many of them are global market leaders position in the Nordic markets and also serve and most have extensive international operations. customers internationally with capital market In the Nordic region, our customers are among access, custody services and advice on capital, the largest in their respective industries while sustainability and asset management matters. in Germany and the UK, medium to large-sized companies with an international profile are in focus. Development in 2019: Customer activity was Development in 2019: In the Financial Institutions high in all product areas of the Large Corporate segment customers were less active during the segment. Following a cautious beginning of the year as expected interest rate hikes were postyear, companies with good liquidity used their poned due to the global macroeconomic uncertainsurplus to invest. Demand for lending increased, ty. This caused customers to adopt a more prudent partly due to the number of mergers and acquisistance in their hedging and investment decisions. tions. Customers took advantage of the interest While volatility and demand for traditional asset rate environment which was favourable for new classes were low, interest in illiquid investments, bond issues. Demand for cash management private equity and hedge funds increased. Investservices was high. The private equity market was ments with sustainability criteria continued to very liquid with high asset prices. In the financial grow rapidly, mainly as a result of new regulatory sponsors segment specifically, customer activity requirements. Assets under custody increased to decreased somewhat as a result of fewer mergers SEK 10,428bn with several new mandates, a proof and acquisitions. of SEB’s attractive custody offering. 8 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Our business – Our customers A few questions for Joachim Alpen and William Paus What are your comments on the 2019 development? We see broad growth in all our home markets, particularly in the large corporate customer segment. Transaction volumes in areas such as cash management and custody, increased. Advisory services have also developed positively and during Joachim Alpen and William Paus, the year we were involved in a number co-heads of the Large Corporates & of large corporate transactions. Financial Institutions division Like us, customers are exploring digital opportunities and are concerned about their climate impact. We have a lot to offer Why do customers choose SEB? customers are focusing on the significant in terms of expertise and advisory serThe trend among customers is to prefer challenge of transforming their business vices in these areas where we see great fewer close banking relationships. Previmodels to be more sustainable and this is opportunities. The function SEB Singular ously, customers were keen on working an area where we add value both in terms has been established to advice large with a group of banks to avoid dependenof advisory services and financing the corporates on digital business models and cies. Today, customers have no problem related investment. We have for instance strategies. The Energy team focuses on working very closely with a single bank. introduced loans where the conditions are assisting customers on their sustainable But this requires that we work closely linked to how well the customer fulfils its transformation journeys. with them, understand internal sustainability targets. In 2019, we saw sigthem, and are competent, nificant revenue growth “Our model of proactive and trustworthy. What can SEB do better? and we are capturing a relationship banking Trust and confidence have Of course, the expectations on us to growing share of the total taken on greater value, and continue digitalising our services are high. revenue in the Nordic is serving us well.” as a result our relationship We must continue to make life easier for countries. We pursue our banking model serves us our customers by standardising and autoefforts to meet or exceed our customers’ well in today’s market. mating our services. Digital communicaexpectations in our home markets. Our Customers appreciate deep industry tion with us must be easier, whether for growth originates primarily from existing competence and are eager to participate registering new products or signing new customers and we continue to take in new in co-developing new products, often agreements. A key target for us is capital customers at a relatively low pace. with a sustainability profile. Many of our efficiency – in 2020 we are aiming to further increase return on capital. See p. 46 for information on the Large Corporates & Financial Institutions division. A long-standing relationship built on mutual trust Stora Enso has 26,000 employees in 30 countries and reported sales of around EUR 10bn for 2019. The company produces solutions based on wood and biomass and has a green profile – “the renewable materials company”. “We have a long-standing relationship with SEB and have worked together through both good times and bad so we trust each other. We appreciate that our relationship ranges from basic banking services to advice on corporate transactions”, says Seppo Parvi. “SEB has always offered innovative banking products. A couple of years ago, we launched our first revolving credit facility with certain Meet one of our large corporate customers green features and in 2019 we worked together with SEB on the issuance Stora Enso in Finland of our first green bond, which we used to finance the acquisition of forest Seppo Parvi, CFO and deputy to the CEO assets from Bergvik Skog. It was very successful.” SEB Annual Report 2019 — 9 Our business – Our customers Sweden CUSTOMER SEGMENTS Small and medium-sized companies SEB has an established position as the bank for entrepreneurs and small business owners and currently serves some 400,000 small and medium-sized companies. Of these, 170,000 were home bank customers in Sweden and 102,000 in the Baltic countries. The segment includes around 600 mid-corps – many with international operaMats Torstendahl, Head of the Corporate tions – as well as customers in the real estate and & Private Customers division public sectors in Sweden, such as government Erika Lundquist, Head of Private Banking agencies, state-owned companies and munici­palities. A few questions for Erika Lundquist and Mats Torstendahl Private individuals What are your comments on the 2019 development? SEB is one of the major banks in Sweden, Estonia, We saw good growth among both corporate and private customLatvia and Lithuania. In Sweden, we have a strong ers, especially within Private Banking. We increased the number position and the bank is one of the market leaders of corporate customers, customer satisfaction increased and our in the Nordic countries in private banking. SEB efforts in our corporate offering were recognised when Finansprovides a comprehensive range of services to barometern named us Business Bank of the Year. private customers and private-banking services with global reach to Nordic high-net-worth individWhat is in focus among corporate and private customers? uals. We have approximately four million private In both the corporate and private markets, we have been happy customers in Sweden and the Baltic countries. to see the strong demand for sustainable products and services. Of these, 494,000 are home bank customers in The inflow in sustainability funds, green mortgages and demand Sweden and 979,000 in the Baltic countries. We for green leasing, launched in 2019, exceeded expectations. have around 34,000 Private Banking customers. The Baltic countries Development in Sweden 2019: The macroeconomic development was strong and SEB’s customers were generally active. Private customer consumption increased in general and, as regards SEB, in terms of demand for mortgage loans. Private Banking customers made significant investments in mutual funds and alternative investments. Companies were in dire need of advisory services and financing, especially small and medium-sized companies. Satisfaction in terms of advisory services among personal banking customers was record-high and increasing throughout the year among small and medium-sized companies. Riho Unt Head of the Baltic division1) Development in the Baltic countries 2019: Growth rate in Baltic economies slowed down somewhat in the year but customers continued to A few questions for Riho Unt be very active. Households were confident about the future, private consumption was resilient and What are your comments on the 2019 development? mortgage loans increased. Digital maturity is The credit portfolio for our larger corporate customers and high among customers that eagerly adapt to new private individuals continued to grow. The strong real wage trend digital services. Corporate customers’ interest in was reflected in higher consumption and an increase in deposits. advisory services and green products is on the Digital use increased in many areas. For example, our mobile app rise and the companies demanded financing in now has 627,000 users, we have conducted 20,600 remote the advantageous conditions. advisory meetings and the number of digitally signed agreements increased to 680,000. 1) In February 2020, Jonas Ahlström was named new head of the Baltic division. 10 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Our business – Our customers Customers appreciate and embrace digital solutions and we are continuously releasing new functionality in our digital channels, including the internet bank and the mobile app. Especially our Private Banking customers appreciate personal relationships and individualised advice. Why do customers choose SEB? We have a very strong brand that stands for long-term relationships. We aspire to be a stable partner to our customers through good times and bad and in all phases of people’s lives and companies’ development. We have been the bank for entrepreneurs Meet one of our corporate customers since the very beginning. As a more recent example, start-up and growth companies are currently benefiting from our “greenhouse Houdini in Sweden offer” that includes banking and adjacent services such as legal Eva Karlsson, CEO advice. In Private Banking, too, traditionally we have had, and still have, a strong offering where customers value the personal relationship, our broad investment advice including alternative Banks’ sustainability responsibility is given assets, and not least, the bank’s network and contacts. Houdini is an innovative manufacturer of functional clothing. The company, with a clear sustainability What can SEB do better? profile, started 25 years ago and now has sales in We have had good customer growth and can now expand upon 20 markets with a turnover of around SEK 200 million. the relationships we have with our customers, not least in the “We have a great relationship with SEB, since many area of savings, which is important for ensuring customers’ years, and benefit from the co-operation in our confinancial security and future retirement. Private Banking is one stant balancing act to grow quickly, to innovate and to of the bank’s designated strategic initiatives where we are manage resources well. A long-term banking relationinvesting in an improved customer experience through strengthship built on genuine partnership with transparency, ened service offering and digital tools throughout the Nordic trust and common goals is very important”, says Eva region, while we safeguard the personal contact, which will Karlsson. “The financial industry can make a strong always be at the core in every good relationship. contribution to the conversion to a more sustainable society, as a facilitator and through financial incentives”, she concludes. What is in focus among Baltic customers? Customers across the Baltic countries are at the forefront when it comes to taking advantage of digital services. They are easily and eagerly adapting to digital solutions and are looking for more convenient ways to manage their banking services in a simple and user-friendly way. On the corporate side, we are seeing an increased need for various advisory services. Corporate customers’ expectations on digital and automated processes are also growing rapidly and customers demand smart integration and solutions that help them streamline their operations. Sustainability has also become a megatrend and customers’ awareness of, and demand for, Meet one of our private customers sustainable products and services are growing. Kadri Kull in Estonia Why do customers choose SEB? We have served them as a stable partner over the years. We Twenty years with SEB have a strong brand and competent employees. Our ambition Kadri Kull has been an SEB customer since opening her to help customers grow through our advisory and growth first account more than twenty years ago and has used programmes is appreciated and generates positive feedback. a wide range of financial services over the years. Kadri Kull works as a communication adviser for the European What can SEB do better? Commission’s office in Estonia and appreciates the We need to strengthen opportunities to establish partnerships, digital accessibility. “I have the bank in my phone and allocate more resources to further strengthen digital developaccess to all the services I need at any time but I also ment and, not least, develop the Baltic capital markets as a appreciate my personal contact person, who gives the complement to bank financing. bank a human face”, says Kadri Kull. See p. 46 for information on the Corporate & Private Customers and the Baltic divisions. SEB Annual Report 2019 — 11 Strategy and business plan Ever since SEB was founded more than 160 years ago, we have been guided by a strong belief that entrepreneurial minds and innovative companies are key in creating a better world. SEB enables people to realise their dreams, ambitions ships, providing personal and proactive advice and and business ideas. Being the Nordic region’s leading serving our customers on their terms – face to face corporate bank with an international perspective, or in the digital realm. We take responsibility for how innovation and entrepreneurship are part of our DNA. we conduct our business and how we affect our We are driven by engagement and curiosity about customers, employees, shareholders and society at the future. This has been our approach ever since we large. Trust is our license to operate and thus fundawelcomed our first customer more than 160 years mental to our long-term ambition to generate lasting ago. Our vision is to provide world-class service to our value for all our stakeholders. customers. We do this by building long-term relationStrategy: Vision 2025 Our strategy, Vision 2025, was launched in 2015, business opportunities emerging from continuous aiming to achieve long-term growth by delivering changes in customer needs and behaviours, techworld-class service to our customers. Since then, nologies, regulations as well as competition, we change has become the new normal in the banking have identified three strategic focus areas on which landscape and in 2019 we revisited our long-term to base our efforts: strengthening our advisory strategic direction to ensure we remain the preferred capabilities, accelerating operational efficiency choice for our customers. In order to leverage the and extending our digital distribution and offering. 12 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Our business – Strategy and business plan Business plan 2019–2021 The Vision 2025 is set out in the three-year business plan 2019–2021 in which our overall targets and three focus areas are key components. Overall targets Shareholder value is created through profitable growth and Cost target 2019–2021 improved efficiency, while maintaining strong capital efficiency. SEB will continue to operate with a strict cost discipline ensuring The Board has defined three financial targets for the period that its current operations are cost efficient. 2019–2021: The business plan defines a number of strategic initiatives • A yearly dividend that is 40 per cent or more of earnings which, on an accumulated basis, are estimated to lead to total per share. additional investments of SEK 2–2.5bn over the three-year • A Common Equity Tier 1 (CET 1) capital ratio of around period 2019–2021. This translates into a total cost increase 150 basis points above the current requirement from the of SEK 1bn, and a new total cost target of around SEK 23bn Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. (+/SEK 200m) by 2021, assuming 2018 FX rates. With the • A return on equity that is com­petitive with peers. foreign exchange rates as of 31 December 2019, the cost target implies a cost level of around SEK 23.3bn in 2021. The pace of In the long term, SEB aspires to reach a sustainable return investments will be dependent on progress and will be gradually on equity of 15 per cent. ramped up over the three years. The strategic initiatives are The overall progress of the business plan is monitored expected to lead to both revenue growth and cost efficiencies, in terms of customer satisfaction, employee engagement, improving return on equity over time. sustainability and financial development. See p. 26 for outcome of the overall targets. Focus areas To reach our vision and deliver in line with our strategy, we have set out the way forward in our business plan for 2019–2021. During the year, our activities have been concentrated on the focus areas of advisory leadership, operational excellence and extended presence, and we are progressing in line with the plan. The investments in our strategic initiatives, aiming to accelerate growth and enhance profitability, have also developed broadly as expected. Each focus area is presented in more detail on the following pages, with selected illustrative examples and comments on progress. Advisory leadership Operational excellence Extended presence Offer customers proactive, customised Enhance customer value by increasing Meet our customers on their terms in their and value-adding advice, based on their the pace of digitalisation and automadigital ecosystems and offer a combinaspecific needs and behaviours, through tion while extending the use of data and tion of products and services from SEB human and digital interaction. analytics. and our partners. Read more on p. 14 Read more on p. 16 Read more on p. 18 SEB Annual Report 2019 — 13 Our business – Strategy and business plan Advisory leadership Offer customers proactive, customised and value-enhancing advice, based on their specific needs and behaviours, through human and digital interaction. Progress in 2019 Along with the ongoing technological development and the increased global focus on sustainability, our customers’ needs and behaviours continue to change. This means that we constantly need to improve our services and our advisory capabilities to become an even better partner to our customers. The long-term trend of our customers going more digital continues, with the mobile app being the preferred channel. Today, mobile interactions represent more than 80 per cent of all customer interactions within the Corporate & Private Customers division and we continue to see increasing digital activity. As a response to this change in customer behaviour, we have continued to develop the functionality in our digital channels, both in the mobile app and the internet bank. Similar to digitalisation, sustainability continues to grow in importance among customers, investors and regulators. Sustainability has been an integrated part of SEB’s business for many years, and as a bank we have an important role in enabling the shift to a low-carbon economy. We have therefore sharpened our value proposition by continuing to innovate new products and services, such as sustainability-linked loans and blue and red bonds focusing on clean water and vaccines. In addition, we have increased our advisory capabilities to better support our corporate customers in their energy transition. For SEB to remain financially strong and competitive in the long run, we are also transforming our own business. As a first step we are classifying our credit portfolio and assets under management according to sustainability criteria. Strategic initiatives Corporate and Private Banking Sustainability Savings and investments investment banking Powerhouse Accelerate innovation Enhance the bancassurEnhance advisory caImprove the customer exin sustainable financial ance offering and develop pacity across all client perience in Private Banksolutions. investment management segments, with special ing through a strengthcapabilities including comfocus on opportunities ened service offering petence and distribution. arising from new technoland digital tools. ogies and from the energy sector transition. Read more on p. 15 Read more on p. 15 Read more on p. 20 Read more on p. 15 14 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Our business – Strategy and business plan Activities within the focus area Meeting Private Banking customer needs Digital advisory services in the Baltic countries Our Private Banking customers are important to us. Based on The possibility of remote advisory meetings via screen-sharing their needs, one of our strategic initiatives involves, among other is appreciated by our customers in the Baltic countries and their things, improving digital services and broadening our offering use almost doubled during the year. We have continued to develin alternative investments. Other important areas include op our digital advisory services to respond to customer needs. streamlining work processes, to allow more time for physical In Estonia, the customer on-boarding process starts online meetings with customers, attracting the right skills to further and continues with a video meeting where the customer can strengthen our comprehensive advisory offering and forming sign the necessary documents digitally. In Latvia, we launched strategic partnerships to broaden the customer offering within a pilot version of digital booking function where customers can the Open Banking framework. schedule a physical advisory meeting online. Several steps were taken in 2019. A new function was In 2019, the Baltic banks also introduced its local version of launched in the internet bank, giving customers an overall view SEB’s AI-based chatbot Aida. It speaks five languages and supof their investments while at the same time improving the supports customers with internet authorisation, consumer lending port capacity for our advisers. We also made new alternative and payment cards, among other things. investment products available, such as SEB Microfinance VII, The number of users of SmartID, the service for digital signing which led to a good inflow of new customers and investment in the Baltic countries, has now reached 793,000, which correvolumes. The efficiency of the sales organisation also increased. sponds to 73 per cent of all our customers in these countries. Supporting sustainable transformation Custody services in customers’ ecosystems As a bank, SEB has an opportunity and an obligation to make a To meet our institutional customers’ needs for custody servicdifference in the transition to a low-carbon economy. Reducing es, SEB has over the years made large investments in a global the reliance on fossil fuels and focusing more on renewable custody platform, developed in partnership with the financial resources are important factors driving investment needs. In institution Brown Brothers Harriman. Through this venture we Sweden alone the investment needed to make power grids suffican offer global custody services, which are competitive in terms ciently flexible and stable to handle future energy systems have of product quality, service level and employee competence and been estimated to almost SEK 100bn. To support our customthus the bank becomes a part of the ecosystems of major finaners in the entire energy sector in the shift to more sustainable cial institutions. business models, we have established an Energy team with During the past year, several major Nordic institutions selected increased advisory capacity. This virtual team takes advantage SEB as custodian for their assets. Folketrygdfondet, the Norwegian of expertise in the energy area from different parts of the bank government pension fund that manages securities worth approxiand works together in a structured way to support our corporate mately SEK 250bn, is so far the largest customer onboarded to the customers in energy transition. new custody platform. Meet one of our customers Meet one of our customers E.ON Folketrygdfondet Alan Bevan, head of M&A Kjetil Houg, CEO “SEB acted as our sounding board and provided strategic advice “We found SEB to be the best alternative overall in terms of both when we acquired Coromatic. The transaction supports our aim operations and customer follow-up. We are looking forward to to be an innovation driver of the energy transition and we view work together with the SEB team”, says Kjetil Houg. SEB as an important advisor in delivering on this ambition”, says Alan Bevan from the German energy company E.ON. SEB Annual Report 2019 — 15 Our business – Strategy and business plan Operational excellence Enhance customer value by increasing the pace of digitalisation and automation while extending the use of data and analytics. Progress in 2019 Leveraging the opportunities of new technologies, we have continued our work to improve our customers’ digital experience. By automating processes, we have also increased efficiency and freed up time for our advisors to meet with customers – both in physical meetings and in our digital channels. New technology is used for our compliance work enhancing our ability to prevent fraud and other financial crime by improving internal processes such as know-your-customer and transaction monitoring. SEB is working to enhance speed in customer delivery and efficiency through robotics, process re-design and further centralisation to global service centres. As a result of these efforts, SEB managed to free up time corresponding to around 140 full-time equivalents in 2019. SEB also launched a digital learning platform, SEB Campus, with the objective to further enable continuous learning throughout the organisation. Moreover, the use of new technologies, such as artificial intelligence and machine learning, has improved our ability to give proactive and customised advice by leveraging customer data. Strategic initiatives End-to-end automation Data-driven Agile processes Adaptation of Achieve speed and improvement Expand agile processes employee skills efficiency in customer Build the foundation for to increase the speed of Adapt employee skills and delivery through autoa data-driven company business and technology competences to respond mation of processes and through clean and ordevelopment. to future needs. centralisation to global ganised data, supporting service centres for scale advanced analytics for and simplicity. advisory services. Read more on p. 17 Read more on p. 17 Read more on p. 17 Read more on p. 24 16 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Our business – Strategy and business plan Activities within the focus area Automation and centralisation create value Robots contribute to process redesign Fully automated processes and centralised administrative With the help of robot-controlled process automation, manual support functions are prerequisites for creating customer processes can be quickly streamlined and up-and-running value. Over the past ten years SEB has transferred back-office without a need for heavy IT investments. The technology entails functions to global service centres in Riga and Vilnius to achieve automating existing processes by creating software programs consistency and economies of scale. Within the framework of to perform standardised and repetitive tasks. This can be used, the strategic initiative for end-to-end automation we are now for example, for downloading and compiling data from different accelerating the pace of this work, and in 2019 we carried out computer systems. This results in faster processes and a lower similar relocations directly from the business divisions. risk for errors, while the robots free up time that employees can This applies, for example, for the Life division, where manageuse for more value-creating work. ment of certain customer service processes have been moved In 2017 we started our global service centres for robot-conto Vilnius. Through uniform work routines the business has trolled process automation in Riga and Vilnius, where a variety of achieved greater efficiency and reduced costs. Also in the Large back-office processes are now handled. In addition to the global Corporates & Financial Institutions division we centralised cerservice centres, we have now also built local robot centres that tain customer service functions in cash management to Vilnius. automate manual routines in the Life division, SEB Card and the Baltic division. Data analytics and AI for better business Nordic cooperation on customer data To become more data-driven in our ways of working we have set Banks are required to know their customers, but at present there up a specialist team, which supports the business with methods are no uniform national or international processes for aggrefor advanced data analytics and artificial intelligence (AI). The gating customer data. This has led to both time-consuming and team, led by the bank’s Chief Data Scientist, consists of experts cumbersome processes for customers, who need to provide with backgrounds as mathematicians, computer scientists, comdocumentation to banks, as well as longer transaction times and puter linguists and astrophysicists. They help identify relevant more administration. use cases and build prototypes for analytical models that create SEB is currently working with five other banks to create a business value through, for example, improved advice, market jointly owned company that will develop a platform for managing analysis and risk management. know-your-customer (KYC) data. The goal is to develop a standOne example is an analytical model that was implemented in ardised platform and standardised processes for KYC informa2019 and assesses revenue potential and predicts growth for tion. Banks’ handling of customer data is an important part of the small and medium-sized companies. The model has strengthened work against money laundering and the financing of terrorism as our advisory capacity and has been very well received by cuswell as other financial crime. The company will offer services to tomers, who gain more knowledge about their own business and large and medium-sized companies in the Nordic countries and thereby the ability to counter future setbacks and capitalise on the first launch is planned for 2020. future business opportunities. The specialist team also supports the Compliance function in building dynamic transaction monitoring as part of SEB’s work to combat financial crime. End-to-end automation improves productivity Centralisation Automation The global service centres in Riga and Vilnius provide back-office services to the bank and are increasing productivity through economies of 95% 5% 90% 10% scale and automation opportunities. 560 Improved productivity: From 2016 to 2019, the number of transactions processed increased by 42 per cent to reach 560 million. The number of employees, 1,600, was unchanged. 393 95 per cent of 560 million In 2019, 10 per cent of the more The number of employees transactions have been complex, manual transactions in the local support automated. The rest have were automated using robot functions decreased been more complex needing techniques. This is a continuous by 25 per cent. manual intervention. process. 2016 2019 SEB Annual Report 2019 — 17 Our business – Strategy and business plan Extended presence Meet our customers on their terms in their digital ecosystems and offer a combination of products and services from SEB and our partners. Progress in 2019 During the year SEB engaged in partnerships with other leading providers of financial services and new technologies, generating added value for our customers. The opportunities that Open Banking brings enable us to meet our customers on their terms in their digital ecosystems. By using new innovative features, sharing information and collaborating with trusted partners we can take our customer experience to the next level. The partnerships that we have established during the year have enabled us to expand our customer offering, either by distributing third party products and services in our channels, or by distributing SEB products and services in other channels. One such partner is the fintech company Tink. In mid-2019, SEB, in collaboration with Tink, launched account aggregation services, where private customers in Sweden now have the possibility to get an aggregated overview of their accounts, savings and loans in other banks, not just SEB. It has been well-received with 36,000 agreements signed by customers. As part of our Open Banking agenda, we have also continued to develop an API-driven architecture. The internal efficiency gains have exceeded expectations, allowing us to exchange data across the organisation at scale and speed and thus support existing products more efficiently, and also allowing us to introduce new products and features. Strategic initiatives Open Banking ERP integrator Scaling Markets’ system SEBx Develop the business in Integrate with enterprise Standardise digital distriExplore new technologies co-operation with external resource planning (ERP) bution channels in order to and develop new products parties. systems in an effort to serve and meet customer and services on the fringe provide banking services requirements. of the organisation. in customers’ channels of choice and utilise ERP data to enhance the customer offering. Read more on p. 19 Read more on p. 19 Read more on p. 19 18 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Our business – Strategy and business plan Activities within the focus area SEBx – a startup within the bank Open Banking developer portal Making corporate life easier Established in 2018, SEBx operates at At SEB we aim to simplify life for our In 2019, we partnered with the accounting the fringe of SEB’s organisation, with the customers and to be available for them firm PE Accounting and deepened our aim to explore and use new technology on their terms in times of need. It is an co-operation with the firm, which offers to meet future customer needs. The unit important component of our Open Bankproprietary accounting services. The is developing a technology platform in ing strategy to increase the distribution collaboration is a part of our strategic collaboration with cutting-edge suppliers of SEB’s products and services through initiative, ERP integrator, to develop inteof new, innovative and cloud-based techpartnership and participation in selected grated services with suppliers of business nologies, including Google Cloud and findigital ecosystems, while offering other systems in order to simplify financial adtech startup Thought Machine. actors’ products through our channels. ministration for our corporate customers. While leveraging new technology, SEBx The Developer Portal is our platform for By linking the customer account with can also draw upon the strengths of SEB, offering APIs (Application Programming the business system, customers can autoincluding access to data, industry knowInterfaces) to external developers. The mate their accounting, manage payments ledge and expertise. In return, lessons ambition is to gradually develop the portal and reconcile accounts more efficiently. learned from SEBx are channelled back into a broad API platform addressing the Payment information and account transinto the bank. global developer network. The portal enaction reports are automatically trans­ The first product launch planned for ables developers to test the integration of mitted between the systems. 2020 is aimed at self-employed people, the APIs in a production-like environment Today we offer the integration with or the “solopreneurs”, with the ambition and also allows SEB to offer its open APIs around a dozen accounting firms and to simplify their everyday life. The product to the financial ecosystem community. suppliers of business systems. Through is currently being tested in a closed beta With respect to APIs related to the our in-depth integration with PE Accountenvironment. requirements of the EU’s second Payment ing, payment files and reports are transServices Directive (PSD2), the portal gives ferred every 15 minutes instead of once third parties that are licensed by national a day previously, giving customers con­ financial supervisors the opportunity to tinuous control over their accounts. create solutions on behalf of our mutual For SEB such partnerships forms the customers by providing access to accbasis for developing other products and ount information and payment initiation services. features. Meet Team SEBx Meet one of our customers Martina Nordenson, Saurabh Singh, Christoffer Malmer Adtraction Marketing (head), Emelie Magnusson, Neha Saxena Andreas Hagström, CFO “We are excited, yet humble about the prospect of blending “We are positive to SEB’s involvement in PE Accounting and the the strengths of the incumbent organisation with the agility clear effect this has on provided services. As customers of PE and speed of a startup”, says Christoffer Malmer. Accounting we are benefiting from for instance local market payments, and we have lowered our costs and increased controls, specifically in terms of real-time liquidity planning”, says Andreas Hagström. SEB Annual Report 2019 — 19 Sustainability The global commitment to sustainability, particularly climate change, increased strongly in 2019. Financial institutions play an important role in the ongoing transition to a lowcarbon society through investments and financing activities. We are engaged in this strategically important area and have added the UNEP FI Principles for Responsible Banking to our international commitments. During the year, international summits such as Global Climate Week, the United Nations Climate Action Summit in New York and the COP 25 Climate Change Conference in Madrid, further highlighted the need to accelerate the pace towards a low-carbon society. Sustainability has been an integral part of our operations for many years. Since we are seeing ever-greater expectations from our stakeholders, we have increased the pace and intend to play a leading role in the transition to a low-carbon society. The three-year business plan, therefore, includes three related components: innovation, transformation as well as policies and procedures. SEB has always developed in accordance with society and customers’ needs. We now focus on innovating new products and services to meet the increasFunding raised for new vaccines ingly advanced sustainability needs of our customers. In 2019, we contributed to the accelerated develIn the transformation of our business we classify opment of new vaccines to prevent deadly disease the credit portfolio and assets under management among children. SEB acted as joint lead manager toaccording to sustainability criteria while strengthengether with Toronto Dominion Bank in the issuance of ing advisory services to assist our customers in their a NOK 600m bond. The funding will support research transition. Finally, our own policies and procedures and development and make the vaccines available at are in focus. affordable prices. In parallel, we see a need for international coThe bond was issued by The International Finance operation and we are engaged in a number of ways. Facility for Immunisation, an organisation whose In 2019, SEB was one of 131 banks globally that mission is to increase the availability of funding to signed the UNEP FI Principles for Responsible Banksupport the work of the Global Vaccination Alliance. ing. These principles reflect the power of collaboration between the private and financial sectors in the transition to a low-carbon society. 20 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Our business – Sustainability Innovation We have introduced a number of new products and services in financing and investments to meet our customers’ increasing expectations and needs regarding sustainability. Financing Investments Green bonds SEB Impact Metric Tool SEB is a pioneer in green bonds and has been The SEB Impact Metric Tool, is a quantitative SEB Impact Metric Tool Model Output a leader globally and in the Nordic region in this analysis tool that measures sustainability in ESG Factor Unit World DM USA Europe Japan Nordics World EM area for more than ten years. We retain our strong equity portfolios. In 2019, the tool was further 185 176 148 73 121 315 Carbon intensity (Tons CO2 equivalents / mUSD rev.) [82% [78% [93% [86% [86% [61% reported] reported] reported] reported] reported] reported] (m³ water withdrawal in countries with water 237 154 501 67 134 878 Water intensity stress / mUSD rev.) [68% [61% [87% [77% [77% [60% reported] reported] reported] reported] reported] reported] position as an adviser. In 2019, we were given the Operations developed so that, in addition to measuring 272 86 292 25 172 631 Waste intensity (Tons waste produced / mUSD rev.) [61% [52% [84% [76% [76% [50% reported] reported] reported] reported] reported] reported] 18% 20% 16% 2% 20% 13% Gender equality (% women managers) [98% [99% [95% [99% [94% [79% reported] reported] reported] reported] reported] reported] mandate to act as adviser to the Swedish National the extent to which an investment portfolio is 76% 85% 69% 31% 61% 42% Board independence (% independent board members) [98% [99% [96% [99% [94% [81% reported] reported] reported] reported] reported] reported] 389x 537x 161x 41x 45x 91x Fair pay (CEO salary / avg. salary) [45% [32% [87% [0% [87% [40% reported] reported] reported] reported] reported] reported] Debt Office when issuing their first green bond in 2020. The main aligned with the UN Sustainable Development Positive environmental impact (% rev. in sectors aligned with the SDGs) 2% 1.8% 1.3% 3.0% 3.2% 1.4% Positive social impact (% rev. in sectors aligned with the SDGs) 26.2% 30.8% 20.6% 18.4% 24% 14.4% Impact Negative environmental impact (% rev. in sectors misaligned with the SDGs) 10.0% 8.6% 15.2% 4.3% 7.3% 10.3% criteria that underpinned the selection of adviser were expertise Goals (SDGs), it also measures the percentage of a portfolio that Negative social impact (% rev. in sectors misaligned with the SDGs) 3.7% 3.5% 4.9% 1.8% 2.7% 2.2% Job creation (% of assets in developing countries) 2.0% 1.7% 3.1% 1.6% 1.7% 13.1% EU Taxonomy alignment (% of revenue from aligned activities) 6.3% 7.5% 3.6% 4.3% 6.0% 5.4% and experience in green bond issuance, as well as good knowcan be classified as green according to the EU taxonomy. In 2019, ledge of Sweden’s environmental and climate policy and we measured more than 100 customer portfolios. government funding – a proof of the expertise that SEB has Read about the taxonomy on p. 59. built up in this area over the years. SEB FRN Fond Hållbar Blue bond The fixed income fund SEB FRN Fond Hållbar was launched in In 2019, we arranged a blue bond for the first time, issued by 2019. The fund, which includes investments in Nordic corporate the Nordic Investment Bank, where the capital, SEK 2bn, is earbonds with variable interest rates, excludes companies that marked for projects aimed at reducing pollution and protecting extract fossil fuels and invests in green bonds where the capital the sensitive aquatic environment in the Baltic Sea. is earmarked for climate and environmental projects. At year-end the fund had approximately SEK 7.6bn in assets under manageGreen car leasing ment. In 2019, we launched green car leasing, which is yet another way for us to contribute to the shift Lyxor SEB Impact Fund to a low-carbon society. The solution is offered The new Lyxor SEB Impact Fund invests in compato corporate customers and organisations that nies that contribute to solving future global choose electric or biogas cars. Apart from the challenges. The companies operate in five areas fact that the leased cars themselves are more climate friendly linked to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals than fossil-fuelled cars, the financing is linked to SEB’s own – sustainable energy, water supply, food and green bond. agriculture, resource efficiency and social development. At year-end, the fund had SEK 1.4bn in assets under management. Green construction loans SEB now offers the possibility to apply for green construction Discretionary portfolio Responsible loans when financing residential and commercial properties of For SEB’s Private Banking customers, we offer the discretionary any size. Previously, we have offered this funding for major buildportfolio Responsible. It consists of three sub-portfolios in the ing projects. SEB uses green funding to finance the properties asset classes Swedish and global equity investments as well as that are classified as green. fixed income investments. The fund manager works actively to include securities, mainly funds, that have a clear working methGreen mortgages od based on international standards for human rights, labour law, SEB was the first bank in Sweden to launch green environment and anti-corruption. Assets under management grew mortgages, which offer a lower interest rate for from SEK 194m to SEK 1.5bn in 2019. people who live in climate-smart houses. The loans are available to anyone with housing that fulfils Microfinance funds specific requirements, for example the Swedish SEB is one of Europe’s largest microfinance fund managers. National Board of Housing, Building and Planning’s Through some 60 microfinance institutions, SEB’s funds offer energy classification criteria, homes with the Nordic Swan ecoloans to people with lower income in developing countries, label, Sweden Green Building Council certification, and passive who are often excluded from financial markets. Microfinance is house certification. During the year the volume of green morttoday the most established asset class within the field of impact gages increased to SEK 1.5bn. investments, with its success founded on the ability to offer investors both an attractive financial return and contribute to socioeconomic development for this target group. SEB manages 7 microfinance funds (including Impact Opportunity Fund) with a total value of approximately SEK 9bn (7), reaching more than 25 (23) million entrepreneurs in 59 (40) developing countries. SEB Annual Report 2019 — 21 Our business – Sustainability Business transformation In addition to our own funds, we offer externally managed funds in all customer segments. The funds are ranked on a four-degree scale according to how actively they integrate ESG aspects into We focus on transforming our own business and assisting our their investment processes. The evaluation currently covers customers in their transformation and contribution to a low64 funds globally. carbon economy. Furthermore, in 2019, we initiated a harmonisation of SEB’s internal and external offering of sustainable funds. Transforming our credit portfolio During 2019, SEB initiated a classification of the credit portfolio for large corporate customers according to an environmental, Responding to customer views social and corporate governance (ESG) classification framework. For the third year in a row, customers with savings in SEB’s funds The aim is to gain a better understanding of both the climate were asked which of the UN Sustainable Development Goals impact of our customers’ business and how climate change they think are the most important for SEB to address. More than affects their repayment capacity and thus asset quality. We 7,000 customers responded. Additionally, this year some 600 are convinced that by conducting a more in-depth analysis traditional insurance customers answered similar questions. of risks and opportunities we can provide better Climate Action as well as Clean Water and Sanitation are the top areas the customers would like us to advice to our customers. “Customers’ SDG prioritise when we invest their capital. Read more on p. 35 and p. 55. focus is on climate As a result of the surveys, SEB’s fund company action, clean water collaborates with, among others, the Institutional Sustainable mutual funds Investors Group on Climate Change (IIGCC), which In 2019, SEB’s largest mutual fund, SEB Världen, and sanitation.” conducts active impact dialogues with the 100 comwas converted to be managed according to SEB’s panies that account for the largest CO2 emissions sustainability criteria and was renamed as SEB globally. These are for example companies in the oil and gas Hållbarhetsfond Världen. The fund, with approximately SEK 42bn industry. In 2019 the collaboration in IIGCC contributed to the in assets under management, is now excluding – among others – setting of long-term targets to reduce emissions, by corporations companies involved in fossil fuels and tobacco while at the same like Shell and Equinor. BP has agreed to set out how each of its time including companies that work actively to reduce climate major investments is compatible with the Paris Agreement. impact. We have also engaged in organisations such as the Water Equity and the CDP’s Water Security Program, both of which are working to solve global challenges related to water supply. Growing demand for advice SEB strives to support customers in their ongoing transition. Customers in an increasing number of categories appreciate and request advice on sustainability matters, and SEB is developing products and services to support them in this work. A specific strategic initiative in the three-year business plan focuses on renewable energy services. See p. 15. In 2019, employees in the Life division at the Remote Advisory Centre in Sundsvall, Sweden, underwent training in sustainability, which is now a natural part of remote advice. An internal evaluation shows that customer satisfaction in this area was 97 per cent and that a clear majority of private customers Hydro’s sustainability-linked financing indicated a high sustainability investment preference. The Norwegian industrial group Norsk Hydro ASA, Hydro, is an Sustainability advice was strengthened for our Private Banaluminium company with 35,000 employees in 40 countries. king customers. More than 1,000 Swedish customers attended In 2019, Hydro established its first sustainability-linked meetings where, among others, our fund managers provided infinancing. The margin on the 1.6 billion dollar revolving credit formation on SEB’s offering of so-called impact investing. In 2019, facility will be adjusted based on whether the company meets some 230 Private Banking advisers and coordinators in Sweden its target to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 10 per cent underwent training in this area. by 2025. The margin is adjusted downwards if Hydro lives up to the goal, and vice versa in case it does not. SEB was sustainability coordinator and lead arranger in the Policies and procedures loan syndication. The relation with Hydro dates back to the early 1900’s when SEB helped finance Hydro’s start up. In addition to the customer-oriented activities, we focus on our own operations. We continuously review and upgrade our “The transaction is a confirmation of the sustainability-related policies and procedures. We are working strong relationship between Hydro and our to reduce our own CO2 emissions and we are increasing internal core banks, among them SEB. It reflects the training in order to build competence. See p. 38. trust built over many years and is a good example of the close link between profitability and sustainability”, says Pål Kildemo, CFO. 22 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Our business SEB in society As a bank SEB is an integral part of society. We have a long history of contribution to a sustainable society through promoting innovation and opportunities for entrepreneurship as well as through empowering future generations. SEB believes in entrepreneurship Since 1997, SEB has been working At SEB we have a fundamental belief that together with Mentor, an organisation entrepreneurs build strong societies. Enterdedicated to building relationships and prise and innovation play an important role trust between young people and adults. in solving social as well as climate-related Every year SEB employees reach thouchallenges. We, therefore, support people sands of youths through their particiwith ideas and aspirations to drive change. pation in Mentor programmes such as Through “SEB’s entrepreneurial stairIndividual mentorship and Jobbmentor. case” we have created a power house Further programs are being developed, for business, job creation, integration and such as SEB Inclusion where young people future hope, in cooperation with some 15 learn to counter bias and to create a leading organisations engaged in Swedish Plaster that kills bacteria more inclusive society, and Proffsmentor enterprise. A plaster that is effective against all types Entrepreneurship which teaches youths Entrepreneurs are offered support at all of bacteria, including those resistant to how to develop an idea further to start a levels, from the help that Junior Achieveantibiotics – this is the business concept of company or find a job. Every year more ment gives high school students to start the start-up company Amferia, founded by than 20,000 youths participate in Mentor their own businesses, up to the global Saba Atefyekta, Anand Rajasekharan and Sweden’s various programmes. Entrepreneur of the Year contest, which Martin Andersson. They were awarded as recognises established entrepreneurs as “Start-up of the Year” at the Swedish finals role models. of Venture Cup which is supported by SEB. The role of banks in society SEB’s Entrepreneur Camp focuses on youths aged 16–18, who are provided with Banks play a key role in order for tools and guidance to realise their ideas for youths. We_change aims to create society to function. The services and start a business. Since 2017, seven conditions for youths, businesses, muand infrastructure we provide are one-week camps have been conducted nicipalities, authorities and organisations instrumental in creating economic in various parts of Sweden with the to meet on issues related to our common growth and social value. SEB makes participation of some 250 youths in total. future. Since its start in 2011, we_change it possible for households, entreSEB also supports Carrus Network, has reached nearly 70,000 youths. preneurs and businesses to finance, which was started by former particiIn the Baltic countries SEB has partinvest and manage payments and pants at SEB Entrepreneur Camp. Over a nered with the Tallinn University Social savings. We identify and manage two-year period some 300 youths have Entrepreneurship Program which aims to risks as well as opportunities, attended events focusing on futuresupport entrepreneurs design and implethereby promoting economic oriented themes such as entrepreneurment solutions to social, cultural and envidevelopment, growth, new jobs ship, technology, sustainability and ronmental issues. Here, we are contributand international trade, and personal development. ing our knowledge of design methods such contribute to financial security. as “service design”, a work method that is Supporting social entrepreneurs used internally at SEB, and with its focus Social entrepreneurs are playing an ever on adjusting to customer needs is useful more important role in society, where for new entrepreneurs. social and economic gaps as well as inequality are increasing. SEB is developing training in social SEB’s entrepreneurial staircase entrepreneurship in collaboration with Inkludera Invest, an umbrella organisation • Entrepreneur of the Year • The Golden Gavel (Guldklubban) for social entrepreneurs that provides • Settler of the year (Årets nybyggare) Praise support to groups in society that are at risk of exclusion. Grow • SUP46 • YEoS • Connect In 2019, SEB attended the Social Innovation Summit in co-operation with • Inkludera Invest • Business Challenge Develop • Minc • E-Commerce Park Malmö University and others. Focus was on innovation that contributes to solving • Enterprise agencies • START-UP STOCKHOLM • Uppstart Malmö • Greenhouse Start complex societal challenges. SEB’s innovation team in sustainable financing • Venture Cup Plan presented their work on financing social initiatives and environmental projects. • Junior Achievement Inspire Together with Ikea, H&M and Sida, • Prince Daniel’s Fellowship SEB is a main sponsor of we_change, • Carrus Network Sweden’s largest sustainability initiative • SEB Entrepreneur Camp SEB Annual Report 2019 — 23 Our employees To work at SEB is to be a positive force in society by helping customers achieve their goals. Our people are at the core of everything we do and we support their development. We firmly believe that diversity and inclusion are crucial for success. SEB’s annual employee survey shows that our emSEB Campus – continuous learning ployees are engaged and feel that they can develop Our philosophy is that competence development is and grow. The survey also shows that employees achieved above all through continuous learning in the have confidence in SEB’s management and feel that daily work and in collaboration with others. However, they have the opportunity to express their views and in pace with the changes taking place in the financial influence decisions. The key performance indicators sector – just like in society at large – requirements for employee engagement remain at historically high on development and competence shift are steadily levels and above the average for the international increasing for all employees. Toward this end, the financial sector. See p. 27. bank’s own digital platform for learning, SEB Campus, was launched in 2019, offering courses and e-learning Employee statistics provided by international universities and business schools as well as by internal experts at SEB. 2019 2018 2017 Every year SEB conducts strategic workforce Employees, average planning of its future competence needs in which full-time equivalents 14,939 14,751 14,946 every department identifies future key competences, Employees, average 15,691 15,683 15,946 determines development needs for existing profesSweden sional roles and conducts succession planning. The 8,013 7,972 8,053 results are then used to design the curriculum for Other Nordic countries 988 1,121 1,304 SEB Campus. Baltic countries 5,544 5,348 5,213 Other countries 1,146 1,243 1,376 Diversity for innovation and growth Inclusion and diversity are crucial for driving innoEmployees at year-end 15,819 15,562 15,804 vation and growth, and for the ability to provide Employee turnover, % 12.1 12.9 12.8 world-class service to our customers and to society Employees by gender, % at large. Since 2018, SEB has a dedicated manager Male with responsibility for inclusion and diversity, and a 44 43 43 number of activities in this area were arranged for all Female 56 57 57 SEB employees during 2019. On an overall level SEB Sick leave, % (in Sweden) 2.9 2.9 2.9 reports a balanced employee gender ratio. On senior Female managers, % 47 45 47 manager levels, SEB is working towards increasing Method changed the balance, partly through key performance targets. Employee engagement 80 (no comparable data) See p. 36. Co-workers in photo above, from left Nicoleta Stepman, Junior Gonzalez, To raise awareness of the importance of diversity, Mikael Warsén, Gustav Jonasson and Thina Eriksson. SEB designed training courses, conducted dialogues 24 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Our business – Our employees on inclusion and hosted roundtable discussions with employees and management. Two events were arranged, focusing on the Our core values power provided by people with different perspectives. During the year SEB’s talent programme started a collaboSEB’s core values serve as the foundation for ways of ration with the company TNG, which specialises in unbiased working and culture. In combination with the vision – to recruitment. The recruitment process entails anonymisation of deliver world-class service to our customers – they serve applications where the selection of applicants is based on tests to motivate and inspire employees, managers and the of personal competence and skills. Assurance is made early in organisation as a whole. These values are described in the recruitment process that the candidates’ motivations and our Code of Conduct, which provides guidance on ethical values are aligned with SEB’s. The SEB managers do not see the matters for all employees. applicants’ records until the final interviews, when only two candidates remain. The contract with TNG extends over three Customers first years and the result after the first year shows a greater diversity We naturally put our customers’ needs first, always of participants. seeking to understand how to deliver real value. Labour law and unions Commitment Our employees are covered by central cross-sector collective We are personally dedicated to the success of our agreements or local company-specific collective agreements. customers and are accountable for our actions. SEB has a European works council with representatives from all EU and EEA countries in which the bank is represented. Collaboration Both employees and managers are offered training and We achieve more because we work together. We support when involved in a reorganisation. Employees also get share, challenge and learn from our experiences as support in finding new work, whether internally or externally. a team. Any reorganisations or layoffs are handled in accordance with applicable laws, collective agreements, special procedures and Simplicity redundancy agreements that have been agreed upon with the We strive to simplify what is complex. We respect our unions. customers’ time by being accessible, straightforward and transparent. Health and work environment SEB works long term and preventively to offer a safe and sound Read the Code of Conduct on sebgroup.com workplace to ensure employee well-being and a healthy worklife balance. In Sweden, SEB’s level of sick leave remains low, at 2.9 per cent, compared with other industries as well as the financial sector. In 2019, employees were offered, for the first time, a Lifestyle account, in addition to the wellness subsidy they already receive. The account can be used for services in health and work-life balance. Meet Kathrin and Fahrad Kathrin Grahn, joined SEB in 1977 Farhad Johari, joined SEB in 2016 “I work as a customer service adviser in Malmö. During my years “I work as a systems developer in our life insurance operations. at the bank, I have had the privilege to work with customers It is an environment with complex challenges, which is fun. At giving me both energy and joy. Furthermore, my wonderful SEB, we are good at collaborating. We all have different knowlcolleagues make me still, after 42 years, go to work with a smile edge and share our skills. When I joined SEB, I wasn’t sure I would on my face. I hope my colleagues appreciate my experience, and fit in and thought that people working in a bank would be fairly I am still learning new things from them every day.” stereotype. But it was, as it usually is with prejudice, completely wrong. SEB is a fun workplace with space for many different types of people.” SEB Annual Report 2019 — 25 Our business Overall targets and outcome The progress of the strategy and three-year business plan is monitored and measured at many levels. These selected key metrics provide a progress overview. Customers Target Overall performance Leading position in selected customer Nordic large corporations1) Nordic financial institutions1) segments and meeting or exceeding the internal customer satisfaction targets. 4.1 3.8 4.1 4.1 3.9 3.9 3.9 3.7 3.7 3.6 3.5 3.7 Prospera In Sweden, SEB was ranked as no. 1 SEB by the overall and tier 1 customer Industry average groups, among both corporate and 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 financial institutions – throughout the three-year period. 1) According to Prospera’s ranking Swedish Quality Index In the Swedish Quality Index measCustomers’ willingness to recommend SEB urement of customer satisfaction Customer experience Small companies in Sweden2) Private individuals in Sweden2) banks’ scores overall improved and satisfaction somewhat. For SEB, both private Both internal and external metand corporate customers’ satisfaction 52 >50 50 >50 47 >45 47 improved and the gap to the leading rics are used to measure cus41 >45 >45 41 >45 competitor closed in. tomer satisfaction. Prospera’s Next step external overall performance The business plan focuses on Outcome measurement and the internal improving the customer offering in Target measurement of customers’ 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 many ways and thereby customer willingness to recommend 2) According to SEB’s Net Promoter Score method. Outcome satisfaction. SEB are key measures. represents a 12-month average for advisory services. Shareholders Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio Target Per cent SEB shall maintain a Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) capital ratio that is 19.4 around 1.5 percentage points above 17.61) 17.6 the regulatory requirement. At yearend 2019 SEB’s buffer was 2.5 percentage points. SEB’s applicable CET1 requirement from the Swedish Financial Super­visory Authority was 2017 2018 2019 15.1 per cent. 1) Reflects changed SFSA requirements without which the outcome would have been 20.1 per cent. Financial targets Return on equity (ROE) Target Through the resilience and Per cent SEB shall generate a competitive return on equity. This means that flexibility that come from 16.3 the bank in the long term aspires a strong capital base, good 13.4 13.7 13.8 to achieve a 15 per cent return on 11.7 12.9 Including items access to funding, high credit affecting comparability equity. ratings and cost efficiency, Excluding items affecting SEB can create shareholder comparability 2017 2018 2019 value in varying market conditions. Based on the strategy and business plan, the Board Dividend payout ratio Target of Directors sets three finanPer cent 40 per cent or more of earnings cial targets that contribute to per share. SEB strives for long-term 77 growth in dividend per share. The size financial strength. 70 76 67 67 of the dividend takes into account 61 Including items affecting SEB’s financial position, the prevailing comparability Excluding items economic situation, earnings, regulaaffecting tory requirements and opportunities comparability for growth. 2017 20181) 20192) 1) Based on a total dividend of SEK 6.50 for 2018, which consisted of SEK 6.00 as ordinary dividend and SEK 0.50 as extraordinary dividend. 2) No items affecting comparability in 2019. 26 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Our business – Overall targets and outcome Employees Employee engagement, index Target SEB’s target is to be the most attracMethod change tive employer in the financial sector. Progress is measured through an an77 79 80 nual employee survey. In 2019, a new 73 74 72 SEB survey method was implemented, Financial limiting comparison with earlier years. sector average Comment 2017 2018 2019 SEB is strong whether measured by the former or the new survey method and SEB as an employer, index1) SEB’s result for employee engagement was among the top 20 per cent of the Method change financial sector. 82 Next step Motivation and engagement 78 73 75 79 72 The bank is addressing the findings of SEB carries out an annual SEB the employee survey in many ways. Financial employee survey to measure sector The employees’ need for better IT employee engagement and average and technology is part of the business 2017 2018 2019 plan. Inclusion and diversity issues the employee view of SEB as 1) Employees’ willingness to recommend SEB as an employer. are being addressed by, among other a place to work. things, workshops initiated by the manager holding this responsibility. Society Sustainable financing Sustainable investments1) Comment Green loan portfolio, SEK bn Per cent SEB aims to gradually transform credit and investment portfolios 19 towards a sustainable profile. 16 13 13 Next step 11 8 Sustainability is a strategic initiative in the business plan where one target is to increase sustainability-related 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 business volumes. 1) Share of total assets under manageSee p. 36 for sustainability key ment managed according to sustainability criteria. performance indicators and targets. Sustainability CO2 emissions Target Comment SEB’s strategy is to expand its Tonnes Reduce CO2 emissions by 20 per cent In 2019, SEB reduced its CO2 emisbetween 2016 and 2020, to reach sions by 4.6 per cent, which can be customer offering of sustain18,500 tonnes CO2. credited mainly to business travel. Target for 2020 ability products. As a bank, (18,500) Emissions related to business travel 24,487 23,606 22,525 SEB has relatively low direct amounted to just over 50 per cent environmental impact. How­ of total CO2 emissions. See p. 38 for more information. ever, the ambition is to lower 2017 2018 2019 the internal CO2 impact. Reputation Corporate reputation index1) Target Reduce the gap to the no. 1 in the SEB monitors the result of Sweden industry and in the long term have the Baltic Kantar’s Corporate Reputation strongest reputation among industry Index which measures the 57 55 peers. No information 42 43 38 bank’s reputation among the 33 36 45 45 Comment general public. 20 SEB was ranked as no. 2 in Sweden, SEB Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania. Average2) Next step 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 SEB will continue to take an active part 1) Kantar Sifo in Sweden and Kantar Emor in the Baltic countries. in society, promoting entrepreneur2) Sweden: SEB, SHB, Swedbank, Nordea, Danske Bank. ship and contributing to a sustainable Baltic countries (in 2019): SEB, Swedbank, Luminor, LHV, economy. Citadele, Siauliu. SEB Annual Report 2019 — 27 Our business Long-term value creation Customer centricity, long-term perspectives and financial strength form the foundation for meeting the expectations of customers, employees and society at large. Ultimately, this creates value for the shareholders. Meeting stakeholders’ expectations via SEB’s business model Customers 1.7 million corporate and private home bank customers The customers’ needs are at the core of the bank’s business. Customers’ high expectations on both personal and digital service, on quality advice and on Long-term strategy sustainable solutions drive the bank’s SEB’s long-term vision is to deliver world-class business development and offerings. service to our customers. We maintain our deep customer relationships and meet their needs by being innovative and taking advanShareholders tage of new opportunities – all with a longterm perspective. 265,000 shareholders The capital provided by SEB’s shareholders is a prerequisite for conducting the bank’s business. The shareholders Personal and digital services expect a competitive and sustainable Proactive quality advice and a holistic, digital return on their capital. Many of the major and personal offering are provided at the owners have a long-term pers­pective on customers’ convenience, based on customer their engagement in the bank. insight. Employees Agile and proactive 15,000 employees development Our employees build and deepen Products and services are developed proac­customer relationships. Their committively and with agility, based on customer prefment, skills and continuous learning erences, market outlook and at the forefront of are key success factors for the bank’s digital technology. business and future development. Secure and functional IT The IT structure promotes stability in the daily operations, enables analysis of a large amount Society of data as well as promotes agile development Society at large and design of products, services and processes. Banks play an integral role in society and are vital for creating economic growth, social value and for the transition to a low-carbon society. With this comes an expectation that the bank takes great responsibility for how it acts, to enable society to continue to develop in a sustainable way. 28 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Our business – Long-term value creation Value creation based on trust Banks play a fundamental role in society by acting as an intermeand provides services that are proactive, insightful, transparent diary providing, and advising on, a wide range of financing and and accessible on customers’ terms . savings solutions, risk management and payment services. SEB’s In addition, high ethical standards are being upheld internally operations impact – and is impacted by – customers, shareholdin order to maintain stakeholders’ trust. SEB’s code of conduct ers, employees and society. Their trust is a prerequisite for SEB’s and internal rules are in place supported by a culture based on license to operate. This is why the bank adapts to a changing enopenness, business acumen and SEB’s core values. vironment, acts in accordance with expectations and regulations, Read more about the Code of Conduct on p. 25 and on sebgroup.com creates sustainable value Financial value – for our customers created and By providing proactive advice and distributed 2019 a wide range of digital and personal services, we support our customSEK 65bn ers’ long-term aspirations and add Interest paid value in all phases of life of individto customers uals and development stages of and bondholders companies and institutions. SEK 19bn See p. 8–22. Financial strength Financial strength gives the resilience and – for our shareholders flexibility required to serve customers in both good times and bad. Dividends and increase in market value over time contribute to shareholders’ financial security and enable new investments. SEB’s competitiveness is increased and Dividends Solid corporate governance paid to Corporate governance is based on clear long-term risks are reduced through the integration of environmental, shareholders allocation of responsibility, a well devel­ SEK 14bn oped structure for internal control and social and governance aspects in owner involvement. business operations. See p. 30. – for our employees Sound risk management Our employees take part in, and Salaries, To meet customers’ needs we assume value, the opportunities for learning pensions and and manage risks. We know our custo­ and further development that benefits to mers well and risks are mitigated by are integrated in SEB’s business. employees prudence, risk awareness and expertise Employees also participate in the SEK 12bn throughout the organisation. many partnerships that SEB supports to help communities develop and prosper. See p. 24. Payments to suppliers – for society at large SEK 11bn SEB intermediates financial solutions, provides payment services and manages risks, which together promote economic growth and Taxes and prosperity. We pay taxes and fees social charges according to local rules where we SEK 7bn operate. SEB takes responsibility as a provider of financing and as an asset manager and works Regulatory fees proactively with environmental, SEK 2bn social and governance issues. See p. 23. SEB Annual Report 2019 — 29 Our business SEB as an investment SEB’s investment case is built on more than 160 years in the service of enterprise, innovation and entrepreneurship. We have a unique customer base and market position, committed owners with a long-term perspective and the financial strength to grow. Unique customer Owners with a No. 1 base and market position long-term perspective Ranking by Prospera SEB serves as a long-term relationship Many of SEB’s larger institutional invesLarge corporate and financial institutions banking partner to a majority of the large tors have had ownership stakes in SEB survey Sweden 2019 corporations and financial institutions in for more than ten years. SEB is one of the Nordic region and as an intermediary the core investments of Investor AB, No. 1 between Nordic and global financial northern Europe’s largest industrial markets. holding company, which owns more than Bank in life and pension SEB’s large corporate customer base 20 per cent of the share capital. With around 9 per cent of the total life is well diversified across industries and With a large share of engaged and longand pension market in Sweden includes market leaders in the respective term institutional owners, the perspective industry. Around 70 per cent of the large goes beyond business cycles, taking a No. 2 corporate customers operate internalong-term structural rather than cyclical tionally and are thus exposed to higher perspective. Baltic bank for both small and medium-sized companies growth potential and more diversified as well as private customers geographical risk profiles. Diversified business model SEB has strengthened its position and financial strength among small and medium-sized compaOur earnings base and risk profile are Return on equity nies in Sweden, growing its market share of home bank customers from 8 to 16 per diversified in terms of customer base, full-service product offering and geo13.8% excluding items affecting comparability cent in the last decade. This is a segment graphic exposure. with growth potential with opportunities SEB has demonstrated strong profitable to develop and deepen the banking offergrowth over time and continuously strives Cost / income ratio 0.46 ing to these customers as they grow. to improve its operating leverage through Among private customers, SEB focuses deepened customer relationships and on a full-service offering in urban growth diligent efficiency improvements. areas in Sweden. SEB is a Nordic marOur strong balance sheet and capitalCapital adequacy ket leader in private banking, providing isation create flexibility for the future, services with global reach to Nordic high net-worth individuals. enabling us to grow with our customers. 17.6% Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio SEB is the second largest universal bank in the Baltic countries, which is a region with high economic growth during the past five years and with potential for further development of banking services. Profit development1) SEK bn Peer comparison, 2019 Earnings and dividend per share SEK Per cent Cost/income ratio 1) 10 100 50 0.8 8 80 0.6 6 60 +5 % 2) 25 4 40 +4 % 2) 23 0.4 13 2 20 8 +8 % 2) Return on 3 equity (%)1) 0 0 0.2 2 6 10 14 18 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 1990 2000 2010 2019 Income Expenses Operating profit SEB Nordic peers Earnings/share1), SEK Dividend/ share2), SEK European peers Dividend payout ratio 1)2), % 1) Excluding items affecting comparability. Size of circle indicates CET 1 ratio 1) Excluding items affecting comparability. 2) Compound Annual Growth Rate (CAGR). (less or more than 15%) 2) Excluding extraordinary dividend in 2018. 1) For Nordic banks, excluding items affecting comparability 30 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Report of the Directors Contents REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Sustainability report 32 SEB’s sustainability framework 32 Responsible and proactive advice 33 Sustainable financing 34 Targets and outcome 36 Sustainable investments 37 Innovation and entrepreneurship 38 Financial review of the group 39 Result and profitability 39 Financial structure 42 Divisions 46 Geographic markets 48 Markets shares and customer contacts 49 Risk, liquidity and capital management 52 Risk management 52 Liquidity and capital management 57 Regulatory requirements 58 Corporate governance 60 Governance structure and SEB organisation 62 Board of Directors 64 Group Executive Committee 70 Internal control over financial reporting 73 Remuneration Report 74 Report of the Directors Sustainability Report SEB has a strong ambition to create value for customers, shareholders, employees and society at large. Through long-term relationships SEB aims to support its customers, also in their transition towards a more sustainable world. It is SEB’s ambition to be a role model in sustainability within the of green and transition financing, and to support its customers’ financial industry and the bank is committed to the integration of sustainability focus. economic, social and environmental aspects in its business in the • Sustainable investments – SEB aims to have a comprehensive shortand long-term perspectives. SEB aims to avoid or minimise and competitive offering where environmental, social and negative impacts of its products and services and strives to idengovernance factors are fully integrated into all investment tify business opportunities to create positive impacts in line with processes. SEB performs its ownership role responsibly. the bank’s purpose, vision and strategy. SEB strives to integrate • Innovation and entrepreneurship – SEB is guided by a strong sustainability aspects into the business – a strategic initiative in belief that entrepreneurial minds and innovative companies the business plan. are key to creating a better world. SEB supports innovation The sustainability work is described on the following pages, and entrepreneurship to drive the economic development and as well as on p. 20–22. contribute to the creation of new jobs and growth in society. Environmental and climate aspects are essential parts in all four SEB’s sustainability framework success factors, both from risk and opportunity perspectives. The fundamental enablers – financial strength and resilience, Sustainability is integrated in SEB’s business activities through risk management, business ethics and conduct, crime prevention a framework consisting of success factors and fundamental and people aspects – are at the core of SEB’s long-term success. enablers. Four success factors are prioritised: As a company in the business of trust, shortcomings in any of • Responsible and proactive advice – SEB seeks to facilitate these areas would limit the bank from being able to create longcustomers’ understanding and control of their financial situterm value for stakeholders. ation. SEB is also committed to understanding its customers’ needs and preferences in their transition. UN Sustainable Development Goals • Sustainable financing – SEB strives to contribute to reorientSEB believes that global challenges need global collaboration ing capital flows to low-carbon activities, to increase the share and recognises the importance of international commitments that Four prioritised Sustainable SEB’s sustainability framework Development Goals (SDG) Innovation and entrepreneurship p.38 Success Sustainable financing Sustainable investments factors p.34 p.37 SEB prioritises four of UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. In addition, the bank also addresses several of the Responsible and proactive advice p.33 other goals, as indicated at each chapter headline. Fundamental Financial Risk Business ethics Crime strength and People enablers management and conduct prevention resilience p.57 p.55–56 p.25 p.56 p.24 About this report This report constitutes SEB’s statutory sustainability report • SEB’s business model p. 28 2019. It describes the bank’s work with sustainability, policies • Sustainability development and outcome related to SEB’s and processes as well as the indirect and direct impacts of its 2019–2021 business plan p. 20–22 business, development and outcome. Areas covered include • The diversity policy for the Board p. 62 climate and environment, human rights, labour rights and • Risk, liquidity and capital management p. 52–57 social relations, and anti-corruption. • Corporate governance p. 60–72 Key aspects of the bank’s sustainability work are described • Crime prevention p. 56. in applicable parts of the Annual Report: 32 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Report of the Directors – Sustainability report help businesses to operate in a more sustainable way. The United Responsible and proactive advice Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), launched in 2015, have set a global agenda for nations, businesses and societies on how to achieve sustainable economic growth, social inclusion and environmental protection. The financial sector has a critical role to play in this work. Many of SEB’s customers work actively to support the SDGs. Thereby, the bank contributes to Banking is based on relationships and trust. SEB aims to facilitate most of the goals directly and indirectly. Four of them, in parcustomers’ control and understanding of their financial situation. ticular, are closely linked to SEB’s history and business strategy: SEB supports its customers in their transition to sustainable no. 8, no. 9, no. 13 and no. 16. In 2019, SEB further developed its solutions and integrates risks and opportunities related to envirange of products that contribute to the SDGs. Read more ronmental, social and governance (ESG) aspects into customer here, in the Sustainability Fact Book and at sebgroup.com. dialogues, policies and processes. It is crucial for SEB not only to adhere to all laws and regCommitments, guidelines and policies ulations in the countries where the bank is active but also to SEB supports the following international agreements: maintain high ethical standards. The Code of Conduct describes • The UN Sustainable Development Goals SEB’s way of working and guides employees and others in how • The Paris Agreement to act in business relationships. The code is also SEB’s policy on • The UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights ethical matters. • The UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights • The ILO Core Conventions on Labour Standards • The Children’s Rights and Business Principles Managing potential negative impacts SEB works to identify and assess areas related to climate and en• The OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises vironment, human rights, labour law and social relations as well as anti-corruption where it may have negative impacts through SEB has joined or publicly endorsed the following principles: its business relationships. Based on prioritisation, proportionality • The UN Global Compact and level of influence, findings are acted upon to prevent, miti• UNEP FI Principles For Responsible Banking gate and remediate potential negative impacts. Provided that the • Principles for Responsible Investments (PRI) customer is willing and has the financial capacity to implement • The Equator Principles the required corrective measures, SEB can maintain relationships • Task Force on Climate Related Financial Disclosure (TCFD) with customers exposed to sustainability risk. SEB expects its customers to respect all human rights and the SEB has developed various guiding documents in the area of ILO Core Conventions on Labour Standards through appropriate sustainability, among them the Corporate Sustainability Policy, due diligence systems. Moreover, SEB commits to identify and the Environmental Policy, the Human Rights Policy, the Inclusion manage corruption risks in transactions. and Diversity Policy, the Code of Conduct, the Code of Conduct for Suppliers and the Tax Policy. SEB has three position statements (Child Labour, Climate Change and Fresh Water) and six Strengthening customer dialogues In Sweden a pilot project was initiated during the year focusing sector policies (Arms and Defence, Forestry, Fossil Fuel, Mining on how to better support corporate customer advisers in their and Metals, Renewable Energy and Shipping). These provide customer dialogues about sustainability-related risks. The advisguidelines on good practice as well as on the international ers were provided with an overview of these risks with questions conventions and standards that the bank adheres to. related to environment, human rights and labour law as well as anti-corruption adapted to specific sectors. These sectors were SEB’s approach to tax transportation, construction and real estate, wholesale, retail as well as business and household services. The response to In SEB’s business, tax management and tax governance are this support tool from the selected customers and the customer relevant and important. Operating in more than 20 countries, advisers was positive, as this approach increased the risk underSEB acknowledges the changing landscape around tax from standing and deepened the relationship. both regulators and society and puts strong efforts in securThe Baltic division is conducting meetings with its corporate ing compliance with applicable tax laws and regulations. customers to gain a better understanding of their sustainability Products and services offered by SEB impact the tax agendas and establish a dialogue on future developments. An situation for SEB and its customers and must always have assessment guideline was developed and integrated into the business rationale. SEB must not use, encourage or facilitate credit granting process to increase attention, knowledge and products or services in conflict with tax legislation or anticompliance with SEB’s sustainability policies and to support tax avoidance law. SEB must not co-operate with external customers regarding sustainability. parties to facilitate products or services in conflict with tax In 2019, SEB further developed advisory tools for customers. legislation or anti-tax avoidance law. SEB’s Tax Policy is One example is the Impact Metric Tool, which is offered to institureviewed annually. See the Tax Policy on sebgroup.com tional customers. In SEB’s Life division sustainability advising has been strengthened. See p. 21–22. SEB Annual Report 2019 — 33 Report of the Directors – Sustainability report Sustainable financing Green financing In the ongoing transition related to climate change, SEB is working continuously to support its customers and identify opportunities that contribute to positive impact. For more than a decade, SEB has supported large corporations and financial institutions in finding green financing solutions. Responsible financing and lending are cornerstones of SEB’s business. SEB’s policies define how the bank is to take ESG risks Underwriting green bonds into account in financing activities. All transactions are to meet As one of the innovators behind green bonds, SEB has an ambithe group-wide sustainability-related policies. SEB takes a retion to drive the green financing market. The green bond market strictive stance to business activities in industries with a high risk continued to perform well in 2019 and reached USD 263bn (182) for negative human rights or labour rights impacts and businessglobally. The financial and corporate sectors continued to be the es that operate in jurisdictions with weak, low or no respect for dominant issuers in the market, which has become more diverhuman rights, without proper mitigations in place. sified in terms of countries and sectors, and in 2019 included Tools for analysing, documenting and monitoring SEB’s record high issuances from government agencies. In 2019, SEB’s exposure to ESG risks were further developed in 2019. As an global share of underwriting was 3.8 per cent (3.7), correspondexample, SEB started to develop an ESG classification framework ing to a volume of USD 7bn. This makes SEB the 7th largest to assess customers’ ESG impacts. The framework will inform underwriter globally in 2019 and the 4th largest underwriter and support SEB’s ambition to gradually shift its credit portfoglobally since inception. In the Nordic market SEB maintained its lio towards more sustainable financing, among other things by leading position during the year, with a share of 32.3 per cent. identifying climate related risks and transition risks in particular. See p. 55. The EU Action Plan on Sustainable Finance Implementing TCFD recommendations The European Commission’s Action Plan on Sustainable Climate change is one of the most urgent challenges facing Finance took important steps in 2019 when its Technical the world today. Scientific evidence points to substantial Expert Group, TEG, published four reports with recommenrisks to the planet. SEB recognises the importance of limiting dations on what is needed to reorient capital flows towards the average global temperature rise to well below 2°C and investments made to achieve sustainable and inclusive striving for 1.5°C in line with the Paris Agreement. This growth: makes transition to a low-carbon economy vital. Banks have • report on the EU Taxonomy a crucial role to play in enabling the transition to more efficient • report on the EU Green Bond standard low-carbon alternatives. • report on Climate Benchmarks and Disclosure SEB has endorsed the recommendations of the Task • guidelines on how to report climate-related informaForce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), tion, the EU’s Non-Binding Guidelines on Non-Financial a global initiative that aims to increase and harmonise comReporting panies’ climate-related financial disclosure to stakeholders. As part of this endorsement the bank is working to implement The taxonomy report, regarded as the cornerstone for all the recommendations, under the sponsorship of the Chief present and future measures of sustainable finance, sets Risk Officer, targeting four main areas – governance, strategy, out criteria for 67 economic activities that can make a risk management, and metrics and targets. During 2019 substantial contribution to climate change mitigation. SEB enhanced its method for estimating the consequences SEB, which has been one of 35 members in the TEG, of climate change. See p. 55–56. considers all reports as important tools for increasing comparability and clarity of what is to be defined as Climate change governance at SEB sustainable, and thus creating the conditions for investors The Board of Directors oversees SEB’s sustainability work to make long-term sustainable decisions. and has adopted the Corporate Sustainability Policy, which includes SEB’s environmental commitment. The Board of Directors also oversees SEB’s risk management framework. SEB’s position statement on Climate Change is approved by the President. Climate change strategy SEB is committed to supporting its customers in the transition to a more sustainable world and actively participates in the global green transformation. Activities include international initiatives such as implementing the TCFD recommendations 34 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Report of the Directors – Sustainability report SEB’s own green bond is financing green credits bonds, the use of proceeds is not specified, rather one or more As part of its funding strategy, SEB issued its first green bond sustainability-linked targets are outlined by the borrower. The in 2017 of EUR 500m. Backed by SEB’s sustainability strategy, performance in relation to the targets is assessed once a year, Environmental Policy and accompanying sector policies, the where the outcome may trigger either a reduction or premium Green Bond Framework ensures that SEB’s green bond, by on the margin of the loan, as determined in cooperation with financing green loans, is used for low-carbon and climate change­the lender. resilient projects and investments. In addition, green bonds SEB provides such loans to customers in the Nordic countries should promote environmental and ecosystem improvements and Central Europe in the energy, construction, chemicals, and thereby support the UN Sustainable Development Goals. technology and municipality sectors. The loan volume globally In 2019, SEB launched a green construction loan, which is a increased to USD 121.5bn in 2019 (46.1bn). form of financing that is suitable for companies and tenant-­owner associations that want to take environmental considerations into SEB’s green loan portfolio by sector Per cent account in the new production of real estate. Since 2018 SEB offers green mortgages to private customers. In 2019, SEB’s green loan portfolio grew from SEK 16bn to SEK 19bn. Sustainability-linked loans 2019 saw growth for other sustainable financing products, such Renewable energy 47 as sustainability-linked loans. These loans include sustainability Green buildings  30 features in the loan documentation, but unlike the criteria for Clean transportation  14 Energy efficiency  9 Water and wastewater management1 and the UNEP FI’s Principles for Responsible Banking. Furthas developed a draft for an ESG classification framework to hermore, SEB participates in the work of EU’s Action Plan assess customers’ climate impact. The framework will initially on Sustainable Finance, and recognises the importance of be applied for large corporate customers, but will eventually the proposed EU taxonomy. be used throughout the bank. SEB is developing methods to In SEB’s business, addressing climate change means for measure the climate impact of the credit portfolio and assets example that lending, investments and business development under management. The Impact Metric Tool is developed for decisions should take climate impact into account. In line with customer use and measures sustainability, including carbon the 2019–2021 business plan, SEB aims to further develop emissions, of equity portfolios. ways of working, to focus on managing risks and opportunities related to climate change and to classify its credit and investment portfolios. The goal is to gradually align the credit SEB’s climate disclosure based on TCFD recommendations portfolio with the Paris Agreement. In addition SEB is exploring how to quantify its credit exposure in line with TCFD guidance Governance • Climate change governance See p. 34 on carbon-related assets. • Sustainability governance See p. 67 SEB does not enter into new business relations with com• Environmental Policy and Climate Change panies with major business in coal mining and aims to lower position statement See p. 33 and its exposure to coal producers in its fund holdings. Moreover, sebgroup.com SEB works to grow the green loan portfolio and to continuously launch new green products. SEB is also enhancing its advisory capacity to capture opportunities in a transforming energy Strategy • Climate change strategy See p. 34 sector. See p. 15. • Sustainability in the business plan See p. 20 •S  ustainability and climate-related products Managing climate-related risk and initiatives See p. 21–22 Climate change can have an impact on SEB’s credit portfolio and assets under management, and it is important that this Risk • Sustainability and climate-related risk is taken into account in the bank’s risk analysis and managemanagement See p. 55 ment. The bank works strategically with two equally important aspects of climate risks: assessing customers’ climate impact, • Managing climate-related risks See p. 56 and assessing the effect of climate change on SEB’s customers’ repayment capacity and how this impacts the bank’s Targets • SEB’s targets are set in relation to the bank’s asset quality. Two main factors are taken into account in this and metrics indirect and direct impact. See p. 36 and work: transition risks and physical risks. During the year, SEB SEB Sustainability Fact Book & GRI Index. SEB Annual Report 2019 — 35 Report of the Directors – Sustainability report Project financing – Equator Principles A marketplace for SEB has adhered to the Equator Principles (EP) since 2007, reducing CO2 in the atmosphere a voluntary set of guidelines used by financial institutions to During the year, SEB together with a group of other Nordic comassess the social and environmental impacts of large projects panies initiated Puro, a pioneer project aimed at creating a marand to support their customers in managing them. In 2019, an ketplace for reducing CO2 in the atmosphere. The marketplace updated version of the Equator Principles, EP4, was adopted trades CO2 removal certificates (CORCs), which are independent by the Equator Principles Association. SEB has been part of the documents that confirm that one tonne of carbon dioxide has climate change working group. In 2019, SEB had three project fibeen removed from the atmosphere. Sellers develop technology nance transactions under the Equator Principles, all in category B for removing and binding carbon dioxide for example, and buyers (projects with potential limited adverse environmental and social are entities interested in offsetting their carbon emissions. SEB risks). SEB had no projects in category A (projects with potential is the only bank participating in the initiative and is serving as an significant adverse environmental and social risks). adviser and is providing financing for the certificates. SEB used CORCs to offset flights for attendees to the Sustainable Finance Summit in Frankfurt, which the bank hosted in 2019. Read about more activities on p. 21. Targets and outcome for sustainability SEB’s 2019–2021 business plan has a strengthened focus on increased transparency and disclosures of progress. Metrics and sustainability. SEB has started to classify and gradually transform targets will continuously be developed and aligned with future its credit and investment portfolios. This will be underpinned by national and international requirements and expectations.   Outcome Outcome Outcome Target Target Area Description 2019 2018 2017 2019 2020 Innovation • Create sustainable finance innovation Established Decided Establish Develop and launch 5 new centre to develop and launch new sustainable products or sustainable products and services services Sustainable • Green loan portfolio SEK 19bn SEK 16bn SEK 13bn Increase Increase finance • Green mortgage portfolio SEK 1.5bn SEK 0.2bn Increase Increase • Green bonds, underwriter, Nordic bank #1 #1 #1 #1 #1 ranking1) • Gradually shift credit portfolio towards Framework for Decided Classify and Gradual transformation of increased sustainable financing classification set targets credit portfolio to increase established and pilot share of transitional and tested in auto­motive sustainable assets sector Sustainable • Total Assets under Management (AuM) 13% 11% 8% Increase Increase investment managed with sustainability criteria, share of total AuM • SEB funds managed with sustainability 35% 30% 25% Increase Increase criteria, share of Fund company AuM • SEB funds assessed with human rights 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% criteria, share of Fund Company AuM • SEB impact and thematic funds2) (AuM), SEK 11.2bn SEK 8.0bn SEK 5.6bn Increase Increase SEK bn People • Integrate sustainability into KPIs Implemented Decided Define and Implement for all direct for senior managers for GEC launch reports to GEC • Gender by management type, (male/female): Group Executive Committee (GEC) 69/31%3) 77/23% 83/17% Increase baIncrease balance in senior Senior management 64/36% 66/34% 69/31% lance in senior management towards longmanagement term ambition of 50/50 ±10% Business • Employees that have completed training 88% 90% 85% Increase toIncrease towards 100% ethics and in Code of Conduct4) wards 100% conduct Environment, • Reduce total carbon emissions 22,525 23,606 24,487 Decrease to18,500 direct impact with 20% 2016– 20205), tonnes wards target 1) Bloomberg (Ranking by volume). 3) As of 1 January 2020. 2) Includes SEB Micro Finance Funds, SEB Impact Opportunity Fund, 4) Includes consultants, excludes employees on leave of absence. SEB Green Bond Fund and Lyxor SEB Impact Fund. 5) Results recalculated for 2018 and 2017 mainly due to improved calculation of carbon dioxide emissions for air travel and paper consumption. 36 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Report of the Directors – Sustainability report Sustainable investments Engaging as an owner SEB’s fund company works actively to influence companies at the Swedish, Nordic and international levels. In Swedish and Nordic companies in which SEB is one of the largest shareholders, this engagement is conducted directly through dialogues with the company’s executive management and board of directors. SEB is one of the largest institutional investors in the Nordic region SEB also actively participates in companies’ annual shareholder with SEK 2,041bn in assets under management for private, corpomeetings by voting and in 2019 was represented on 33 nominarate and institutional clients. SEB has been a signatory of the Printion committees of Swedish companies. ciples for Responsible Investments (PRI) since 2008 and has been For investments outside the Nordic region, SEB cooperates reporting yearly on its compliance with the six principles. In PRI’s with other investors through organisations such as the Institugrading of sustainable investments in 2019, SEB’s fund company, tional Investors Group on Climate Change (IIGCC), PRI Clearingwith assets under management of SEK 736bn, received an A. house and Hermes Equity Ownership Services, one of the world’s In line with the business plan, SEB continued to strengthen its leading actors in corporate dialogues. In total during the year sustainable investment offering during the year. At year-end, SEB conducted 1,564 engagement dialogues (direct and indirect) close to 35 per cent (30), SEK 256bn, of SEB’s fund company’s with portfolio companies. Read more on p. 22. assets under management were managed according to the fund company’s highest level of sustainability criteria. Of SEB’s total Water and human rights assets under management, approximately 13 per cent (11) were SEB works together with CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure managed according to the same criteria. Project) on water issues. Through this engagement approximateSEB’s fund company strives to integrate sustainability into all ly 840 companies around the world have reported to CDP on types of investments and in all asset classes. The investment their water management, risks and opportunities. This was an strategies are based on the inclusion of companies that perincrease of more than 10 per cent compared with 2018. form well in sustainability or have well-defined transition plans, In 2019 SEB signed the Access to Medicine Index Investor exclusion of sectors or companies that do not abide by SEB’s fund Statement, certifying its commitment to an initiative that procompany’s sustainability criteria and continuous engagement motes access to medicine in developing countries and supports with the companies in which it invests. human rights. The index is one of many tools for assessing pharmaceutical companies’ license to operate globally and the Focus on inclusion measures they are taking to improve access to medicine. Total Customer interest in sustainable mutual funds is high. SEB invests assets under management for all signatory investors were in in businesses that actively manage the environmental, social January 2020 more than USD 13 trillion. and governance aspects of their operations. The belief is that in doing so they will be more successful over time, which will add Carbon footprint disclosures value for customers, companies and society. In SEB’s sustainaSEB is a signatory of the Montreal Carbon Pledge and has thereby bility funds, the fund managers focus on companies that have a committed to reporting yearly on its carbon footprint. In 2019, reduced climate impact in areas such as carbon emissions, water 94 per cent of SEB’s equity funds were measured and reported use and management of toxic waste. Read more about the on SEB’s website. SEB reports on the carbon footprint from all transition of the mutual funds offering on p. 22. three central emission areas (scope 1–3) according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. For the remaining 6 per cent of the equity Exclusion criteria funds, there is no official benchmark and in some funds the All of SEB’s mutual funds exclude companies involved in the underlying data is currently insufficient for accurate reporting production or marketing of controversial weapons and the deof carbon footprint. velopment or production of nuclear weapons. In addition, SEB’s funds do not invest in companies that fail to respect international Evaluation of external funds conventions and guidelines, such as the UN Universal DeclaraSEB offers mutual funds that are managed by external parties tion of Human Rights, the UN Global Compact, the eight ILO Core (external funds) and are evaluated by a special fund analysis Conventions on Labour Standards, and the OECD Guidelines for team at SEB. The sustainability evaluation is integrated in the Multinational Enterprises. In 2019, 100 per cent (100) of SEB’s entire decision-making process, both in the selection of external funds were managed with respect to human rights criteria. SEB funds and the monitoring of selected managers. The evaluadoes not invest in companies involved in thermal coal extraction, tion currently covers 64 funds in various asset classes and the i.e., mining activities in which thermal coal accounts for more managers are located all over the world. All new external fund than 5 per cent of the company’s or group’s turnover. From 2020, management companies are required to sign the Principles for SEB’s funds also exclude tobacco companies and companies that Responsible Investments (PRI) and to exclude companies inproduce cannabis for non-medical use. volved in controversial weapons. At year-end 2019, 100 per cent SEB’s sustainable and ethical funds also exclude companies (100) of these companies had signed the PRI. SEB also actively that derive more than five per cent of their turnover from alcohol, engages with external fund managers and discusses their perforweapons, commercial gambling or pornography. Furthermore, mance. Furthermore, in 2019 an evaluation of SEB’s own funds SEB’s sustainability funds do not invest in companies that extract was initiated to achieve harmonisation between SEB’s internal fossil fuels. SEB reviews the fund holdings with its adviser ISS-ESG and external offering of sustainable funds. semi-annually. The results are presented on sebgroup.com. Impact investing Read about impact investment products on p. 21. SEB Annual Report 2019 — 37 Report of the Directors – Sustainability report Innovation and entrepreneurship Ways of working Strengthening policies SEB continuously reviews its policies and work procedures as part of its efforts to strengthen the business and be aligned with international and national requirements. The policy on climate SEB believes that thriving businesses lead to growth and new change is being significantly reworked in order to reflect the jobs, as well as opportunities to solve environmental and societal strategy and commitments in this area. challenges. SEB has supported entrepreneurs and innovative ideas for more than 160 years, and is committed to assisting Integrating sustainability KPIs companies to develop new ideas that create value for society. SEB sees the importance of aligning its incentive structures with SEB can play a key role in financing and investing in the innoits sustainability ambitions. This work was developed in 2019 vative long-term solutions that are needed. SEB’s 2019–2021 when the allotment of long-term incentive programmes was business plan has a strong focus on accelerating innovation in further integrated with sustainability KPIs for members of SEB’s sustainable financial services. This is illustrated, for example, Group Executive Committee (GEC). by SEB’s emphasis on product launches, advisory leadership in renewable energy and new technologies, and partnerships with Building competence academia and social entrepreneurs dedicated to solving societal As sustainability is a critical concern for SEB and its customers, challenges. Additionally, SEB strives to strengthen the business the need for high competence in this area among employees is climate through partnerships with Sweden’s leading entrepreof vital importance. On SEB’s digital platform, SEB Campus, the neurship organisations at all levels. See p. 23. bank offers an in-depth training on sustainability, developed in a strategic collaboration between SEB and a number of international players and with the UN as a host. This interactive and practice-oriented course covers the basics of sustainable Facts finance. In 2019, the bank also launched a refreshed e-learning for all employees globally on how SEB works in the area. The Sustainability Report covers the SEB group, that is the parent company Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB (publ) Suppliers and its subsidiaries. SEB reports in accordance with the SEB has established procedures to evaluate and select suppliers Swedish Annual Accounts Act, Chapter 6, and the Global and contractors, based on financial, environmental and social asReporting Initiative, GRI Standards, core option. A descrippects. These aspects include human rights, labour rights, social tion of SEB’s materiality analysis, stakeholder dialogues, relations and anti-corruption and are to be taken into account in a wide range of KPIs and the GRI Index are presented in procurement decisions along with other risk factors and commerSEB Sustainability Fact Book on sebgroup.com. EY has cial aspects. SEB monitors suppliers’ processes and performance performed limited assurance procedures for both SEB’s where appropriate. Sustainability Report and SEB’s Sustainability Fact Book In 2019, SEB updated the sustainability requirements included & GRI Index. See Auditor’s report on p. 178. in its supplier agreement templates and published an updated version of the Supplier Code of Conduct. During 2020 SEB will work on strengthening the related follow-up procedures of the requirements with its suppliers. SEB’s own environmental impact SEB recognises the importance of, and is working actively to, reduce its direct environmental impact, even though most of its environmental impact is indirect. SEB has set a goal to reduce its total carbon emissions by 20 per cent from 2016 to 2020. In 2019, the bank reduced its total carbon emissions by 4.6 per cent. During the year several measures were taken to accelerate the reduction of the bank’s own emissions. Special focus was put on reducing air travel. This contributed to a 10 per cent reduction of carbon emissions related to business travel (air and train), which accounted for just over 50 per cent of total CO2 emissions. Emissions from energy consumption decreased slightly while emissions from paper consumption increased somewhat. Going forward, SEB will further focus on reducing emissions related to air travel. See Sustainability Fact Book for more information. 38 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Report of the Directors Financial review of the group The business sentiment in SEB’s markets of operations was in general positive and SEB’s operating profit increased by 9 per cent. The bank’s financial position is strong and a dividend of SEK 6.25 per share is proposed by the Board. Result and profitability Operating profit before items affecting comparability increased income. The fee amounted to SEK 2,129m (2,495). In 2019, the resby SEK 2,115, 9 per cent, and amounted to SEK 24,894m olution fund fee was reduced to 0.09 per cent from 0.125 in 2018. (22,779). There were no items affecting comparability in 2019, Net fee and commission income was 2 per cent higher than but in 2018 two such items affected operating profit positively 2018 and amounted to SEK 18,709m (18,364). Demand for capby SEK 4,506m. Operating profit (including items affecting compaital market financing, advisory services and corporate lending rability) was SEK 24,894m (27,285) and net profit amounted to was high throughout the year. Compared with 2018, gross fees SEK 20,177m (23,134). from the issuance of securities and advisory services increased by 25 per cent to SEK 1,312m. Gross lending fees increased by Operating income SEK 342m to SEK 2,869m year-on-year as the number of loan Total operating income increased by SEK 4,266m, 9 per cent, transactions increased. and amounted to SEK 50,134m (45,868). On the investment management side, gross fee income Net interest income amounted to SEK 22,950m, which reprefrom custody and mutual funds, excluding performance fees, sented an increase of 9 per cent compared with 2018 (21,022). decreased by SEK 194m to SEK 7,661m year-on-year, primarily driven by an adverse product mix effect on margins. Performance fees decreased by SEK 106m to SEK 121m year-on-year SEK m 2019 2018 Change, % mainly due to a valuation adjustment in the Investment ManageCustomer-driven net ment business. interest income 25,356 23,217 9 Net payment and card fees increased by 6 per cent year-onNet interest income from other year to SEK 4,096m (3,851). Large corporate customers were activities –2,406 –2,195 10 active in cash management and card payment volumes were high. Net interest income 22,950 21,022 9 The net life insurance commissions related to the unit-linked insurance business decreased by SEK 85m year-on-year of which Customer-driven net interest income includes the net interest SEK 79m was due to the divestment of SEB Pension in Denmark income derived from loans to and deposits from the public and in 2018. See note 13. also reflects an internal funding pricing element. Customer-driven net interest income increased by SEK 2,139m compared with Net interest income SEK bn 2018. Lending volumes increased, but the related increase in net interest income was offset by lower margins. The repo rate in 25 Sweden increased during the year and the compensation to the 20 divisions for deposits from Treasury was higher. In all, this led to a positive deposit margin effect. 15 Net interest income from other activities (which includes funding Customer  10 and other Treasury-activities as well as trading and regulatory loans fees) was SEK 211m lower than 2018. One explanatory factor 5 Customer deposits was Treasury’s compensation to the divisions for deposits. Applying 0 Other IFRS 16, the new accounting rules for leases, increased interest –5 expense by SEK 92m. Regulatory fees charged for the resolution fund and the deposit guarantee are accounted for as net interest 2017 2018 2019 Operating income SEK bn Fee and commission income, gross SEK bn 25 15 20 12 15 9 10 6 5 3 0 0 -17 -18 -19 -17 -18 -19 -17 -18 -19 -17 -18 -19 2017 2018 2019 Net interest income Net fee and commission income Payments, cards, structured lending, Custody & mutual funds Net financial income Net other income deposits, guarantees and other fees New issues & advisory fees Secondary market & derivatives Life insurance income SEB Annual Report 2019 — 39 Report of the Directors – Financial review of the group Net financial income increased by 25 per cent to SEK 7,617m Operating expenses SEK bn (6,079). Both corporate and institutional customers were actively managing risk and investment portfolios, especially in parts 20 of the year when market volatility was higher. There were also positive market valuation effects. The effect in the fair value 16 credit adjustment amounted to SEK –1m (–119). Other life insur12 ance income, net, decreased by SEK 262m to SEK 722m yearon-year, of which SEK 274m was due to the divestment of SEB 8 Staff costs Pension in Denmark. See note 13. Other Net other income increased to SEK 858m (402). Realised 4 expenses capital gains as well as unrealised valuation and hedge accountDepreciation/ 0 impairment ing effects were included in this line item. The divestment of 2017 2018 2019 SEB’s holding in LR Realkredit A/S to Nykredit Realkredit A/S, in accordance with the agreement announced on 11 April 2019, was completed. The result was a capital gain of SEK 259m. Net expected credit losses Net expected credit losses increased to SEK 2,294m (1,166), Operating expenses driven by a few corporate engagements. The asset quality for Total operating expenses increased by 5 per cent to 22,945m 2019 was overall high and the net expected credit loss level (21,940), primarily driven by the strategic initiatives (see p. was continued low at 10 basis points (6). 14–18) and an acceleration of investments in capabilities to prevent financial crime. Staff costs increased by 5 per cent Items affecting comparability due to a higher number of full-time equivalents, salary inflation There were no items affecting comparability in 2019. In 2018, and accruals for variable long-term remuneration. The average items affecting comparability amounted to SEK 4,506m. number of full-time equivalents increased to 14,939 (14,751). See note 13. Offsetting IFRS 16 Leases effects decreased other expenses and increased depreciation costs. Ordinary supervisory fees Income tax expense amounted to SEK 153m (153). Income tax expense amounted to SEK 4,717m (4,152) with The cost target in the business plan for 2019–2021 is dean effective tax rate of 19 per cent (15). scribed on page 13. Operating expenses related to the strategic initiatives increased according to plan and the three-year cost target remains unchanged. Important events and trends in 2019 First quarter Third quarter • Despite the uncertain macroeconomic situation with falling • The macroeconomic environment softened and there was a long-term interest rates, counteracted by signals of continued seasonal slowdown. expansionary financial conditions, customer activity was high. • Assets under custody increased by SEK 563bn, with signifi• The Swedish central bank increased the repo rate to –0.25 cant new mandates and market value increases. per cent. • Broad-based demand for advisory services, lending and • Strong quarter within division Large Corporates & Financial capital market financing. Institutions, driven by corporate activity. • SEB signed the UNEP FI Principles for Responsible Banking. Second quarter Fourth quarter • Market sentiment and economic data continued to diverge. • The global economic outlook stabilised. Trade and political uncertainty issues remained high on the • The Swedish central bank decided to increase the repo rate agenda for investors and businesses. by 25 basis points to zero. • High client activity with broad-based demand for lending • SEB was ranked number one in Sweden by both corporate and capital market financing, as well as payments and and institutional customers in Prospera’s ranking of Nordic household mortgages. banks. • SEB enhanced its largest mutual fund so that its invest• The Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority initiated a ments that amounted to more than SEK 40bn conform to sanction evaluation process of SEB’s internal control and the sustainability criteria. governance of its subsidiary banks in the Baltic countries. 40 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Report of the Directors – Financial review of the group As per 1 January 2019, the Swedish corporate tax rate decreased The net effect from the valuation of balance sheet items that from 22 to 21.4 per cent, which had a small effect on SEB’s effecmay subsequently be reclassified to the income statement, tive tax rate. In 2018, the effective tax rate was affected by items that is cash flow hedges and translation of foreign operations, affecting comparability. Adjusted for items affecting comparabiliamounted to SEK –153m (–298). ty, the effective tax rate for 2018 was 18 per cent. Return on equity Regulatory supervision of SEB Return on equity for 2019 was 13.7 per cent (16.3). Excluding items affecting comparability return on equity for 2019 was Regulatory supervision is a part of every-day banking oper13.8 per cent (13.4). ations. SEB’s main supervisor is the Swedish FSA, but SEB continuously has numerous ongoing supervisory activities Other comprehensive income in all the countries where the bank operates. Far from Other comprehensive income amounted to SEK 1,160m (–923). all reviews are formally categorised as inspections, but The value of SEB’s pension plan assets exceeded the defined nevertheless require significant resources to ensure timely benefit obligations to the employees. The discount rate used for responses with high quality. In 2019, there were around the pension obligation in Sweden was changed to 1.1 per cent 60 supervisory reviews handled by SEB in Sweden, and (2.0) which increased the pension obligation. At the same time, some 40 were concluded. in the favourable financial markets, the value of the pension In the past few years there has been an increased attenassets was higher and the net value of the defined benefit tion by the authorities on anti-money laundering matters, pension plans increased, which affected other comprehensive but all banking processes are subject to supervision. income by SEK 1,366m (–846). Looking ahead Risks all jurisdictions where the bank operates. Over the past years, SEB assumes various risks. The risk composition of the group, the rules and regulations of the financial industry have expandas well as the related risk, liquidity and capital management, ed and further sharpened and the regulators have increased are described on pages 52–57 and notes 40 and 41, in the their supervision. This is a development which is expected to Capital Adequacy and Risk Management Report for 2019, continue to evolve. Supervisory authorities regularly conduct as well as the quarterly additional Pillar 3 disclosures, Fact reviews of SEB’s regulatory compliance, including areas such Books and the quarterly reports. as financial stability, transaction reporting, anti-money laundering, investor protection, and data privacy. SEB has policies and Uncertainties procedures in place with the purpose to always comply with World economic growth is accelerating cautiously, despite applicable rules and regulations. It cannot, however, be ruled political uncertainty and labour force limitations. Central bank out that current and future supervisory reviews could lead to signals of low key rates for a long period will provide support to criticism or sanctions. Anti-money laundering (AML) reviews the economy but in the long term there is a risk of debt build-up are ongoing in several jurisdictions, including the Nordic and the and elevated asset prices. The Swedish central bank does not Baltic countries. As part of its ongoing supervisory review, the signal any change in its repo rate, currently zero per cent, until Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority (SFSA) has publicly the end of 2022. Fiscal stimulus, for instance public sector stated that it has initiated a sanction evaluation process regardinvestments, may play a larger role but rigid rules and weak ing SEB’s governance and control of measures against money government finance in many countries pose obstacles. laundering in the bank’s subsidiaries in the Baltic countries. The The German Federal Ministry of Finance issued a circular outcome of the sanction evaluation process is expected to be on 17 July 2017 with administrative guidance in relation to communicated by the SFSA in April 2020. The outcome of this withholding taxes on dividends in connection with certain process is uncertain and could lead to sanctions. cross-border securities lending and derivative transactions, so-called cum-cum transactions. The circular states an intention Events after the reporting date to examine transactions executed prior to the change in tax Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB (publ) (SEB AB) and legislation that was enacted 1 January 2016. Ongoing audits Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken SA in Luxembourg (SEB SA) by the local tax administration have to date resulted in prelimdecided on 19 June 2019 to dissolve SEB SA without liquiinary minor reclaims on selected tax years. SEB has requested dation by transfer of all assets and liabilities to SEB AB in a that these reclaims should be revoked. Following a review, SEB cross-border merger. The purpose was to simplify the group’s is of the opinion that the cross-border securities lending and governance structure and increase efficiency. Starting from derivative transactions of SEB in Germany up until 1 January 2 January 2020, the bank’s activities in Luxembourg are 2016 were conducted in compliance with then prevailing rules. operated through SEB AB’s Luxembourg branch. Hence, to date no provisions have been made. Nevertheless, On 7 February 2020, Jonas Ahlström was named head it cannot be ruled out that the outcome of potential future tax of the Baltic division. Riho Unt will remain as chair in SEB’s claims may have a negative financial effect on SEB. supervisory council for the Baltic banks and as strategic SEB is subject to various legal regimes and requirements in adviser until fall of 2020. SEB Annual Report 2019 — 41 Report of the Directors – Financial review of the group Financial structure Total assets at 31 December 2019 amounted to SEK 2,857bn Loans to the public SEK bn (2,573), representing an increase of SEK 284bn in 2019. 2,000 Loans Total loans to the public increased by SEK 193bn during the year 1,600 and amounted to SEK 1,838bn (1,645). 1,200 SEB’s credit portfolio, which includes loans, contingent liabilities and derivatives, increased by SEK 206bn to SEK 2,498bn 800 (2,292). The corporate credit portfolio increased by SEK 122bn, Households 11 per cent, reflecting a broad-based growth across segments. 400 Public sector The currency-adjusted corporate growth was 8 per cent. The Corporate 0 sector household credit portfolio (mortgage loans and other household 2017 2018 2019 credits) increased by SEK 39bn and the commercial and residential real estate management portfolios increased by SEK 23bn combined, with limited growth in the commercial segment. Debt securities Credit-impaired loans, gross (stage 3) increased during the Debt securities held for the purpose of serving customer risk year by SEK 3,238m to SEK 11,396m. The gross credit-impaired management and trading needs as well as internal liquidity manloans (stage 3) were 0.67 per cent of total loans. agement on the balance sheet amounted to SEK 239bn (156). SEB is a market maker in certain debt securities. The short position (liability) in the debt securities amounted to SEK 10bn (10). SEB’s credit risk exposure in the debt securities portfolio, which consists of debt securities, certain credit derivatives and futures amounted to SEK 208bn (141). See note 19, 30 and 40a. Key figures 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Return on equity, % 13.7 16.3 11.7 7.8 12.2 Return on equity excluding items affecting comparability, % 13.8 13.4 12.9 11.3 12.9 Return on tangible equity, % 14.5 17.3 12.5 8.6 14.0 Return on tangible equity excluding items affecting comparability, % 14.6 14.2 13.7 12.4 14.7 Return on total assets, % 0.7 0.8 0.6 0.4 0.6 Return on risk exposure amount, % 2.7 3.7 2.6 1.8 2.7 Cost/income ratio 0.46 0.48 0.48 0.50 0.49 Basic earnings per share, SEK 9.33 10.69 7.47 4.88 7.57 Weighted average number of shares1), million 2,162 2,164 2,168 2,178 2,191 Diluted earnings per share, SEK 9.28 10.63 7.44 4.85 7.53 Weighted average number of diluted shares2), million 2,175 2,177 2,178 2,188 2,203 Net expected credit loss level3), % 0.10 0.06 0.05 0.07 0.06 Stage 3 loans/Total loans, gross, % 0.67 0.50 Stage 3 loans/Total loans, net, % 0.36 0.30 Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR)4), % 218 147 145 168 128 Risk exposure amount, SEK m 745,637 716,498 610,819 609,959 570,840 Risk exposure amount, expressed as own funds requirement, SEK m 59,651 57,320 48,866 48,797 45,667 Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio, % 17.6 17.6 19.4 18.8 18.8 Tier 1 capital ratio, % 20.8 19.7 21.6 21.2 21.3 Total capital ratio, % 23.3 22.2 24.2 24.8 23.8 Leverage ratio, % 5.1 5.1 5.2 5.1 4.9 Number of full time equivalents5) 14,939 14,751 14,946 15,279 15,605 Assets under custody, SEK billion 10,428 7,734 8,046 6,859 7,196 Assets under management, SEK billion 2,041 1,699 1,830 1,749 1,668 1) The number of issued shares was 2,194,171,802. SEB owned 30,276,332 Class A shares for the equity based programmes at year-end 2018. During 2019 SEB repurchased 8,657,889 shares and sold 7,434,900 shares. Thus, at 31 December 2019 SEB owned 31,499,321 Class A shares with a market value of SEK 2,774m. 2) Calculated dilution based on the estimated economic value of the long-term incentive programmes. 3) 2018–2019: Net ECL level based on IFRS 9 expected loss model. 2015–2017: Credit loss level based on IAS 39 incurred loss model. 4) 2018–2019: According to EU definition. 2015–2017: According to Swedish FSA regulations for respective period. 5) Average for the year. See p. 170–171 for a five-year summary of the Group and the Parent bank’s income statements and balance sheets. See p. 179–180 for definitions. 42 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Report of the Directors – Financial review of the group Equity instruments Deposits from the public SEK bn Equity instruments held for the purpose of customer risk management and trading needs as well as to facilitate the bank’s role 1,500 as a market maker amounted to SEK 78bn (50). The short posi1,200 tion (liability) in equity instruments amounted to SEK 17bn (13). See note 20 and 30. 900 Insurance assets and liabilities 600 Financial assets within the insurance operations amounted to Households 300 Public sector SEK 345bn (295). Out of this, financial assets where policyholdCorporate ers carry the risk (mostly unit-linked insurance), amounted to 0 sector SEK 317bn (270) and other assets (mostly traditional and risk 2017 2018 2019 insurance) amounted to an additional SEK 28bn (25). Liabilities in the insurance operations amounted to SEK 344bn (292). Out of this, SEK 317bn (270) was related to financial comDeposits and borrowings mitments for investment contracts (mostly unit-linked insurance), The financing of the group consists of deposits from the public while SEK 27bn (22) was related to insurance contracts (mostly (households, corporates, etc.), borrowings from financial institutraditional and risk insurance). The insurance liabilities are mainly tions as well as issuance of money market instruments, bonds, covered by financial assets. See note 28, 42 and 43. covered bonds and subordinated debt. See p. 57 and note 40f for information on liquidity management. Derivatives Deposits and borrowings from the public amounted to SEK The fair value of the derivative contracts is booked as assets and 1,161bn (1,111). Household deposits increased by SEK 23bn liabilities on the balance sheet. They amounted to SEK 139bn while deposits from non-financial corporations increased by (115) and SEK 122bn (97) respectively. SEK 47bn during the year. The mix and volumes of derivatives reflect the demand for derivatives by the bank’s customers for their management of Debt securities issued financial risks. The bank is a market maker for derivatives and Short-term funding, in the form of commercial paper and also uses derivatives for the purpose of protecting its own cash ­cer­tificates of deposit, increased by SEK 59bn during the year. flows and fair value of its financial assets and liabilities from for SEK 109bn of long-term funding matured during 2019 (of which instance interest rate fluctuations. See note 21. SEK 52bn covered bonds and SEK 57bn senior debt). The bank issued SEK 140bn (of which SEK 81bn constituted covered bonds, SEK 51bn senior debt and SEK 9bn additional tier 1 capital) during the year. Subordinated debt amounted to SEK 45bn (35). See note 34. Rating Moody’s rates SEB’s long-term senior unsecured debt at Aa2 Moody’s Standard & Poor’s (S&P) Fitch with a stable outlook based on the bank’s strong asset quality, Short 1) Long 2) Short 1) Long 2) Short 1) Long2) robust capital ratios and good profitability, albeit with a view that the corporate business focus might add earnings cyclicality. P–1 Aaa A–1+ AAA F1+ AAA S&P rates SEB’s long-term senior unsecured debt at A+ with P–2 Aa1 A–1 AA+ F1 AA+ a stable outlook. The rating is based on the stable and low-risk P–3 Aa2 A–2 AA F2 AA operating environment in Sweden, the bank’s stable revenue Aa3 A–3 AA– F3 AA– base and position among leading Nordic corporates, sound market shares in corporate and household mortgage lending, A1 A+ A+ profitability in line with peers and strong capitalisation. Outlook stable Outlook stable Outlook stable Fitch rates SEB’s long-term senior unsecured debt at 1) Short-term debt and commercial paper. AAwith a stable outlook. The rating is based on SEB’s low 2) Long-term senior unsecured debt. risk appetite, stable and well-executed strategy, robust asset quality and capitalisation as well as a supportive operating environment. SEB Annual Report 2019 — 43 Report of the Directors – Financial review of the group Assets under management and custody Holistic management Assets under management amounted to SEK 2,041bn (1,699). The net inflow of volumes during the year was SEK 73bn (45). Creating sustainable value is a continuous process in an With the upturn in the financial markets, the increase in the value environment that is under constant change. The Board of of the assets under management was SEK 269bn (–60). Directors sets the conditions by deciding on the bank’s longAssets under custody increased in 2019 when several new term strategic direction, financial targets, business plans custody mandates were won. The year-end balance which also and overall risk tolerance. Profitability targets are set within reflected a market value increase was SEK 10,428bn (7,734). the framework of the risk tolerance level and the capital adequacy targets. In order to maximise customer and shareholder value, the Assets under management SEK bn financial consequences of business decisions are evaluated 2019 2018 20171) and operations are managed proactively based on these Beginning of the year 1,699 1,830 1,749 aspects: 1. growth, mix and risk level of business volumes Inflow 585 536 491 2. capital and liquidity requirements driven by the business Outflow –512 –491 –477 3. profitability. Acquisition/disposal, net 0 –116 0 Change in value 269 –60 66 Pricing in accordance with risk is thereby a natural part of the business and monitoring nominal and risk-based returns End of the year 2,041 1,699 1,830 is an important part of management. 1) Pro forma The Board’s overarching risk tolerance statements convey the direction and level of risk, funding structure, liquidity Balance sheet structure 31 December 2019 buffers and capital targets. SEB’s main risk is credit risk. In the last several years, climate-related challenges have been Other Other increasingly in focus. Such challenges are reflected throughout SEB’s risk management. SEB strives to continuously Life insurance Life insurance identify and manage potential future risks, for instance by Credit institutions Credit institutions using stress tests and scenario analysis. The capital buffer and liquidity reserves are held to cover the risk in case of Short-term funding Derivatives Derivatives Customer trading unforeseen events. Liquid assets Customer trading All activities are carried out responsibly and in accordance Short-term funding with regulations and expectations – all in order to maintain Central bank balances Central bank deposits the trust of the stakeholders. Liquidity portfolio Long-term funding Strategic, Risk Risk, liquidity Household lending financial and strategy and capital operational and risk management Stable funding Household deposits plans tolerance “Banking book” Corporate and public Profitability Performance Corporate and Pricing sector deposits requirements management public sector lending Equity Assets Liabilities and equity 44 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Report of the Directors – Financial review of the group Total equity Share value and stock exchange trading Total equity at the opening of 2019 amounted to SEK 149bn. In The closing price of the SEB class A share was SEK 88.08 (86.10). accordance with a resolution of the Annual General Meeting in Earnings per share amounted to SEK 9.33 (10.69). The SEB 2019, SEK 14bn of equity was used for the dividend for the year share is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm, but is also traded on other 2018 (12). Net profit amounted to SEK 20bn and other compreexchanges such as Chicago Board of Exchange, London Stock hensive income increased equity by SEK 1bn. At year-end 2019, Exchange, Turquoise among other. total equity was SEK 156bn. SEB’s share capital amounts to SEK 21,942m distributed on Share price development 2,194 million shares. Each Class A share entitles the holder to SEB Class A share Index 1 January 2015=100 one vote and each Class C share to 1/10 of a vote. 125 Dividend The Board of Directors proposes to the Annual General Meeting 100 a dividend of SEK 6.25 per Class A and Class C share, which corresponds to a payout ratio of 67 per cent. The total dividend 75 amounts to SEK 13.5bn calculated on the total number of issued shares as per 31 December 2019, excluding own shares held. 50 In 2018, there was an ordinary dividend of SEK 6.00 per share and an extraordinary dividend of SEK 0.50 per share, in total 25 SEK 6.50 per share. The dividend payout ratio in 2018 was 61 per cent. 0 The proposed record date for the dividend is 25 March 2020. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 If the Annual General Meeting resolves in accordance with the proposal, the share will be traded ex-dividend on 24 March 2020 SEB Class A shares OMXS30 MSCI Europe Banks Index and the dividend is expected to be disbursed by Euroclear Sweden AB on 30 March 2019. Data per share Dividend policy 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 SEB strives to achieve long-term dividend growth without negaBasic earnings, SEK 9.33 10.69 7.47 4.88 7.57 tively impacting the fulfilment of the group’s capital targets. Diluted earnings, SEK 9.28 10.63 7.44 4.85 7.53 The annual dividend per share shall correspond to 40 per cent or Shareholders’ equity, SEK 71.99 68.76 65.18 65.00 65.11 more of earnings per share. Each year’s dividend is assessed in the light of prevailing economic conditions and the group’s earnings, Net worth, SEK 78.42 74.74 73.60 73.00 72.09 growth possibilities, regulatory requirements and capital position. Net expected credit losses1), SEK 1.06 0.54 0.37 0.46 0.40 Market capitalisation SEK m Dividend per A and C share, SEK 6.252) 6.503) 5.75 5.50 5.25 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Year-end share price , SEK 4) Year-end market capitalisation1) 193,345 188,925 211,293 209,645 194,146 per Class A share 88.08 86.10 96.30 95.55 89.40 Turnover 2) 106,915 128,241 123,889 133,790 142,188 per Class C share 91.50 86.40 96.05 95.20 88.85 1) Based on the Nasdaq Stockholm share price (in 2019: SEK 88.08 Highest price paid4), SEK for Class A shares and SEK 91.50 for Class C shares). per Class A share 99.38 102.70 109.00 99.75 111.50 2) Shares traded at Nasdaq Stockholm. per Class C share 102.20 103.60 109.90 101.10 112.50 Lowest price paid4), SEK Number of outstanding shares 31 December 2019 per Class A share 78.88 79.16 94.05 67.75 83.45 Share Share Total no. of Class A Class C shares per Class C share 81.70 80.50 95.15 70.35 83.75 Total number Dividend as a percentage of of issued shares 2,170,019,294 24,152,508 2,194,171,802 earnings (payout ratio), % 67.0 60.8 77.0 112.8 69.4 Repurchased own shares for Dividend yield, % 7.1 7.5 6.0 5.8 5.9 equity-based programmes1) –31,499,321 0 –31,499,321 P/E (share price at Repurchased own shares for year-end/earnings) 9.4 8.1 12.9 19.6 11.8 capital purposes2) 0 0 0 Number of outstanding Total number of shares outstanding shares 2,138,519,973 24,152,508 2,162,672,481 million average 2,161.7 2,164.4 2,167.6 2,177.6 2,191.2 1) Utilisation of authorisation from the Annual General Meeting at year-end 2,162.7 2,163.9 2,167.0 2,169.0 2,193.3 2019 to acquire own shares for long-term equity programmes. 2) 2019 AGM decision, no repurchases made. 1) 2018–2019: Net ECL level based on IFRS 9 expected loss model. 2015–2017: Credit loss level based on IAS 39 incurred loss model. 2) As proposed by the Board of Directors. 3) Ordinary dividend of SEK 6.00 per share and extraordinary dividend of SEK 0.50 per share. 4) Source: Nasdaq Stockholm. SEB Annual Report 2019 — 45 Report of the Directors – Financial review of the group Divisions Division Business offering The division serves 2,000 large corporate customers and 1,100 financial institutions and offers advisory-driven commercial and investment banking services in the Nordic region, Large Corporates & Germany, United Kingdom and through the international presence. The division has a fullservice offering supporting enterprises with capital and offering investment opportunities for pension funds and other investors. Customers are offered capital markets transaction services (equity and debt); financing Financial Institutions as well as advice relating to investment banking activities (mergers and acquisitions, etc); products and services for cash management and trade finance; brokerage and trading serCo-heads: vices; post trade investor services such as custody, risk and valuation services and collateral Joachim Alpen management; macroeconomic analysis and securities research. William Paus The division serves some 494,000 private and 170,000 corporate home bank customers in Sweden with universal banking services through digital meeting points, 113 physical meeting places and a contact centre with 24/7 accessibility. Corporate & The division has a broad offering to both private and corporate customers, ranging from everyday banking services to private individuals and smaller companies, to Private Banking services with global reach for high net worth individuals in the Nordic countries. In addition, Private Customers complex banking and advisory services are provided to medium-sized companies (mid-corp). The division also issues cards in the Nordic countries under SEB’s own brands as well as for Head: Eurocard and several other partner brands. Mats Torstendahl The division provides universal banking and advisory services to private individuals and all corporate customer segments in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, with significant market shares across key segments and products in all three countries. The division has 71 branch offices in the three Baltic countries and serves approximately 979,000 private home bank customers and 102,000 home bank customers among small and Baltic medium-sized companies. Services are increasingly provided through digital meeting places such as mobile applications, electronic document signing and remote video advice. Head: Riho Unt The division provides life insurance solutions to about 641,000 private and 95,000 corporate customers with 358,000 policyholders. Operations are carried out mainly in the Nordic and Baltic countries through digital and remote meeting points, physical meeting places and contact centres. The insurance offering includes unit-linked, portfolio bond and traditional insurance as Life well as health and sickness insurance. The division aims to serve clients throughout life with long-term advice and solutions in order to provide companies and individuals with the right insurance coverage. Head: David Teare The division offers asset management services through a broad range of funds and tailored Investment Management portfolio mandates to institutional investors, as well as retail and Private Banking clients. The operations are carried out in Sweden, Denmark and Finland, as well as in the Baltic countries. Assets are managed across equities, fixed income, alternative investments and multi-strategy management. The products are distributed mainly via the bank’s other divisions, but also via external parties. The division is aiming to be the advisory leader with a goal to enhance and deepen the focus on the sustainable product offering in order to meet customer needs and expectations. Head: Javiera Ragnartz 46 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Report of the Directors – Financial review of the group Operating income and profit Comments on the 2019 result Divisions’ share of: Operating profit increased by 6 per cent Operating income1) Large Corporates & Financial Institutions to SEK 9,254m. Net interest income grew, SEK bn % driven by business volumes, and net fee 20 20 and commission income increased slightly. Increased customer activity and positive 15 15 Operating financial markets improved net financial income income. Operating expenses increased due 10 10 Operating profit to the strategic initiatives and regulatory 5 5 Return on requirements. Net expected credit losses business were up due to a few corporate engage0 0 equity, % ments and net expected credit loss level 2017 2018 2019 was 16 basis points. 2019  Per cent Large Corporates & Operating profit increased by 15 per Financial Institutions 43 Corporate & Private Customers cent to SEK 8,983m. Net interest income Corporate & Private 35 SEK bn % increased due to volume growth and Baltic11 20 20 less negative interest rates. Net fee and Life  7 commission was virtually unchanged with Investment Management 5 15 15 strong card income. Operating expenses in1) Excluding group functions Operating creased slightly, partly due to the strategic 10 10 income initiatives, IT and regulatory requirements. Operating 5 5 profit The net expected credit loss level was Operating profit2) Return on busi4 basis points. 0 0 ness equity, % 2017 2018 2019 Operating profit increased by 19 per cent Baltic (16 in local currency) to SEK 3,104m. Net SEK bn % interest income increased due mainly to 8 40 loan volume growth and margin expansion. Net fee and commission income was higher 6 30 mainly from increased customer activity Operating and more card transactions. Operating ex4 20 income 2019  Per cent Operating penses increased. The net expected credit 2 10 loss level was 3 basis points. Large Corporates & profit Financial Institutions 38 Return on busiCorporate & Private  37 0 0 ness equity, % 2017 2018 2019 Baltic13 Life7 Investment Management  5 Operating profit decreased by 11 per cent Life to SEK 1,715m. Excluding the remaining 2) Excluding group functions SEK bn % effects of the 2018 divestment of SEB 4 40 Pension in Denmark, operating profit was flat. The divestment affected all income Employees 3 30 types. In Sweden the division experienced Operating margin pressure and a negative effect from 2 20 income Operating the low long-term interest rates. 1 10 profit Return on busi0 0 ness equity, % 2017 2018 2019 Investment management Operating profit decreased by 10 per cent to SEK 1,320m. Base commissions were SEK bn flat but the performance fees were down 2019  Per cent 4 due to a valuation adjustment in a specific Large Corporates & customer mandate. Operating expenses Financial Institutions 14 3 increased due to staff cost, IT and informaCorporate & tion services. Private Customer24 2 Baltic16 Operating 1 income Life7 Operating Investment Management  1 0 profit Group functions, 2017 2018 2019 including support and staff 38 SEB Annual Report 2019 — 47 Report of the Directors – Financial review of the group Geographic markets Market Comment Share of SEB’s operating profit Global Universal banking with Sweden Sweden is SEB’s main market with a complete banking, penJohan Torgeby sion and insurance offering to a wide range of customers. Both President and CEO corporate and private segment business volumes grew during the year. The financial markets were beneficial and market valuations positive. Estonia Universal banking Allan Parik Estonia’s economic growth was strong, fuelled by the informaCountry manager tion and technology sector and export of IT services. Digital transformation is also ongoing in the bank and the digital sales ratio increased from 52 to 61 per cent in the year. The expansion of SEB’s digital and sustainable product 2019  Per cent offering continued. Sweden57 Denmark8 Latvia Universal banking Norway6 Ieva Tetere The banking market remains highly competitive. SEB is the Finland4 Country manager second largest bank in terms of deposits and largest in terms Germany4 of credits to corporate business customers. SEB continued Estonia5 the digital development, including several remote facilities Latvia 2 like video meetings, chatbot, mobile wallet and Open Banking L ithuania6 solutions. United Kingdom 3 Other markets 5 Lithuania Universal banking Raimondas Economic growth in Lithuania remained strong and balanced. Kvedaras SEB prepared for a roll-out of a new core banking IT platform Country manager and focused on delivery of digital novelties, such as instant Share of SEB’s employees payments. SEB is the leading bank in Lithuania measured in terms of loan volumes. Denmark Corporate banking Peter Corporate banking activity continued to develop positively in Høltermand line with the underlying macroeconomic climate in Denmark, Country manager whereas demand for investment banking services was lower than in the previous year. International institutional investors continued to drive the growth in assets under management. Norway Corporate banking John Turesson The Norwegian economy was strong which resulted in several Country manager rate hikes. The positive economic environment triggered increased client activity in the Markets business. SEB experi2019  Per cent enced substantial growth in lending to large corporate clients Sweden51 and high demand for investment banking services. Denmark2 Norway2 Finland Corporate banking Finland2 Marcus Nystén Customer activity was high across all segments, resulting Germany2 Country manager in increased business volumes, particularly in financing and Estonia7 investor services. SEB continued to further expand existing Latvia 6 customer relationships, with a growing focus on energy, L ithuania10 infrastructure and sustainable banking solutions. United Kingdom2 Other markets5 Germany Corporate banking Global services Johan After contracting at the beginning of the year, the German in Latvia/Lithuania11 Andersson economy showed resilience. At the same time the internationCountry manager al economic slowdown and heightened uncertainty impacted the German manufacturing sector negatively. SEB’s customers mainly requested financing solutions, in many instances in connection with international acquisitions. United Kingdom Corporate banking Mark Luscombe Uncertainty around Brexit dominated the political landscape Country manager in the UK during the year. However, SEB benefited from strong and profitable growth as the customer base developed positively. Demand for advisory and financial services was driven by existing large corporate relationships. Other markets Corporate banking The inter­national SEB continued to serve customers in its branch offices in network Luxembourg, Poland, Russia, Ukraine, China, Hong Kong, Singapore, India, United States and Brazil and the 2019 result was strong. 48 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Report of the Directors – Financial review of the group Market shares and customer contacts SEB’s market shares and market growth Per cent Household savings, Sweden Per cent Total market, SEK bn Market 2019 2018 2019 growth Lending to general public SEB11 Sweden 14.4 14.1 6,588 4 Swedbank  15 Lending to households 12.6 12.5 4,190 5 SHB13 Lending to companies 17.5 17.0 2,398 4 Nordea  12 Länsförsäkringar4 Estonia1) 27.3 25.7 211 4 Skandia  2 Lending to households 28.2 26.6 92 1 AMF2 Lending to companies 26.6 25.0 119 7 Other41 Latvia1) 21.9 22.0 149 3 Total household savings in Sweden – bank accounts and mutual Lending to households 18.7 18.5 58 3 funds – amounted to SEK 7,061bn as of 31 December 2019. Lending to companies 23.9 24.2 91 3 Lithuania1) 32.1 31.9 212 0 Lending to households 29.2 29.2 104 5 Lending to companies 34.9 34.3 108 –4 Market shares, Sweden Per cent Deposits from general public Households, deposits Households, lending Sweden 16.3 16.0 3,187 8 30 30 Deposits from households 11.5 11.4 2,007 5 Deposit from companies 24.4 24.3 1,180 12 25 25 Estonia 1) 22.2 24.8 215 13 20 20 Deposits from households 21.2 22.3 97 18 Deposit from companies 23.0 26.7 119 10 15 15 Latvia1) 17.9 16.5 177 7 Deposits from households 17.9 18.2 96 11 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Deposit from companies 17.9 14.7 81 3 Lithuania1) 29.0 28.4 246 11 Deposits from households 29.6 29.5 148 11 Companies, deposits Companies, lending Deposit from companies 28.0 26.6 98 11 30 30 Equity trading 25 25 Stockholm 6.6 5.9 8,462 –5 20 20 Oslo 2.7 3.1 2,404 –12 Helsinki 4.7 3.9 2,778 –1 15 15 Copenhagen 2.7 2.7 3,404 –11 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 SEK-denominated corporate bonds 18.7 18.8 189 21 SEB SHB Swedbank Nordea Mutual funds, total volumes 2) Customer contacts Sweden 10.6 11.4 5,055 27 Finland 1.4 2.5 1,302 15 2019 2018 2017 Number of syndicated loans in Nordic countries 78 69 61 Unit-linked insurance, premium income Number of equity capital market transactions in the Nordic countries 25 24 31 Sweden3) 14.1 16.0 67 1 Number of Nordic mergers and acquisitions 31 19 16 International Private Banking branch offices 12 12 12 Total life insurance, premium income Number of Swish payments via SEB’s app (million) 45 37 28 Sweden3) 7.4 8.6 239 4 Number of external life insurance intermediaries and brokers 1,780 1,850 2,200 1) Excluding financial institutions & leasing. Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania per September 2019. Market growth in local currency. Number of branch offices 184 189 196 2) Excluding third-party funds. Number of ATMs1) 2,370 2,504 2,649 3) Per September 2019. Sources: Statistics Sweden, Estonian Finantsinspektsioon, Finance Latvia Association, 1) of which 1,600 jointly owned by major Nordic banks Association of Lithuanian Banks, Swedish Insurance Federation, Nasdaq, etc. SEB Annual Report 2019 — 49 Report of the Directors Profit related to business volumes Customers’ financial needs are the source of SEB’s business volumes and result. Here, the general relationships between customer-driven business volumes reported onand off-balance sheet, and the income statement as well as external factors are outlined. The macroeconomic situation is of great importance for cusIncome statement, simplified SEK m tomer behaviour and, together with the bank’s own actions, 2019 it is a major factor impacting the business and the result. A Net interest income 22,950 In times of positive economic development both businesses B Net fee and commission income 18,709 and private individuals are more likely to invest and consume. C Net financial income 7,617 This may lead to increased lending, more payments, a higher number of corporate transactions, among other things, all of D Net other income 858 which affect net interest and net commission income positively. Total operating income 50,134 In an unfavourable part of the business cycle, customers may be more restrictive and growth in business and transaction Total operating expenses –22,945 volumes may level out while credit losses may increase. On the 2 3 other hand customers hedge their risks in uncertain and volatile Net expected credit losses and other 4 5 –2,295 times, which may increase net financial income. Operating profit 24,894 Income tax expense –4,717 NET PROFIT 20,177 Business volumes in the balance sheet  SEK m  ASSETS 2019 LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 2019 1 Cash and cash balances with central banks 146,691 Deposits from central banks 9 and credit institutions 88,041 2 Loans to central banks 4,494 10 Deposits and borrowings from the public 1,161,485 3 Loans to credit institutions 46,995 Financial liabilities for which the 4 Loans to the public 1,837,605 11 customers bear the investment risk 317,574 5 Debt securities 238,578 12 Liabilities to policyholders 26,547 6 Equity instruments 78,482 13 Debt securities issued 858,173 Financial assets for which the 7 customers bear the investment risk 316,776 14 Short positions1) 27,343 of which equity instruments 17,352 8 Derivatives 139,427 of which debt securities 9,991 Other assets 47,598 15 Derivatives 122,192 TOTAL ASSETS 2,856,648 16 Other financial liabilities 2,449 Other liabilities 97,144 17 of which subordinated debt 44,639 Total equity 155,700 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 2,856,648 1) Short position – a negative item in the inventory held for customer trades Sample business volumes outside the balance sheet (in accordance with accounting principles) SEK bn 2019 Assets under Customers invest in for instance mutual funds 2,041 18 Payments and Customers make payments and manage account 18 management cash management balances Assets under The bank safekeeps securities and adminis10,428 18 Card transactions Customers make and receive card payments 18 custody trates dividends and interest on customers’ behalf 18 Securities Customers use the bank as an intermediary in setransactions curities transactions, for instance equity trading 18 Commitments Preapproved customer credits 638 18 Corporate Corporate customers seek advice and assistance Guarantees The bank assists customers with credit risk 139 transactions for various corporate transactions, such as 18 management acquisitions, IPOs, etc. 50 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Report of the Directors – Financial review of the group Operating income in relation to customers’ business volumes A Net interest income B Net fee and commission C Net financial income D Net other income income Net interest income is the Net fee and commission income Net financial income includes Items in net other income occur difference between income from increases with growing transboth the market value and sporadically with no clear link lending and expenses associataction volumes. Commissions realised gains and losses on to macroeconomic factors. ed with deposits and borrowmay increase in advantageous transactions with securities, ings. Margins and business financial markets and with currencies and derivatives. volumes have a major bearing. increased business volumes, The development in financial Interest margins differ in various and vice versa. markets plays a major role. markets, mainly due to varying maturities and risk. Customer loans and cash balSEB participates in, or leads, ances generate interest income syndications of loans leading to over the life of the loan. Up-front net fee and commission income Loans fees on new loans are treated as or expenses. 4 interest income. 1 2 3 4 SEB maintains an inventory of SEB holds debt securities for Sales from the bank’s debt securities for customer customer trading and liquidity inventory of debt securities trades and liquidity managemanagement. The customer held for liquidity management Debt ment. They accrue interest over trading activity as well as the or investment affect this item. 5 life. 5 14 market value of the inventory instruments affect net financial income. 5 14 1) Brokerage fees in equity SEB holds equity instruments Dividend from the bank’s own trading are received or paid. for customer trading and is a equity holdings affect the item. counterpart in equity swaps. The Equity 18 6 customer trading, changes in the market value, dividends and Instruments realised gains/losses affect this item. 6 14 1) Interest rate derivatives that are In certain cases, SEB charges SEB is a counterparty for cusThe market value of derivatives used by SEB to reduce volatility and pays fees when trading in tomers wishing to manage risk that SEB uses for hedging. 8 15 Derivatives in the result (so-called hedging) derivatives. 8 15 (for instance foreign exchange accrue interest over life. 8 15 and interest rate risk) using derivative instruments. Both customer trades and the market value of the holdings affect financial income. 8 15 Customer deposits generate Certain bank accounts generate Deposits and interest expense. 9 10 fee income. 9 10 borrowings SEB provides savings in unitSEB provides savings in traditionlinked insurance, deposit insural pension with a certain guaranance and similar products where teed return, sickness and health the customer bears the risk. insurance and related services. Insurance Invested volumes generate fee SEB invests mainly in equity income. In addition, distribution instruments and debt securities and savings generates fee expenses. 7 11 18 to safeguard the outcome of insurance claims. 5 6 12 SEB’s operations are partly Index-linked bonds generating The market value including the Early redemption by SEB of its Issued securities and funded by long and short-term fee income are provided for the credit risk in SEB’s issued debt instruments affects this interest-bearing securities, purpose of customer investindex-linked bonds affects the item. 13 17 all of which generate interest ment. 13 18 item. 13 subordinated debt expense. 13 17 Various customer services are Business volumes outprovided which generate both fee and commission income and expense. Most fees are fixed side the balance sheet and transaction based; some are market value based. 18 SEB Annual Report 2019 — 51 Report of the Directors Risk, liquidity and capital management Managing risk is an integral part of banking and risk awareness is deeply embedded in SEB’s corporate culture. The bank has a comprehensive framework for risk, liquidity and capital management, which is continuously developed to reflect the current environment and enable the creation of customer value while maintaining the bank’s resilience. Risk management Risk development in 2019 Credit portfolio, distribution by geography1)  Per cent 2019 was a year of strong credit volume growth. SEB demonstrated continued resilience through high asset quality, low credit losses, a stable liquidity position and robust capital adequacy. The economic outlook stabilised toward the end of the year, however the global economy is still fragile and the geopolitical Sweden 61 environment remains unpredictable. The credit cycle has likely Other Nordic countries 17 reached its peak and non-financial risks remain high on the agenda. Baltic countries 8 Risks related to environmental, social and governance (ESG) Germany and the UK 11 factors continue to grow in importance for customers and Other 3 investors at the same time as regulatory activity and reporting 1) Distribution based on SEB’s operations. requirements are increasing. Climate-related risks are likely to directly or indirectly impact most risk types, including credit, market and operational risk. The growth rate of SEB’s Swedish household mortgage portfolio SEB’s preventive work against money laundering and terrorism caught up and is now in line with that of the market. The portfolio financing continued to be strengthened, including further develamounted to SEK 520bn at year-end 2019 (487) and is of high opment of Know-Your-Customer (KYC) and risk assessment proasset quality with low historical credit losses, sound loan-tocesses as well as transaction monitoring. Rules and regulations value (LTV) ratios and with a strong repayment capacity among of the financial industry were expanded and further sharpened customers. and the regulators intensified their supervision. Lending decisions are based on the borrower’s repayment Digitalisation continued to transform the banking industry. capacity, including the ability to manage a stress scenario with Changing customer behaviour, new types of competitors and the a higher interest rate. When applicable, the stress scenario takes movement towards Open Banking and information sharing are into account the borrower’s share of the housing association’s reshaping the playing field for banks which can lead to new types total debt. New mortgage loans can normally not exceed five of risks. In addition to the strategic opportunities and challengtimes the household’s gross income. Of all new loans granted in es this entails, cyber and information risks are increasing and 2019 with an LTV above 50 per cent, 97 per cent (98) had an becoming more complex. amortisation plan. Property values are continuously assessed and monitored. Growth in the credit portfolio The credit portfolio (which includes loans, loan commitments Solid real estate portfolio and derivatives) grew significantly in 2019 despite the weaker SEB’s credit exposure to residential real estate management is macroeconomic development. Growth was primarily driven by mainly Swedish and consists of high quality, private and publicly high activity in the corporate segment and efforts to sustain owned real estate companies as well as institutional investors. SEB’s growth in the Swedish market for residential mortgages. The portfolio amounted to SEK 131bn at year-end (110). SEB The total credit portfolio amounted to SEK 2,498bn (2,292). also has SEK 63bn (63) in exposure to co-operative housing associations, a common residential housing form in Sweden. Strong corporate credit growth SEB’s exposure to commercial real estate companies consists More than half of SEB’s credit portfolio consists of exposure to mainly of strong counterparties in the Nordic region with sound corporates. Growth was strong during the year across geografinancing structures. The portfolio amounted to SEK 188bn (186). phies and divisions and the portfolio increased to SEK 1,268bn SEB governs its exposure to the real estate sector through a (1,146). SEB is unique among peers in that its corporate portfolio group-wide risk tolerance level for the commercial real estate consists primarily of large corporate customers – mainly Nordic portfolio, divisional volume growth limits and through a strict and German customers in a wide range of industries, the largest real estate credit policy set by the Board. being manufacturing. Exposure to small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) accounted for 11 per cent (12) of the bank’s Balanced growth in the Baltics corporate portfolio, and is mainly in Sweden. The SME portfolio Economic growth in the Baltic markets is slowing from high grew to SEK 143bn (141) during the year. levels, while labour shortages and wage inflation persist. SEB’s Baltic credit portfolio continued to grow during the year, but at a Robust Swedish household mortgage portfolio slower pace, and amounted to SEK 188bn (182) at year-end. The In 2019, housing prices began to recover, driven by a lower supportfolio consists mainly of corporate and household exposures, ply of new housing and expectations for continued low interest while the real estate management portfolio is limited. Lithuania rates. represents SEB’s largest market in terms of credit exposure in the Baltic countries, followed by Estonia and Latvia. 52 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Report of the Directors – Risk, liquidity and capital management Risk profile The Board of Directors decides on the overarching risk tolerance. The President and CEO is responsible for managing SEB’s risks overall and ensuring that the risk profile lies within the Board’s risk tolerance and capital adequacy targets. Board’s risk tolerance statements in brief. 2019 development Risk type SEB shall: and position Measurement 2019 2018 Credit risk Have a robust • SEB has a well-balanced • Total loans, loan commit2,498 2,292 and asset credit culture based on credit portfolio mainly ments and derivatives quality long-term relationships, focused on Nordic large (SEK bn) knowledge about the corporates and Swedish • Expected credit losses in 0.10 0.06 customers and focus households. relation to total exposure (%) on their repayment • Asset quality remains strong • Share of loans that are clas0.67 0.50 capacity. This will lead with low credit losses. sified as credit-impaired (%) to a high-quality credit portfolio. Market risk Achieve low earnings • Market risk arises in SEB’s • Statistical measure of the 98 90 volatility by generating customer-driven trading largest trading loss that can revenues based on cusactivity and in its liquidity be expected in a ten-day tomer-driven business. portfolio. Generally, SEB’s period (VaR) (SEK m) market risk is low. • Interest rate risk arises due to mismatches in rates and maturities in the bank’s assets and liabilities, and is managed by the Treasury function. Operational, Mitigate operational, • Low operational losses. • Operational risk losses in 0.30 0.43 business and business and reputa• Managing cyber and informarelation to operating income reputational tional risk in all activtion risks are key priorities to (%) risk ities and maintain the ensure secure and available bank’s good reputation. information, services and products for customers. Liquidity Have a soundly struc• SEB’s primary funding sourc• S  hort-term funds in relation 218 147 and funding tured liquidity position, es are customer deposits to short-term payments risk a balanced wholesale and wholesale funding. (liquidity coverage ratio) (%) funding dependence • The funding base is diversi• L ong-term funds in relation 109 110 and sufficient liquid fied in terms of maturities to long-term cash flows assets to meet potenand currencies to ensure (core gap ratio) (%) tial net outflows in a that payment obligations are stressed scenario. met. Aggregated Maintain satisfactory • SEB is well capitalised in • Risk-weighted business 746 716 risk and capital strength relation to regulatory volumes (risk exposure capital in order to sustain capital requirements, interamount) (SEKbn) adequacy aggregated risks, and nal targets and peers. • Capital in relation to the risk 17.6 17.6 guarantee the bank’s • The aim is to hold a capital exposure amount (CET1) long-term survival and adequacy buffer of around (%) its position as a financial 150 basis points above the • Capital in relation to total 5.1 5.1 counterparty, while regulatory requirement. assets (leverage ratio) (%) operating within regulatory requirements and meeting rating targets. For detailed information on risk, liquidity and capital management, refer to notes 40 and 41. SEB Annual Report 2019 — 53 Report of the Directors – Risk, liquidity and capital management High asset quality Low operational losses Asset quality remained high and credit losses low and in line SEB works continuously to mitigate operational risks in the daily with expectations. The 2019 credit losses are driven by a few business and processes and thereby minimise operational losses corporate engagements and there are no signs of a broader asset and, in particular, to avoid larger losses. By continuously developquality deterioration. Net expected credit losses (ECL) amounted ing and improving governance and risk practices, the bank strives to SEK 2,294m (1,166), corresponding to a net ECL level of 10 to mitigate both traditional and emerging risks. basis points (6). Stage 3 loans (loans that are credit-impaired) Net losses from operational incidents amounted to SEK 120m amounted to SEK 11.4bn at year-end (8.2), corresponding to in 2019 (197). Benchmarking against members of the ORX, a 0.67 per cent of the gross lending (0.50). global operational risk association in the financial services sector, shows that SEB’s operational losses are below international Market risk at low levels peer average. Risk in the customer-driven trading is measured as Value-at-Risk (VaR), which averaged SEK 98m in 2019 (90). This means that Cyber and information risk the bank does not expect to lose more than this amount during Cyber and information risks are increasing in pace with rapid a period of ten trading days, with 99 per cent probability. VaR technological development and the increased use of data in the increased during the first six months of the year driven by interbanking industry. These risks involve not only technology but est rate and equity exposures. The development reversed in the people, processes, systems, culture and physical surroundings second half of the year and 2019 ended with the lowest VaR of and their complex nature means they are more challenging to the year. assess and mitigate than traditional operational risks. The bank Market risk also arises in the form of interest rate risk in the invests continuously in its security, and regular technical security banking book as a result of balance sheet mismatches in curupdates and upgrades of systems and platforms are prioritised rencies, interest terms and interest rate periods. This risk was in order to strengthen resilience. During the year focus was on relatively stable in 2019. further strengthening governance and the framework for cyber and information security risk management. Unchanged insurance risk SEB’s life insurance business consists mainly of unit-linked prodCredit loss development1) Per cent ucts, where the market risk remains with the customer. In 2019, unit-linked products accounted for 63 per cent of total premium 0.25 income (69). SEB also offers traditional life insurance, occupational pensions and private health insurance products in Sweden. 0.29 The traditional life insurance portfolios expose SEB to financial market risk due to the guaranteed elements of the products. 0.15 However, the difference between the value of the assets and the guaranteed commitments serves as a buffer against earnings 0.10 volatility. This buffer increased throughout the year as asset returns and new business volumes were only partially offset by 0.05 the negative impact from lower interest rates. The environment with low interest rates is challenging for the insurance industry 0 both with regards to capitalisation and to generating competitive 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 asset returns. Portfolio allocations to alternative investments are 1) 2018–2019: Net ECL level based on IFRS 9 expected loss model. 2015–2017: likely to remain material. Credit loss level based on IAS 39 incurred loss model Credit portfolio, development by sector SEK bn 1,500 1,200 900 600 300 0 -15-16 -17 -18 -19 -15-16 -17 -18 -19 -15-16 -17 -18 -19 -15-16 -17 -18 -19 -15-16 -17 -18 -19 -15-16 -17 -18 -19 Corporations Households Real estate Housing co-operative Public Banks management associations administration 54 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Report of the Directors – Risk, liquidity and capital management The work to detect and prevent fraud, both internally and in Environmental – climate-related risks cooperation with the police, is continuously evolving to adjust to Climate-related risk is not a new risk type but rather carries risk new criminal behaviour. In 2019, successful efforts were made to factors that are likely to have bearing on most traditional risk develop new capabilities for real time transaction monitoring, as types, such as credit, market, reputational and operational risk. well as improved processes for digital identification and signing. Thus, climate-related risk management is a part of the existing Data ethics, i.e. how customer data is used with respect to risk governance and processes. confidentiality, privacy rules and data protection, is also growing in importance as regulatory requirements related to for instance Climate-specific risks the anti-money laundering and payment services directives are The effects of climate change on SEB involve two specific risk leading to a need for more data and data processing as well as factors. Transition risks are the financial risks that may arise from for sharing data with third-party providers. the transition to a lower-carbon economy. Disruptive events such SEB’s Code of Conduct and core values, mandatory training as changes in climate policy, regulation, technology or market and dialogues on ethical and value-related dilemmas strengthsentiment could impact business models of companies in sectors en employees’ awareness of the importance of their conduct. that rely on fossil fuels or are energy intensive. Physical risks Employees and others are urged to report unethical or illegal arise from increased severity and frequency of climate and exincidents, if needed through an independent, external whistletreme weather-related events, such as droughts, floods, storms blowing procedure. and sea-level rise. Physical risks can have direct impact such as damage to property and indirect impact through subsequent Business and reputational risks events such as the disruption of global supply chains. SEB’s business is built on trust. The bank’s reputation is based Different types of climate-related risks may potentially affect on long-term customer relationships, a strong business and risk SEB over different time horizons. In the short to medium term, culture based on high ethical standards, social and environmenreputational risk may increase as a result of growing concerns tal responsibility and professionalism. Reputational risk often among stakeholders related to SEB’s handling of climate issues, arises from a development within another risk type inherent in increased scrutiny from regulators and stricter regulations. In a the business, such as credit, liquidity, compliance or ESG risk. longer perspective, both physical and transition risks may affect customers’ creditworthiness or collateral values. Environmental, social and governance risks The bank’s strategic work in relation to climate change takes As a bank, SEB plays an important role in society by providing two perspectives into consideration. One is the need to undercredit and managing financial assets in ways that promote stand SEB’s customers’ impact on climate; the other is the effect sustainable economic growth and prosperity. Both in its cusof climate change on SEB’s customers’ business models and tomer on-boarding and credit granting process, SEB considers repayment capacity. environmental, social and governance (ESG) risks and the extent to which such risks can impact a customer’s ultimate repayment Assessing climate impact capacity and SEB’s ambition to be a sustainable bank. SEB’s SEB’s ESG classification framework is the basis for assessing the sustainability-related policies define how the bank shall consider climate impact of the customers. A climate impact sector map ESG risks. See p. 33. was developed in 2019. The map defines sectors with high, mediTools for analysing, documenting and monitoring ESG risks um and low climate impact and enables a high-level classification are being further developed on a continuous basis. For example, and quantification of the climate impact of SEB’s corporate credit SEB is developing a classification framework in order to assess portfolio. customers’ impact from an ESG perspective, including the This framework will be further developed to enable assessoverall ESG impact of 88 sectors and sub-sectors. It has been ment of the compatibility of customers’ strategies and targets benchmarked against external standards and classifications with the Paris agreement. It will provide an in-depth understand(EU taxonomy, MSCI Industry and Sector ESG Intensity and SASB ing of customers’ current performance and plans and where Materiality Map) and will include climate change, water, biodipossible also their roadmap towards phasing out fossil fuels. versity, labour rights, human rights and anti-corruption. Carbon-related assets – TCFD disclosure SEB recognizes the crucial role of consistent and comparable The quantification of carbon-related assets provides an overdisclosure to foster an early assessment of climate-related view of the sectors that are potentially exposed to material risks and to facilitate market discipline as recommended by climate-related transition risks. It does not, however, constithe Task Force for Climate related Financial Disclosure (TCFD). tute a comprehensive measurement of SEB’s transition risks A first attempt to quantify the credit exposure to carbon-­ as counterparties’ sensitivity to such risks may differ within related assets1) was performed during 2019. The result was a given industry. that this exposure amounted to between 6 and 7 per cent of See p. 34 for a description of SEB’s TCFD-related work. SEB’s total credit exposure as per year-end 2019. 1) Carbon-related assets are defined as those assets tied to the energy and utility SEB will continue to enhance the definition and quantificasectors under the Global Industry Classification Standard (GICS), excluding water tion of its credit exposure and to actively support widespread utilities and independent power and renewable electricity producer industries. and consistent TCFD disclosures. SEB Annual Report 2019 — 55 Report of the Directors – Risk, liquidity and capital management This will support SEB’s ambition to gradually shift its credit portGovernance – preventing corruption, money folio towards more sustainable financing and help identify transilaundering and financing of terrorism tion risks. The framework is being further refined and tested with SEB works actively to prevent corruption, money laundering the aim to be fully rolled out during 2020. and financing of terrorism in line with applicable rules and regulations. It is also important for SEB to maintain high ethical Assessing the effect of climate change on SEB’s customers standards. Knowledge, awareness and a strong risk culture must SEB recognises that banks have a crucial role to play in contribbe firmly embedded in the entire organisation, from the board uting to limit the average global temperature rise and has the of directors to individual employees. ambition to align its risk appetite and strategy to be consistent With globalisation and greater movement across borders, monwith the Paris agreement targets. SEB is continuously developing ey laundering and financing of terrorism have become a serious and refining its risk identification capabilities and methodologies international problem. To prevent and combat this problem, to identify, assess and measure transition risks at counterparty both national and international agreements as well as comlevel. An assessment of the effect of climate change on cusmon measures and rules are needed. At the same time, it is not tomers’ repayment capacity is integrated in the bank’s holistic possible for any bank to guarantee that it has not been, or will be, counterparty credit analysis which is included in the material used for such purposes. SEB has a clear governance model for submitted to the bank’s credit committees. SEB has developed its preventive work in this area, with mandates, instructions and a proprietary framework to facilitate systematic integration of responsibilities. climate risks in the financial analysis of corporate counterparSEB’s preventive work against corruption, money laundering and ties. The framework provides sector-specific guidance on the the financing of terrorism is constantly being developed. A key part most material issues to be assessed for customers active within of the preventive work is to have a diligent risk-based KYC process carbon intensive sectors. to collect and assess information in order to understand the busiMeasuring the financial risks from climate change is complex. ness relationship and the risk associated with the customer. The It involves the assessment of the combined impact of physical KYC process is performed when on-boarding new customers and and transition risks under multiple scenarios. SEB is developing with regular intervals throughout the relationship. An enhanced scenario analysis and methods to measure the impact of tranKYC level (due diligence) is applied to customers, products and sition risks on its credit portfolio at different time horizons and countries where the bank is believed to be most exposed. under different assumptions. Preventive measures also include regular risk assessments to SEB regularly performs qualitative reviews for sectors with understand how the bank could be used for money laundering or high climate impact, which are presented to the Group Risk financing of terrorism. These assessments provide the basis for Committee and the Risk and Capital Committee. In connection developing internal procedures to mitigate the identified risks. with the reviews, sector-specific business strategies and risk Monitoring to detect suspicious transactions and behaviours and appetite levels are defined. SEB’s ambition to support its cussanction screening to prevent payments to persons or entities on tomers’ needs in the transition to a low-carbon economy and to sanctions lists are other equally important aspects of the prevenmitigate physical and transition risks is considered in the reviews. tive work. SEB works continuously to develop its capabilities in In 2019, SEB defined a risk appetite in absolute terms for its oil the above areas by reinforcing internal controls and procedures & gas portfolio (exploration & production, offshore and oilfield in the business units and at the geographic locations where the services). SEB will continue to support its customers active withbank operates, utilising new technologies and conducting emin the oil and gas sector on their transition journey and engage ployee training to strengthen awareness. with them to encourage sustainable practices. Any suspicious activity that is discovered is reported to the relevant authorities. In such cases, SEB will consider terminating Social – human rights and labour law or limiting the business relationship if the identified risk cannot Conducting responsible business entails an obligation to respect be managed. In 2019, SEB reported more than 3,000 Suspicious and promote human rights and labour law. SEB assesses the risk Activity Reports to the authorities in the countries where it for human rights violation in accordance with an internal policy operates. and international agreements ( see p. 33). A customer with low human rights ambitions, who might expose people to, for example, danger or violations, can become a credit risk for the bank. Liquidity coverage1) and core gap ratio Per cent In addition, investing in such companies carries a high reputational risk. This type of risk is to be assessed and monitored in 250 the credit and investment processes. SEB’s Human Rights Policy, 200 sector policies and ESG data from external suppliers serve as guidance. 150 SEB’s fund company has strict criteria for how its actively 2017 managed funds shall relate to holdings that verifiably breach 100 2018 international norms regarding human rights criteria. Moreover, 2019 Liquidity SEB engages directly in dialogue with companies’ management 50 coverage and board regarding how to achieve improvements. ratio 0 requireLiquidity Core ment coverage ratio 1) gap ratio 1) 2018–2019: As defined by the EU, 2017 as defined by the Swedish FSA. 56 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Report of the Directors – Risk, liquidity and capital management Liquidity and capital management Sound liquidity and funding strategy Strong capital position Access to the liquidity and funding markets is vital in all circumDespite a strong risk culture and risk management, unexpectstances. SEB’s liquidity and funding strategy are managed from ed losses can occur in banking. SEB’s capital management is three perspectives: (1) optimising the liquidity structure of the designed to ensure that the bank has sufficient capital to absorb balance sheet to ensure that less-liquid assets are matched with such unexpected losses. The Board of Directors sets SEB’s capital stable funding, (2) monitoring wholesale funding dependence, target taking into consideration financial stability requirements and (3) ensuring that the bank has sufficient liquidity reserves to by the regulators, debt investors and business counterparties, as withstand a severely stressed scenario. well as the Board’s view of capital need and credit rating ambiIn 2019, SEB saw continued good market demand for its issutions. These requirements must be balanced with the shareholdance of shortand long-term funding. A high credit rating is imers’ required rate of return. portant as it is the basis for the cost for SEB’s wholesale funding. The Swedish FSA’s requirement for SEB’s Common Equity Tier See p. 43 for SEB’s credit ratings and new funding. 1 (CET1) capital ratio consists of two parts. The Pillar 1 requireSEB’s liquid assets amounted to SEK 470bn at year-end (403). ment is a general requirement for all banks. The Pillar 2 requireThe size and composition of the liquid assets are regularly anament is institution specific. The Swedish FSA’s CET1 capital lysed and assessed against estimated needs. requirement on SEB was 15.1 per cent as of year-end. The Core gap ratio, which is SEB’s internal measure of the The Board’s target is to maintain a CET1 capital ratio of around extent to which long-term lending is matched by long-term 150 basis points above the Swedish FSA’s requirement. This funding, was 109 per cent (110), which is well within the Board’s constitutes a buffer against potential variability in the capital risk tolerance for a sound structural liquidity risk position. SEB position deriving, in particular, from changes in foreign exchange also manages its liquidity position in line with the upcoming Net rates and interest rate risk in the pension obligations. Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR) regulatory requirement of at least At year-end, SEB’s CET1 capital ratio was 17.6 per cent (17.6), 100 per cent, which is expected to take effect in 2021. implying a buffer of 250bps above the regulatory requirement. The Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) measures to what exThe risk exposure amount increased to SEK 746bn (716) mainly tent SEB’s liquid assets are sufficient to cover short-term cash as a result of increased credit volumes and foreign exchange outflows in a short-term stressed scenario. SEB’s LCR was 218 effects. The CET1 capital increased to SEK 131bn (126). per cent at year-end (147) and is thus in compliance with the SEB’s leverage ratio, a non-risk-based ratio of Tier 1 capital to minimum requirement of 100 per cent. total assets, was 5.1 per cent at year-end (5.1), which is above During the year, the Swedish FSA introduced an additional LCR the European Banking Authority’s proposed minimum requirerequirement of 75 per cent for individual significant currencies. ment of 3 per cent. The new requirement is applied from 2019, through the Pillar 2 The capital requirements for Swedish banks are currently process. For EUR and USD, the LCR requirement remains at 100 higher than EU minimum levels and Swedish banks are well per cent. SEB meets the minimum LCR requirement for individual capitalised compared with banks elsewhere in Europe, both currencies. from a risk-weighted and non-risk-based perspective. For information on new capital regulations, see p. 58. Development of risk exposure amount (REA)  SEK bn Capital adequacy  Per cent 25 2017 20 15 2018 10 2019 5 0 0 200 400 600 800 1,000 2017 2018 2019 Credit risk Market risk Operational risk Common E  quity Tier 1 capital ratio Tier 1 capital ratio Credit value adjustment Investment in insurance business Total capital ratio CET1 requirement Other exposures Additional risk exposure amount See note 41 SEB Annual Report 2019 — 57 Report of the Directors Regulatory requirements The inflow of new regulations governing the financial industry subsided somewhat during 2019, but the work involved in implementing them and adapting SEB’s business operations to be able to take advantage of their benefits continues with full force. In the area of sustainability, society’s expectations are rising, and with them so are regulatory requirements on the financial sector. The regulations can be classified into three main areas. In the In 2019 SEB worked with some 13 major regulatory projects at area of financial stability the aim is to ensure the financial sysan estimated cost of SEK 433m. In addition, the bank is working tem’s resilience to economic shocks and disturbances as well as continuously on implementing technical standards and guidelines prevent the failure of a single financial institution from leading from the EU’s three supervisory authorities for banking, insurto a systemic collapse. In the area of market conduct the aim is ance and the securities markets, as well as from national finanto promote efficient pricing and execution in the financial marcial supervisory authorities in countries in which SEB has operakets, and prevent market manipulation through transparency tions. In pace with implementation of these rules and regulations, and risk mitigation. Finally, in the area of consumer protection both the bank – in its internal processes – and the supervisory the aim is to ensure fair treatment of customers and raise their authorities are stepping up their controls of compliance. financial literacy through relevant and correct information. This puts demands on marketing and packaging of financial services, and investment advice services. High-impact regulations Three important new regulations with high impact on the business operations of the bank are described below. Reform packages to increase banks’ financial stability Ever since the 2008 financial crisis, regulators have taken stable funding ratio (NSFR). Meanwhile, the European Bankinitiatives to increase the resilience and stability of the financial ing Authority (EBA) is working to harmonise internal capital system, and improvements are still ongoing. adequacy models. It is yet to early to conclude what impact Financial stability In 2017, the Basel Committee agreed on a reform package these initiatives, which will be phased in over a number of years for capital adequacy (the so-called Basel IV package) that starting in 2022, will have for SEB. sets restrictions for internal risk models along with minimum In 2019, the Basel Committee began expanding its focus requirements for measured results. A legislative proposal areas to include future structural risks such as cyberattacks, from the EU, based on Basel IV, is expected to be ready for the growth in financial technology, crypto-assets and the implementation in 2020. The EU finalised its banking reform transition from Libor to new benchmark rates. Future regupackage in 2018, amending the regulations for capital latory requirements in these areas may impact the financial requirements as well as plans for recovery and resolution, market. including a leverage ratio requirement and a binding net Money laundering and financing of terrorism Countering of money laundering and the financing of terrorThe AML5 (the 5th Anti-Money Laundering Directive) will be ism as well as other financial crime is a permanent work in implemented in Sweden in 2020. Among other things it lays progress that will continue to have a high priority at SEB. As out new information requirements, greater transparency Market conduct regulations and technical tools evolve so do the activities in regarding beneficial owners (the people who ultimately own this area. In 2018, SEB’s governance model for prevention of or control a legal entity), harmonisation of required measures money laundering was updated to conform to the AML4 (the to be taken in commercial relations or transactions with highEU’s 4th Anti-Money Laundering Directive), with partly new risk third-party countries as defined by the EU. The AML 5 also roles and responsibilities. During 2019, this work was focused requires EU member states to implement searchable national on further improving the bank’s know-your-customer routines bank account registers that can be accessed by the financial and processes. intelligence units (FIUs). Insurance The Insurance Distribution Directive (IDD) began to be impleThe bank continued with its implementation of the IDD in mented in Sweden in 2018, through enactment of a new In2019, among other things through continuing education for Consumer protection surance Distribution Act. Above all, the IDD ensures stronger members of the Board of Directors and the Group Executive consumer protection by requiring customers to be provided Committee, requesting a waiver in accordance with transiwith more information on products and services as well as tional provisions and development of customer information greater transparency regarding costs. The directive is also in accordance with the new regulations. SEB looks favourably aimed at harmonising the insurance market within the EU. on the support provided to the industry by the IDD directive, The IDD directive is similar in many ways with the regulations which clarifies how information on products and services can that promote customer protection for the securities market be further developed to make them more easily understood (MiFID). by consumers. 58 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Report of the Directors – Regulatory requirements Regulation surrounding sustainability The UNEP FI Principles for Responsible Banking provide a frameInternational regulatory requirements related to sustainability work for a sustainable banking system. By signing the voluntary continued to develop during 2019, complemented by voluntary principles SEB has committed to ensuring that its business undertakings. Going forward a merging of regulatory and volunstrategy contributes to individuals’ needs and society’s goals, tary actions can be expected. as expressed in the Sustainable Development Goals, the Paris The European Commission’s Action Plan on Sustainable Finance Agreement and relevant national and regional frameworks. continued to make an impact during the year. Its Technical Expert In 2019, the European Banking Authority (EBA) released its Group (TEG), of which SEB is one of 35 members, published action plan on sustainable finance, which outlines its approach reports that clarify and set standards in the area of sustainability. related to environmental, social and governance factors. The Perhaps the most significant report was on the EU Taxonomy, a focus of the action plan will be first on key metrics and disclosures classification tool aimed to help investors and companies make to support banks’ green strategies and then the need for any environmentally sustainable investment decisions. The taxonomy adjustments to risk-weights in the capital adequacy calculations. is expected to enter into legislation during 2020. SEB welcomes See p. 32 and the Sustainability Fact Book for information on all efforts that increase the clarity of what is sustainable and SEB’s work with the Sustainable Development Goals. acknowledges the importance of the EU Taxonomy. SEB has begun to use the taxonomy in its product offering, such as in the Impact Metric Tool. See p. 21. Significant rules and regulations Rules and regulations improve customer services and processes, but also increase the administrative work. Major regulations introduced between 2015 and 2019 Regulatory focus areas from 2020 BCBS 239 Principles for effective IFRS 15 Accounting principles Basel Committee’s final reform package risk data aggregation and risk for revenue from contracts with BRRD 2 Bank Recovery and Resolution reporting customers Directive BRRD Bank Recovery and ResoluIFRS 16 Accounting principles CRD V/CRR 2 Capital Requirements Directive Financial stability tion Directive for leases and Capital Requirements Regulation CRD IV/CRR Capital Requirements KRITA/AnaCredit Reporting of Directive and Capital Requirements corporate loans Regulations MCD Mortgage credit directive IFRS 9 Accounting principles for Solvency II/Omnibus II financial instruments Capital requirements on insurance companies VINN Reporting of securities AML 4 Anti-Money Laundering SEPA Single Euro Payments Area AML 5 Anti-Money Laundering Directive Directive SFTR Securities Financing ATAD 2 Anti-Tax Avoidance Directive MAD/MAR Market Abuse Directive Transactions Regulation CSDR Central Securities Depositories and Market Abuse Regulation Market conduct Regulation MiFID 2/MiFIR Markets in Financial DAC 6 Directive on Cross-Border Tax Instruments Directive and Markets Arrangements in Financial Instruments Regulation EMIR European Market Infrastructure PSD 2 Payment Services Directive Regulation UCITS VI Directive on Undertakings for Collective Investment in Transferable Securities ePR Privacy Regulation (integrity PAD Payment Accounts Directive IDD amendment taking sustainability issues and electronic communication) PRIIPS Packaged Retail and Insurinto account GDPR General Data Protection ance-based Investment Products MiFID 2 amendment integrating sustainability Consumer protection Regulation Regulation risks and factors IDD Insurance Distribution Directive SEB Annual Report 2019 — 59 The global problem of financial crime was high on the Board’s agenda in 2019. Banks have an important responsibility to safeguard confidence in the financial system. This is vital for us, in order to conduct business successfully. For SEB it is of paramount importance to have the highest standards of corpo­ rate governance, regulatory compliance and risk management. Our risk culture is to be characterised by professionalism and strong values. With the aim to prevent money laundering, and detect and report any suspected cases of such crime, we increasingly use artificial intelligence and new tools to monitor flows and transactions. We have strengthened, and will continue to strengthen, our capabilities in order to maintain a robust defence and to uphold our trust.” Marcus Wallenberg, Chair, Board of Directors Corporate governance The importance of corporate governance SEB also adheres to an internal framework that To maintain the important societal function as a bank, includes, among other things, the Articles of Associ­ it is of utmost importance for SEB that customers, ation, which are adopted by the general meeting of shareholders, employees and other stakeholders shareholders. Policies and instructions that define have great confidence and trust in the bank’s oper­ the segregation of duties within the group are tools ations. Professional employees who are guided by a for the Board of Directors (the Board) and the Pres­ high standard of business conduct are crucial, as is ident and Chief Executive Officer (the President) in maintaining a sound risk culture. A robust corporate their governing and controlling roles. Such policies governance framework with clearly defined roles and instructions include, among others: and responsibilities and internal control also helps • The Board’s Rules of Procedure and the Instruc­ prevent conflicts of interest. tions for the board committees • Instructions for the President and the Group’s Rules and regulations Internal Governance As a Swedish public limited liability financial insti­ • Group Credit Instruction and Risk Policy tution with securities listed on Nasdaq Stockholm, • Instruction for Handling of Conflicts of Interest SEB is subject to numerous rules and regulations. • Instruction for procedures against The external framework for corporate governance money laundering and terrorist financing includes the following rules and regulations: See extract on sebgroup.com • the Companies Act • Code of Conduct1) • the Annual Accounts Act • Remuneration Policy • the Nasdaq Stockholm Issuer Rules • Information Security Policy • the Swedish Corporate Governance Code • Corporate Sustainability Policy1) • the Banking and Financing Business Act • Inclusion & Diversity Policy1) • the rules and guidelines issued by the Swedish • Policies on Suitability, Diversity and Composition Financial Supervisory Authority and other author­ of the Board, the Group Executive Committee (GEC) ities. and other key function holders. See p. 58 for information on new rules and regulations. 1) See sebgroup.com 60 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Report of the Directors – Corporate governance SEB’s ethical and sustainability endeavours are an integral part of register who have duly notified their attendance have the right the business and is regularly on the Board’s agenda. SEB’s Code to participate at the AGM and to vote for the full number of their of Conduct describes the bank’s values, ethics and standards of shares. Shareholders who cannot attend may appoint a repre­ business conduct and provides guidance on how to live by these sentative. The 2019 AGM was held on 26 March. A total of 1,916 values. Policies and instructions for sustainability and groupshareholders, representing 60 per cent of the votes, attended the wide position statements and industry sector policies addressing AGM. An electronic system for televoters was used at the AGM. environmental, social and governance issues are The main resolutions made at the AGM were: also of vital importance. • approval of the ordinary dividend of SEK 6.00 per share and The Corporate Governance Report has been prepared in the extraordinary dividend of SEK 0.50 per share accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish • decision that the number of directors on the Board shall be Corporate Governance Code (the Code). SEB strives to follow eleven the Code where appropriate and has no deviations to report for • re-election of nine directors and election of two new directors, 2019. More information about SEB’s corporate governance is Anne-Catherine Berner and Lars Ottersgård available on sebgroup.com • re-election of Marcus Wallenberg as Chair of the Board • election of Ernst & Young AB as new external auditor Shareholders and general meetings of shareholders • adoption of guidelines for remuneration of the President and The shareholders’ exercise their influence at general meetings the other members of the GEC of shareholders by, among other things, electing directors of • adoption of three long-term equity programmes the Board and the external auditor. • issuance of a mandate to the Board concerning purchases and sales of own shares for SEB’s securities business, for the SEB has approximately 265,000 shareholders. SEB’s share long-term equity programmes and for capital management capital consists of two classes of shares – A shares and C shares. purposes Each Class A share carries one vote and each Class C share car­ • authorisation for the Board to decide on the issuance of ries one-tenth of a vote. convertibles. The Annual General Meeting (AGM) of shareholders is held, in The minutes from the AGM are available on sebgroup.com Stockholm, in Swedish. All shareholders listed in the shareholder The largest shareholders  31 December 2019 Distribution of shares by size of holding 31 December 2019 Share No. of ­Of which Share of of votes, % Size of holding shareholders No. of shares Per cent Class C capital, No. of shares shares % 2019 2018 1–500 156,048 30,523,854 1.1 Investor 452,198,555 4,000,372 20.8 20.8 20.8 501–1,000 13,819 31,037,629 0.3 Alecta 143,152,500 6.5 6.6 7.0 1,001–5,000 66,210 98,027,809 3.2 Trygg Foundation 114,673,802 5.2 5.3 5.2 5,001–10,000 18,751 42,783,476 2.7 Swedbank Robur Funds 86,729,239 4.0 4.0 4.2 10,001–20,000 5,989 33,670,840 1.9 AMF Försäkring & 20,001–50,000 2,396 33,809,269 1.5 Fonder 83,539,784 3.8 3.8 4.0 50,001–100,000 1,087 21,992,258 1.5 BlackRock 59,474,231 2.7 2.7 2.4 100,001–500,000 315 61,591,808 1.0 Vanguard 42,487,359 525,003 2.0 2.0 1.2 500,001–1,000,000 278 39,809,826 2.8 SEB Funds 34,526,185 1.6 1.6 1.6 1,000,001– 167 1,800,925,033 83.9 SEB own shareholding1) 31,499,321 1.4 1.4 1.4 Total 265,060 2,194,171,802 100.0 Fourth Swedish National Source: Euroclear and Holdings Pension Fund 27,920,856 1.3 1.3 1.1 XACT Funds 24,714,654 1.1 1.1 1.2 Nordea Funds 21,466,934 1.0 1.0 1.2 Shareholder structure  Per cent Norges bank 21,097,516 5,714 1.0 1.0 0.5 Percentage holdings of equity on 31 December 2019 SEB Foundation 10,000,000 5,871,173 0.7 0.5 0.4 AFA Insurance 15,509,616 0.7 0.7 0.8 1) See table Number of outstanding shares on p. 45. Source: Euroclear and Holdings Different voting power of class A shares (voting power 1) compared to C shares Swedish shareholders 73 (voting power 0.1) gives minor differences in share of votes vs. share of capital. Institutions and foundations 57 Private individuals 17 The majority of the bank’s approximately 265,000 shareholders are private individuals with small holdings. The ten largest shareholders account for 49 per cent of the capital and votes. Foreign shareholders 27 SEB Annual Report 2019 — 61 Report of the Directors – Corporate governance Corporate governance structure SEB’s business operations are Nomination managed, controlled and followed p. 61 Committee p. 62 up in accordance with policies and General Meeting of Shareholders instructions established by the External Board and the President. Auditor p.72 p. 63 Board of Directors Head of Group Internal Auditp. 72 Chief Risk Risk & Capital Audit & Compliance Remuneration & HR Officer p. 72 Committee p. 68 Committeep. 67 Committee p.67 p. 68 President and Chief Executive Officer Head of Group Compliance p. 72 CEO Committees • Group Executive Committee p. 68 Head of Head of Group • Group Risk Committee p. 69 Group Risk p. 72 Credits p. 72 • Asset & Liability Committee p. 68 Appointed by Reporting to/informing/ submitting proposals to SEB’s organisation President and Chief Executive Officer Division Large Corporates Division Corporate Division Baltic & Financial Institutions & Private Customers Division Life Division Investment Management Group Staff, Support and Control Functions Nomination Committee Nomination Committee for the 2020 AGM The primary task of the Nomination Committee is to submit Votes (%) Member Representing 31 Aug. 2019 recommendations to the AGM for the Chair and directors of Petra Hedengran, chair Investor 20.8 the Board as well as the external auditor. Magnus Billing Alecta 6.4 The Nomination Committee nominates the Chair, the directors of Lars Heikensten Trygg-Stiftelsen 5.2 the Board and the external auditor and makes recommendations Johan Sidenmark AMF Försäkring och Fonder 3.6 regarding directors’ fees and fees for committee work. Marcus Wallenberg SEB, Chair of the Board Pursuant to a decision by the AGM, the Nomination Committee 36 Sven Nyman, additional member, appointed by the Board. is to be composed of the Chair of the Board along with represent­ Swedbank Robur Fonder, which was the bank’s fourth largest shareholder, atives of the bank’s four largest shareholders that are interested declined to appoint a member of the Nomination Committee. in appointing a member. One of the independent directors shall be The Nomination Committee’s proposals for decisions, including appointed as additional member of the Nomination Committee. motivated account as regards directors, are available on sebgroup.com The composition of the Nomination Committee meets the requirements laid out in the Code. The Nomination Committee has access to relevant information about SEB’s operations and financial and strategic position, provided by the Chair of the demands that will be placed on the Board in view of the bank’s Board and the additional member. operations, organisation and future direction. The Board’s composition shall adhere to applicable laws The Board’s size and composition is discussed and reviewed and regulations and to the Policy on Suitability, Diversity and in terms of suitable competence and experience, in the financial Composition of the Board of Directors, adopted by the Board. An sector as well as other sectors. The directors should also have important principle is that the Board’s size and composition shall sufficient time to perform their duties and understand the bank’s be such as to serve the bank in the best possible way. Therefore, business and its main risks. The Nomination Committee also as the starting point for its work, the Nomination Committee is reviews the evaluations of the Board’s directors and Chair. tasked with assessing the degree to which the Board meets the See p. 66. 62 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Report of the Directors – Corporate governance The Nomination Committee shall ensure diversity within the directors of a listed financial company. Educational and speciali­ Board in terms of the directors’ educational and professional sation seminars are held each year – in 2019 for instance on the backgrounds, gender, age and geographical provenance. EU Insurance Distribution Directive. New directors are offered Furthermore, the Nomination Committee discusses succession educational seminars with information on, and discussions about, matters with particular emphasis on continuity and long-term SEB’s various operations, including control functions. perspective in ensuring the Board’s competence and composition. The directors are elected by the shareholders at the AGM for The Nomination Committee for the 2020 AGM was appointed a one-year term. Since the 2019 AGM the Board shall consist in the autumn of 2019. No fee has been paid to the members of of eleven AGM-elected directors, without deputies, and of two the Nomination Committee. directors with two deputies who serve as employee represent­ atives and are appointed by the trade unions. In order for a quo­ Board of Directors rum to exist at a board meeting, more than half of the directors The Board has overarching responsibility for the organisation, must be present. The President is the only AGM-elected director administration and operations of the SEB group. employed by the bank. The Nomination Committee has made a collective assessment of the directors’ independence in relation The Board has adopted Rules of Procedure that regulate the to the bank and the bank’s management as well as in relation to Board’s role and ways of working as well as special instructions shareholders controlling 10 per cent or more of the shares or for the Board’s committees. votes and has found that the composition of the Board meets the The Board has the following duties, among others: requirements of the Code. • deciding on the objectives, strategy and framework for the The Board’ work follows a yearly plan. In 2019, the Board held business activities as well as the business plan 14 meetings. The President attends all board meetings except • regularly following up and evaluating the operations in relation those dealing with matters in which the President has an interest to the objectives and guidelines established by the Board that may be in conflict with the interests of the bank, such as • ensuring that the business is organised in such a way that the when the President’s work is evaluated. Other members of the accounting, treasury management and risks inherent in the GEC participate whenever required. business as well as financial conditions in other respects are controlled in a satisfactory manner, in accordance with exter­ Directors’ fees nal and internal rules The AGM sets the total fees for the directors of the Board and • adopting policies and instructions for the business operations decides how the fees should be distributed among the direc­ • deciding on major acquisitions and divestments as well as tors and the Board’s committees. other major investments • appointing or dismissing of the President, members of the GEC, The 2019 AGM resolved that the total directors’ fees shall amount the Chief Risk Officer (CRO), and the Head of Group Internal to SEK 10,240,000. Directors’ fees are paid on a running basis Audit, as well as setting the remuneration of these individuals. during the mandate period. Following a recommendation by the Nomination Committee, the Board has adopted a policy that reThe Chair of the Board organises and leads the work of the commends that directors use 25 per cent of their fee to purchase Board and ensures among other things that the directors on a and hold SEB shares up to an amount corresponding to one year’s regular basis receive information and education on changes in fee. Neither the President nor the directors appointed by the rules concerning the bank’s operations and on responsibilities of employees receive any directors’ fee. On the Board’s agenda in 2019 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 • AGM notice and AGM proposals • IT plan, including cloud services • SEB’s long-term strategy • Recovery and Resolution plan • Macroeconomic review • Macroeconomic review • Update of business plan • Business plan update, financial • Balance sheet, capital and • Internal Capital and Liquidity • Capital forecast plans and forecasts dividend matters Adequacy Assessment (ICAAP • Employee survey • SEB Campus (the bank’s digital • Annual Report 2018 and ILAAP) • Onsite visit, Silicon Valley, USA corporate university) • Internal and external audit • Remuneration policy • SEB cloud services update • Annual review of policies and reports as well as Group Compli­ • Follow-up of compliance with instructions ance report new regulations • SEB’s Code of Conduct • Financial governance model and • Anti-money laundering update • Board evaluation financial targets • Update on Open Banking • Risk seminar • Remuneration of the President, • Update on strategic initiatives on • Investor World update the GEC and control functions sustainability • Anti-money laundering update • Statutory meeting • Revision of Tax Policy • Group talent review and succes­ sion planning • IT plan 2019 • Training on the EU Insurance Distribution Directive • Review of new business unit SEBx SEB’s quarterly report, reports from the board committees and a summary of SEB’s risk position, asset quality, credit portfolio and liquidity position are on the Board’s agenda each quarter. SEB Annual Report 2019 — 63 Report of the Directors – Corporate governance 4 2 3 7 1 5 Board of Directors 1 Marcus 2 Sven 3 Jesper 4 Johan 5 Signhild Wallenberg Nyman Ovesen H. Andresen Arnegård Hansen Position Chair since 2005 Vice Chair since 2017 Vice Chair since 2014 Director Director Committee lRCC l ACC l RemCo l RCC l ACC l RemCo Year elected 2002 2013 2004 2011 2010 Born 1956 1959 1957 1961 1960 Education B.Sc. (Foreign Service) B.Sc. (Business and Econ.) B.Sc. (Econ.) and MBA B.A. (Government and B.Sc. (Human Resources) Policy Studies) and MBA and journalism studies Other Chair of Saab and FAM. Chair of RAM Rational Director of Sunrise Owner and Chair of Ferd Chair of SnackCo of assignments Vice Chair of Investor. Asset Management. Communications Group AS. Chair of Council on America Corp. Vice Chair Director of AstraZeneca Director of RAM ONE, Ferd AG. Ethics for the Government of the Swedish-American plc., Temasek Holdings AS, Nobel Foundation’s Pension Fund Global. Chamber of Commerce Ltd and the Knut and Alice Investment Committee, Director of SWIX Sport AS, (SACC). Director of Wallenberg Foundation. Stockholm School of NMI-Nordic Microfinance Business Sweden, Council member of the Economics, Stockholm Initiative and Junior Entrepreneurship and International Advisory School of Economics Achievement Europe. Small Business Research Council of Hong Kong Association and Axel and Institute (ESBRI), SOS Exchanges and Clearing Margaret Ax:son Johnson’s Children Villages Sweden Limited. Foundation. and SACC New York. Member of IVA. Background Citibank in New York, Broad experience from Price Waterhouse. Vice International Paper Co. President of Svenska Deutsche Bank, S G the financial business President and later CEO Partner of Ferd AS. CEO of LantChips. Chair of the Warburg Co, Citicorp field. Managerial positions of Baltica Bank A/S. Vice Ferd AS. Confederation of Swedish and Stora Feldmühle. within Investor. CEO and President and Head of Enterprise. Vice Chair of Executive Vice President founder of Lancelot Asset Finance of Novo Nordisk Business Europe. Several of Investor and CEO Management and Arbitech. A/S. CEO of Kirkbi Group. directorships. of Investor. Several Several directorships. CFO of Den Danske Bank assignments as chair and A/S, LEGO Holding A/S director of large public and TDC A/S. Several companies. directorships. Nationality Swedish Swedish Danish Norwegian Swedish Own and closely 753,584 Class A shares 10,440 Class A shares and 25,000 Class A shares 100,000 Class A shares 5,387 Class A shares related persons’ and 720 Class C shares 10,200 Class C shares shareholdings Independent in relation to Yes/No Yes/Yes Yes/Yes Yes/Yes Yes/Yes bank/major shareholders Attendance at Board/ 13 of 13 / 31 of 32 14 of 14 12 of 14 / 27 of 27 12 of 14 14 of 14 / 6 of 6 Committee meetings1) Remuneration, 3,100,000 980,000 980,000 740,000 740,000 Board meetings, SEK Remuneration, 835,000 – 865,000 – 387,500 Committee meetings , SEK l Chair l Vice Chair l Member 1) Includes only the meetings that the Director could attend without conflict of interest. 2) of which 5,826 Class A shares, 113,627 share rights and 193,139 conditional share rights. 3) Lars Ottersgård has waived the board fee. 64 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Report of the Directors – Corporate governance 6 8 11 10 9 6 Anne-Catherine 7 Samir 8 Winnie 9 Lars 10 Helena 11 Johan Berner Brikho Fok Ottersgård Saxon Torgeby Director Director Director Director Director Director (President and CEO) l RemCo l RCC l ACC l ACC 2019 2013 2013 2019 2016 2017 1964 1958 1956 1964 1970 1974 B.Sc. (Econ.) and MBA M.Sc. (Engineering, Bachelor of Commerce. Technical Collage Exam M.Sc. (Business and Econ.) B.Sc. (Econ.) (Leadership) Thermal Technology), Fellow of CPA Australia (Electro technics), Diploma Hon. Dr. (Cranfield and of Institute of in Management from The University). Chartered Accountants Open University Business in England and Wales. School and multiple IBM Associate member of Hong internal training. Kong Institute of Certified Public Accountants. Chair of Oy Vallila Interior. Director of EuroChem Director of Volvo Car Head of Market CFO at Investor. Director of Director of the Chair of the board, and Group AG. UK Business Corporation, G4S plc Technology, Nasdaq Inc. Swedish Orphan Biovitrum. Swedish Bankers’ founder, of the Association Ambassador. and Foscam Properties Chair and CEO of Nasdaq Association, of for the support of the Co-Chair of the UK-UAE Limited. Senior advisor Technology. the Institute of New Children’s Hospital in Business Council and to WFAB. International Finance Helsinki. the UK-ROK CEO Forum. and Mentor Sweden. Member of Advisory Board Board member of of Stena. Chair of the Step European Banking Change Charity. Federation. Several organisation memberships. Member of the Finnish Broad international Broad experience from the Various leading positions Financial analyst at Robur asset Parliament and Minister experience from financial business field. in Nasdaq. Head of Sales Goldman Sachs and management and of Transport and management and Industrial advisor and for Market Technology at Investor, CFO at Syncron Morgan Stanley. Communications in the leadership, especially senior advisor to Investor OMX. Various management International and Co-head of division Finnish Government. within the industrial and Husqvarna. CEO and positions within IBM for Hallvarsson and Large Corporates & Director of Ilmarinen, sector. Leading positions Senior Partner of EQT the Nordics and Europe, Halvarsson. Investment Financial Institutions. Soprano Oyi, Koskisen within ABB, e.g. as Partners Asia Ltd and CEO Middle-East & Africa. Manager at Investor. Oy, Karelia/Kährs Holding Division Head and CEO of New Asia Partners Ltd. and European Family of significant subsidiaries. Businesses (GEEF). Member of the GEC of CEO of Oy Vallila Interior. ABB Ltd. and CEO of Amec Foster Wheeler plc. Swiss and Finnish Swedish and Swiss British Swedish Swedish Swedish 0 shares 0 shares 3,000 Class A shares 0 shares 12,500 Class A shares 312,592 shares and share rights2). Yes/Yes Yes/Yes Yes/Yes Yes/Yes Yes/No No/Yes 8 of 8 / 3 of 3 14 of 14 / 18 of 18 12 of 14 / 8 of 8 12 of 12 13 of 13 / 7 of 8 14 of 14 616,667 740,000 740,000 –3) 740,000 – 162,500 375,000 265,000 425,000 Tomas Nicolin was a director of the Board until the AGM 2019, when he left at his own request. SEB Annual Report 2019 — 65 Report of the Directors – Corporate governance Directors appointed by the employees Anna-Karin Glimström Håkan Westerberg Annika Dahlberg Charlotta Lindholm Position Director Director Deputy Director Deputy Director Year elected 2016 20151) 20162) 2015 Born 1962 1968 1967 1959 Education University studies in Engineering logistics. University studies in LLB mathematics, statistics working environment. and law. Other assignments Chair of Financial Sector Board member of the First deputy Chair of Chair of the Association Union in SEB and Financial Association of University Financial Sector Union in of University Graduates Sector Union Western Graduates in SEB. SEB and Financial sector at SEB. Director of the section in SEB, Director union regional club Group Foundation of Alma EB-SB Fastigheter and Operations in SEB. Detthows. EB-SB Holding. Background Office manager and various Sales manager at TryggEmployed at Fixed Income, Various client other positions in SEB. Hansa in the property Group Operations. Director responsibility positions Various specialist and insurance business. SEB of SEB’s Profit Sharing in several divisions and leader roles within Tryggin various positions in Foundation and Result subsidiaries in SEB. Client Hansa. Director of SEB’s systems management Premium Foundation. executive at Private Profit Sharing Foundation. and IT development. Banking Foundations. Team Manager, Group Technology. Nationality Swedish Swedish Swedish Swedish Own and closely related 0 shares and 775 4,344 Class A shares and 339 Class A shares and 221 Class A shares and persons’ shareholdings conditional share rights 775 conditional share 775 conditional share 775 conditional share rights rights rights Attendance at Board 12 of 14 14 of 14 10 of 11 11 of 11 meetings 1) Deputy Director 2011–2014 2) Deputy Director 2014 Evaluation of the Board of Directors, the President and the Group Executive Committee The Board uses an annual self-assessment method, which The outcome of the evaluation is presented to and discussed among other things includes a questionnaire, followed by dis­ by the Board and the Nomination Committee. The evaluation cussions within the Board. Through this process the activities process and its outcome contribute to further improvement of and work methods of the Board, the Chair of the Board and the Board’s work and help the Nomination Committee deter­ the respective committees are evaluated. Among the issues mine the appropriate size and composition of the Board. examined are: The Chair of the Board formally evaluates each individual • the extent to which the individual directors take an active director’s work once a year. Marcus Wallenberg does not part in board and committee discussions participate in the evaluation of the Chair’s work, which in 2019 • whether directors contribute independent opinions was conducted by Vice Chair Jesper Ovesen. The Board eval­ • whether the meeting atmosphere is conducive to open uates the work of the President and the GEC on a regular basis discussions. without participation by the President or any other member of the GEC. 66 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Report of the Directors – Corporate governance Board committees The Board’s overarching responsibility cannot be delegated, howand the Remuneration and Human Resources Committee (Rem­ ever, the Board has established committees to handle certain de­ Co). These committees report to the Board on a regular basis. fined issues and to prepare such issues for decision by the Board. An important principle is that as many directors as possible shall participate in committee work. The Chair of the Board serves as At present, there are three board committees: the Risk and Capi­ vice chair of the three committees. Neither the President nor any tal Committee (RCC), the Audit and Compliance Committee (ACC), other officer of the bank is a member of the committees. Remuneration and Human Resources Committee (RemCo) Audit and Compliance Committee (ACC) The RemCo prepares, for decision The ACC supports the Board in its by the Board, appointments of the work with quality assurance of, and President and the members of the internal control over, the bank’s GEC. The Committee develops, financial reporting and reporting to monitors and evaluates SEB’s remu­ the supervisory authorities. The ACC neration system and remuneration also monitors the effectiveness of practice, incentive programmes and internal controls regarding compli­ risk adjustment of deferred variable ance and audit matters. remuneration. Signhild Main focus in 2019 Helena Saxon Main focus in 2019 Arnegård Hansen • Follow-up and control of the work to Chair of the ACC • Follow-up and participation in the Chair of the RemCo prevent the bank from being used work with the bank’s global talent for money laundering or the financ­ management, succession planning for key executives and ing of terrorism appointment of new senior employees and members of the • Introduction of the new external auditor, Ernst & Young AB, Group Executive Committee elected by the 2019 AGM. • Follow-up of the bank’s work with competence development and the introduction of SEB Campus, the new platform for When required, the ACC prepares, for decision by the Board, a continuous development and learning. recommendation for the appointment or dismissal of the Head of Group Internal Audit. The Committee maintains regular contact The RemCo monitors and evaluates application of the guidelines with the bank’s external and internal auditors and discusses the established by the AGM for remuneration of the President and co-ordination of their activities. The Committee also ensures that the members of the GEC. An independent auditor’s review report any remarks and observations from the auditors are addressed, on the adherence of SEB’s remuneration system to the Remuner­ and evaluates the external auditor’s work and independence. ation Policy is presented to the Committee annually. When required, a recommendation from the President on The RemCo reviews, in consultation with the RCC, the bank’s appointment or dismissal of the Head of Group Compliance is Remuneration Policy and ensures that the bank’s remuneration subject to the Committee’s approval. structure takes into account risks and the cost of capital and liquid­ The ACC held eight meetings in 2019. The Chief Financial Officer, ity. This review is based on, among other things, the risk analysis the external auditors, the Head of Group Internal Audit and the performed jointly by Group Risk, Group Compliance and Group HR. Head of Group Compliance submit reports for the Committee’s In addition, the committee oversees the group’s pension obliga­ consideration. In addition, the President and the CRO regularly tions and, together with the RCC, the measures taken to secure the participate in the meetings. See p. 73 for the Report on Internal group’s pension obligations, including developments in the bank’s Control over Financial Reporting. pension foundations. The RemCo held six meetings in 2019. The President, together with the Head of Group HR, makes ACC members presentations to the Committee on matters in which there are no Helena Saxon (Chair), Marcus Wallenberg (Vice Chair), Jesper conflicts of interest. See the Remuneration Report on p. 74. Ovesen and Winnie Fok. RemCo members Signhild Arnegård Hansen (Chair), Marcus Wallenberg (Vice Chair) and Anne-Catherine Berner. Sustainability governance The Board of Directors is responsible for deciding on SEB’s by the President to take responsibility for and monitor the strategy and sustainability approach, and for adopting the bank’s sustainability work. Clear and effective structures for Corporate Sustainability Policy. The President takes decisions segregation of duties ensure that SEB’s sustainability efforts in the Group Executive Committee (GEC) on the development address relevant issues and that these are implemented of the sustainability work, in line with the strategy set by the across the entire group. For a description of SEB’s Board. An operational steering committee has been assigned sustainability governance, see sebgroup.com SEB Annual Report 2019 — 67 Report of the Directors – Corporate governance Risk and Capital Committee (RCC) The President The RCC supports the Board in its The President, who is also the Chief Executive Officer, is work in ensuring that SEB is organised responsible for the day-to-day management of the activities and managed in such a way that risks of SEB in accordance with the Board’s directives. inherent in the group’s business are The President shall ensure that SEB’s organisation and adminis­ monitored and managed in accord­ tration are suitable. The President has overarching responsibility ance with the Board’s risk tolerance for SEB’s risk management in accordance with the Board’s pol­ statement as well as with external icies and instructions as well as their intentions as stated in the and internal rules. The RCC also mon­ Board’s risk tolerance statements. itors the group’s capital and liquidity The Board has adopted an instruction for the President’s duties situation on a continuous basis. Jesper Ovesen and role. The President reports to the Board and at each board Chair of the RCC meeting submits a report on, among other things, the perfor­ Main focus in 2019 • Follow-up of SEB’s capital and liquid­ mance of the business in relation to the decisions made by the ity position in light of the future banking reform packages, the Board. The President appoints the heads of the divisions and business plan and the economic forecast, to ensure adequate the heads of the various staff and support functions that report capitalisation and liquidity position at every point in time directly to the President. • Review of the credit portfolio, focusing on household mortgage market trends, sustainability issues and business sectors in The President’s committees transition, such as energy and retail. The President has three main committees at his disposal for the purpose of managing the operations. The RCC sets the principles and parameters for measuring and allocating risk and capital within the group and oversees risk The Group Executive Committee (GEC) management systems and the risk tolerance and strategy for the To best safeguard the interests of the group as a whole, the Pres­ short and long term. The Committee prepares a recommendation ident consults with the GEC on matters of major importance or for the appointment and dismissal of the CRO. It also decides on of importance as to principles. The GEC addresses, among other individual credit matters of major importance or of importance things, matters of common concern to several divisions, strateas to principles and assists the RemCo in providing a riskand gic issues, sustainability issues, compliance issues, IT, business capital-based view on the remuneration system. The RCC held plans and financial forecasts and reports. The GEC held 39 19 meetings in 2019. meetings in 2019. As of 1 January 2020 the GEC has 12 members The group’s Chief Financial Officer has the overall responsibility apart from the President. The President has also appointed nine for informing and submitting proposals to the RCC on matters managers as additional members of the GEC. They participate in related to capital and funding. The CRO has the same overall GEC meetings from time to time to provide expertise and insight responsibility for risk and credit matters. The President, the Chief primarily in their respective areas of responsibility. Financial Officer and the CRO regularly participate in the meet­ ings. The CRO function is described on p. 72. Information on Asset and Liability Committee (ALCO) risk, liquidity and capital management is provided on p. 52. The ALCO, chaired by the President and with the Chief Financial . Officer as vice chair, is a group-wide decision-making, monitor­ RCC members ing and consultative body. The ALCO, which held 13 meetings in Jesper Ovesen (Chair), Marcus Wallenberg (Vice Chair) and 2019, handles the following matters, among others: Samir Brikho. • financial stability, particularly in the new regulatory framework On the GEC agenda in 2019 • Macroeconomic development • Review and discussion on IT, including investments, securi­ • Annual accounts and quarterly reports ty, agile way of working and cloud services • AGM preparations • Discussion on strategic investments and co-operation with • Review of the bank’s businesses and home markets fintech and digitalisation companies • Follow up of Business Plan 2019–2021 • Discussion on customer satisfaction, branding and image • SEB’s long-term strategy and update of the Business Plan position as well as customer insight work • Development of sustainability • Employee survey 2019 – discussion of survey result and • Update of know-your-customer and anti-money laundering actions • Financial crime prevention program • Investor World update • Discussion on capital requirements, asset quality and risk • Review process for handling of customer complaints • Quarterly reports from Group Compliance, Internal Audit • Annual review of policies and instructions, including SEB’s and Group Risk. Code of Conduct • Review of, and discussion on, the digitalisation work, • Review of competence and leadership development including development and launch of enhanced customer • Workshop on risks functionality as well as internal automation initiatives • Review of the Modern Slavery Act Transparency Statement • Review of outsourced activities • SEB’s commitment to the Principles for Responsible Banking. 68 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Report of the Directors – Corporate governance • strategic capital and liquidity issues, including internal capital branches and subsidiaries, are to be governed and organised. allocation and principles for internal pricing The head or co-heads of a division have overall responsibility for • structural issues and issues related to the bank’s balance the activities in the business areas and appoint, after consultation sheet and business volumes with the President, heads of the business areas within the division. • financing of wholly-owned subsidiaries A Country Manager is appointed for the countries outside • the group’s balance sheet and funding strategy. Sweden in which SEB conducts business operations. The Country Manager co-ordinates the group’s business locally and reports to Group Risk Committee (GRC) a specially designated member of the GEC. The GRC, chaired by the President and with the CRO as vice chair, is a group-wide, decision-making committee that addresses Group Support functions all types of risk at the group level, including sustainability and and Group Staff functions reputational risks, in order to evaluate portfolios, products and Group Support functions and Group Staff functions are customers from a comprehensive risk perspective. The GRC cross-divisional functions established to leverage economies held 67 meetings in 2019. The GRC is tasked with: of scale and support to the business. • making important credit decisions • ensuring that all risks inherent in the group’s activities are The Group Support functions support the SEB group through cen­ identified, measured, monitored and reported in accordance tralised and cross-divisional functions, established primarily to with internal and external rules leverage economies of scale in various transactional, processing • supporting the President in ensuring that decisions regarding and IT services. The Group Support functions are divided in two the group’s long-term risk tolerance are followed in the busi­ units: Group Technology and Business Support & Operations. ness organisation The Group Staff functions are set up to add value and support • ensuring that the Board’s guidelines for risk management and the business, and to manage certain regulated areas such as risk control are implemented and that the necessary rules and finance, human resources and legal. The Group Staff functions policies for risk-taking in the group are maintained and enforced. have global responsibility and support the organisation with services in the areas of financial control, human resources, Divisions and business areas legal affairs, digitalisation & innovation, communication, SEB’s business is organised in divisions with a number of marketing and corporate sustainability. business areas. Each division is responsible for the subsidiaries included in the division. The Board regulates the activities of the group through an instruc­ tion for internal governance which establishes how the group’s divisions, including the international activities conducted through The three lines of defence in risk management The business units make up the first line of defence. The business units ensure that transactions are correctly priced 1 and that the assumed risks are managed throughout the life of the transactions. Long-term customer relationships and a sound risk culture provide a solid foundation for risk-taking decisions. Initial risk assessments are made of both the customer and the proposed transaction. Larger transactions are reviewed by a credit committee. The business units are responsible for ensuring that the activities comply with applicable group-wide policies and instructions and are support­ ed by a clear decision-making hierarchy. The risk and compliance functions make up the second line of defence. These units are independent from the 2 business operations. The risk function is responsible for identifying, measuring, monitoring and reporting risks. Risks are measured both on detailed and aggregated levels. Internal measurement models have been developed for most of the credit portfolio as well as for market and operational risk, and the models have been approved by the Swedish FSA for calculating capital adequacy. Risks are controlled through limits at transactional, desk and portfolio levels. Asset quality and the risk profile are monitored continuously, such as through stress testing. The compliance function works proactively with quality assurance of SEB’s compliance, and focuses on matters such as customer protection, conduct in the financial market, prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism and regulatory requirements and controls. Internal Audit is the third line of defence. Risk management is regularly reviewed and evaluated by Internal Audit to 3 ensure that it is adequate and effective. The internal auditors are in turn evaluated by the external auditor. Based on the evaluations of the third line of defence, the processes in the first and second lines of defence are continuously strength­ ened. SEB’s governance framework, sound risk culture and business acumen constitute the cornerstones of effective risk management. SEB Annual Report 2019 — 69 Report of the Directors – Corporate governance 5 2 3 4 1 6 Group Executive Committee (as per 1 January 2020) 1 Johan 2 Magnus 3 Magnus 4 Jeanette 5 Joachim 6 Nicolas Torgeby Carlsson Agustsson Almberg Alpen Moch Position President and CEO Deputy President & Chief Risk Officer Head of Group Human Executive Vice Chief Information since 2017 CEO since 2014 since 2017 Resources since President. Co-Head of Officer since 2018 2016 the Large Corporates & Financial institutions division since 2017 GEC member since 2014 2005 2017 2016 2014 2020 SEB employee since 2009 1993 2009 2008 2001 2008 Born 1974 1956 1973 1965 1967 1972 Education B.Sc. (Econ.) B.Sc. (Econ.) C.Sc and M.Sc B.Sc. (Econ.) MBA, M.A. (InterM.Sc.(Physics) national relations) Nationality Swedish Swedish Icelandic and Finnish Swedish Swedish Swedish and French Own and closely 312,592 shares and 236,801 shares and 50,319 shares and 111,551 shares 286,001 shares 47,772 shares and related persons’ share rights, of which share rights, of which share rights, of and share rights, of and share rights, of share rights, of which shareholdings 5,826 Class A shares, 54,998 Class A shares, which 8,744 Class A which 10,939 Class A which 6,112 Class A 2,428 Class A shares, 113,627 share 112,032 share rights shares, 14,220 share shares, 23,220 share shares, 128,629 share 12,407 share rights rights and 193,139 and 69,771 conditional rights and 27,355 rights and 77,392 rights and 151,260 and 32,937 conditional conditional share share rights. conditional share conditional share conditional share share rights. rights. rights. rights. rights. Additional members of the Group Executive Committee (as per 1 January 2020) 14 Johan 15 Peter 16 Martin 17 Mark 18 Ausra 19 Marcus Andersson Høltermand Johansson Luscombe Matuseviciené Nystén Position Country Manager Country Manager Senior Advisor Country Manager Head of Operations Country Manager SEB SEB Germany since SEB Denmark since to the CEO since SEB United Kingdom since 2015 Finland since 2010 2016 2002 2020 since 2017 Additional member 2009 2011 2020 2020 2018 2014 since SEB employee since 1980 1997 2005 2010 2002 1998 Born 1957 1963 1962 1969 1973 1960 Education B.Sc. (Econ.) B.Sc. (Econ.) B.Sc. (Econ.) Cand.oecon. (M. MBA M.Sc. (Econ.) Sc. in Finance & Economics) Nationality Swedish Danish Swedish British Lithuanian Finnish Own and closely 52,127 shares and 220,725 shares 253,198 shares 101,391 shares 62,387 shares and 236,189 shares and related persons’ share rights, of which and share rights, of and share rights, of and share rights, of share rights, of which share rights, of which shareholdings 52,105 Class A and which 775 Class A which 236 Class A which 41,821 share 10,229 Class A 119,847 Class A shares, 22 Class C shares. shares, 42,489 share shares, 84,102 share rights and 59,570 shares, 18,511 share 13,824 share rights and rights and 177,461 rights and 168,860 conditional share rights and 33,647 102,518 conditional conditional share conditional share rights. conditional share share rights. rights. rights. rights. 70 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Report of the Directors – Corporate governance 9 10 7 8 12 11 13 7 William 8 Nina 9 Mats 10 Riho 11 Masih 12 Petra 13 Sara Paus Korfu-Pedersen Torstendahl Unt Yazdi Ålund Öhrvall Executive Vice Head of Business Executive Vice Head of Baltic division Chief Financial Officer Head of Group Chief Digital, President. Co-Head Support and President. Head of since 2016. Group (CFO) since 2020 Technology since Customer Experience of Large Corporates & Operations since Corporate & Private AML Senior Manager 2019. Group and Communication Financial Institutions 2020 Customers division since 2018 Outsourcing Senior Officer since 2018 division since 2018 since 2018. Group Manager since 2020 Data Privacy Senior Manager since 2018 2018 2018 2009 2016 2018 2020 2018 1992 2010 2009 2001 2013 2017 2018 1967 1973 1961 1978 1980 1967 1971 M.Sc. (Econ.) Master of Business M.Sc. (Engineering MBA, MA (Public B.Sc. (Econ) M.Sc. Master of Business and Economics Physics) Administration) (Int. Economics) and Economics Norwegian Norwegian Swedish Estonian Swedish Swedish Swedish 210,013 shares and 53,131 shares and 406,115 shares and 102,058 shares and 92,513 shares and 16,438 shares and 11,473 shares and share rights, of which share rights, of share rights, of which share rights, of which share rights, of which share rights, of which share rights, of which 52,900 Class A shares, which 775 Class A 104,218 Class A 1,231 Class A shares, 10,596 Class A 3,592 Class A shares 1,150 Class A shares 11,219 share rights and shares, 20,259 share shares, 102,046 share 15,232 share shares, 33,128 share and 12,846 conditiand 10,323 conditional 145,894 conditional rights and 32,097 rights and 199,851 rights and 85,595 rights and 48,789 onal share rights. share rights. share rights. conditional share conditional share conditional share conditional share rights. rights. rights. rights. 14 15 16 20 Javiera 21 David 22 John Ragnartz Teare Turesson Head of the Head of Life division Country Manager Investment since 2019 SEB Norway Management division since 2018 since 2019 17 18 19 2020 2019 2018 2019 2006 2006 1969 1963 1978 Ph.Lic. (Financial B. Comm. Master of Business economy) and Economics 20 21 22 Swedish Canadian and British Swedish No shares or share 214,275 shares 83,285 shares and rights. and share rights, of share rights, of which which 54,932 Class A 7,248 share rights and shares, 83,428 share 76,037 conditional right and 75,915 share rights. conditional share rights. SEB Annual Report 2019 — 71 Report of the Directors – Corporate governance The CRO function Group Compliance The CRO function is responsible for The Group Compliance function has identifying, measuring, analysing the responsibility to inform, control and controlling SEB’s risks and is and follow up on compliance matters. independent from the business. Group Compliance is independent from The Chief Risk Officer (CRO) is the business organisation. appointed by the Board and reports The Group Compliance function to the President. The CRO keeps the Magnus Agustsson advises the business and management, Gent Jansson Board, the RCC, the ACC, the GEC, the Chief Risk Officer in order to secure that SEB’s business is Head of Group ALCO and the GRC regularly informed carried out in compliance with regulato­ Compliance about risk matters. The CRO has global functional responsibili­ ry requirements, and thereby promot­ ty, and the activities of the CRO are governed by an instruction ing trust from customers, shareholders and the financial markets. adopted by the Board. The CRO function is organised in three Special areas of responsibility are: units: Group Risk, Group Credits and CRO Office. • customer protection The main objective for Group Risk is to ensure that all risks in • conduct in the financial market SEB’s activities are identified, measured, monitored and reported • prevention of money laundering and financing of terrorism in accordance with external and internal rules. They also manage • regulatory requirements and controls. models for risk measurement. CRO Office aggregates and analyses data across risk types and the group’s credit portfolios and The Head of Group Compliance, who is appointed by the Presi­ handles general matters surrounding risk governance and risk dent after approval by the ACC, reports regularly on compliance disclosure. Group Credits is responsible for managing the credit matters to the President, the GEC and the ACC, and annually to approval process, for certain individual credit decisions as well the RCC and the Board. Based on an analysis of the group’s risks as for monitoring compliance with policies set by the RCC and the in this area, the President adopts, after approval by the ACC, an Board. Its activities are regulated by the group’s Credit Instruc­ annual compliance plan. The Instruction for Group Compliance tion, adopted by the Board. The chairs of the respective divisional is adopted by the Board. credit committees have the right to veto credit decisions. Materi­ al exceptions to the group’s Credit Policy must be escalated to a higher level in the decision-making hierarchy. Head of Group Risk and Head of Group Credits are appointed Auditor by the President, upon recommendation by the CRO, and report to the CRO. Born 1965; Lead Audit Partner since For information about risk, liquidity and capital 2019. Authorised Public Accountant, management see p. 52. member of FAR since 1992 and FAR Certified Financial Institution Auditor Group Internal Audit in Sweden. Group Internal Audit is a group-wide Other major assignments: Hamish Mabon control function commissioned by the Skanska, Essity, Husqvarna and SCA Auditor, Ernst & Young Board to independently evaluate the group’s activities. The Head of Group In­ Previous major assignments: ternal Audit is appointed by the Board. Vattenfall, Hexagon, If P&C Insurance The main task of Group Internal Audit is Information about the auditor to evaluate and give assurance to the Björn Rosenkvist According to SEB’s Articles of Association, the bank shall Board and the President that govern­ Head of Group have at least one and not more than two auditors with at ance, risk management and internal Internal Audit most an equal number of deputies. A registered auditing controls are adequate and effective. The firm may also be appointed auditor. work is done with a risk-based approach in accordance with the Ernst & Young AB was elected the bank’s auditor in 2019 Institute of Internal Auditors’ methods. for the period up to and including the 2020 AGM. Each year the ACC adopts a plan for the work of Internal Audit. The fees charged by the auditors for the auditing of the The Head of Internal Audit reports the findings of completed au­ 2018 and 2019 financial statements and for other assigndits, actions taken and the status of previously reported findings ments invoiced during these periods are shown in note 9. to the ACC and also provides reports to the RCC and the Board. The President and GEC are regularly informed about internal audit matters. Group Internal Audit’s work is evaluated in a quali­ ty assessment, at least every fifth year, by an independent party. Group Internal Audit co-ordinates its work covering the bank’s fi­ nancial reporting with the bank’s external auditor. The bank’s ex­ ternal auditor relies to some extent on the work of Group Internal Audit in its assignment to review the group’s financial reporting. This requires that the external auditor evaluates Group Internal Audit’s work. The conclusion of this evaluation is reported to the ACC and Group Internal Audit. 72 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Report of the Directors – Corporate Governance Internal control over financial reporting Internal Control over Financial Reporting (ICFR) is a well-established process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and reduce the risk for misstatements. ICFR is based on the framework established 4 4E rt v alu by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway po Re at e 5 co Commission (COSO) and is applied by SEB in a yearly cycle. ls s n tro on trol tr dc on ol 33 s ec an uat ris k Pl 55 R Perform risk assessment va l i fy an ep o Q4 Q1 1 To identify and understand which risks that are relevant and material for the reporting process, financial results 4E 4 ent 2 Id 2 ICFR is rt an integrated and balance sheets are analysed at SEB group and unit levels. part of daily The outcome is used to determine which units, processes and operations systems are to be covered by the ICFR process in the coming year. 1 P 1 e 4E 4 rfo Q3 Q2 epo rt Identify risks and controls val rm 2 ua k ris 5R People with expertise in the divisions and finance te as se co ssm s department evaluate if existing controls are effective, ol nt ol ent tr n s co r if new risks have been identified and if new controls need to 55 R a te ep alu be implemented to mitigate the identified material risks more ort 44 E v 6 ng effectively. The controls are communicated to involved parties Int ern t te st i a l Au den within the bank in order to clarify expectations and responsibildi t pe rfo r ms in dep en ities. The framework consists of group-wide controls as well as controls covering business processes and IT – such as analysis of the balance sheet and income statement, account reconciliations and controls of system access rights. Plan Report 3 Every year a plan is prepared based on the risk assessments and identified controls. The plan clarifies who is 5 The result of the evaluations of controls are analysed to assess the risk for misstatements in the financial reportresponsible for evaluating the respective controls within each ing. Monitoring reports are submitted on a quarterly basis to the unit, what type of evaluation should be conducted and how the CFO in connection with the quarterly external financial reporting. results are to be reported. At this stage the plan is coordinated Reporting is also done quarterly to Group Internal Audit and yearwith the plans of internal and external audit. ly to the Audit and Compliance Committee (ACC). The consolidated ICFR report includes a description of residual Evaluate controls risk, an assessment of identified control gaps and whether they 4 The controls are evaluated on a continuous basis throughout the year by the control owners through are compensated by other controls as well as progress within the remediation activities. The report contributes to transparency self-assessments. In this way the bank’s weaknesses can be within SEB and enables prioritisation of improvement activities identified, compensating controls can be implemented and based on residual risk. improvements can be made. Furthermore, reporting is done quarterly by financial managers to give an assurance of the Independent testing reported figures from each unit. The evaluation describes material financial reporting risks and comments on material 6 In addition to this process, Group Internal Audit performs independent testing of the ICFR framework. deviations compared with previous quarters. Focus areas 2019 In addition to the ongoing work during 2019, the following • Expansion of the framework of internal controls over supermain areas were in focus within the internal control framevisory reporting (ICSR) in the Baltic countries work: • Design and implementation of a new framework for internal • Continued work on strengthening controls in the financial control over risk reporting (ICRR). closing process and IFRS 9 (ICFR) SEB Annual Report 2019 — 73 Report of the Directors – Corporate Governance Remuneration report SEB aims to attract and retain ambitious employees who are eaBase salary ger to continuously develop, embrace new ways of working and The base salary is the foundation of an employee’s remuneration. contribute to the bank’s long-term success. Remuneration is part It shall be market aligned and reflect the requirements on the of the total offering that enhances SEB’s attractiveness as an emposition and the employee’s long-term performance. SEB conployer. The overall ambition is to promote long-term commitment ducts annual equal pay reviews to identify and close potential to creating sustainable value for customers and shareholders. gaps in terms of gender-neutral pay. The outcome of the review is published internally. Remuneration policy SEB’s remuneration principles and governance structure are Variable remuneration laid out in the Remuneration Policy. The policy stipulates that All variable remuneration is based on SEB’s risk-adjusted perforemployee remuneration shall be aligned with the bank’s strategy, mance and is adapted to applicable rules governing the maxigoals, values and long-term interests and ensure that conflicts of mum share of an employee’s base salary, the deferred portion of interest are avoided. This shall promote value creation, encourremuneration, shares and fund units, and the right to withhold and age high performance and risk-taking that is aligned with the reduce remuneration that has not yet been paid. For Identified Staff, level of risk tolerance set by the Board of Directors, and sound variable remuneration may not exceed 100 per cent of their base and responsible behaviour based on SEB’s values. salary. An employee’s remuneration level shall reflect the complexity, The models for variable remuneration are based on financial responsibility and leadership qualities required of the role as well and non-financial key performance indicators at group, unit as the individual’s own performance. SEB regularly evaluates emand individual level, including an evaluation of the employees’ ployee performance and development based on transparent and conduct. Non-financial goals take into account factors such as individual financial and non-financial goals, among other things. customer satisfaction, compliance and sustainability perforThe policy lays out the principles for identification and remumance related to, for example, the bank’s own environmental neration of employees in positions with a material impact on impact and integration of sustainability into the business model. the group’s risk profile (Identified Staff). This also applies for At the individual level, key parameters include compliance with employees who can impact the risk profiles of mutual funds, rules and policies for risk-taking in the group, SEB’s Code of Conwho provide investment advice, or who have a material impact duct and the requirements on internal controls in the respective on what services and products are offered. In 2019 a total of business area. Performance is evaluated over several years. 984 positions (974) were categorised as Identified Staff. Employees in control functions shall be remunerated in a manCollective profit-sharing ner that is independent from the business areas they oversee, The largest variable remuneration programme is the SEB All that is commensurate with their key roles in the organisation, and Employee Programme 2019 (AEP), which covers essentially all that is based on goals that are compatible with their functions. employees. The programme’s targets are linked to SEB’s business The policy also sets the governance structure for all remuneraplan and consist of the financial targets for return on equity and tion decisions, both in general and at the individual level. All the bank’s cost development, which are also communicated decisions are to be approved at a level corresponding to the externally, and the non-financial target for customer satisfacremuneration-setting managers’ manager (grandfather principle). tion. The outcome for 2019 was determined to be 56.5 per cent (60) of the maximum amount, which in Sweden is SEK 75,000. Remuneration structure The outcome reflects the strong financial results and a positive The bank’s remuneration structure consists mainly of base salary, customer satisfaction development in 2019, but also the increase variable remuneration, and pension and other benefits. in cost level compared with 2018. Staff costs, 2019 SEK m All Employee Programmes (AEP)  20191) 20182) Number of participants 15,300 14,950 Base salary  8,661 Outcome in relation to maximum amount , % 3) 56.5 60 Equity-based programmes 408 Individual cash-based Shares allotted, thousands 3,080 3,200 variable remuneration 376 All Employee Programme 590 Market value per 31 December, SEK m 270 270 Social charges 2,568 Total outcome per participant , SEK 4) 42,500 45,000 Pensions 1,353 Payout year: 1) 2023 2) 2022 3) SEK 75,000 in Sweden 4) in Sweden Other staff costs 703 Total  14,660 Share Deferral and Restricted Share Programmes 2019 2018 Restricted Share Share Deferral Restricted Share Share Deferral Programme Programme Total Programme Programme Total Number of participants 422 877 1,299 439 802 1,241 Shares allotted, thousands 1,505 4,173 5,678 1,450 3,385 4,835 Market value, 31 December, SEK m 133 367 500 125 335 460 74 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Report of the Directors – Corporate Governance Remuneration in SEB in 2019 SEK thousands Cash-based Expensed amount Base variable equity based salary remuneration programmes Benefits Total Pensions President and CEO Johan Torgeby1) 12,000 3,138 373 15,511 3,912 Other ordinary members of the GEC2) 56,439 16,292 1,713 74,444 16,878 Total 68,439 0 19,430 2,086 89,955 20,790 SEB excluding GEC 8,592,788 724,833 629,618 60,749 10,007,989 1,332,705 SEB Total 8,661,227 724,833 649,048 62,835 10,097,944 1,353,495 1) Johan Torgeby did not exercise any share rights in 2019. 2) The number of members may differ somewhat during the year. At the end of the year the number of members was eleven. In 2019, Other ordinary members of GEC exercised rights to a value of SEK 1,960,501 Individual variable remuneration with a cash component, but only in cases where it entails low or Senior managers, other key employees and employees in certain no residual risk for SEB. Variable remuneration above a certain business units where it is standard market practice, are offered level is always partly deferred and revocable. In 2019, cashindividual variable remuneration. The ambition is that a large part based variable remuneration accounted for 3 per cent (3) of of the remuneration is deferred and paid out in SEB shares. EquiSEB’s total staff costs. ty-based remuneration is a mean to attract and retain employees with key competence. It also provides an incentive for employees Remuneration of the President to be shareholders of SEB which promotes long-term commitand members of the Group Executive Committee ment that is aligned with the shareholders’ interests. In addition, Remuneration of the President and members of the Group Execfinancial industry regulations require that a portion of variable utive Committee (GEC) shall be in line with the guidelines set by remuneration be paid out in the form of shares or fund units. the Annual General Meeting (AGM) and consists of base salary, SEB has two separate individual equity-based programmes – equity-based remuneration (the SEB Share Deferral Programme, the SEB Share Deferral Programme 2019 (SDP) for members of SDP), and pension and other benefits. No cash-based variable the Group Executive Committee, certain other senior managers remuneration is paid to members of the GEC, nor are they eligible and a number of other key employees, and the SEB Restricted for the SEB All Employee Programme. Share Programme 2019 (RSP), for employees in certain business The pension plans are defined-contribution solutions, with units. For regulatory reasons, the latter programme also exists the exception of a defined-benefit component provided under in a form were the outcome is linked to the performance of collective agreements. mutual funds. Both programmes include scope for risk adjustFor termination of employment initiated by the bank, a maximent for current and future risks. The final outcome may theremum of 12 months’ severance pay is payable, after the agreed fore subsequently be reduced or cancelled entirely in accordnotice period of maximum 12 months. SEB has the right to deduct ance with applicable rules, such as taking into account the bank’s income earned from other employment from any severance pay. earnings and the capital and liquidity required for its operations. For information about SEB’s remuneration structure, see note 8 Almost 10 per cent of employees are offered individual variable and the AGM information on sebgroup.com. remuneration. Approximately 7 per cent of the employees – such as those in investment banking – receive variable remuneration Governance model for remuneration at SEB Remuneration policy based on a risk analysis perThese guidelines are evaluthe RemCo. RemCo obtains and annual evaluation formed by Group Risk, Group ated on a continuous basis information from the Head of of SEB’s remuneration Compliance and Group HR. throughout the year by the Group Human Resources, the structure RemCo. Prior to each AGM, Head of Group Internal Audit The Remuneration Policy is SEB’s equity-based the bank’s external auditor isand the external auditor, and revised and adopted annually programmes sues a statement to the Board for the GEC members, also by the Board of Directors The Annual General Meeting assuring that SEB has adhered from the President. based on an evaluation and adopts the equity-based to the guidelines adopted by In addition, external recommendation by the programmes based on the previous year’s AGM. remuneration analyses are Remuneration and Human ReRemCo’s annual proposal. performed yearly of relesources Committee (RemCo). Remuneration of the vant sectors and markets. The remuneration structure Guidelines for remuneraPresident and members The internal and external is reviewed by the Risk and tion of the President and of the GEC information constitute a key Capital Committee (RCC) to members of the GEC The Board of Directors decomponent for ensuring that verify that it takes into account The guidelines for remunercides on the remuneration of remuneration is competitive SEB’s risks, long-term earnings ation of the President and the President and members and aligned with the market. capacity and cost of liquidity members of the GEC are of the GEC, based on evaluaFor information on RemCo, and capital. The review is adopted by the AGM. tion and recommendation by see p. 67. SEB Annual Report 2019 — 75 Financial ­statements Contents Note Page Note Page THE SEB GROUP Balance sheet Income Statement 77 17 Cash and cash balances at central banks 117 Statement of comprehensive income 78 18 Loans 117 Balance sheet 79 19 Debt securities 124 Statement of changes in equity 80 20 Equity instruments 125 Cash flow statement 81 21 Derivatives and hedge accounting 125 22 Investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 131 PARENT COMPANY 23 Intangible assets 133 Income Statement 82 24 Properties and equipment 134 Statement of c­ omprehensive income 82 25 Other assets 134 Balance sheet 83 26 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 135 Statement of changes in equity 84 27 Deposits 135 Cash flow statement 85 28 Liabilities to policyholders 135 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 29 Debt securities issued 136 Corporate information 86 30 Short positions 136 1 Accounting policies 86 31 Other liabilities 136 2 Operating segments 95 32 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 136 3 Geographical information 97 33 Provisions 137 Income statement 34 Subordinated liabilities 137 4 Net interest income 98 35 Untaxed reserves 138 5 Net fee and commission income 99 36 Fair value measurement of assets and liabilities 138 6 Net financial income 100 37 Financial assets and liabilities by class 142 7 Net other income 101 38 Assets and liabilities distributed by main currencies 144 8 Staff costs 102 39 Current and non-current assets and liabilities 145 8a Remuneration 102 Other notes 8b Pensions 105 40 Risk disclosures 145 8c Remuneration to the Board and 40 a Credit risk 146 the Group Executive Committee 108 40 b Market risk 150 8d Share-based payments 110 40 c Operational risk 152 8e Number of employees 112 40 d Business risk 152 9 Other expenses 113 40 e Insurance risk 152 10 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of tangible and intangible assets 113 40 f Liquidity risk 153 11 Gains less losses from tangible and intangible assets 113 41 Capital adequacy 158 12 Net expected credit losses 114 42 Life insurance operations 161 13 Items affecting comparability 114 43 Assets in unit-linked operations 162 14 Appropriations 114 44 Interest in unconsolidated structured entities 162 15 Taxes 115 45 Related parties 163 16 Earnings per share 116 46 Financial assets and liabilities subject to offsetting or netting arrangements 164 47 Pledged assets 165 48 Obligations 166 49 Leases 167 50 Events after the balance sheet date 169 The SEB Group – Five year summary 170 Parent company – Five year summary 171 76 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Financial statements – Income Statement Income Statement SEB Group SEK m Note 2019 2018 Interest income1) 41,722 39,299 Interest expense2) –18,772 –18,277 Net interest income 4 22,950 21,022 Fee and commission income 24,176 24,018 Fee and commission expense –5,467 –5,654 Net fee and commission income 5 18,709 18,364 Net financial income 6 7,617 6,079 Dividends 3 73 Profit and loss from investments in associates and joint ventures 125 152 Gains less losses from investment securities 173 –244 Other operating income 558 421 Net other income 7 858 402 Total operating income 50,134 45,868 Staff costs 8 –14,660 –14,004 Other expenses 9 –6,623 –7,201 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of tangible and intangible assets 10 –1,662 –735 Total operating expenses –22,945 –21,940 Profit before credit losses 27,190 23,928 Gains less losses from tangible and intangible assets 11 –2 18 Net expected credit losses 12 –2,294 –1,166 Operating profit before items affecting comparability 24,894 22,779 Items affecting comparability 13 4,506 Operating profit 24,894 27,285 Income tax expense 15 –4,717 –4,152 NET PROFIT 20,177 23,134 1) Of which interest income calculated using the effective interest method SEK 35,217m (32,907). 2) Of which interest expense calculated using the effective interest method SEK 20,828m (18,602). Attributable to shareholders 20,177 23,134 Basic earnings per share, SEK 16 9.33 10.69 Diluted earnings per share, SEK 16 9.28 10.63 SEB Annual Report 2019 — 77 Financial statements – Statement of comprehensive income Statement of comprehensive income SEB Group SEK m 2019 2018 NET PROFIT 20,177 23,134 Valuation gains (losses) during the year –385 –1,118 Income tax on valuation gains (losses) during the year 87 249 Transferred to profit or loss for the year1) –13 Income tax on transfers to profit or loss for the year 3 Cash flow hedges –298 –880 Translation of foreign operations 23 232 Taxes on translation effects 122 350 Translation of foreign operations 145 582 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss –153 –298 Own credit risk adjustment (OCA), net of tax2) –53 221 Remeasurement of pension obligations, including special salary tax –5,665 –981 Valuation gains (losses) on plan assets during the year 7,062 –59 Deferred tax on pensions –32 194 Defined benefit plans 1,366 –846 Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss 1,313 –625 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 1,160 –923 TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 21,336 22,211 1) Net interest income. 2) Own credit risk adjustment from financial liabilities FVTPL. Attributable to shareholders 21,336 22,211 The method used to hedge currency risks related to investments in foreign subcurrency revaluation of the foreign operations. In the group this tax effect is sidiaries creates a tax expense (tax income) in the parent company. Fair value reported in Other comprehensive income. changes on the hedging instruments impact the taxable result contrary to the 78 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Financial statements – Balance sheet Balance sheet SEB Group SEK m Note 31 Dec 2019 1 Jan 20191) 31 Dec 2018 Cash and cash balances at central banks 17 146,691 209,115 209,115 Loans to central banks 18 4,494 33,294 33,294 Loans to credit institutions 18 46,995 44,287 44,287 Loans to the public 18 1,837,605 1,644,825 1,644,825 Debt securities 19 238,578 156,128 156,128 Equity instruments 20 78,482 50,434 50,434 Financial assets for which the customers bear the investment risk 316,776 269,613 269,613 Derivatives 21 139,427 115,463 115,463 Fair value changes of hedged items in a portfolio hedge of interest rate risk 67 67 Investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 22 997 1,195 1,195 Intangible assets 23 8,186 8,157 8,157 Properties and equipment 24 1,368 1,300 1,300 Right-of-use assets 49 5,288 5,747 Current tax assets 15 6,549 6,404 6,404 Deferred tax assets 15 259 302 251 Retirement benefit assets 8b 5,545 4,104 4,104 Other assets 25 17,171 20,550 20,409 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 26 2,235 2,471 2,471 TOTAL ASSETS 2,856,648 2,573,455 2,567,516 Deposits from central banks and credit institutions 27 88,041 135,719 135,719 Deposits and borrowing from the public 27 1,161,485 1,111,390 1,111,390 Financial liabilities for which the customers bear the investment risk 28 317,574 270,556 270,556 Liabilities to policyholders 28 26,547 21,846 21,846 Debt securities issued 29 858,173 680,670 680,670 Short positions 30 27,343 23,144 23,144 Derivatives 21 122,192 96,872 96,872 Other financial liabilities 2,449 3,613 3,613 Fair value changes of hedged items in a portfolio hedge 420 22 22 Current tax liabilities 15 1,764 1,734 1,734 Deferred tax liabilities 15 7,117 7,141 7,141 Other liabilities 31 36,389 30,300 23,995 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 32 5,360 5,260 5,260 Provisions 33 1,095 1,695 1,817 Retirement benefit liabilites 8b 359 427 427 Subordinated liabilities 34 44,639 34,521 34,521 Total liabilities 2,700,947 2,424,910 2,418,727 Share capital 21,942 21,942 21,942 Other reserves 3,404 2,244 2,244 Retained earnings 130,355 124,360 124,604 Shareholders' equity 155,700 148,545 148,789 Total equity 155,700 148,545 148,789 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 2,856,648 2,573,455 2,567,516 1) IFRS 16 Leases is applied from 1 January 2019. For transition disclosures, see note 49 Leases. SEB Annual Report 2019 — 79 Financial statements – Statement of changes in equity Statement of changes in equity SEB Group SEK m Other reserves Available-­ for-sale Translation Defined Share ­financial Cash flow of foreign benefit Retained 2019 c­ apital3) ­assets OCA 6) hedges operations plans earnings Total equity4) Opening balance 21,942 –286 313 –315 2,533 124,604 148,789 Effect of applying IFRS 165) –244 –244 Restated balance at 1 January 2019 21,942 –286 313 –315 2,533 124,360 148,545 Net profit 20,177 20,177 Other comprehensive income (net of tax) –53 –298 145 1,366 1,160 Total comprehensive income –53 –298 145 1,366 20,177 21,336 Dividend to shareholders1) –14,069 –14,069 Equity-based programmes2) –136 –136 Change in holding of own shares 24 24 CLOSING BALANCE 21,942 –339 15 –170 3,898 130,355 155,700 2018 Opening balance 21,942 729 1,192 –897 3,379 114,893 141,237 Effect of applying IFRS 9 –729 –507 –1,160 –2,396 Restated balance at 1 January 2018 21,942 –507 1,192 –897 3,379 113,732 138,841 Net profit 23,134 23,134 Other comprehensive income (net of tax) 221 –880 582 –846 –923 Total comprehensive income 221 –880 582 –846 23,134 22,211 Dividend to shareholders1) –12,459 –12,459 Equity-based programmes2) –111 –111 Change in holding of own shares 307 307 CLOSING BALANCE 21,942 –286 313 –315 2,533 124,604 148,789 1) Dividend paid in 2019 for 2018 was SEK 6.50 (5.75) per Class A share and SEK 6.50 (5.75) per Class C share. Proposed dividend for 2019 is SEK 6.25 Further information can be found on page 45. Dividend to shareholders is reported excluding dividend on own shares. 2) As of 31 December 2017 SEB owned 27.1 million Class A shares for the long-term incentive programmes. In 2018 3.8 million Class A shares were sold as stock options were exercised. During 2018, SEB also repurchased 6.9 million Class A shares. As of 31 December 2018 SEB owned 30.3 million Class A shares with a market value of SEK 2,607m. Another 7.4 million Class A shares have been sold during 2019 as stock options were exercised. During 2019, SEB repurchased 8.7 million Class A shares. As of 31 December 2019 SEB owned 31.5 million Class A shares with a market value of SEK 2,774m. 3) 2,170,019,294 Class A shares (2,170,019,294); 24,152,508 Class C shares (24,152,508), both classes with a nominal value of SEK 10 per share. 4) Information about capital requirements can be found in note 41 Capital adequacy. 5) IFRS 16 Leases applied from 1 January 2019. For transition disclosures, see note 49. 6) Own credit risk adjustment from financial liabilities FVTPL. 80 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Financial statements – Cash flow statement Cash flow statement SEB Group SEK m 2019 2018 Interest received 41,332 38,648 Interest paid –19,592 –19,113 Commission received 24,176 24,018 Commission paid –5,467 –5,654 Net received from financial transactions –4,211 3,997 Other income 776 –231 Paid expenses –28,178 –16,868 Taxes paid –4,833 –5,029 Cash flow from the income statement 4,002 19,768 Increase (–)/decrease (+) in portfolios –100,712 5,795 Increase (+)/decrease (–) in issued securities 179,214 69,447 Increase (–)/decrease (+) in lending to credit institutions and central banks 28,252 –23,059 Increase (–)/decrease (+) in lending to the public –196,648 –155,341 Increase (+)/decrease (–) in liabilities to credit institutions –47,595 40,391 Increase (+)/decrease (–) in deposits and borrowings from the public 50,396 79,507 Increase (–)/decrease (+) in insurance portfolios –145 72 Change in other assets 2,694 –11,916 Change in other liabilities 19,029 3,597 Cash flow from operating activities –61,513 28,259 Sales of shares and bonds 260 115 Sales of intangible and tangible fixed assets 5 6 Dividends received 3 73 Investments/divestments in subsidiaries 7,717 Investments/divestments in shares and bonds 198 119 Investments in intangible and tangible assets –1,079 –1,016 Cash flow from investing activities –612 7,014 Issue of subordinated liabilities 8,842 Dividend paid –14,069 –12,459 Cash flow from financing activities –5,227 –12,459 NET CHANGE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS –67,352 22,814 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 219,579 184,429 Exchange rate differences on cash and cash equivalents 7,108 12,336 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents –67,352 22,814 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF PERIOD1) 2) 159,335 219,579 1) Cash and cash equivalents Cash 2,507 2,249 Cash balances at central banks 144,185 206,866 On demand deposits with credit institutions 12,643 10,464 TOTAL 159,334 219,579 2) Of which SEK 6,337m (4,729) not available for use by the Group due to local central bank regulations. Cash outflow from leasing, where SEB is lessee, amounts to SEK 933m. Reconciliation of liabilities from financing activities Opening balance 34,521 32,390 Cash flows 8,842 Non-cash flow, currency exchange 939 2,145 Non-cash flow, fair value changes 263 –32 Non-cash flow, interest accruals 74 18 TOTAL LIABILITIES FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES 44,639 34,521 SEB Annual Report 2019 — 81 Financial statements – Income Statement – Statement of comprehensive income Income Statement Parent company SEK m Note 2019 2018 Interest income1) 34,826 32,548 Leasing income 5,792 5,656 Interest expense1) –17,217 –16,344 Net interest income 4 23,402 21,860 Dividends received 5,168 9,130 Fee and commission income 13,544 13,281 Fee and commission expense –3,083 –3,218 Net fee and commission income 5 10,461 10,064 Net financial income 6 5,838 4,574 Other income 7 1,762 1,770 Total operating income 46,631 47,398 Staff costs 8 –10,684 –9,902 Other expenses 9 –5,660 –5,361 Administrative expenses –16,345 –15,263 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of tangible and intangible assets 10 –5,749 –5,512 Total operating expenses –22,094 –20,775 Profit before credit losses 24,537 26,623 Net expected credit losses 12 –2,044 –1,020 Impairment of financial assets –741 –2,928 Operating profit 21,752 22,675 Appropriations 14 2,694 2,716 Income tax expense 15 –4,189 –3,789 Other taxes 15 48 118 NET PROFIT 20,305 21,720 1) The presentation between Interest Income and Interest Expense of financing costs has been aligned with the group presentation. The movement amounted to SEK 5,523m for 2018. Statement of c­ omprehensive income Parent company SEK m 2019 2018 NET PROFIT 20,305 21,720 Valuation gains (losses) during the year –385 –1,118 Income tax on valuation gains (losses) during the year 87 249 Transferred to profit or loss for the year1) –13 Income tax on transfers to profit or loss for the year 2 Cash flow hedges –298 –880 Translation of foreign operations 33 –11 Translation of foreign operations 33 –11 Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss –265 –891 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME –265 –891 TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 20,040 20,829 1) Net interest income. The method used to hedge currency risks related to investments in foreign subcurrency revaluation of the foreign operations. In the group this tax effect is sidiaries creates a tax expense (tax income) in the parent company. Fair value reported in Other comprehensive income. changes on the hedging instruments impact the taxable result contrary to the 82 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Financial statements – Balance sheet Balance sheet Parent company SEK m Note 31 Dec 2019 31 Dec 2018 Cash and cash balances at central banks 17 110,104 164,081 Loans to central banks 18 2,904 29,665 Loans to credit institutions 18 89,546 90,668 Loans to the public 18 1,601,243 1,410,687 Debt securities 19 211,417 119,227 Equity instruments 20 61,802 36,993 Derivatives 21 135,713 113,282 Fair value changes of hedged items in a portfolio hedge of interest rate risk 38 Investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 22 50,633 51,600 Intangible assets 23 1,875 1,776 Properties and equipment 24 30,224 34,009 Current tax assets 15 2,998 2,813 Deferred tax assets 15 3 Other assets 25 17,807 21,065 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 26 2,404 2,371 TOTAL ASSETS 2,318,672 2,078,275 Deposits from central banks and credit institutions 27 126,891 160,022 Deposits and borrowing from the public 27 973,834 927,224 Debt securities issued 29 857,968 680,396 Short positions 30 27,343 23,144 Derivatives 21 119,511 95,269 Other financial liabilities 2,449 3,613 Current tax liabilities 15 717 655 Deferred tax liabilities 15 0 85 Other liabilities 31 24,035 16,543 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 32 2,917 2,871 Provisions 33 407 385 Subordinated liabilities 34 44,189 34,521 Total liabilities 2,180,262 1,944,725 Untaxed reserves 35 19,875 20,855 Share capital 21,942 21,942 Statutory reserve 12,260 12,260 Development cost reserve 1,391 1,039 Fair value reserve –259 5 Retained earnings 62,896 55,729 Net profit 20,305 21,720 Total equity 118,535 112,695 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 2,318,672 2,078,275 SEB Annual Report 2019 — 83 Financial statements – Statement of changes in equity Statement of changes in equity Parent company SEK m Restricted equity Non-restricted equity4) DevelopAvailableCash Translation Share Statutory ment cost for-sale flow of foreign Retained Total 2019 capital3) reserve reserve financial assets5) hedges5) operations5) earnings ­Equity Opening balance 21,942 12,260 1,039 313 –308 77,449 112,695 Net profit 20,305 20,305 Other comprehensive income (net of tax) –298 33 –265 Total comprehensive income –298 33 20,305 20,040 Dividend to shareholders 1) –14,069 –14,069 Equity-based programmes2) –185 –185 Change in holding of own shares 24 24 Other changes 352 –321 31 CLOSING BALANCE 21,942 12,260 1,391 15 –274 83,202 118,535 2018 Opening balance 21,942 12,260 1,166 580 1,193 –295 67,917 104,762 Effect of applying IFRS 9 –580 22 –558 Restated balance at 1 January 2018 21,942 12,260 1,166 1,193 –295 67,939 104,204 Net profit 21,720 21,720 Other comprehensive income (net of tax) –880 –11 –891 Total comprehensive income –880 –11 21,720 20,829 Dividend to shareholders1) –12,459 –12,459 Equity-based programmes2) –185 –185 Change in holding of own shares 307 307 Other changes –127 125 –2 CLOSING BALANCE 21,942 12,260 1,039 313 –308 77,449 112,695 1) Dividend paid in 2019 for 2018 was SEK 6.50 (5.75) per Class A share and SEK 6.50 (5.75) per Class C share. Proposed dividend for 2019 is SEK 6.25 Further information can be found on page 45. Dividend to shareholders is reported excluding dividend on own shares. 2) As of 31 December 2017 SEB owned 27.1 million Class A shares for the long-term incentive programmes. In 2018 3.8 million Class A shares were sold as stock options were exercised. During 2018, SEB also repurchased 6.9 million Class A shares. As of 31 December 2018 SEB owned 30.3 million Class A shares with a market value of SEK 2,607m. Another 7.4 million Class A shares have been sold during 2019 as stock options were exercised. During 2019, SEB repurchased 8.7 million Class A shares. As of 31 December 2019 SEB owned 31.5 million Class A shares with a market value of SEK 2,774m. 3) 2,170,019,294 Class A shares (2,170,019,294); 24,152,508 Class C shares (24,152,508), both classes with a nominal value of SEK 10 per share. 4) The closing balance is equivalent to Distributable items according to Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 (CRR). 5) Fair value fund. 84 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Financial statements – Cash flow statement Cash flow statement Parent company SEK m 2019 2018 Interest received 43,714 38,795 Interest paid –21,460 –18,154 Commission received 13,295 13,033 Commission paid –2,798 –2,979 Net received from financial transactions –2,391 8,221 Other income –618 –3,221 Paid expenses –20,413 –14,519 Taxes paid –3,679 –3,619 Cash flow from the profit and loss statement 5,652 17,556 Increase (–)/decrease (+) in trading portfolios –108,659 –2,720 Increase (+)/decrease (–) in issued securities 178,988 72,913 Increase (–)/decrease (+) in lending to credit institutions 31,940 71,941 Increase (–)/decrease (+) in lending to the public –190,240 –195,121 Increase (+)/decrease (–) in liabilities to credit institutions –33,057 25,444 Increase (+)/decrease (–) in deposits and borrowings from the public 46,591 77,719 Change in other assets –1,613 –5,876 Change in other liabilities 14,283 –2,997 Cash flow from operating activities –56,115 58,859 Dividends received 5,046 9,127 Investments/divestments in shares and bonds 1,503 1,030 Investments in intangible and tangible assets –826 –855 Cash flow from investment activities 5,723 9,302 Issue of subordinated liabilities 8,688 Dividend paid –14,069 –12,459 Cash flow from financing activities –5,382 –12,459 NET CHANGE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS –55,773 55,701 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 187,701 126,287 Exchange rate differences on cash and cash equivalents 3,669 5,713 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents –55,773 55,701 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF PERIOD 1) 2) 135,598 187,701 1) Cash and cash equivalents Cash 65 155 Cash balances at central banks 110,039 163,925 On demand deposits with credit institutions 25,494 23,621 TOTAL 135,598 187,701 2) Of which SEK 4,235m (2,850) not available for use by the parent company due to local central bank regulations. Reconciliation of liabilities from financing activities Opening balance 34,521 32,390 Cash flows 8,688 Non-cash flow, currency exchange 643 2,145 Non-cash flow, fair value changes 263 –32 Non-cash flow, interest accruals 74 18 TOTAL LIABILITIES FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES 44,189 34,521 SEB Annual Report 2019 — 85 Financial statements – Notes Notes to the financial statements SEK m, unless otherwise stated. Corporate information The SEB Group provides corporate, retail, investment and private banking serThe parent company is included in the Large Cap segment of the NASDAQ vices. The group also provides asset management and life insurance services. Stockholm stock exchange. Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB (publ) is the parent company of the The consolidated accounts for the financial year 2019 were approved for group. The parent company is a Swedish limited liability company with its regispublication by the Board of Directors on 18 February and will be presented for tered office in Stockholm, Sweden. adoption at the 2020 Annual General Meeting. Exchange rates used for converting main currencies in the group Consolidation Income Statement Balance sheet 2019 2018 Change, % 2019 2018 Change, % DKK 1.418 1.376 3 1.398 1.374 2 EUR 10.589 10.257 3 10.446 10.263 2 NOK 1.075 1.069 1 1.061 1.029 3 USD 9.460 8.692 9 9.324 8.971 4 1 Accounting policies Significant accounting policies for the group the assessment whether to consolidate SPEs and any entities where there is not immediately clear where control rests, an analysis is made to identify which STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE party has power over the activities which most affects the returns of the entity The group’s consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with and if that party is significantly exposed or have significant rights to the returns the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and interpretations of from that entity. these standards as adopted by the EU. The accounting also follows the Annual The financial statements of the parent company and the consolidated subAccounts Act for Credit Institutions and Securities Companies (1995:1559) and sidiaries refer to the same period and have been drawn up according to the the regulation and general guidelines issued by the Swedish Financial Superviaccounting policies applicable to the group. A subsidiary is included in the consory Authority, Annual Reports in Credit Institutions and Securities Companies solidated accounts from the time of acquisition, being the date when the parent (FFFS 2008:25). In addition to this the Supplementary Accounting Rules for company gains control over the subsidiary. The subsidiary is included in the conGroups RFR 1 and the additional UFR statements issued by the Swedish Finansolidated accounts until the date when control over the company ceases to exist. cial Reporting Board have been applied. The consolidated accounts are prepared in accordance with the acquisition method. The acquisition value is measured as the fair value of the assets given, BASIS OF PREPARATION equity instruments issued and liabilities incurred or assumed. The consolidated accounts are based on amortised cost, except for the fair The identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities and contingent liabilities value measurement of financial assets at fair value through other comprehenassumed in a business combination are measured initially at their fair values on sive income, financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value through profit acquisition date, irrespective of any minority interest. The excess of the considor loss including derivatives and investment properties measured at fair value. eration transferred for the acquisition over the fair value of the group’s share of The carrying amount of financial assets and liabilities subject to hedge accountthe identifiable acquired net assets is recorded as goodwill. If the consideration ing at fair value has been adjusted for changes in fair value attributable to the transferred is less than the fair value of the net assets of the acquired subsidihedged risk. The financial statements are presented in million Swedish kronor ary, the difference is recognised directly against profit or loss. (SEKm) unless indicated otherwise. Goodwill is allocated between the cash-generating units or groups of units which are expected to generate cash flows. The cash-generating units to which CONSOLIDATION goodwill is allocated correspond to the lowest level within the group in which Subsidiaries goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes. The consolidated accounts combine the financial statements of the parent comIntra-group transactions, balance sheet items and unrealised gains and pany and its subsidiaries. Subsidiaries are companies, over which the group has losses on transactions between group companies are eliminated. The minority control. The group controls an entity when it has power over an investee, is interest of the profit or loss in subsidiaries is included in the reported net profit exposed to, or has rights to, variable returns from its involvement and has the in the consolidated income statement, while the minority share of net assets is ability to use its power to affect the amount of the returns. Control is deemed to included in equity in the consolidated balance sheet. exist when the parent company holds, directly or indirectly, more than 50 per cent of the voting rights, unless there is evidence that another investor has the Associated companies and joint ventures practical ability to unilaterally direct the relevant activities of the entity. CompaThe consolidated accounts also include associated companies and joint vennies in which the parent company or its subsidiaries hold more than 50 per cent tures that are companies in which the group has significant influence or joint of the votes, but are unable to exercise control due to contractual or legal reacontrol, but not sole control. Significant influence means that the group can parsons, are not included in the consolidated accounts. The group also assesses if ticipate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the company, whilst control exists when it holds less than 50 per cent of the voting rights. This may not determining or controlling such financial and operating policies. A signifiarise if the group has contractual arrangements with other vote holders. The cant influence is generally deemed to exist if the group, directly or indirectly, size and dispersion of holdings of other vote holders may also indicate that the holds between 20 and 50 per cent of the voting rights of an entity. A joint vengroup has the practical ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee. ture is an arrangement in which the group has joint control, whereby the group When voting rights are not relevant in deciding who has power over an entity, has rights to the net assets of the arrangement rather than rights to its assets such as interests in some funds or special purpose entities (SPE), all facts and and obligations for its liabilities. circumstances are considered in determining if the group controls the entity. In According to the main principle, associated companies and joint ventures are 86 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Financial statements – Notes consolidated in accordance with the equity method. This means that the holding Debt instruments (Loans and debt securities) is initially reported at its acquisition cost. Associated companies and joint venThe classification is based on a combination of assessing the business model for tures are subsequently carried at a value that corresponds to the group’s share managing the financial assets and whether the contractual cash flow characof the net assets. However, the group has chosen to designate investments in teristics consist of solely payments of principal and interest (‘SPPI’). The busiassociates held by the group’s venture capital organisation at fair value through ness model assessment is performed for homogenous portfolios identified profit or loss on the basis that these are managed and evaluated based on fair based on how the business is managed in the divisions of the group. The assessvalue. ment is based on reasonable scenarios taking into consideration how the portfolio is evaluated and reported to management; the risks affecting the perforSEGMENT REPORTING mance of the portfolio and how these risks are managed; how managers are An operating segment is identified on the basis of internal reports about compocompensated; and the frequency, value and timing of sales including the reanents of the group that are regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision sons for the sales. In determining if the cash flows consist solely of principal and maker in order to allocate resources to the segments and to assess their perforinterest, the principal is defined as the fair value of the debt instrument at initial mance. The business divisions are identified as separate operating segments, recognition, which can change over the life if there are repayments or capitaliconsidering size and regulatory environment. Investment Management & Group sation of interest. Interest cash flows are consistent with components per a functions consists of Investment Management, business support, treasury, staff basic lending arrangement including consideration for time value of money, units and German run-off operations. In the context of defining the segments credit risk, liquidity risk as well as administrative costs and profit margin. If the President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) is the group’s chief operating there are contractual features introducing an exposure to other risks or volatildecision maker. ity, it is not considered to consist of solely payments of principal and interest. Debt instruments are presented in the balance sheet items; Cash and cash balFOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION ances at central banks, Loans to credit institutions, Loans to the public and Debt Foreign currency transactions are translated into the appropriate functional securities, and include instruments in the following measurement categories. currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transactions. Fair value through profit or loss: Debt instruments are classified in this cateOn subsequent balance sheet dates monetary items in foreign currency are gory if not meeting the criteria for amortised cost or fair value through other translated using the closing rate. Non-monetary items, which are measured in comprehensive income. This is the case if the business model is held for trading; terms of historical cost in foreign currency, are translated using the exchange where financial assets are considered held for trading if they are held with the rate on the date of the transaction. Non-monetary items, which are measured intention to be sold in the short-term and for the purpose of generating profits. at fair value in a foreign currency, are translated applying the exchange rate on Debt instruments are mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss the date on which the fair value is determined. if the assets are managed and evaluated on a fair value basis or the assets are Gains and losses arising as a result of exchange rate differences on settleheld with an intention to sell alternatively if the cash flows do not consist of ment or translation of monetary items are recognised in profit or loss. Translasolely payments of principal and interest. Debt instruments that would othertion differences on non-monetary items, classified as financial assets or finanwise be classified as fair value through other comprehensive income or amorcial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, are included in the change in tised cost are also included in this category if, upon initial recognition, desigfair value of those items. Translation differences from non-monetary items, e.g. nated at fair value through profit or loss (fair value option). The fair value option financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income, are recogcan be applied only in situations where such designation reduces measurement nised in other comprehensive income. Exchange rate differences referring to inconsistencies. monetary items comprising part of a net investment in a foreign operation are Fair value through other comprehensive income: Debt instruments are classireported in other comprehensive income. fied in this category if both of the following criteria are met (a) the business The income statements and balance sheets of group entities, with a funcmodel objective is to both hold assets to collect contractual cash flows and to tional currency other than the group’s presentation currency, are translated to sell the assets (b) the contractual cash flow characteristics consist of solely SEK in the consolidated accounts. Assets and liabilities in foreign group entities payments of principal and interest. The assets are measured at fair value and are translated at the closing rate and income and expenses in the income stategains and losses arising from changes in fair value are reported in other comprement are translated at the average exchange rate for the year. The exchange hensive income and accumulated in equity. The cumulative gain or loss is reclasrate differences are recognised as a separate component of other comprehensified from equity to profit or loss upon derecognition of the debt instrument. sive income. Interest calculated by applying the effective interest method on interest-bearGoodwill arising in conjunction with acquisitions of foreign group entities, as ing financial assets and expected credit losses are recognised in profit or loss. well as adjustments to the fair value of assets and liabilities made in conjunction Amortised cost: Debt instruments are classified in this category if both of the with acquisitions are included in the assets and liabilities of the foreign entity in following criteria are met (a) the business model objective is to hold assets to question and are translated at the closing rate. collect contractual cash flows and (b) the contractual cash flow characteristics consist of solely payments of principal and interest. The gross carrying amount FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES of these assets is measured using the effective interest method and adjusted Financial assets are recognised on the balance sheet when the group becomes for expected credit losses. a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument and are measured at fair value on initial recognition. Transaction costs are included in the fair value on Equity instruments initial recognition except for financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Equity instruments are classified as financial assets at fair value through profit where transaction costs are expensed in profit or loss. Financial assets are or loss. An irrevocable election can be made on initial recognition to classify derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows have expired, the group has equity instruments (not held for trading) at fair value through other comprehentransferred substantially all risks and rewards and upon substantial modificasive income. This election has not been applied in the group. tion. Transfers of financial assets with retention of all or substantially all risks and rewards include for example repurchase transactions and securities lendDerivatives ing transactions. Financial assets at fair value are recognised on the balance Derivatives are classified as fair value through profit or loss (held for trading) sheet on trade date, with exception of loans and reversed repos which are recunless designated as hedging instruments. If designated as hedging instruognised on settlement date. Financial assets measured at amortised cost are ments, the principles for hedge accounting are applied. recognised on settlement date. Financial liabilities are measured at fair value on initial recognition. In the Financial liabilities case of financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss, transacFinancial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss: Financial liabilities at fair tion costs directly attributable to the acquisition or the issuance of the financial value through profit or loss are either classified as held for trading or desigliability are recognised in profit or loss. For other financial liabilities direct transnated as fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition (fair value option). action cost are recognised as a deduction from the fair value. Financial liabilities Changes in fair value are recognised in profit or loss within Net financial income, are derecognised when extinguished, that is, when the obligation is discharged, with the exception of changes in fair value due to changes in the group’s own cancelled or expired. credit risk. Such changes are presented in other comprehensive income, with no subsequent reclassification to the income statement. The fair value option can Classification of financial assets and liabilities be applied for classification of financial liabilities if meeting either of the followThe group classifies and subsequently measures its financial assets in the foling criteria; the contracts include one or more embedded derivatives, the instrulowing categories: financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss; fair ments are managed and evaluated on a fair value basis or in situations where value through other comprehensive income and amortised cost. The classificasuch designation reduces measurement inconsistencies. Liabilities to policytion will depend on if the financial asset is a debt instrument, an equity instruholders and some debt securities are included in this category. Financial liabiliment or a derivative. ties held for trading are primarily short positions in interest-bearing securities, equity instruments and derivatives not designated as hedging instruments. SEB Annual Report 2019 — 87 Financial statements – Notes Other financial liabilities: The category other financial liabilities primarily include instruments that are substantially the same. When valuing financial liabilities the group’s short-term and long-term borrowings. After initial recognition other at fair value the group’s own credit standing is reflected. financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost, using the effective interest Any differences between the transaction price and the fair value calculated method. The balance sheet items Deposits from central banks and credit instiusing a valuation technique with unobservable inputs, the Day 1 profit, is amortutions, Deposits and borrowings from the public and Debt securities issued are tised over the life of the transaction. Day 1 profit is then recognised in profit or included in this category. loss either when realised through settlement or when inputs used to calculate fair value are based on observable prices or rates. Embedded derivatives Fair value is generally measured for individual financial instruments. In addiSome combined contracts contain both a derivative and a non-derivative comtion, portfolio adjustments are made to cover market risks and the credit risk of ponent. In such cases, the derivative component is termed an embedded deriveach of the counterparties on groups of financial assets and liabilities on the ative. If the host contract is a financial asset in scope of IFRS 9 the contract is basis of the net exposure to these risks. When assets and liabilities have offsetassessed for classification in its entirety and the embedded derivative is not ting market risks, mid-market prices are used for establishing fair value of the separated. For other hybrid instruments (i.e. the host contract is not a financial risk positions that offset each other. To reflect counterparty risk and own credit asset in scope of IFRS 9) where the economic characteristics and risks of the risk in OTC derivatives, adjustments are made based on the net exposure embedded derivatives are not closely related to those of the host contract, the towards each counterpart. embedded derivative is bifurcated and reported at fair value with gains and losses being recognised in the income statement. This does not apply if the host Impairment of financial assets contract is carried at fair value through profit or loss. Measurement Certain combined instruments are classified as financial liabilities at fair The impairment requirements are based on an expected credit loss (ECL) value through profit or loss according to the fair value option. The designation model. The guiding principle of the ECL model is to reflect the general pattern implies that the entire combined instrument is measured at fair value through of deterioration or improvement in the credit quality of financial instruments. profit and loss. All financial assets measured at amortised cost and fair value through other comprehensive income, as well as lease receivables, financial guarantees conOffsetting financial transactions tracts, contract assets and certain loan commitments are in scope for expected Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the balcredit loss. ance sheet when there is a legal right to offset transactions and an intention to ECLs on financial assets measured at amortised cost and lease receivables settle net or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. are presented as allowances, i.e., as an integral part of the measurement of those assets in the balance sheet. The allowance reduces the gross carrying Repurchase agreements amount. ECLs on loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts are preSecurities may be lent or sold subject to a commitment to repurchase them (a sented as provisions, i.e., as a liability, in the balance sheet. Adjustment to the ‘repo’) at a fixed price and at a predetermined date. Such securities are retained loss allowance and provision due to changes in ECLs is recognised in the income on the balance sheet and in addition included separately as collateral pledged statement as Net expected credit losses. for own liabilities when cash consideration is received. Depending on the counThe assessment of credit risk, and the estimation of ECL, shall be unbiased terparty, payment received is recognised under Deposits by credit institutions and probability-weighted, and shall incorporate all available information which or as Deposits and borrowing from the public. is relevant to the assessment, including information about past events, current Similarly, where the group borrows or purchases securities subject to a comconditions and reasonable and supportable forecasts of future events and ecomitment to resell them (a ‘reverse repo’), the securities are not included in the nomic conditions at the reporting date. SEB uses both models and expert credit balance sheet. Payments made are recognised as Loans to credit institutions or judgement (ECJ) for calculating ECLs. as Loans to the public. The ECL model has a three-stage approach based on changes in the credit The difference between sale and repurchase price is accrued over the life of risk. A 12-month ECL (Stage 1) applies to all items, unless there is a significant the agreements using the effective interest method. increase in credit risk since initial recognition. For items where there is a significant increase in credit risk (Stage 2) or in default (Stage 3), lifetime ECL applies. Securities borrowing and lending Securities borrowing and lending transactions are entered into on a collateralSignificant increase in credit risk ised basis. Fair values of securities received or delivered are monitored on a At the end of each reporting period the group performs an assessment of daily basis to require or provide additional collateral. Cash collateral delivered whether credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition. The is derecognised from the balance sheet and a corresponding receivable is recassessment of whether there has been a significant change in credit risk is ognised. Cash collateral received is recognised in the balance sheet and a correbased on quantitative and qualitative indicators. Both historic and forwardsponding obligation to return it, is recognised. Securities lent remain on the ballooking information is used in the assessment. ance sheet and are in addition reported as pledged assets. Borrowed securities For arrangements with an initial origination date as of 1 January 2018 or are not recognised as assets. When borrowed securities are sold (short posilater, the primary indicator is changes in lifetime probability of default (PD) by tion), an amount corresponding to the fair value of the securities is booked as a comparing the scenario-weighted annualised lifetime PD at the reporting date liability. Securities received in a borrowing or lending transaction are disclosed with the scenario-weighted annualised lifetime PD at initial recognition. For as obligations. arrangements with an initial origination date prior to 1 January 2018 changes in SEB’s internal risk classifications since initial origination are used as the primary Modification indicator. The group may renegotiate loans and modify contractual terms. If the new Regardless of the quantitative indicator, a significant increase in credit risk is terms are substantially different from the original terms, the group derecogtriggered if the following back-stop indicators occur: nises the original financial asset and recognises a new asset. The group also • payments are past due >30 days but <90 days; or assesses whether the new financial asset is credit-impaired at initial recogni• financial assets have been classified as watch-listed; or tion. If the terms are not substantially different, the modification does not result • financial assets are forborne (where due to the customer’s financial in derecognition and the group recalculates the gross carrying amount based on ­difficulties the contractual terms of the loans have been revised and the new cash flows using the original effective interest rate of the financial concessions given) asset and recognises a modification gain or loss. Back-stop indicators normally overlap with the quantitative indicator of significant increase in credit risk. Fair value measurement In case there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recogniFair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid tion, an allowance for lifetime ECL shall be recognised and the financial instruto transfer a liability in an orderly market between market participants at the ment is transferred to Stage 2. The approach is symmetrical, meaning that in measurement date. subsequent reporting periods, if the credit quality of the financial instrument The fair value of financial instruments quoted in an active market is based improves such that there is no longer a significant increase in credit risk since on quoted market prices. If the asset or liability measured at fair value has a bid initial recognition, the financial assets moves back to Stage 1. price and an ask price, the price within the bid-ask spread that is most representative of fair value in the circumstances is used. Definition of default The fair value of financial instruments that are not quoted in an active market Financial instruments in default are in Stage 3. SEB applies a definition of default is determined by applying various valuation techniques with maximum use of for accounting purposes that is consistent with how it is defined in the capital observable inputs. The valuation techniques used are for example discounted requirements regulation, which includes financial assets past due more than cash flows, option pricing models, valuations with reference to recent transac90 days. All financial assets in Stage 3 are considered to be credit-impaired. tions in the same instrument and valuations with reference to other financial 88 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Financial statements – Notes Modelling transactions to take place is highly probable.  More information regarding The ECL is calculated as a function of the probability of default (PD), the expohedge accounting can be found in note 21 Derivatives and hedge accounting. sure at default (EAD) and the loss given default (LGD), as well as the timing of the loss. The group’s IFRS 9 methodology for ECL measurement is based on Hedge accounting is applied when derivatives are used to reduce risks such as existing internal rating-based risk models (IRB) to the extent allowed under interest rate risks and currency risks in financial instruments. Furthermore, IFRS 9. As the objectives of these frameworks differ, the manner in which the hedge accounting can be applied to liabilities hedging currency risk in net expected credit losses are calculated also differs and appropriate adjustments investments in subsidiaries. The group applies different hedge accounting modare made to the IRB parameters to meet IFRS 9 requirements. Adjustments els depending on the purpose of the hedge: include the conversion of through-the-cycle and downturn parameters used in – Hedges of fair value of recognised assets or liabilities (fair value hedge); IRB risk models to point-in-time parameters used under IFRS 9 that considers – Hedges of the fair value of the interest rate risk of a portfolio (portfolio forward-looking information. hedge); PD represents the likelihood that a loan will not be repaid and will go into – Hedges of highly probable future cash flows attributable to recognised assets default in either a 12-month or lifetime horizon. The expected PD for each indior liabilities (cash flow hedge); vidual instrument incorporates a consideration of past events, current market – Hedges of a net investment in a foreign operation (net investment hedge). conditions and reasonable and supportable information about future economic conditions. SEB uses IFRS 9 specific PD models. The models are calibrated based The group discontinues hedge accounting when: on a combination of geography, assets class and product type. EAD represents – The derivative has ceased to be highly effective as a hedging instrument; an estimate of the outstanding amount of credit exposure at the time a default – The derivative expires, is sold, terminated, or exercised; may occur. For off-balance sheet amounts, EAD includes an estimate of any fur– The hedged item matures, is sold or repaid; or ther amounts to be drawn at the time of default. For IFRS 9, EAD models are – The forecast transaction is no longer deemed highly probable. adjusted for a 12-month or lifetime horizon. LGD is the amount that may not be recovered in the event of default. LGD takes into consideration the amount and Fair value hedge quality of any collateral held as well as the probability of cure, whereby the borFair value hedges are used to protect the group against undesirable exposures rower repays all his past due obligations on the defaulted loan and recommences to changes in the market prices of recognised assets or liabilities. contractual repayments. SEB uses existing LGD models adjusted to meet IFRS 9 Changes in fair value of derivatives that qualify and are designated as hedgrequirements. ing instruments are recorded in the income statement, together with changes in When measuring ECL, SEB uses the maximum contractual period during which the fair value of the hedged asset or liability that are attributable to the hedged SEB is exposed to risk. All contractual terms are considered when determining risk as Net other income. the expected life, including prepayment options and extension and rollover Where the group hedges the fair value of interest rate exposure in a portfolio options. For revolving facilities, such as credit cards, and retail mortgage facilities including financial assets or financial liabilities, so called portfolio hedging of the expected life is modelled based on historical behaviour. The residual behavinterest rate risk, the gains or losses attributable to the hedged item are ioural expected life for such facilities is based on historically observed survival reported as a separate item under assets or as a separate item under liabilities curve and it is affected by the time since origination of the arrangement. in the balance sheet. When hedge relationships are discontinued, any adjustment to the carrying Forward-looking information amount of the hedged item is amortised to profit or loss over the period to matuThe group uses internally developed macroeconomic forecasts as the basis for rity of the hedged item. the forward-looking information incorporated in the ECL measurement. In order to ensure an unbiased estimation of credit losses under IFRS 9, at least three Cash flow hedge scenarios are used. One of the scenarios is the base case scenario, representing Cash flow hedging is applied for the hedging of exposure to variations in future the most likely outcome, which is also applied in the financial planning and interest payments on assets or liabilities with variable interest rates. The porbudgeting process, while other case scenarios represent more positive or negation of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument that is determined to be an tive outcomes. effective hedge is recognised in other comprehensive income. The ineffective The forward-looking scenarios are prepared by SEB’s Economic Research portion of the gain or loss on the hedging instrument is recognised in profit or Department. The scenarios are approved by the Group Risk Committee. A sceloss as Net other income. nario consists of a qualitative description of the macroeconomic development Gains or losses on hedging instruments that have been accumulated in equity and a quantitative part, with forecasts of key macroeconomic variables for three are recognised in profit or loss in the same period as interest income and intersubsequent years, as well as the likelihood of occurrence (scenario-weight). est expense from the hedged asset or liability. The scenarios are reviewed and updated on a quarterly basis. In case of signifiWhen cash flow hedges are discontinued but future cash flows still are cant changes in the macroeconomic environment and outlook, the scenarios will expected to occur, accumulated gains or losses from the hedging instrument be updated more frequently. The base scenario variables are benchmarked to will remain as a separate item in equity until the hedged future cash flows occur. various external sources of similar forward-looking scenarios, e.g. from OECD, Accumulated gains or losses are subsequently reported in profit or loss in Net IMF, EU and National Statistics Offices. interest income in the same period in which the previously hedged interest flows are recognised in profit or loss. Expert Credit Judgement (ECJ) The group uses both models and expert credit judgement (ECJ) in order to Net investment hedge determine ECLs. The degree of judgement that is required to estimate ECL Hedge of a net investment is applied to protect the group from translation difdepends on the model outcome, materiality and the availability of detailed ferences due to net investments in foreign subsidiaries. Foreign currency loans information. The model provides guidance and transparency as to how ecoconstitute the major portion of hedging instruments in these transactions. The nomic events could affect the impairment of financial assets. ECJ may be translation differences arising on the hedging instruments are recognised in applied to the modelled outcome to incorporate an estimated impact of factors other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity as translation of fornot captured by the model. Such judgemental adjustment to the model-genereign operations, to the extent the hedge is effective. Any ineffective part is recated ECLs may be applied to significant exposures at a counterparty level. The ognised as Net financial income. When a foreign operation is partially disposed adjustments are decided by the relevant credit committee using the model ECLs of or sold, exchange differences accumulated in equity are recognised in the as guidance. In addition, there may be a need for adjustments at a portfolio income statement as part of the gain or loss on the sale. level, which is decided by the Group Risk Committee. OPERATING INCOME Hedge accounting Interest income and interest expense Derivatives are used to hedge interest rate, exchange rate and equity expoThe effective interest method is applied to recognise interest income and intersures. Where derivatives are held for risk management purposes and when est expenses in profit or loss for financial assets and financial liabilities meastransactions meet the required criteria, the group applies fair value hedge ured at amortised cost. accounting, cash flow hedge accounting or hedging of a net investment in a forThe effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost eign operation as appropriate to the risks being hedged. The group documents of a financial asset or a financial liability and of allocating interest income and and designates, at inception, the relationship between the hedged item and interest expenses. The effective interest rate is the rate that discounts estithe hedging instrument as well as the risk objective and hedge strategy. The mated future cash payments or receipts through the expected life of the finangroup also documents its assessment, both at inception and on an ongoing cial instrument to the net carrying amount of the financial instrument. The calbasis, whether the derivatives used are both prospectively, and retrospecculation of the effective interest rate includes transaction costs, fees and points tively highly effective in offsetting the hedged risk. As part of the prospective to be received and paid that are an integral part of the effective interest rate. test the group also assesses and documents that the likelihood of forecasted SEB Annual Report 2019 — 89 Financial statements – Notes Net fee and commission income the lease term on a straight-line basis. The lease payments include fixed payThe recognition of revenue from contracts with customers is reported as fee ments less any lease incentives receivable and variable lease payments that and commission income. The group recognises revenue when it transfers condepend on an index or a rate. trol over a service to a customer. The group has elected not to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabiliFees that are included in the calculation of the effective interest rate of a ties for short-term leases that have a lease term of 12 months or less and leases financial instrument measured at amortised cost, such as loan origination fees, for low-value assets. The group recognizes the lease payments associated with are allocated over the expected tenor of the instrument applying the effective these leases as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term. interest method and presented in Net interest income. Fee and commission income is recognised to depict the transfer of promised Lessor services to the customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which A finance lease is a lease that transfers, from the lessor to the lessee, substanSEB expects to be entitled in exchange for the service. The major types of fees tially all risks and rewards incidental to the ownership of an asset. In the group, are described below. essentially all leasing contracts in which the group is the lessor are classified as Fee and commission income for asset custody and asset management to cusfinance leases. Finance leases are reported as lending, which implies that the tomers is recognised as revenue over the period in which the services are proleasing income is reported within Net interest income. vided. Performance based fees are recognised when it is highly probable that a significant reversal of recognised revenue will not occur, which is when the perInvestment properties formance criteria are fulfilled. Investments in properties held in order to receive rental income and/or for capiFee and commission income from loan syndications in which SEB acts as tal appreciation are reported as investment properties. The recognition and arranger are recognised as income when the syndication is completed and the measurement of such properties differs, depending upon the entity owning the group has retained no part of the loan or retained a part of the loan at the same property. Investment properties held in the insurance operations, used to match effective interest rate as other participants. Brokerage fees, commission and liabilities providing a yield directly associated with the fair values of specified fees from negotiating a transaction for a third party, such as arrangement of assets, including the investment properties themselves, are accounted for using acquisitions or purchase or sale of a business, are recognised on completion of the fair value model. Holdings of investment properties in the banking operations the transaction. are measured at depreciated cost. Expenses that are directly related to the generation of fee and commission income are recognised as fee and commission expense. Intangible assets Goodwill is measured, after initial recognition, at cost, less any accumulated Net financial income impairment losses. In order to test goodwill from business combinations for Gains and losses arising from changes in fair value of financial assets and liabiliimpairment, it is allocated upon acquisition to the cash generating unit or units ties measured at fair value through profit or loss are reported under the item that are expected to benefit from the acquisition. Each group represents the Net financial income. For financial liabilities designated at fair value through lowest level at which goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes profit or loss the change in fair value relating to change in own credit risk is and it is never larger than an operating segment. Goodwill and intangible assets accounted for in other comprehensive income. not yet available for use are tested for impairment annually, and whenever there is an indication that the asset may be impaired. An impairment loss is recDividend income ognised in profit or loss whenever the carrying amount, with respect to a cashDividends are recognised when the entity’s right to receive payment is estabgenerating unit or a group of cash-generating units to which the goodwill is lished. attributed, exceeds the recoverable amount. Impairment losses attributable to goodwill are not reversed, regardless of whether the cause of the impairment Seized assets has ceased to exist. Seized assets are assets taken over to protect a claim. SEB may refrain from a Intangible assets acquired in a business combination are identified and recloan receivable and instead seize the asset that served as collateral for the ognised separately from goodwill where they satisfy the definition of an intanloan. Seized assets may consist of financial assets, properties and other tangigible asset and their fair values can be measured reliably. The cost of such ble assets. Seized asset are recognised on the same line item in the balance intangible assets is their fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent to initial sheet as similar assets that have been acquired otherwise. At inception seized recognition, intangible assets acquired in a business combination are measured assets are measured at fair value. The fair value at initial recognition becomes on the same basis as intangible assets acquired separately. the acquisition value. Subsequently seized assets are measured according to Other intangible assets are measured at cost, including directly attributable type of asset with the exception of impairment on tangible seized assets that is borrowing costs, less accumulated amortization and any impairment losses. reported as Gains less losses from tangible and intangible assets rather than as Development expenditures on an individual project are recognised as an intanDepreciation, amortisation and impairment of tangible and intangible assets. gible asset, provided that future economic benefits are probable, costs can be The purpose is to better reflect the similar character of impairment of assets measured reliably and the product and process is technically and commercially that are taken over to protect claims on counterparties and credit losses. feasible. Research costs are expensed as incurred. Intangible assets with finite useful lives, i.e. all intangible assets except goodTangible assets will, are amortised on a straight-line basis over their useful lives and tested for Tangible assets, with the exception of investment properties held in insurance impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indioperations, are measured at cost and are depreciated according to plan on a cate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. An impairment loss is straight line basis over the estimated useful life of the asset. The maximum recognised if the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount of the asset. depreciation period for buildings is 50 years. The depreciation period for other Internally generated intangible assets, such as software development, are tangible assets is between 3 and 8 years. amortised over a period of between 3 and 8 years. Tangible assets are tested for impairment whenever there is an indication of impairment. Provisions Provisions are recognised for present obligations arising as consequences of Leasing (under IFRS 16 Leases as of 1 January 2019) past events where it is more likely than not that a transfer of economic benefit The group has applied IFRS 16 Leases using the modified retrospective will be necessary to settle the obligation, and it can be reliably estimated. Proviapproach and therefore the comparative information has not been restated and sions are determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at pre-tax continues to be reported under IAS 17 Leases and related interpretations. rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and,  For more information about the changes and the transitional effects from where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. A provision for restructuring adopting IFRS 16, see note 49. is recognised when the group has approved a detailed and formal restructuring plan, and the restructuring either has commenced or has been announced pubLessee licly. Future operating losses are not provided for. Leases are recognised as a right-of-use asset and a corresponding liability at Provisions are made for undrawn loan commitments and similar facilities if the date at which the leased asset is available for use by the group. Each lease it is probable that the facility will be drawn by a debtor in financial difficulties. payment is allocated between the liability and finance cost. The finance cost is ECLs on loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts are presented as charged to profit or loss over the lease period so as to produce a constant periprovisions. Provisions and changes in provisions are recognised in the income odic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period. statement as Net credit losses. The lease payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease, Provisions are evaluated at each balance sheet date and are adjusted as if that rate can be determined, or the group’s incremental borrowing rate. The ­necessary. right-of-use asset is depreciated over the shorter of the asset’s useful life and 90 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Financial statements – Notes Financial guarantees INSURANCE AND INVESTMENT CONTRACTS Financial guarantees are contracts that require the group to make specified Insurance contracts are contracts under which the group accepts significant payments to reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because a specified debtor insurance risk – defined as a transfer of an absolute risk of minimum 5 percent fails to make payment when due in accordance with the terms of a debt instruof the underlying value – from the policyholder by agreeing to compensate the ment. Financial guarantee liabilities are initially recognised at their fair value policyholder or other beneficiaries on the occurrence of a defined insured (which most often equals the premium received) and subsequently at the event. Investment contracts are financial instruments that do not meet the defihigher of the amount determined in accordance with the expected credit loss nition of an insurance contract, as they do not transfer significant insurance risk model under IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and the amount initially recognised from the policyholder to the group. less, where appropriate, the cumulative amount of income recognised. The contractual amounts according to financial guarantees are not recognised in the Insurance contracts balance sheet but disclosed as obligations. Insurance contracts are classified as short-term (non-life) or long-term (life). Short-term insurance comprise sickness, disability, health-care, and rehabilitaEmployee benefits tion insurance. Long-term insurance comprises mainly traditional life insurance. Pensions In the group accounts short-term and long-term insurance are presented aggreThere are both defined contribution and defined benefit pension plans within gated as Insurance contracts. the group, of which most have plan assets. A defined benefit plan is a pension plan that defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will get on Measurement of short-term insurance contracts (non-life) retirement depending on factors such as age, years of service and compensaThe provision for unearned premiums is intended to cover the anticipated cost tion. A defined contribution plan is a pension plan where the group pays a conof claims and operating expenses arising during the remaining policy period of tribution to separate entities and has no further obligation once the contribution the insurance contracts in force. The provision for unearned premiums is usually is paid. strictly proportional over the period of the insurance contracts. If premiums are The pension commitments of the group with respect to defined benefit plans judged to be insufficient to cover the anticipated cost for claims and operating are covered by the pension funds of the group or through insurance solutions. expenses, the provision for unearned premiums is strengthened with a proviThe defined benefit obligation is calculated quarterly by independent actuarsion for unexpired risks. ies using the Projected Unit Credit Method. The assumptions upon which the For anticipated future claims that have been incurred but not yet paid, provicalculations are based are found in note 8 b addressing Staff costs. All changes in sion for claims outstanding is recognised. The provision is intended to cover the the net defined benefit liability (asset) are recognised as they occur, as follows: anticipated future payment of all claims incurred, including claims incurred but (i) service cost and net interest in the income statement; and (ii) remeasurenot reported (IBNR provisions). This provision should also cover all costs for ments of both defined benefit obligations and plan assets in other comprehenclaims settlement. The provision for claims outstanding is not discounted, with sive income. the exception of provisions for sickness annuities, which are discounted using Pension costs for defined contribution pension plans are recognised as an standard actuarial methods. expense during the period the employees carry out the service to which the payment relates. Measurement of long-term insurance contracts (life) For long-term life insurance contracts, a liability for contractual benefits that Share-based payments are expected to be incurred in the future is recorded when the premiums are The group operates a number of share-based incentive programmes, under recognised. The liability equals the sum of the discounted value of expected which it awards SEB equity instruments to its employees. Equity-settled sharebenefit payments and future administration expenses, less any outstanding based incentive programmes entitle employees to receive SEB equity instrufuture contractual premium payments. Liabilities for long-term life insurance ments. Cash-settled share-based incentive programmes entitle employees to are discounted using standard actuarial methods. receive cash based on the price or value of equity instruments of SEB. Fair value of these rights is determined by using appropriate valuation models, taking into Liability adequacy test account the terms and conditions of the award and the group’s estimate of the Swedish actuarial procedures involve performing liability adequacy tests on number of rights that will eventually vest, which is reassessed at each reporting insurance liabilities. This is to ensure that the carrying amount of the liabilities is date. Social security charges are accounted for over the vesting period and the sufficient in the light of estimated future cash flows. The carrying amount of a provision for social security charges is reassessed on each reporting date to liability is the value of the liability itself less any related intangible asset or ensure that the provision is based on the rights’ fair value at the reporting date. asset for deferred acquisition costs. The current best estimates of future conThe cost of equity-settled share-based incentive programmes is measured tractual cash flows, as well as claims handling and administration costs, are by reference to the fair value of equity instruments on the date they are granted used in performing these liability adequacy tests. These cash flows are disand recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the vesting period counted and compared to the carrying amount of the liability. Any deficit is with a corresponding increase in equity. The vesting period is the period that the immediately recognised in profit or loss. employees have to remain in service in SEB in order for their rights to vest. For cash-settled share-based incentive programmes, the services acquired and liaRevenue recognition bility incurred are measured at the fair value of the liability and recognised as Premiums for insurance contracts are recognised as revenue when they an expense over the vesting period, during which the employees render service. are paid by the policyholders. For contracts where insurance risk premiums Until settlement, the fair value of the liability is remeasured, with changes in fair received during a period are intended to cover insurance claims arising in that value recognised in the income statement. period those premiums are recognised as revenue proportionally during the period of coverage. Short-term cash-based remuneration The group recognises a provision where contractually obliged or where there is Recognition of expenses a past practice that has created a constructive obligation. Costs for insurance contracts are recognised as an expense when incurred, with the exception of commissions and other variable acquisition costs that TAXES vary with and are directly related to securing new contracts and the renewal The group’s tax for the period consists of current and deferred tax. Current of existing contracts. These costs are capitalised as deferred acquisition costs. tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the These costs are mainly incremental acquisition costs paid to sales personnel, amount expected to be paid to or from tax authorities using the tax rates and brokers and other distribution channels. Deferred acquisition costs are amortax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet tised as the related revenue is recognised. The asset is tested for impairment date. Current tax is calculated based on the taxable results for the period. every accounting period, ensuring that the economic future benefits expected Deferred tax arises due to temporary differences between the tax bases of to arise from the contracts exceed its face amount. All other costs, such as nonassets and liabilities and their carrying amounts. incremental acquisition costs or maintenance costs, are recognised in the Current tax and deferred tax are generally recognised in profit or loss. Howaccounting period in which they arise. Insurance compensation is recorded ever, tax that relates to items recognised in other comprehensive income is also as an expense when incurred. reported directly in other comprehensive income. Examples of such items are gains or losses on hedging instruments in cash flow hedges. Reinsurance Deferred tax assets are recognised in the balance sheet to the extent that it Contracts with re-insurers, whereby compensation for losses is received by the is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which they can group, are classified as ceded reinsurance. For ceded reinsurance, the benefits be utilized. The group’s deferred tax assets and tax liabilities have been calcuto which the group is entitled under the terms of the reinsurance contract are lated at the tax rate of 21.4 per cent and 20.6 per cent as of 2021 in Sweden, reported as the re-insurers’ share of insurance provisions. Amounts recoverable and at each respective country’s tax rate for foreign companies. from re-insurers are measured consistently with the amounts associated with SEB Annual Report 2019 — 91 Financial statements – Notes the reinsurance contracts and in accordance with the terms of each reinsurance retrospectively to hedging relationships that existed at the start of the reportcontract. ing period or were designated thereafter. The amendments provide temporary relief from applying specific hedge Investment contracts accounting requirements to hedging relationships directly affected by IBOR The majority of the group’s unit linked insurance is classified as investment conreform. The reliefs have the effect that IBOR reform should not generally cause tracts where no significant insurance risk is transferred from the policyholder to hedge accounting to terminate. However, any hedge ineffectiveness should the group. A minor part of the group’s unit linked insurance business is classified continue to be recorded in the income statement. Furthermore, the amendas insurance contracts. ments set out triggers for when the reliefs will end, which include the uncertainty arising from interest rate benchmark reform no longer being present. Measurement In summary, the reliefs provided by the amendments that apply to the group Investment contracts are financial commitments whose fair value is dependent are: on the fair value of the underlying financial assets. The underlying assets are – When considering the ‘highly probable’ requirement, the group has assumed mandatorily measured at fair value through profit or loss and the related liabilithat the USD LIBOR and the GBP LIBOR interest rates on which our hedged ties are designated at fair value through profit or loss (fair value option). The item are based do not change as a result of IBOR reform. choice to use the fair value option for the liabilities has been made for the pur– In assessing whether the hedge is expected to be highly effective on a forpose of eliminating the measurement inconsistency that would occur if differward-looking basis the group has assumed that the USD LIBOR and the GBP ent bases for measurement would have been used for assets and liabilities. The LIBOR interest rates on which the cash flows and the fair value of the hedged fair value of the unit linked financial liabilities is determined using the fair value item and the hedging item that hedges them are based are not altered by of the financial assets linked to the financial liabilities attributed to the policyIBOR reform. holder on the balance sheet date. However, if the liability is subject to a surren– The group will not discontinue hedge accounting during the period of IBORder option, the fair value of the financial liability is never less than the amount related uncertainty solely because the retrospective effectiveness falls payable on surrender. ­outside the required 80–125% range. – The group has not recycled the cash flow hedge reserve relating to the Revenue recognition period after the reforms are expected to take effect. Amounts received from and paid to policyholders are reported in the balance  Note 21 provides the required disclosures of the uncertainty arising from IBOR sheet as deposits or withdrawals. Fees charged for managing investment conreform for hedging relationships for which the group applied the reliefs. tracts are recognised as revenue. The revenue for these management services is evenly distributed over the tenor of the contracts. Changes in IFRSs not yet applied IFRS 17 Insurance Contracts was published in May 2017. This standard should be Recognition of expenses applied as from 1 January 2021 and has not yet been endorsed by EU. IFRS 17 Incremental costs of obtaining investment contracts with customers are establishes principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disdeferred if they are expected to be recovered. Incremental costs are costs to closure of issued insurance contracts. It also requires similar principles to be obtain a contract with a customer that would not have been incurred if the conapplied to held reinsurance contracts and issued investment contracts with distract had not been obtained. These costs are up-front acquisition costs in the cretionary participation features. IFRS 17 replaces IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts. form of sales commissions paid for obtaining investment contracts. They are SEB is currently evaluating the impact of the change to the financial statements expected to be recovered from the fee income earned from the investment conof the group. tracts. Deferred acquisition costs are reported in profit or loss as the related Amendments to IFRS 3 Business Combinations and the definition of business. revenue is recognised. The asset is tested for impairment during each accountThe amendments are effective for business combinations for which the acquiing period to ensure that the future economic benefits expected to arise from sition date is on or after the beginning of the first annual reporting period the contract exceed the carrying amount of the asset. All other costs, such as beginning on or after 1 January 2020. The amendments have not yet been commissions to brokers paid during the tenor of the investment contracts or endorsed by EU. IASB has issued a changed definition of material. The revised commission to own staff acting as sales agents or ongoing administration cost, definition of material will be updated in both IAS 1 Presentation of Financial are recognised in the accounting period in which they arise. Statements and IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors. The amendments, effective for annual reporting periods beginning on Contracts with discretionary participation features (DPF) or after 1 January 2020 and endorsed by EU, are intended to clarify and align Some traditional pension saving contracts include a discretionary participation the definition of material. The changes will not have a material effect on the feature. This feature entitles the policyholder to receive, as a supplement to financial statements of the group or on capital adequacy and large exposures. guaranteed benefits, additional benefits or bonuses. All contracts that include a Amendments to References to the Conceptual Framework in IFRS Standards discretionary participation feature are reported as insurance contracts. The intends to update references in IFRS Standards to previous versions of the amounts referring to the guaranteed element and to the discretionary particiConceptual Framework. The amendments are endorsed by EU and effective pation feature are reported as liabilities to policyholders. 1 January 2020. Changes in accounting policies implemented 2019 The group adopted IFRS 16 Leases which replaces IAS 17 Leases and related Significant accounting policies of the parent company interpretations. The new standard significantly changes how SEB as a lessee Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken (SEB) AB is a public limited liability company accounts for leases by introducing a single, on-balance sheet lease accounting with corporate number 502032-9081 and with registered office in Stockholm, model requiring the recognition of lease assets (right-of-use assets) and correSweden. sponding lease liabilities.  For more information about the new accounting The financial statements of the parent company are prepared in accordance ­policies and the transitional effects from adopting IFRS 16, see note 49. with the Annual Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and Securities Companies There are also some smaller changes to other IFRS standards. IFRIC 23 (1995:1559), the regulation and general guidelines issued by the Swedish Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments has been issued and specifies how to Financial Supervisory Authority, Annual Reports in Credit Institutions and Secureflect the effects of uncertainty in accounting for income taxes. IAS 28 Interrities Companies (FFFS 2008:25) and statements from the Swedish Financial ests in Associates and Joint Ventures has been amended so companies should Reporting Board, RFR 2 and the additional UFR statements. apply IFRS 9 Financial Instruments to long-term interests in an associate or joint In accordance with the Financial Supervisory Authority’s regulation, the parventure that form part of the net investment in the associate or joint venture. ent company applies statutory IFRS. This means that the International Financial Amendments have been made to IFRS 9 Financial Instruments regarding preReporting Standards (IFRS) and interpretations of these standards as adopted payment features with negative compensation. IAS 19 Employee Benefits was by the EU have been applied to the extent that is possible within the framework amended in regards to plan amendment, curtailment or settlement that arises of Swedish legislation and considering the close tie between financial reporting during the reporting period. IAS 23 Borrowing Costs, IAS 12 Income Taxes, and taxation. The accounting principles of the parent company differ, in certain IFRS 3 Business Combinations and IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements have been aspects, from the accounting principles applied by the SEB Group. The essential amended within the Annual improvement cycle 2015–2017. The changes have differences are described below. not had a material effect on the financial statements of the group or on capital adequacy and large exposures. CHANGED ACCOUNTING POLICIES The changed group accounting policies and future accounting developments Amended standards early adopted also applies to the parent company. The Swedish Annual Accounts Act for The group has elected to early adopt the Amendments to IFRS 9, IAS 39 and Credit Institutions and Securities Companies has been updated where the main IFRS 7 Interest Rate Benchmark Reform (IBOR) issued in September 2019. In change is new requirements to publish a sustainability and diversity report. In accordance with the transition provisions, the amendments have been adopted all other material aspects the accounting policies, basis for preparation and 92 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Financial statements – Notes presentation for the parent company are unchanged in comparison with the CONSOLIDATION OF MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANIES annual report for 2018. AND FUNDS With effect from 1 January 2018 the regulations and general guidelines Within the life insurance operations of the SEB Group, Gamla Livförsäkrings AB issued by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority have been updated. SEB Trygg Liv operates as a mutual life insurance company. The entity is not The changes are mainly related to the implementation of IFRS 9 and IFRS 15, consolidated, as the judgement of the group is that it does not have control of e.g. the presentation of different items in the income statement and classificathe entity. Control is seen to imply the power to govern the financial and operattion of seized assets. With effect from 1 January 2019 the regulations and gening policies of an entity in order to affect the amount of its returns from the eral guidelines issued by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority have entity. Life insurance entities operated as mutual life insurance companies canbeen updated. The changes are mainly related to the implementation of IFRS 16 not pay dividends which is why the group deems that it cannot obtain benefits. Leases, which the parent company has chosen not to apply. In Gamla Livförsäkrings AB SEB Trygg Liv there are specific policies specifying the composition of the board, which implies that the SEB Group is not able to PRESENTATION FORMAT govern the financial and operating policies of the entity. The presentation format for the balance sheet and the profit and loss account In the assessment whether to consolidate funds, an assessment is made according to the Annual Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and Securities Comwhether the group is considered to be an agent or a principal. The group is conpanies is not in conformity with IFRS. Credit institutions and securities compasidered a principal, and hence controls the fund, when it is the fund manager, nies applying IFRS as adopted by the EU in their consolidated financial statecannot be removed without cause, has significant right to returns from the fund ments have the option to deviate from the presentation format for the balance by holding units and earning fee income and has the practical ability to influence sheet as stipulated by law, but may not deviate from the stipulated profit and its return by using its power. Funds managed by the group in which entities loss account. within the group owns more than 20 per cent are analysed further for consolidation. HOLDINGS IN SUBSIDIARIES AND ASSOCIATED COMPANIES The policyholders in SEB’s unit-linked company choose to invest in a variety Shares and participating interests in subsidiaries and associated companies are of funds. The insurance company providing unit-linked products invests in the measured at cost. Dividends on shares in subsidiaries and associated compafunds chosen by the customers. By doing so SEB might, in some cases, hold nies are recognised as income in profit or loss. Merger of subsidiaries through more than 50 per cent of the funds, which it holds on behalf of the customers absorption are accounted for at consolidated values. The merger effect is for whom it acts as investment manager. Due to the legislation regarding fund reported in equity. operations, SEB considers that it does not have the power to govern the financial and operating policies of such investment funds to obtain benefits. This Financial assets and liabilities applies irrespective of whether the funds held on behalf of customers are The group’s accounting policies in regard to financial assets and liabilities also greater or less than 50 per cent of a fund. It is the policyholders who carry the applies to the parent company, with the exception of financial liabilities desiginvestment risk, not SEB. Consequently, the policyholders are entitled to all of nated as fair value through profit or loss where the change in fair value relating the returns generated by the funds. SEB only charges fees, on market condito change in own credit risk is accounted for in profit or loss. tions, for managing the funds. SEB has come to the conclusion that these funds which it manages should not be consolidated. However, the shares that the LEASING group holds in such funds on behalf of its customers are recognised in the balIFRS 16 Leases is not applied in the parent company. When the parent company ance sheet. is acting as a lessee, it recognises leasing fees as costs on a straight-line basis over the lease period (ie, like an operating lease). When the parent company FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS acts as a lessor, it reports all leasing agreements as operational leases. The objective of the fair value measurement is to arrive at the price at which an orderly transaction would take place between market participants at the measPENSIONS urement date under current market conditions. The best evidence of fair value The parent company does not apply the provisions of IAS 19 concerning accountis a quoted price for the instrument being measured in an actively traded maring for defined benefit plans. Instead, pension costs are calculated on an actuarial ket. Where the market for a financial instrument is not active, fair value is calcubasis in the parent company in accordance with the provisions of the Act on Safelated using an established valuation technique. These valuation techniques guarding Pension Obligations and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s involve a degree of estimation, the extent of which depends on the instrument’s regulations. This is a requirement by the Swedish tax regulation. In Sweden, actucomplexity and the availability of market-based data. When valuing financial arial pension commitments are guaranteed by a pension foundation. liabilities at fair value own credit standing is reflected. Given the uncertainty The recognised net cost of pensions is calculated as pensions paid and penand subjective nature of valuing financial instruments at fair value, it is possible sion premiums less any compensation from the pension foundation. The net penthat the outcomes in the next financial year could differ from the assumptions sion cost for the year is reported under Staff costs in the parent company’s profit used. and loss account. Excess amounts as a result of the value of the plan assets For some of the group’s financial assets and liabilities, especially for certain exceeding the estimated pension obligations are not recognised as an asset in derivatives, quoted prices are not available, and valuation models are used to the parent company’s balance sheet. Deficits are recognised as a liability. estimate fair value. As part of the fair value measurement, valuation adjustments are made when valuing derivative financial instruments, to incorporate GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS counterparty and own credit risk. The methodologies for estimating valuation In accordance with IAS 38, goodwill is not amortised in the consolidated finanadjustments are continuously revised as a result of changing market practices cial statements. In the parent company financial statements, goodwill is amorin response to regulatory and accounting policy changes, as well as general tised as any other intangible asset on a straight line basis. market developments. The group has an established control environment for the determination of TAXES fair values of financial instruments that includes a review, independently from In the parent company, untaxed reserves are recognised as a separate item in the business, of valuation models and prices. If the validation principles are not the balance sheet. Untaxed reserves comprise accelerated depreciation under adhered to, the Head of Group Finance shall be informed. Exceptions with matetax regulations, including the deferred tax component. In the consolidated rial and principal importance require approval from the Valuation Committee financial statements, untaxed reserves are reported in retained earnings and and the SEB ARC (Accounting Policy and Financial Reporting Committee). deferred tax liability. For disclosure purposes, fair values are classified in a fair value hierarchy according to the level of observability of the inputs, see note 36. GROUP CONTRIBUTIONS The net of group contributions received and paid is reported in the parent comIMPAIRMENT OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND GOODWILL pany as appropriations. Financial assets When calculating expected credit loss (ECL) there are a number of key concepts that require a high level of judgement. Estimating expected credit loss is, Critical judgements in applying the accounting policies by its very nature, uncertain and the accuracy of these estimates depends on Applying the group’s accounting policies requires in some cases the use of estimany factors, e.g. macro-economic forecasts and involves complex modelling mates and assumptions that have a material impact on the amounts reported and judgements. in the financial statements. The estimates are based on expert judgements and The assessment of significant increase in credit risk is a new concept under assumptions that management believes are true and fair. The management IFRS 9 Financial Instruments and will require significant judgement. At the end ­continuously evaluates these judgements and estimates. The most significant of each reporting period the group shall perform an assessment of whether assumptions and estimates are associated with the areas described below: credit risk has increased significantly since initial recognition by considering the change in the risk of default occurring over the remaining life of the financial SEB Annual Report 2019 — 93 Financial statements – Notes instrument, using key risk indicators that are used in the group’s existing risk FAIR VALUE OF INVESTMENT PROPERTY management processes. Investment properties in the insurance operations are fair valued with the Another area requiring significant judgement is the incorporation of forwardassistance of external expertise. The valuation method applied means that the looking information and macro-economic scenarios. IFRS 9 requires an unbirelated expected cash flows are discounted to present value. The assumptions ased and probability-weighted estimate of credit losses by evaluating a range concerning expected cash flows are based on assumptions on future rents, of possible outcomes that incorporates forecasts of future economic conditions. vacancy levels, operating and maintenance costs, yield requirement and marSEB uses internally developed macro-economic forecasts as the basis for the ket interest. Assumptions are in line with the assessments that the market can forward-looking information in the ECL measurement. SEB uses both models be expected to make under current market conditions. The yield requirement and expert credit judgement (ECJ) in order to determine ECLs. The objective is based on local analysis of comparable property purchases. of applying ECJ is to incorporate the estimated impact of factors not captured in the modelled ECL. The degree of judgement that is required to estimate VALUATION OF DEFERRED TAX ASSETS expected credit losses depends on the outcome from calculations, materiality Deferred tax assets that are relying on future profitability can be recognised and the availability of detailed information. The models, assessment and only to the extent they can be offset against future taxable income and the valassumptions are regularly reviewed by the risk organisation of the group and uation of deferred tax assets is influenced by management’s assessment of approved by the Group Risk Committee. SEB’s future profitability, future taxable profits and future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences. The expected outcome of uncertain tax posiGoodwill tions is determined as the single most likely outcome. Judgement is involved in determining the cash-generating units. The annual impairment test of goodwill is based on the value in use with forecasted cash PROVISIONS flows for five years. The cash flows beyond five years are determined based Judgement is involved in determining whether a present obligation exists, and on sustainable growth. in estimating the probability, timing and amount of any outflows. Provisions for The estimation of future cash flows and the calculation of the rate used to disclaims in civil lawsuits and regulatory matters typically require a higher degree count those cash flows involves a number of judgmental areas: the preparation of judgement than other types of provisions. of cash flow forecasts for periods that are beyond the normal requirements of management reporting and the assessment of the discount rate appropriate ACTUARIAL CALCULATIONS OF DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS to the business.Note 23 describe intangible assets in more detail. The calculation of the group’s expense and obligations for defined benefit plans is based on actuarial, demographic and financial assumptions that have a signifCALCULATION OF INSURANCE LIABILITIES icant impact on the recognised amounts. One of the important financial assumpCalculation of the group’s insurance liabilities is based on a number of estimates tions is the interest rate used for discounting future cash flows. The estimation and assumptions, both financial and actuarial, such as interest rates, mortality, of the discount rate is subject to uncertainty whether corporate bond markets health, expenses, inflation and taxes. One of the important financial assumpare deep enough, of high quality and also in connection to the extrapolation of tions is the interest rate used for discounting future cash flows. yield curves to relevant maturities. The discount rate is based on high quality Assumption on interest rates is based on regulations from each local Financorporate bonds in a deep market, in Sweden covered bonds. The covered cial Supervisory Authority (FSA). All other assumptions are based on internally bonds in Sweden are at least AAA-rated and the maturity is in line with the estiacquired experience. mated maturity of obligations for post-employment benefits. The discount rate for the defined benefit obligation is revised quarterly and other assumptions ASSETS RECOGNISED FROM THE COSTS TO OBTAIN OR FULFIL are revised each year or when a significant change has occurred. A CONTRACT, DEFERRED ACQUISITION COSTS  Note 8 b describing staff costs contain a list of the most critical assumptions SEB recognise as an asset, costs to obtain contracts that would not have used when calculating the defined benefit obligation. incurred if the contract had not been obtained, mainly sales commissions to obtain insurance and investment contracts. The amortisation period for the asset is based on assumptions about average lifetime of the contracts including assumptions about surrenders and lapses. 94 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Financial statements – Notes 2 Operating segments Group business segments Large ­Corporates Corporate Investment & Financial & Private Management & Income statement, 2019 Institutions Customers Baltic Life Group functions Eliminations Total Interest income 24,418 15,648 3,436 5 44,346 –46,130 41,722 Interest expense –15,046 –4,928 –218 –20 –44,724 46,165 –18,772 Net interest income 9,371 10,721 3,218 –16 –378 34 22,950 Fee and commission income 10,911 7,240 2,317 3,636 6,499 –6,428 24,176 Fee and commission expense –4,353 –1,695 –678 –1,105 –4,108 6,472 –5,467 Net fee and commission income 6,558 5,546 1,638 2,531 2,392 44 18,709 Net financial income 4,462 507 321 711 1,605 11 7,617 Net other income 221 25 –8 77 554 –11 858 Total operating income 20,613 16,798 5,169 3,304 4,173 78 50,134 of which internally generated –1,620 2 178 1,173 189 78 Staff costs –4,293 –3,372 –856 –860 –5,294 15 –14,660 Other expenses –5,186 –3,979 –1,123 –706 4,465 –93 –6,623 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of tangible and intangible assets –69 –68 –30 –21 –1,475 –1,662 Total operating expenses –9,548 –7,418 –2,009 –1,587 –2,304 –78 –22,945 Gains less losses on disposals of tangible and intangible assets 1 –4 2 –1 –2 Net expected credit losses –1,812 –393 –58 –1 –22 –7 –2,294 Operating profit before items affecting comparability 9,254 8,983 3,104 1,715 1,846 –7 24,894 Items affecting comparability OPERATING PROFIT 9,254 8,983 3,104 1,715 1,846 –7 24,894 Business equity, SEK bn 67.9 44.9 10.8 5.4 Return on business equity, % 10.4 15.3 24.7 29.4 Risk exposure amount, SEK bn 380 225 83 57 746 Lending to the public2), SEK bn 661 823 157 13 1,653 Deposits from the public2), SEK bn 531 457 153 16 1,157 Income statement, 2018 Interest income 19,620 12,447 3,049 4 16,865 –12,685 39,299 Interest expense –11,409 –2,974 –211 –32 –16,356 12,706 –18,277 Net interest income 8,211 9,473 2,837 –28 509 21 21,022 Fee and commission income 10,956 7,182 2,091 3,752 6,525 –6,488 24,018 Fee and commission expense –4,523 –1,712 –642 –1,097 –4,132 6,453 –5,654 Net fee and commission income 6,433 5,470 1,449 2,655 2,393 –35 18,364 Net financial income 3,384 429 257 953 1,026 31 6,079 Net other income 309 47 –21 –8 91 –16 402 Total operating income 18,337 15,418 4,522 3,572 4,018 1 45,868 of which internally generated –1,765 –140 151 1,178 575 1 Staff costs –3,858 –3,353 –811 –1,017 –4,982 17 –14,004 Other expenses –4,990 –3,735 –1,021 –615 3,178 –18 –7,201 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of tangible and intangible assets –55 –58 –53 –20 –549 –735 Total operating expenses –8,903 –7,146 –1,885 –1,653 –2,353 –1 –21,940 Gains less losses on disposals of tangible and intangible assets 1 19 –2 18 Net expected credit losses –702 –427 –55 –2 25 –5 –1,166 Operating profit before items affecting comparability 8,733 7,845 2,600 1,917 1,689 –5 22,779 Items affecting comparability 4,506 4,506 OPERATING PROFIT 8,733 7,845 2,600 1,917 6,195 –5 27,285 Business equity, SEK bn 63.8 42.4 9.6 5.8 Return on business equity, % 10.3 13.9 22.4 29.4 Risk exposure amount, SEK bn 360 220 82 57 716 Lending to the public2), SEK bn 600 781 148 13 1,547 Deposits from the public2), SEK bn 473 421 138 16 1,108 1) Profit and loss from associated companies accounted for under the equity method are recognised in Net other income at an amount of SEK 125m (152). The aggregated investments are SEK 386m (295). 2) Excluding repos.  SEB Annual Report 2019 — 95 Financial statements – Notes Note 2 continued Operating segments Balance sheet Large ­Corporates Corporate Investment & Financial & Private Management & 2019 Institutions Customers Baltic Life Group functions Eliminations Total Assets 1,736,081 901,082 192,812 363,773 2,685,806 –3,022,907 2,856,648 Liabilities 1,654,920 846,973 178,540 356,631 2,686,796 –3,022,907 2,700,947 Investments 58 64 185 77 775 1,159 2018 Assets 1,407,180 857,821 176,175 313,838 2,439,209 –2,626,706 2,567,516 Liabilities 1,330,962 806,043 164,108 305,100 2,439,233 –2,626,706 2,418,727 Investments 71 51 161 337 756 1,376 Parent company business segments Large ­Corporates Corporate Investment & Financial & Private Management & 2019 Institutions Customers Baltic Life Group functions Eliminations Total Gross income 38,950 18,972 24 133 8,851 66,930 Assets 1,630,351 817,092 9 180 1,582,791 –1,711,752 2,318,672 Investments 54 35 728 817 2018 Gross income 32,989 15,735 13 132 18,091 66,960 Assets 1,306,705 774,421 51 296 1,430,912 –1,434,110 2,078,275 Investments 66 47 751 865 Business segment small and medium-sized corporates). Division Baltic offers products mainly to The Business segments are presented on a management reporting basis. retail customers (private customers and small and medium-sized corporates) The different divisions assist different groups of customers. The customers’ and private banking services in the Baltic countries. Division Life offers life, demands decide the type of products that are offered. Large Corporates & ­sickness, healthcare and pension insurance. Investment Management performs Financial Institutions offers wholesale and investment banking services to large asset management. Group functions consists of business support units, treasury corporations and institutions. Corporate & Private Customers offers products and staff units and German run-off operations. Eliminations of internal transacand private banking services mainly to retail customers (private customers and tions between the business segments are reported separately. Gross income by product for external customers Group Parent company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Core banking 42,695 38,699 31,883 28,212 Capital market 15,004 11,665 14,164 10,844 Asset management 8,374 8,681 2,154 2,227 Life insurance and pension 2,463 2,832 Other 5,838 7,921 18,729 25,678 TOTAL 74,374 69,799 66,930 66,960 Core banking consists of loan, leasing, card and payment related products. Capipension consists of unit-linked and traditional life insurance products. Other tal market consists of trading and issues on financial markets. Asset manageconsists of income from treasury operations and other activities. ment consists of advisory, custody and fund management. Life insurance and  96 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Financial statements – Notes 3 Geographical information Group by country 2019 2018 Gross Operating Income tax Gross Operating Income tax Income1) profit2) expense3) Assets Investments Income1) profit2) expense3) Assets Investments Sweden 50,658 14,151 –2,564 2,486,380 839 46,119 17,533 –1,882 2,197,181 930 Norway 8,817 1,994 –456 149,486 5 7,453 2,105 –502 117,872 24 Denmark 2,907 1,590 –332 160,764 5 3,724 1,450 –306 168,226 Finland 1,899 953 –189 103,513 9 2,333 1,118 –209 69,612 13 Estonia 2,164 1,288 –181 67,199 85 1,900 1,035 –349 62,327 60 Latvia 1,455 542 –22 42,098 39 1,299 461 38,532 52 Lithuania 2,855 1,565 –252 90,946 103 2,522 1,328 –191 81,194 90 Germany 2,549 898 –361 66,927 1 2,881 599 –329 98,244 5 United Kingdom 2,374 725 –203 91,654 2 1,802 555 –138 84,817 7 United States4) 7,845 131 –26 211,987 5 6,461 142 –16 192,876 Ireland 646 234 –21 78,118 9 561 155 –20 68,698 176 Luxembourg 1,533 452 –8 44,956 12 1,539 531 –101 41,291 3 China 954 119 –34 27,269 10 646 139 –53 25,537 Singapore 593 103 –28 25,518 2 755 17 –17 30,424 10 Russia 565 51 –19 6,869 2 464 36 –16 6,666 4 Poland 143 51 –14 5,320 2 168 55 –16 5,398 2 Hong Kong 199 34 0 4,550 184 40 3,770 Ukraine 84 15 –6 640 3 67 16 –5 600 1 Netherlands 0 0 0 –14 –14 11 Group eliminations –13,869 –1 0 –807,546 27 –11,066 –18 –725,758 1 TOTAL 74,374 24,894 –4,717 2,856,648 1,159 69,799 27,285 –4,152 2,567,516 1,376 1) Gross income in the group is defined as the sum of Interest income, Fee and commission income, Net financial income and Net other income according to IFRS. The basis for the i­ ncome allocation is SEB’s presence in each country, with the exception of when the local companies / branches serve as sales offices and receive commission payments and the transaction is booked in the central unit. 2) Before tax. 3) For more information about tax see note 15. 4) Including Cayman Islands, where the parent company is represented by a branch office which is a United States tax resident entity, why tax expense related to Cayman income is reported in US. Parent company by country 2019 2018 Gross Income1) Assets Investments Gross Income1) Assets Investments Sweden 48,196 1,951,994 768 49,619 1,729,789 814 Norway 3,657 75,122 5 3,558 63,783 24 Denmark 2,264 117,040 5 1,954 99,081 Finland 1,588 73,613 7 1,550 42,899 11 Other countries 11,225 100,903 32 10,279 142,723 16 TOTAL 66,930 2,318,672 817 66,960 2,078,275 865 1) Gross income in the parent company is defined as the sum of Interest income, Leasing income, Dividends, Fee and commission income, Net Financial income and Other income. The basis for the income allocation is SEB’s presence in each country, with the exception of when the local companies / branches serve as sales offices and receive commission payments and the transaction is booked in the central unit. Transfer pricing The internal price is based on SEB’s actual or implied market-based cost of The internal transfer pricing objective in the SEB Group is to measure net interfunds for a specific interest and liquidity term. Transactions between Business est income, to transfer interest rate risk and liquidity and to manage liquidity. segments are conducted at arm’s length.  SEB Annual Report 2019 — 97 Financial statements – Notes 4 Net interest income Group Parent company Average Average 2019 ­balance Interest Interest rate ­balance Interest Interest rate Loans to credit institutions and central banks 288,257 2,148 0.75% 314,319 2,044 0.65% Loans to the public 1,618,642 32,831 2.03% 1,404,225 26,889 1.91% Debt securities 15,902 238 1.50% 17,280 261 1.51% Total interest earning assets AmC 1,922,801 35,217 1.83% 1,735,824 29,195 1.68% Debt securities 239,277 3,391 1.42% 194,677 3,246 1.67% Loans 176,085 –218 –0.12% 176,154 –218 –0.12% Total interest earning assets at FVTPL 415,362 3,173 0.76% 370,830 3,028 0.82% Total interest earning assets 2,338,163 38,390 1.64% 2,106,655 32,223 1.53% Derivatives and other assets 557,828 3,333 282,662 2,603 TOTAL ASSETS 2,895,991 41,722 2,389,317 34,826 Deposits from credit institutions 134,495 –1,228 –0.91% 184,329 –1,741 –0.94% Deposits and borrowing from the public 1,160,495 –5,292 –0.46% 978,624 –4,449 –0.45% Debt securities issued 807,545 –12,934 –1.60% 807,470 –12,934 –1.60% Subordinated liabilities 37,601 –1,373 –3.65% 37,567 –1,373 –3.66% Total interest bearing liabilities AmC 2,140,135 –20,828 –0.97% 2,007,989 –20,497 –1.02% Deposits 38,280 152 0.40% 30,024 432 1.44% Debt securities short position 34,235 –856 –2.50% 34,235 –856 –2.50% Debt securities issued 19,680 –810 –4.12% 19,508 –810 –4.15% Total interest bearing liabilities at FVTPL 92,196 –1,515 –1.64% 83,767 –1,234 –1.47% Total interest bearing liabilities 2,232,331 –22,343 –1.00% 2,091,756 –21,732 –1.04% Derivatives and other liabilities 516,733 3,571 189,736 4,515 Equity 146,927 107,825 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 2,895,991 –18,772 2,389,317 –17,217 NET INTEREST INCOME 22,950 17,610 NET YIELD ON INTEREST EARNING ASSETS 0.98% 0.84% 2018 Loans to credit institutions and central banks 363,075 2,822 0.78% 409,394 2,568 0.63% Loans to the public 1,516,485 29,790 1.96% 1,302,034 24,062 1.85% Debt securities 19,164 294 1.54% 18,020 326 1.81% Total interest earning assets AmC 1,898,724 32,907 1.73% 1,729,447 26,956 1.56% Debt securities 179,560 2,680 1.49% 154,391 2,529 1.64% Loans 100,609 –551 –0.55% 100,702 –552 –0.55% Total interest earning assets at FVTPL 280,169 2,128 0.76% 255,093 1,976 0.77% Total interest earning assets 2,178,894 35,035 1.61% 1,984,540 28,932 1.46% Derivatives and other assets 637,597 4,264 317,683 3,616 TOTAL ASSETS1) 2,816,491 39,299 2,302,224 32,548 Deposits from credit institutions 135,823 –1,253 –0.92% 186,993 –1,647 –0.88% Deposits and borrowing from the public 1,156,434 –5,414 –0.47% 985,460 –4,245 –0.43% Debt securities issued 682,160 –10,714 –1.57% 679,711 –10,714 –1.58% Subordinated liabilities 34,025 –1,220 –3.59% 34,025 –1,220 –3.59% Total interest bearing liabilities AmC 2,008,442 –18,602 –0.93% 1,886,190 –17,826 –0.95% Deposits 31,221 132 0.42% 23,307 490 2.10% Debt securities short position 24,195 –721 –2.98% 24,195 –721 –2.98% Debt securities issued 23,533 –830 –3.53% 21,509 –829 –3.86% Total interest bearing liabilities at FVTPL 78,949 –1,419 –1.80% 69,011 –1,060 –1.54% Total interest bearing liabilities 2,087,392 –20,020 –0.96% 1,955,201 –18,886 –0.97% Derivatives and other liabilities 587,357 1,743 246,390 2,542 Equity 141,742 100,631 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY1) 2,816,491 –18,277 2,302,223 –16,344 NET INTEREST INCOME 21,022 16,204 NET YIELD ON INTEREST EARNING ASSETS 0.96% 0.82% 1) The presentation between Interest Income and Interest Expense of financing costs has been aligned with the group presentation. The movement amounted to SEK 5,523m for 2018. Net interest income Parent company 2019 2018 Interest income 34,826 32,548 Income from leases 1) 5,792 5,656 Interest expense –17,217 –16,344 Depreciation of leased equipment 1) –5,082 –4,985 TOTAL 18,320 16,877 1) In the group Net income from leases is classified as interest income. In the parent company depreciation of leased equipment is reported as Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of tangible and ­intangible assets. 98 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Financial statements – Notes 5 Net fee and commission income Group Parent company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Issue of securities 720 451 1,069 745 Secondary market 1,645 1,758 1,161 1,342 Custody and mutual funds 7,782 8,082 3,554 3,654 Securities commissions 10,147 10,291 5,784 5,742 Payments 2,085 1,968 1,707 1,667 Card fees 4,214 3,986 581 545 Payment commissions 6,299 5,955 2,288 2,212 Life insurance commissions 1,741 1,848 Advisory 592 599 560 585 Lending 2,869 2,527 2,752 2,413 Deposits 305 293 53 61 Guarantees 608 598 600 573 Derivatives 403 421 493 501 Other 1,211 1,486 1,012 1,194 Other commissions 5,988 5,924 5,471 5,328 Fee and commission income 24,176 24,018 13,544 13,281 Securities commissions –1,968 –2,071 –1,462 –1,446 Payment commissions –2,204 –2,104 –703 –838 Life insurance commissions –543 –565 Other commissions –753 –914 –918 –934 Fee and commission expense –5,467 –5,654 –3,083 –3,218 Securities commissions, net 8,179 8,220 4,322 4,296 Payment commissions, net 4,096 3,851 1,586 1,375 Life insurance commissions, net 1,198 1,283 Other commissions, net 5,236 5,010 4,554 4,393 TOTAL 18,709 18,364 10,461 10,064 Fee and commission income by segment Large Corporates Corporate Investment & Financial & Private Management & Group, 2019 ­Institutions ­Customers Baltic Life Group functions1) Eliminations Total Issue of securities and advisory 1,258 35 18 2 1,312 Secondary market and derivatives 1,596 431 20 2,047 Custody and mutual funds 3,369 1,615 190 168 6,025 –3,585 7,782 Payments, cards, lending, deposits, guarantees and other 4,688 5,160 2,088 222 473 –1,338 11,293 Life insurance commissions 3,246 –1,504 1,741 TOTAL 10,911 7,240 2,317 3,636 6,499 –6,428 24,176 Group, 2018 Issue of securities and advisory 996 35 17 2 1,050 Secondary market and derivatives 1,694 465 22 –1 2,179 Custody and mutual funds 3,519 1,700 192 167 6,122 –3,618 8,082 Payments, cards, lending, deposits, guarantees and other 4,747 4,982 1,861 214 402 –1,347 10,858 Life insurance commissions 3,371 –1,523 1,848 TOTAL 10,956 7,182 2,091 3,752 6,525 –6,488 24,018 1) Group functions consists of business support units, treasury and staff units and German run-off operations. Fee and commission income is disaggregated in major types of service tied to Payments, cards, lending and deposits are mainly recognised at a point in time. primary geographical markets and operating segments. Revenue from Custody, Mutual funds and Life insurance commissions are mainly Revenue from Issue of securities, Advisory, Secondary market, Derivatives, recognised over time.  SEB Annual Report 2019 — 99 Financial statements – Notes 6 Net financial income Group Parent company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Equity instruments and related derivatives 2,628 637 2,091 398 Debt instruments and related derivatives –37 636 –2,506 1,408 Currency and related derivatives 4,119 3,580 3,520 3,209 Other life insurance income, net 722 984 Other 185 242 2,733 –441 TOTAL 7,617 6,079 5,838 4,574 Gains (losses) on financial assets and liabilities held for trading are presented between rows. There were effects from structured products offered to the pubon different rows based on type of underlying financial instrument. Changes in lic in the amounts of approximately SEK 1,120m (1,340) in equity related derivathe treasury result are due to changes in interest rates and credit spreads. The tives and a corresponding effect in debt securities of SEK –340m (–640). net effect from trading operations is fairly stable over time, but shows volatility Group Parent company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Derivatives – counterparty risk 26 –147 –17 –173 Derivatives – own credit standing –27 27 23 46 TOTAL –1 –119 7 –127 Other life insurance Group, 2019 FVHFT FVMPL FVDPL i­ncome, net Total Equity instruments and related derivatives 1,218 1,410 2,628 Debt instruments and related derivatives 2,136 722 –2,895 –37 Currency and related derivatives 4,119 4,119 Other life insurance income, net 722 722 Other 185 185 TOTAL 7,658 2,132 –2,895 722 7,617 Group, 2018 Equity instruments and related derivatives 100 537 637 Debt instruments and related derivatives –1,233 –184 2,054 636 Currency and related derivatives 3,580 3,580 Other life insurance income, net 984 984 Other 242 242 TOTAL 2,688 352 2,054 984 6,079 Parent company, 2019 FVHFT FVMPL FVDPL Total Equity instruments and related derivatives 1,085 1,006 2,091 Debt instruments and related derivatives –368 669 –2,806 –2,506 Currency and related derivatives 3,572 3,572 Other 2,733 2,733 TOTAL 7,020 1,675 –2,806 5,889 Parent company, 2018 Equity instruments and related derivatives 106 292 398 Debt instruments and related derivatives –525 –60 1,994 1,408 Currency and related derivatives 3,209 3,209 Other –441 –441 TOTAL 2,348 232 1,994 4,574 100 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Financial statements – Notes 7 Net other income Group Parent company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Dividends1) 3 73 Investments in associates 125 152 Gains less losses from investment securities –86 –275 890 1,175 Gains less losses from tangible assets2) 19 20 Gains less losses from divestment of shares 259 31 Other income 558 421 853 576 TOTAL 858 402 1,762 1,770 1) Reported separately in the Income Statement for parent company. 2) See note 11 for the group. Dividends Equity instruments 3 73 122 217 Investments in associates 9 Dividends from subsidiaries 5,046 8,904 TOTAL 3 73 5,168 9,130 Gains less losses from investment securities Equity instruments 87 276 8 Debt securities Buy back liabilities2) 1 2 614 1,167 Gains 1 90 890 1,175 Equity instruments –87 Debt securities Loans1) –157 Buy back liabilities2) –87 –121 Losses –87 –365 TOTAL –86 –275 1,175 1) Loans at amortised cost (AmC) were realised 2018 as preparation activities related to the wind down of DSK Hyp AG (former SEB AG). 2) Liabilities at amortised cost (AmC) are realised as preparation activities related to the wind down of DSK Hyp AG (former SEB AG) and active liability management. Other income Fair value adjustment in hedge accounting 55 33 62 –63 Operating result from non-life insurance, run off 178 210 Other income 325 178 792 638 TOTAL 558 421 853 576 Fair value adjustment in hedge accounting Fair value changes of the hedged items attributable to the hedged risk –1,384 125 –1,384 126 Fair value changes of the hedging derivatives 1,423 –167 1,423 –168 Amortisation of discontinued hedge items –21 Fair value hedges 39 –63 39 –42 Fair value changes of the hedging derivatives –4 –13 –4 –13 Cash-flow hedges – ineffectiveness –4 –13 –4 –13 Fair value changes of the hedged items –458 5 –458 5 Fair value changes of the hedging derivatives 485 –12 485 –12 Amortisation of discontinued hedge items –7 116 Fair value portfolio hedge of interest rate risk – ineffectiveness 20 109 27 –7 TOTAL 55 33 62 –63 SEB Annual Report 2019 — 101 Financial statements – Notes 8 Staff costs Group Parent company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Base salary –8,661 –8,200 –6,338 –5,868 Cash-based variable remuneration –725 –635 –566 –487 Long-term equity-based remuneration –649 –596 –547 –455 Salaries and other compensations –10,035 –9,432 –7,451 –6,810 Social charges –2,568 –2,553 –1,981 –1,886 Defined benefit retirement plans 1) –409 –395 4 Defined contribution retirement plans 1) –944 –867 –718 –644 Benefits and redundancies 2) –178 –282 –122 –207 Education and other staff related costs –525 –474 –412 –359 TOTAL –14,660 –14,004 –10,684 –9,902 1) Pension costs in the Group are accounted for according to IAS 19 Employee benefits. Pension costs in the parent company are calculated in accordance with the Act on Safeguarding Pensions Obligations and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s regulations. Non-recurring costs of SEK 98m (95m) for early retirement have been charged to the pension funds of the bank. 2) Includes costs for redundancies of SEK 115m (201) for the group and SEK 79m (160) for the parent company. 8a Remuneration Presented in note 8a is the statement of remuneration for the Consolidated SEB Group 984 (974) positions are defined as Identified Staff. SEB has chosen ­situation and significant units within the Group according to Regulation on to include the remuneration also in the insurance operations that are not part ­prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms. In the of the Financial group of undertakings but part of the SEB Group. Remuneration by division Group Parent company Fixed1) Variable1) Fixed1) Variable1) 2019 Remuneration FTEs Remuneration FTEs Remuneration FTEs Remuneration FTEs Large Corporates & Financial Institutions –2,736 2,057 –730 1,989 –2,604 1,990 –693 1,922 Corporate & Private Customers –2,426 3,564 –170 3,557 –1,723 2,893 –137 2,886 Baltic –646 2,350 –64 2,350 Life –617 1,046 –44 1,040 Investment Management & Group ­functions2) –3,768 5,922 –367 5,825 –2,877 4,584 –283 4,487 TOTAL –10,193 14,939 –1,374 14,761 –7,204 9,467 –1,113 9,295 whereof collective variable pay3) –590 14,761 2018 Large Corporates & Financial Institutions –2,521 1,986 –580 1,919 –2,251 1,895 –571 1,828 Corporate & Private Customers –2,394 3,596 –196 3,588 –1,564 2,904 –156 2,895 Baltic –541 2,377 –69 2,377 Life –745 1,146 –47 1,138 Investment Management & Group functions2) –3,544 5,647 –338 5,550 –2,905 4,271 –215 4,172 TOTAL –9,745 14,751 –1,231 14,570 –6,720 9,071 –942 8,896 whereof collective variable pay3) –487 14,570 102 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Financial statements – Notes Note 8 a continued Remuneration SEB Pank AS, Estonia SEB Banka AS, Latvia Fixed1) Variable1) Fixed1) Variable1) 2019 Remuneration FTEs Remuneration FTEs Remuneration FTEs Remuneration FTEs Baltic –181 703 –20 703 –144 617 –15 617 Other4) –106 312 –17 312 –59 216 –7 216 TOTAL –286 1,015 –37 1,015 –204 833 –22 833 2018 Baltic –165 706 –20 706 –163 621 –16 621 Other4) –96 312 –16 312 –72 229 –6 229 TOTAL –261 1,018 –36 1,018 –235 850 –21 850 SEB bankas AB, Lithuania Fixed1) Variable1) 2019 Remuneration FTEs Remuneration FTEs Baltic –299 1,012 –25 1,012 Other4) –150 431 –12 431 TOTAL –450 1,443 –37 1,443 2018 Baltic –216 1,020 –28 1,020 Other4) –97 384 –9 384 TOTAL –313 1,404 –38 1,404 1) Variable pay is defined as short-term cash-based remuneration and long-term equity-based remuneration. All other remuneration is reported as fixed remuneration and includes: base pay, pensions, severance pay, fees and benefits such as e.g. company car and domestic services, in accordance with FFFS 2011:1. The reported remuneration does not include social charges. 2) Including Life, Investment Management & Group functions and Baltic in the parent company. 3) C  ollective short-term and long-term remuneration. Collective short-term and long-term remuneration compared to expected outcome is reported in Other. 4) I ncluding Life, Investment Management & Group functions in Baltic countries. In Lithuania also Large Corporates & Financial Institutions are included. Remuneration by category Group Parent company Remuneration FTEs Remuneration FTEs Identified Other Identified Other Identified Other Identified Other 2019 Staff6) employees Total Staff6) employees Total Staff6) employees Total Staff6) employees Total Fixed remuneration1) –1,258 –8,935 –10,193 930 14,009 14,939 –1,030 –6,174 –7,204 740 8,727 9,467 Variable pay1) –336 –1,038 –1,374 541 14,220 14,761 –295 –818 –1,113 469 8,826 9,295 whereof: Short-term cash-based –136 –588 –725 –123 –443 –566 Long-term equity-based2) –200 –449 –649 –172 –402 –574 Deferred variable pay3) –232 –417 –649 –204 –371 –574 Accrued and paid ­remuneration4) –1,594 –9,973 –11,567 –1,326 –6,992 –8,318 Severance pay 5) –122 294 –86 160 Agreed not yet paid ­ severance pay –521 219 –190 101 Highest single amount –3 –3 2018 Fixed remuneration1) –1,161 –8,584 –9,745 908 13,843 14,751 –632 –6,087 –6,720 537 8,534 9,071 Variable pay1) –342 –889 –1,231 571 13,999 14,570 –173 –768 –942 336 8,560 8,896 whereof: Short-term cash-based –146 –489 –635 –65 –422 –487 Long-term equity-based2) –195 –400 –596 –108 –347 –455 Deferred variable pay3) –232 –364 –596 –124 –331 –455 Accrued and paid ­remuneration4) –1,532 –9,444 –10,976 –816 –6,845 –7,661 Severance pay5) –209 491 –166 237 Agreed not yet paid ­ severance pay –301 284 –274 218 Highest single amount –8 –8 SEB Annual Report 2019 — 103 Financial statements – Notes Note 8 a continued Remuneration SEB Pank AS, Estonia SEB Banka AS, Latvia Remuneration FTEs Remuneration FTEs Identified Other Identified Other Identified Other Identified Other 2019 Staff 6) employees Total Staff 6) employees Total Staff 6) employees Total Staff 6) employees Total Fixed remuneration1) –19 –267 –286 23 992 1,015 –13 –191 –204 18 815 833 Variable pay1) –3 –34 –37 9 1,006 1,015 –1 –21 –22 6 827 833 whereof: Short-term cash-based –18 –18 –11 –11 Long-term equity-based2) –3 –16 –19 –1 –10 –11 Deferred variable pay3) –3 –16 –19 –1 –10 –11 Accrued and paid ­remuneration4) –22 –301 –323 –14 –200 –215 Severance pay5) –1 14 –1 19 2018 Fixed remuneration1) –15 –246 –261 21 997 1,018 –11 –224 –235 16 834 850 Variable pay1) –2 –34 –36 9 1,009 1,018 –1 –20 –21 11 839 850 whereof: Short-term cash-based –17 –17 –9 –9 Long-term equity-based2) –2 –17 –19 –1 –11 –13 Deferred variable pay3) –2 –14 –16 –1 –12 –13 Accrued and paid ­remuneration4) –18 –279 –297 –12 –245 –257 Severance pay5) –2 19 –9 86 SEB bankas AB, Lithuania Remuneration FTEs Identified Other Identified Other 2019 Staff 6) employees Total Staff 6) employees Total Fixed remuneration1) –24 –426 –450 22 1,421 1,443 Variable pay1) –3 –35 –37 8 1,435 1,443 whereof: Short-term cash-based –19 –19 Long-term equity-based 2) –3 –15 –18 Deferred variable pay3) –3 –15 –18 Accrued and paid ­remuneration 4) –26 –461 –487 Severance pay5) –4 37 2018 Fixed remuneration1) –20 –293 –313 22 1,382 1,404 Variable pay1) –3 –35 –38 5 1,399 1,404 whereof: Short-term cash-based –15 –15 Long-term equity-based 2) –3 –20 –23 Deferred variable pay3) –3 –20 –23 Accrued and paid ­remuneration 4) –23 –328 –351 Severance pay5) –12 78 1) Variable pay is defined as short-term cash-based remuneration and long-term equity-based remuneration. All other remuneration is reported as fixed remuneration and includes: base pay, pensions, severance pay, fees and benefits such as e.g. company car and domestic services, in accordance with FFFS 2011:1. The reported remuneration does not include social security charges. 2) Long-term equity based remuneration encompasses three different programmes; All Employee Programme, Share Deferral Programme and Restricted Share Programme. 3) The deferred variable pay is locked the first year. Short-term cash-based remuneration can thereafter be paid pro rata over three years after a possible risk adjustment. Long-term equity-based programmes are locked for a minimum of three years or paid out pro rata depending on programme. 4) In Accrued and paid remuneration amounts paid within the first quarter after the accrual is included. Deferred variable pay has been subject to risk adjustment. 5) The amount also includes sign-on payments. 6) Employees with material impact on SEB’s risk profile, in accordance with FFFS 2011:1. Loans to Executives Group Parent company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Managing Directors and Deputy Managing Directors 1) 120 102 46 27 Boards of Directors 2) 361 342 117 126 TOTAL 482 444 163 153 1) Comprises current President and Deputy President in the parent company and Managing Directors and Deputy Managing Directors in subsidiaries. Total number of executives was 39 (39) of which 10 (11) female. 2) Comprises current Board members and their substitutes in the parent company and subsidiaries. Total number of persons was 127 (128) of which 37 (34) female. Pension commitments to Executives Pension disbursements made 97 101 75 77 Change in commitments 27 32 11 15 Commitments at year-end 1,381 1,359 817 825 The above commitments are covered by the bank’s pensions funds or through Presidents and vice Presidents in the parent company and Managing directors Bank-owned endowment assurance schemes. They include active and retired and Deputy Managing directors in subsidiaries, in total 92 persons (91). 104 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Financial statements – Notes 8b Pensions Retirement benefit obligations tive countries’ collective agreements. The plan assets are kept separate in speThe group has established pension schemes in the countries where business cific pension foundations. In case of a deficit in the pension obligation according is performed. There are both defined benefit plans and defined contribution to local rules SEB is obliged to meet this with contribution to the foundation or plans. The major pension schemes are final salary defined benefit plans and insure a deficit. The asset allocation is determined to meet the various risks in are funded. The defined benefit plan in Sweden is closed to new employees and the pension obligations and is decided by the board/trustees in the pension a defined contribution plan was established during 2013. In Germany a major foundations. The assets are booked at market value. The pension and interest part was transferred from SEB in 2018. The defined contribution plans follow costs are presented in Staff costs. the local regulations in each country. Multiemployer defined benefit plans exist for employees in some parts of the group. These plans are accounted for as Defined contribution plans defined contribution plans since sufficient information of SEB’s share of the Defined contribution plans exist both in Sweden and abroad. In Sweden a ­liability/asset and cost is not available. smaller part of the closed collective retirement agreement is defined contribution based. Over a certain salary level the employees could also choose to leave Defined benefit plans the defined benefit plan and replace it by a defined contribution plan. The curThe major defined benefit plans exist in Sweden and Germany and cover most rent plan for new employees is fully contribution based. Most other countries employees in these countries. Independent actuarial calculations according to have defined contribution plans except for the Baltic countries where the comthe Projected Unit Credit Method (PUCM) are performed quarterly to decide pany to a limited extent contributes to the employees retirement. The defined the value of the defined benefit obligation. The benefits covered include retirecontribution plans are not recognised in the balance sheet but accounted for as ment benefits, disability, death and survivor pensions according to the respecan expense among Staff costs. DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS IN SEB GROUP 2019 2018 Net amount recognised in the Balance sheet Sweden1) Foreign1) Group1) Sweden1) Foreign1) Group1) Defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the year 25,436 1,245 26,682 24,372 6,448 30,820 Curtailment, acquisitions and reclassification2) –653 –653 –5,371 –5,371 Service costs 472 7 479 494 15 509 Interest costs 506 8 514 533 47 580 Benefits paid –791 –5 –795 –772 –148 –920 Exchange differences –14 –14 84 84 Remeasurements of pension obligation 5,248 416 5,664 809 172 981 Defined benefit obligation at the end of the year 30,872 1,005 31,876 25,436 1,245 26,682 Fair value of plan assets at the beginning of the year 29,541 818 30,359 29,652 5,123 34,775 Curtailment, acquisitions and reclassification2) –158 –158 –4,263 –4,263 Calculated interest on plan assets 583 0 583 644 49 694 Benefits paid/contributions –766 5 –761 –751 –751 Exchange differences –24 –24 –36 –36 Valuation gains (losses) on plan assets 7,059 3 7,062 –5 –54 –59 Fair value of plan assets at the end of the year 36,417 645 37,062 29,541 818 30,359 Change in the net assets or net liabilities Defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the year 4,104 –427 3,677 5,280 –1,325 3,955 Curtailment, acquisitions and reclassification 495 495 1,108 1,108 Total expense in staff costs –394 –15 –409 –383 –13 –395 Pension paid 791 5 796 772 148 920 Benefits paid/contributions –766 –766 –751 –751 Exchange differences –5 –5 –120 –120 Remeasurements 1,811 –413 1,398 –814 –226 –1,040 NET AMOUNT RECOGNISED IN THE BALANCE SHEET 5,545 –359 5,186 4,104 –427 3,677 1) The net defined benefit obligation is recognised in the balance sheet either as an asset or liability depending on the situation for each legal entity. 2) Pension obligations and plan assets under the defined benefit plan in DSK Hyp AG (former SEB AG), have been transferred to Versicherungsverein des Bankgewerbes a.G (BVV) in 2019. In 2019 a contribution of SEK 7m (15) was paid to the German pension foundation. Contribution to the foundations cannot be ruled out in 2020 due to uncertainty in interest rate levels. SEB Annual Report 2019 — 105 Financial statements – Notes Note 8 b continued Pensions Principal actuarial assumptions used 2019 2018 Sweden Foreign Sweden Foreign Discount rate 1.1% 1.4% 2.0% 2.0% Inflation rate 1.5% 1.8% 1.5% 1.8% Expected rate of salary increase 3.5% 2.5% 3.5% 2.5% Expected rate of increase in the income basis amount 3.0% 3.0% The discount rate is based set on high-quality corporate bonds in a deep marflation rate of 0.5 per cent gives an increased obligation of SEK 3,067m. A deket, in Sweden covered bonds which are at least AAA-rated. An extrapolation crease in assumption for expected salary increase in Sweden of 0.5 per cent of the maturity of the covered bonds is made based on swaps. This extrapolatwould have a positive effect on the obligation by SEK 348m an increase would ed maturity is in line with the estimated maturity of obligations for post-employhave a negative effect of SEK 423m. ment benefits. Life expectancy assumptions in Sweden are established by the The obligation in Germany would increase with SEK 62m if the discount rate Actuarial Research Board (FTN) and are based on DUS14 for white-collar workwas reduced by 0.5 per cent. An increase by the same percentage would deers. In Germany the Heubeck Sterbetafeln is used. Weighted average duration crease the obligation by SEK 54m. If the inflation assumption for Germany infor the obligation is 23 years in Sweden and 14 years in Germany. creases by 0.25 per cent the pension obligation would increase by SEK 9m and A decrease of the discount rate for Sweden of 0.5 per cent would imply an corresponding decrease would be SEK 8m at a lower inflation assumption. A ­increase of the Swedish pension obligation by SEK 3,472m while the same change in expected salary increases in Germany by 0.25 per cent would with change in the inflation assumption for Sweden would have the opposite effect a higher rate give an increase of the obligation with SEK 24m and with a lower and decrease the obligation by SEK 2,613m. An increase of the discount rate by rate reduce the obligation with SEK 24m. same ratio would reduce the obligation with SEK 2,978m and an increased inAllocation of plan assets 2019 2018 Sweden Foreign Group Sweden Foreign Group Cash and cash equivalents 1,158 16 1,174 719 198 918 Equity instruments with a quoted market price in an active market 22,619 22,619 17,470 17,470 Equity instruments not listed in an active market 5,562 5,562 4,907 4,907 Debt instruments with a quoted market price in an active market 629 629 620 620 Debt instruments not listed in an active market 4,203 4,203 3,621 3,621 Properties 2,875 2,875 2,824 2,824 TOTAL 36,417 645 37,062 29,541 818 30,359 The pension plan assets include SEB shares with a fair value of SEK 1,418m (1,213). Buildings in Sweden are occupied by SEB. Amounts recognised in Income statement 2019 2018 Sweden Foreign Group Sweden Foreign Group Service costs –472 –7 –479 –494 –15 –509 Interest costs –506 –8 –514 –533 –47 –580 Calculated interest on plan assets 583 0 583 644 49 694 INCLUDED IN STAFF COSTS –394 –15 –409 –383 –13 –395 Amounts recognised in Other comprehensive income Remeasurements of pension obligation –5,248 –416 –5,664 –809 –172 –981 where of experience adjustments –160 –172 –332 175 –55 119 where of due to changes in financial assumptions –5,088 –244 –5,332 –984 –116 –1,100 where of due to changes in demographic assumptions Valuation gains (losses) on plan assets 7,059 3 7,062 –5 –54 –59 Deferred tax pensions –373 342 –31 208 –15 194 INCLUDED IN OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 1,437 –71 1,366 –606 –240 –846 DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PLANS IN SEB GROUP 2019 2018 Net amount recognised in Income statement Sweden Foreign Group Sweden Foreign Group Expense in Staff costs including special salary tax –688 –256 –944 –653 –214 –867 106 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Financial statements – Notes Note 8 b continued Pensions DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS IN THE PARENT COMPANY Parent company Net amount recognised in the Balance sheet 2019 2018 Defined benefit obligation at the beginning of the year 24,170 24,213 Imputed pensions premium 213 227 Interest costs and other changes 2,776 386 Early retirement 97 95 Pension disbursements –766 –751 DEFINED BENEFIT OBLIGATION AT THE END OF THE YEAR 26,490 24,170 Fair value of plan assets at the beginning of the year 28,504 28,621 Return on assets 7,375 635 Benefits paid –766 –751 FAIR VALUE OF PLAN ASSETS AT THE END OF THE YEAR 35,113 28,504 The above defined benefit obligation is calculated according to tryggandelagen. and to a smaller extent interest earning SEK 5,170m (4,187). The assets include The parent company consequently adopts the discount rate set by the Swedish SEB shares at a market value of SEK 1,367m (1,170) and buildings occupied by FSA before year-end. The obligation is fully covered by assets in the pension the company valued at SEK 2,772m (2,742). The return on assets was 26 per foundation and is not included in the balance sheet. cent (2) before pension compensation. The assets in the foundation are mainly equity related SEK 27,172m (21,575) Amounts recognised in Income statement Parent company 2019 2018 Pension disbursements –766 –751 Compensation from pension foundations 766 751 TOTAL 0 0 Principal actuarial assumptions used Gross interest rate 0.3% 0.7% Interest rate after tax 0.2% 0.6% The actuarial calculations are based on salaries and pensions on the balance sheet date. DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PLANS IN THE PARENT COMPANY Parent company Net amount recognised in Income statement 2019 2018 Expense in Staff costs including special salary tax –718 –644 Pension foundations Pension commitments Market value of asset 2019 2018 2019 2018 SEB-Stiftelsen, Skandinaviska Enskilda Bankens Pensionsstiftelse 26,490 24,170 35,113 28,504 SEB Kort AB:s Pensionsstiftelse 1,080 970 1,304 1,036 TOTAL 27,569 25,140 36,417 29,541 SEB Annual Report 2019 — 107 Financial statements – Notes 8c Remuneration to the Board and the Group Executive Committee Guidelines for remuneration based remuneration and pensions and other benefits. Other benefits may conThe guidelines for remuneration to the President and the other members of the sist of e.g. company car and domestic services. Group Executive Committee (GEC) were prepared by the Board of Directors and For more information, see page 74–75. its Remuneration and Human Resources Committee and approved by the Annual General Meeting 2019. Identified staff The remuneration structure for the President and the other members of the The President and all other members of the GEC are considered employees who GEC is in accordance with the remuneration policy for the Bank. No member of have a material impact on SEB’s risk profile according to the Swedish Financial the GEC has been entitled to cash based variable remuneration since 2009. Supervisory Authority regulations (FFFS 2011:1). Thus, the remuneration is based upon three main components; base pay, equity­ Remuneration to the Board1), SEK 2019 2018 Base pay Directors’ fee Benefits2) Total Base pay Directors’ fee Benefits2) Total Chairman of the Board, Marcus Wallenberg 3,935,000 3,935,000 3,745,000 3,745,000 Vice chairman of the Board, Sven Nyman 980,000 980,000 930,000 930,000 Vice chairman of the Board, Jesper Ovesen 1,845,000 1,845,000 1,745,000 1,745,000 Johan H. Andresen 740,000 740,000 700,000 700,000 Signhild Arnegård Hansen 1,127,500 1,127,500 1,087,500 1,087,500 Anne-Catherine Berner 779,167 779,167 Samir Brikho 1,115,000 1,115,000 1,045,000 1,045,000 Winnie Fok 1,005,000 1,005,000 965,000 965,000 Tomas Nicolin3) 1,240,000 1,240,000 Lars Ottersgård 740,000 740,000 Helena Saxon 1,165,000 1,165,000 1,125,000 1,125,000 Sara Öhrvall4) 350,000 350,000 President and CEO, Johan Torgeby 12,000,000 372,552 12,372,552 11,000,000 345,965 11,345,965 TOTAL 12,000,000 13,431,667 372,552 25,804,219 11,000,000 12,932,500 345,965 24,278,465 1) The number of Board members decided by the AGM in 2019 is eleven (eleven) of which seven (seven) men and four (four) women. 2) Includes benefits such as company car and holiday pay. 3) Resigned as a member of the Board as from the AGM 2019. 4) Sara Öhrvall left the Board 30 June 2018 to take up a position in the SEB Group. Remuneration to the Group Executive Committee, SEK 1) 2019 2018 Base pay 56,439,324 57,643,578 Benefits2) 1,712,537 2,164,512 TOTAL 58,151,861 59,808,090 1) GEC excluding the President and CEO. The members partly differ between the years but in average eleven (twelve) members are included. At the end of the year the number of members were eleven (twelve) of which eight (nine) men and three (three) women. Additional members are not included. 2) Includes benefits such as company car. Long-term equity programmes an additional holding period of one year after which the share rights can be Under the Share Deferral Programme members of the GEC may be granted excercised. Each share right carries the right to receive one Class A share an individual number of conditional share rights based on the fulfilment of in the Bank. There is normally a requirement for vesting that the participant pre-determined Group, business unit and individual target levels as outlined remains with SEB during the first three years, but some exemption apply. in SEB’s business plan. The targets are evaluated from a multi year perspecA further requirement for vesting is that the participant holds shares in SEB tive and based on the three year business plan as a mix of the financial targets equal to a predetermined amount, for GEC equivalent to one year salary net Return on Equity/Return on Business Equity and cost development and the of taxes, acquired no later than on a pro-rata basis during the initial three non-financial target customer satisfaction and sustainability among others. year vesting period. For GEC the initial allotment may not exceed 100 per cent of the base pay. GEC is not participating in the SMP 2012–2015 nor the All Employee ProOwnership of 50 per cent of the share rights are transferred to the particigramme (AEP) except for outstanding rights earned before being member pant after a qualification period of three years, 50 per cent after a qualificaof GEC. tion period of five years. After each respective qualification period there is Long-term equity programmes (expensed amounts for ongoing programmes), SEK 2019 2018 President and CEO, Johan Torgeby 3,138,254 2,105,704 Other members of the Group Executive committee1) 16,292,054 12,649,319 TOTAL 19,430,308 14,755,023 1) GEC excluding the President and CEO. The members partly differ between the years but in average eleven (twelve) members are included. At the end of the year the number of members were eleven (twelve). Additional members are not included. 2018 years figures have been updated. Some of the GEC members have previously received rights in the All Employee Programme. The corresponding calculated costs and number of outstanding rights/shares are not included in the tables. 108 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Financial statements – Notes Note 8 c continued Remuneration to the Board and the Group Executive Committee Number outstanding by 2019-12-31 Number outstanding President and CEO Other ­members First day of Johan Torgeby of the GEC Total ­exercise Performance criteria 2012: Share matching rights 25,309 25,309 2015 final vesting 100%1) 2013: Share matching rights 39,072 69,473 108,545 2016 final vesting 92% 2014: Share matching rights 20,026 28,168 48,194 2017 final vesting 63% 2013: Share rights 112,086 112,086 2017;20192) – 2014: Conditional share rights/Share rights 84,141 84,141 2018;20202) – 2015: Conditional share rights/Share rights 13,246 187,804 201,050 2019;20212) – 2016: Conditional share rights/Share rights 45,194 277,830 323,024 2020;20222) – 2017: Conditional share rights 34,280 214,239 248,519 2021;20232) – 2018: Conditional share rights 57,826 278,259 336,085 2022;20242) – 2019: Conditional share rights 71,813 307,810 379,623 2023;20252) – 1) Share Matching Programme 2012 vested in 2015 with 100% matching, since the programme had reached its cap the outcome after adjustment related to the cap was 92%. The exercise period for GEC members is extended during the period that they are GEC members. 2) The qualification period ends after three or five years respectively and are followed by a holding period of one year, thereafter there is normally an exercise period of three years. During the year the President and CEO has exercised rights to a value of SEK 0 (0). The corresponding value for the GEC excluding the President is SEK 1,960,501 (25,128,614). Pension and severance pay The pension agreement of the President is contribution-based. The pension to the members of the GEC excluding the President. The pension plans are ­contribution is a fixed amount. ­inviolable and defined contribution-based except for a portion in the collective Termination of employment by the bank is subject to a maximum 12-month agreement. period of notice and entitles to a severance pay of 12 months’ salary. Termination of employment by the bank is subject to a maximum 12-month As regards pension benefits and severance pay the following is applicable period of notice and entitles to a severance pay of 12 months’ salary. Pension costs (service costs and interest costs and defined contribution premiums), SEK 2019 2018 President and CEO, Johan Torgeby 3,912,235 3,834,302 Other members of the Group Executive committee1) 16,878,160 16,963,710 TOTAL 20,790,395 20,798,012 1) GEC excluding the President and CEO. The members partly differ between the years but in average eleven (twelve) members are included. At the end of the year the number of members were eleven (twelve). Additional members are not included. For information about related parties see note 45. SEB Annual Report 2019 — 109 Financial statements – Notes 8d Share-based payments Long-term equity-based programmes Restricted share All employee Share ­deferral Share ­matching 2019 programme ­programme ­programme ­programme1) Outstanding at the beginning of the year 1,441,322 11,032,302 20,546,286 1,607,835 Granted2) 1,898,254 3,718,657 11,488,750 72,840 Forfeited –379,810 –536,438 –6,477,429 –2,309 Exercised3) –454,372 –3,324,223 –3,935,480 –882,743 Expired –8,295 0 –2,233 OUTSTANDING AT THE END OF THE YEAR 2,497,099 10,890,298 21,619,894 800,241 of which exercisable 0 1,093,607 800,241 2018 Outstanding at the beginning of the year 10,564,099 17,750,711 1,967,361 Granted2) 1,449,922 3,083,545 9,589,041 123,696 Forfeited –8,600 –243,305 –5,395,913 –2,309 Exercised3) –2,372,037 –1,397,553 –480,913 Expired 0 OUTSTANDING AT THE END OF THE YEAR 1,441,322 11,032,302 20,546,286 1,607,835 of which exercisable 0 0 978,586 1,607,835 1) Numbers include investments done by participants, as well as allocated matching share rights. 2) Including compensation for dividend. 3) W eighted average share price for SMP and SDP at exercise SEK 91.45 (89.59). Total Long-term equity-based programmes No of issued No of No of A share Original no (maximum ­outstanding ­out­­standing per option/ First date of of holders4) outcome) 20195) 20185) share Validity ­exercise 2012: Share matching programme1) 432 7,024,168 25,309 677,895 4 2012–2019 20152) 2012: Share matching programme1) 213 3,485,088 520,224 627,663 4 2013–2020 20162) 2012: Share matching programme1) 96 1,300,288 254,708 302,277 4 2014–2021 20172) 2012: Share deferral programme – equity settled 86 1,199,504 41,348 276,644 1 2012–2021 2015/20173) 2013: Share deferral programme – equity settled 263 1,361,861 520,195 1,059,004 1 2013–2022 2016/20183) 2014: Share deferral programme – equity settled 622 1,909,849 1,427,919 1,520,505 1 2014–2023 2017/20193) 2015: Share deferral programme – equity settled 816 2,603,843 1,548,877 2,604,856 1 2015–2024 2018/20203) 2015: Share deferral programme – cash settled 513 1,717,150 153,926 1,705,862 2015–2021 2018/20203) 2016: Share deferral programme – equity settled 874 3,593,155 3,509,278 3,297,588 1 2016–2025 2019/20213) 2016: Share deferral programme – cash settled 500 2,017,622 2,076,858 1,953,743 2016–2022 2019/20213) 2017: Share deferral programme – equity settled1) 1,373 4,439,824 4,311,263 4,142,224 1 2017–2026 2020/20223) 2017: Share deferral programme – cash settled 75 206,125 212,529 206,464 2017–2023 2020/20223) 2018: Share deferral programme – equity settled1) 788 3,785,769 3,587,318 3,681,626 1 2018–2027 2021/20233) 2018: Share deferral programme – cash settled 14 97,770 97,770 97,770 2018–2024 2021/20233) 2019: Share deferral programme – equity settled1) 861 4,033,160 4,033,160 2019–2028 2022/20233) 2019: Share deferral programme – cash settled 16 109,028 109,028 2019–2025 2022/20223) 2018: Restricted Share programme – equity settled 411 1,378,367 954,219 1,369,767 1 2018–2022 2019/20223) 2018: Restricted Share programme – cash settled 28 71,555 48,909 71,555 2018–2022 2019/20223) 2019: Restricted Share programme – equity settled 413 1,420,596 1,420,596 2019–2023 2020/20223) 2019: Restricted Share programme – cash settled 29 73,375 73,375 2019–2023 2020/20223) 2013: All employee programme – equity settled 8,347 1,255,838 1 2013–2016 2017 2013: All employee programme – cash settled 5,358 532,184 2013–2016 2017 2014: All employee programme – equity settled 8,709 1,786,471 1 2014–2017 2018 2014: All employee programme – cash settled 5,216 964,436 2014–2017 2018 2015: All employee programme – equity settled 8,319 2,290,359 2,043,001 1 2015–2018 2019 2015: All employee programme – cash settled 6,745 1,220,463 993,735 2015–2018 2019 2016: All employee programme – equity settled 8,209 1,731,922 1,568,121 1,588,616 1 2016–2019 2020 2016: All employee programme – cash settled 6,517 933,905 810,201 831,973 2016–2019 2020 2017: All employee programme – equity settled 7,954 1,613,740 1,543,175 1,569,640 1 2017–2020 2021 2017: All employee programme – cash settled 6,867 924,166 821,259 848,781 2017–2020 2021 2018: All employee programme – equity settled 8,086 1,969,746 1,911,128 1,969,746 1 2018–2021 2022 2018: All employee programme – cash settled 6,863 1,186,810 1,157,747 1,186,810 2018–2021 2022 2019: All employee programme – equity settled 8,137 1,832,363 1,832,363 1 2019–2022 2023 2019: All employee programme – cash settled 7,159 1,246,304 1,246,304 2019–2022 2023 TOTAL 61,316,804 35,817,107 34,627,745 1) The exercise period for GEC members is extended during the period that they are GEC members. 2) As soon as practically possible following the end of the performance period, the establishing of the outcome of number of Matching Shares and the allocation of the A shares and, if applicable, the Matching Shares. 3) As soon as possible following the end of the performance period the outcome is established . For the equity-settled programmes the ownership of the performance shares is transferred upon registration, but the shares are withheld for one additional year. Cash-settled programmes are paid out in connection with the following payroll run. 4) In total approximately 2,000 individuals (1,900) participated in any of the programmes, All Employee Programme excluded. 5) Including additional deferral rights for dividend compensation. 110 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Financial statements – Notes Note 8 d continued Share-based payments Long-term equity-based programmes The Annual General meeting 2019 decided on three Long-term equity based pronumber of conditional / share rights based on the fulfilment of pre-determined grammes, one Share Deferral Programme, one Restricted Share Programme and Group, business unit and individual targets as outlined in SEB’s business plan, one All Employee Programme. set on an annual basis as a mix of financial and non-financial targets. The first Share Deferral Programme was introduced in 2012 for the Group The ownership of the share rights are transferred to the participants during a Executive Committee and certain other executive managers and key employees three year period in either three or four annual instalments. The share rights are with critical competences. The participants are granted an individual number of subject to restrictions in terms of e.g. certain regulatory and employment conditional share rights based on pre-determined Group, division/business unit requirements during the period between initial allotment and the transfer of the and individual target levels, both financial (Return on Equity/Return on Business ownership. After the transfer of ownership there is an additional holding period Equity and cost development) and non-financial (customer satisfaction and of one year before the share rights can be exercised. Each share right carries the parameters such as compliance, employee commitment, SEB’s corporate susright to receive one SEB Class A share. The share rights are not securities that tainability and risk management), set on an annual basis. can be sold, pledged or transferred to others. However, an estimated value per For GEC members and other senior executives 50 per cent of the share rights share right has been calculated for 2019 to SEK 84 (86) for the first installment ownership is transferred after a qualification period of three years and 50 per to SEK 75 (77) for the remaining instalments (based upon an average closing cent after a qualification period of five years. For other participants the qualifiprice of one SEB Class A share at the time of grant). cation period is three years. The requirement for vesting is normally that the In 2013 an All Employee Programme was introduced for most employees, participant remains with SEB during the first three years and that the particiwhere 50 per cent of the outcome is paid in cash and 50 per cent is deferred for pant holds shares in SEB equal to a predetermined amount, acquired no later three years and paid in SEB A shares. Deferrals will normally only be obtained than on a pro-rata basis during the initial three year period. After each respecunder the condition that the employee remains with SEB. In Sweden the tive qualification period there is an additional holding period of one year after deferred part is paid out in SEB A shares, adjusted for dividends. In all other which the share rights can be exercised, normally during a period of three years. countries the deferred part is paid out in cash adjusted for total shareholder Each share right carries the right to receive one Class A share in the bank. In return of the SEB A share. The initial outcome is capped at a maximum amount, countries mainly outside Europe the participants receives so called phantom which was adjusted in 2016, for each geography and is based on the fulfilment shares that gives the right to receive cash adjusted for the share price developof pre-determined Group targets outlined in SEB’s business plan, both financial ment during the qualification period and thereafter the total shareholder return (Return on Equity and cost development) and non-financial (customer satisfacof the SEB A share at the end of the holding period. tion). The outcome in 2019 year’s programme was 57 per cent (60) of the maxiIn the 2018 and 2019 programmes the holders are only compensated for divmum amount. In Sweden the maximum amount is SEK 75,000. idends after the qualification period, in the previous programmes the holders are compensated for dividends to the shareholders during the full period. Thus, Previously allotted programmes the number of share rights will be recalculated, after the Annual General MeetBetween 2009 and 2014 a Share Matching Programme for a number of selected ing each year, taking the dividend into account depending on programme. The senior executives and other key employees has been run. The programmes are share rights are not securities that can be sold, pledged or transferred to others. based on performance, have a vesting period of three years and are settled with However, an estimated value per share right has been calculated for 2019 to SEB Class A shares. All programmes require own investment. The investment SEK 59 (61) for a qualification period of three years and SEK 56 (57) for a qualiamount is pre-determined and capped for each participant. After three years, if fication period of five years (based upon an average closing price of one SEB still employed, the participant receives one Class A share/share rights for each Class A share at the time of grant). invested share/share right and a conditional number of p ­ erformance based In 2018 a Restricted Share Programme was introduced in order to ensure a matching shares for each invested share / share right. From 2012 the settlement competitive and attractive remuneration model within certain business units is in the form of share rights with an exercise period of four years. The 2014 proand to comply with new regulations implemented. The participants are selected gramme was closed in 2017 with 63 per cent matching. employees on the level below senior executives. They are granted an individual Further details of the outstanding programmes are found in the table above. SEB Annual Report 2019 — 111 Financial statements – Notes 8e Number of employees Average number of employees Group Parent company 2019 Men Women Total Men Women Total Sweden 3,889 4,124 8,013 3,437 3,329 6,766 Norway 226 154 380 197 107 304 Denmark 197 130 327 171 78 249 Finland 155 126 281 135 97 232 Estonia 287 865 1,152 Latvia 450 1,183 1,633 226 397 624 Lithuania 931 1,828 2,759 502 599 1,101 Germany 189 132 321 136 89 225 United Kingdom 71 39 110 71 39 110 Poland 13 27 40 13 27 40 Ukraine 18 34 52 China 14 29 43 14 29 43 Ireland 51 68 119 Luxembourg 103 93 196 Russia 20 70 90 Singapore 30 70 100 30 65 95 United States 31 16 47 26 13 39 Other countries1) 14 14 28 14 14 28 TOTAL 6,689 9,002 15,691 4,974 4,881 9,855 2018 Sweden 3,913 4,059 7,972 3,348 3,393 6,741 Norway 225 155 380 192 106 298 Denmark 270 188 458 168 72 240 Finland 155 129 284 118 95 213 Estonia 284 894 1,178 Latvia 423 1,137 1,560 186 328 514 Lithuania 840 1,769 2,609 403 551 954 Germany 232 160 392 57 46 103 United Kingdom 73 40 113 73 40 113 Poland 12 29 41 12 29 41 Ukraine 18 36 54 China 11 30 41 11 30 41 Ireland 51 72 123 Luxembourg 111 97 208 Russia 23 66 89 Singapore 32 73 105 28 66 94 United States 30 18 48 24 16 40 Other countries1) 15 14 29 15 14 29 TOTAL 6,719 8,964 15,684 4,635 4,786 9,421 1) Brazil and Hong Kong. 112 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Financial statements – Notes 9 Other expenses Group Parent company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Costs for premises1) 3) –726 –1,604 –1,261 –1,254 IT costs –3,494 –3,377 –2,651 –2,406 Travel and entertainment –417 –394 –327 –312 Consultants –797 –731 –639 –564 Marketing –278 –286 –134 –148 Information services –715 –623 –635 –551 Other operating costs2) –195 –186 –14 –124 TOTAL –6,623 –7,201 –5,660 –5,361 1) Of which rental costs –1,130 –913 –954 2) Net after deduction for capitalised costs, see also note 23. 3) IFRS 16 Leases is applied for the group from 1 January 2019. The group has decided to apply the modified retrospective approach (no restatement made). Interest expense on lease liabilities and depreciation of right-of-use assets are replacing nearly all lease costs for premises from 2019. Fees and expense allowances to appointed auditors and audit firms1) Group Parent company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Audit assignment –27 –12 Audit related services –2 –2 Tax advisory 0 Other services 0 Ernst & Young –30 –14 Audit assignment –10 –26 –5 –12 Audit related services –2 –12 –2 –1 Tax advisory –3 –12 –8 Other services –13 –8 –2 –2 PricewaterhouseCoopers –29 –58 –9 –24 1) The parent company includes the foreign branches. Audit assignment is defined as the audit of annual financial statements, the ing and services in c­ onnection with issuing of certificates and opinions. Tax adviadministration of the Board of Directors and the President, other tasks resting sory include general expatriate services and other tax services work. Other serupon the auditor as well as consulting and other assistance, which have been vices include consultation on financial accounting, services related to mergers ­initiated by the findings in performing audit work or implementation of such and acquisitions activities, operational effectiveness and assessments of intertasks. The audit r­ elated services include quarterly reviews, regulatory reportnal control. 10 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of tangible and intangible assets Group Parent company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Depreciation of tangible assets –337 –250 –241 –159 Depreciation of equipment leased to clients –5,082 –4,985 Depreciation of right-of-use assets1) –843 Amortisation of intangible assets –521 –480 –426 –369 Impairment of tangible assets –1 –4 Reversal of impairment on intangible assets 40 TOTAL –1,662 –735 –5,749 –5,512 1) IFRS 16 Leases is applied for group from 1 January 2019. For transition disclosures, see note 49 Leases. 11 Gains less losses from tangible and intangible assets Group 2019 2018 Investment properties 34 Properties and equipment 5 6 Gains 5 40 Investment properties –20 Properties and equipment –7 –2 Losses –7 –22 TOTAL –2 18 SEB Annual Report 2019 — 113 Financial statements – Notes 12 Net expected credit losses Group Parent company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Impairment gains or losses – Stage 1 24 –117 26 –106 Impairment gains or losses – Stage 2 457 –134 407 –123 Impairment gains or losses – Stage 3 –2,777 –613 –2,475 –506 Impairment gains or losses –2,296 –864 –2,042 –735 Write-offs and recoveries Total write-offs –1,113 –1,768 –471 –1,280 Reversals of allowances for write-offs 845 1,267 360 931 Write-offs not previously provided for –269 –501 –111 –349 Recovered from previous write-offs 271 199 108 64 Net write-offs 2 –302 –2 –285 NET EXPECTED CREDIT LOSSES –2,294 –1,166 –2,044 –1,020 Net ECL level, % 0.10 0.06 0.10 0.07 13 Items affecting comparability Group 2019 2018 Other income 4,506 Total operating income 4,506 Items affecting comparability 4,506 Income tax on items affecting comparability 22 ITEMS AFFECTING COMPARABILITY AFTER TAX 4,528 Items affecting comparability 2018 The in principle tax-exempt capital gain from the transaction amounted to The total income in the income statement from Items affecting comparability SEK 3,565m. was SEK 4,506m before tax and SEK 4,528m after tax. UC SEB Pension On 29 June 2018, the acquisition by the listed Finnish credit information comSEB divested all shares in SEB Pensionsforsikring A/S and SEB Administration pany Asiakastieto Group Plc (“Asiakastieto”) of UC AB (“UC”) was finalised. A/S (SEB Pension) to Danica Pension Livsforsikringsaktieselskab (Danica), SEB received shares in Asiakastieto, equivalent to 10.2 per cent of the company, a subsidiary to Danske Bank. The entire business, including employees, cusand SEK 0.3bn in cash. The transaction resulted in a tax-exempt capital gain of tomer contracts and systems, transferred from SEB to Danica on 7 June 2018. SEK 941m. 14 Appropriations Parent company 2019 2018 Group contribution 1,713 2,149 Accelerated tax depreciation 980 568 TOTAL 2,694 2,716 114 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Financial statements – Notes 15 Taxes Group Parent company Major components of tax expense 2019 2018 2019 2018 Current tax –5,036 –5,217 –4,189 –3,789 Deferred tax 311 618 Tax for current year –4,725 –4,599 –4,189 –3,789 Current tax for previous years 8 447 48 118 INCOME TAX EXPENSE –4,717 –4,152 –4,140 –3,671 Relationship between tax expenses and accounting profit Net profit 20,177 23,134 20,305 21,720 Income tax expense 4,717 4,152 4,140 3,671 Accounting profit before tax 24,895 27,285 24,446 25,391 Current tax at Swedish statutory rate of 21.4 per cent (22.0) –5,327 –6,003 –5,231 –5,586 Tax effect relating to other tax rates in other jurisdictions 353 399 Tax effect relating to not tax deductible expenses –385 –799 –543 –998 Tax effect relating to non-taxable income 588 1,525 1,586 2,795 Tax effect relating to a previously recognised tax loss, tax credit or temporary difference –274 –362 Tax effect relating to a previously unrecognised tax loss, tax credit or temporary difference 9 23 Current tax –5,036 –5,217 –4,189 –3,789 Tax effect relating to origin and reversal of tax losses, tax credits and temporary differences 274 362 Tax effect relating to changes in tax rates or the imposition of new taxes 1 286 Tax effect relating to a previously unrecognised tax loss, tax credit or temporary difference 37 –30 Deferred tax 311 618 Current tax for previous years 8 447 48 118 INCOME TAX EXPENSE 1) –4,717 –4,152 –4,140 –3,671 1) Total income tax expense was SEK 4,717m (4,152). The effective tax rate for the year was 18.9 per cent (15.2). Excluding Items affecting comparability, the effective tax rate was 18.9 per cent (18.3). Deferred tax income and expense recognised in income statement Accelerated tax depreciation 140 137 Pension plan assets, net –77 91 Tax losses carry forwards 6 –75 Other temporary differences 242 465 TOTAL 311 618 Current tax assets Group Parent company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Other 6,549 6,395 2,998 2,813 Recognised in profit and loss 6,549 6,395 2,998 2,813 Other 9 Recognised in Shareholders’ equity 9 TOTAL 6,549 6,404 2,998 2,813 Deferred tax assets Tax losses carry forwards 6 Pension plan assets, net 1 1 Other temporary differences1) 406 252 Recognised in profit and loss 413 253 Unrealised result in cash flow hedges 3 3 Unrealised result in financial assets/liabilities –157 –2 Recognised in Shareholders’ equity –154 –2 3 TOTAL 259 251 3 1) Temporary differences are differences between the carrying amount of an asset or liability in the balance sheet and its tax base. Tax losses carried forward in the SEB Group for which the tax assets are not includes losses where the amount can only be used for trade tax. The potential ­recognised in the balance sheet amount to SEK 6,375m (5,080) gross. These tax asset not recognised is SEK 1,523m (1,108). are not recognised due to the uncertainty in the possibility to use them. This SEB Annual Report 2019 — 115 Financial statements – Notes Note 15 continued Taxes Current tax liabilities Group Parent company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Other 1,764 1,734 717 655 Recognised in profit and loss 1,764 1,734 717 655 TOTAL 1,764 1,734 717 655 Deferred tax liabilities Accelerated tax depreciation 5,944 6,084 Pension plan assets and obligations, net –224 –302 Other temporary differences1) –48 40 Recognised in profit and loss 5,672 5,822 Pension plan assets and obligations, net 1,383 1,164 Unrealised result in cash flow hedges 85 85 Unrealised result in financial assets/liabilities 61 70 Recognised in Shareholders’ equity 1,445 1,318 85 TOTAL 7,117 7,141 85 1) Temporary differences are differences between the carrying amount of an asset or liability in the balance sheet and its tax base. Taxable temporary differences give rise to deferred tax assets and liabilities. As from 2018, advance income tax payments on profits in Estonia at a rate of future tax costs on dividends from Estonia. Since 2018 no income tax is paid in 14 per cent are made quarterly. The income tax paid in advance can be netted Latvia unless profit is distributed. No deferred tax liability is recognised related against tax payable on dividend distributions, where the tax rate is between to possible future tax costs on dividends from Latvia. The tax rate applicable to 20 and 14 per cent. No deferred tax liability is recognised related to possible dividends in Latvia is 20 per cent. 16 Earnings per share Group 2019 2018 Net profit attributable to shareholders, SEK m 20,177 23,134 Weighted average number of shares, millions 2,162 2,164 Basic earnings per share, SEK 9.33 10.69 Net profit attributable to shareholders, SEK m 20,177 23,134 Weighted average number of diluted shares, millions 2,175 2,177 Diluted earnings per share, SEK 9.28 10.63 Dilution1) Weighted average number of shares, millions 2,162 2,164 Adjustment for diluted weighted average number of additional Class A shares, millions 13 13 Weighted average number of diluted shares, millions 2,175 2,177 1) Calculated dilution based on the estimated economic value of the long-term incentive programmes. 116 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Financial statements – Notes 17 Cash and cash balances at central banks Group Parent company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Cash 2,507 2,249 65 155 Cash balances at central banks 144,185 206,866 110,039 163,925 TOTAL 146,691 209,115 110,104 164,081 18 Loans Group Parent company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Lending 1,990 33,294 400 29,665 Reverse repos 2,504 2,504 Loans to central banks 4,494 33,294 2,904 29,665 Lending 39,113 37,631 82,246 84,694 Collateral margins 6,532 5,197 7,249 5,774 Reverse repos 1,350 1,458 52 200 Loans to credit institutions 46,995 44,287 89,546 90,668 Lending 1,607,853 1,490,771 1,371,860 1,256,596 Collateral margins 45,602 56,118 45,275 56,164 Reverse repos 184,150 97,936 184,109 97,926 Loans to the public 1,837,605 1,644,825 1,601,243 1,410,687 TOTAL 1,889,095 1,722,406 1,693,693 1,531,020 Loans by measurement category Group Parent company 2019 FVHFT FVMPL AmC Total FVHFT FVMPL AmC Total Loans to central banks 2,504 1,990 4,494 2,504 400 2,904 Loans to credit institutions 52 46,943 46,995 52 89,495 89,546 Loans to the public 184,150 3,384 1,650,071 1,837,605 184,150 3,384 1,413,708 1,601,243 TOTAL 186,706 3,384 1,699,004 1,889,095 186,706 3,384 1,503,603 1,693,693 2018 Loans to central banks 33,294 33,294 29,665 29,665 Loans to credit institutions 200 44,087 44,287 200 90,468 90,668 Loans to the public 97,936 1,901 1,544,988 1,644,825 97,936 1,901 1,310,850 1,410,687 TOTAL 98,136 1,901 1,622,368 1,722,406 98,136 1,901 1,430,982 1,531,020 SEB Annual Report 2019 — 117 Financial statements – Notes Note 18 continued Loans Exposure and expected credit loss (ECL) allowances by stage The table shows gross carrying amounts for exposures on balance measured receivables a simplified approach based on past-due information is used to calat amortised cost and nominal amounts for exposures off-balance divided by culate loss allowances. stage as a mean to put ECL allowances in context to total exposure. For trade Group, 2019 Gross carrying amounts/ Carrying amounts/ ECL coverage Stage 1 (12-month ECL) Nominal amounts ECL allowances Net amounts ratio, % Debt securities 14,589 –1 14,588 Loans1) 1,623,030 –643 1,622,387 Financial assets 1,637,619 –644 1,636,975 Financial guarantees and Loan commitments 636,447 –189 636,258 Total 2,274,066 –832 2,273,234 0.04 Stage 2 (lifetime ECL) Loans1) 2) 72,459 –1,058 71,401 Financial assets 72,459 –1,058 71,401 Financial guarantees and Loan commitments 13,900 –127 13,773 Total 86,360 –1,185 85,174 1.37 Stage 3 (credit impaired/lifetime ECL) Loans1) 3) 11,396 –5,211 6,184 Financial assets 11,396 –5,211 6,184 Financial guarantees and Loan commitments 441 –138 303 Total 11,836 –5,349 6,487 45.19 Total Debt securities 14,589 –1 14,588 Loans1) 1,706,885 –6,912 1,699,972 Financial assets 1,721,474 –6,913 1,714,561 Financial guarantees and Loan commitments 650,788 –454 650,335 TOTAL 2,372,262 –7,367 2,364,895 0.31 1) Excluding demand deposits credit institutions. 2)Whereof gross carrying amounts SEK 1,372m and ECL allowances SEK 2m under Lifetime ECLs -simplified approach for trade receivables. 3) Whereof gross carrying amounts SEK 2,309m and ECL allowances SEK 1,002m for Purchased or Originated Credit Impaired loans. Stage 3 loans / Total loans – gross, % 0.67 Stage 3 loans / Total loans – net, % 0.36 Group, 2018 Gross carrying amounts/ Carrying amounts/ ECL coverage Stage 1 (12-month ECL) Nominal amounts ECL allowances Net amounts ratio, % Debt securities 16,337 –1 16,336 Loans1) 1,552,954 –643 1,552,311 Financial assets 1,569,291 –643 1,568,647 Financial guarantees and Loan commitments 602,884 –195 602,689 Total 2,172,175 –838 2,171,337 0.04 Stage 2 (lifetime ECL) Loans1) 2) 70,125 –1,364 68,761 Financial assets 70,125 –1,364 68,761 Financial guarantees and Loan commitments 16,712 –240 16,472 Total 86,837 –1,605 85,233 1.85 Stage 3 (credit impaired/lifetime ECL) Loans1) 3) 8,158 –3,331 4,827 Financial assets 8,158 –3,331 4,827 Financial guarantees and Loan commitments 242 –38 203 Total 8,400 –3,370 5,030 40.11 Total Debt securities 16,337 –1 16,336 Loans1) 1,631,237 –5,338 1,625,899 Financial assets 1,647,574 –5,339 1,642,235 Financial guarantees and Loan commitments 619,838 –474 619,365 TOTAL 2,267,412 –5,813 2,261,600 0.26 1) Excluding demand deposits credit institutions. 2) Whereof gross carrying amounts SEK 1,169m and ECL allowances SEK 2m under Lifetime ECLs -simplified approach for trade receivables. 3) Whereof gross carrying amounts SEK 1,281m and ECL allowances SEK 349m for Purchased or originated credit impaired loans. Stage 3 loans / Total loans – gross, % 0.50 Stage 3 loans / Total loans – net, % 0.30 118 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Financial statements – Notes Note 18 continued Loans Parent company, 2019 Gross carrying amounts/ Carrying amounts/ ECL coverage Stage 1 (12-month ECL) Nominal amounts ECL allowances Net amounts ratio, % Debt securities 17,936 –1 17,935 Loans1) 1,426,665 –540 1,426,125 Financial assets 1,444,602 –542 1,444,060 Financial guarantees and Loan commitments 592,605 –160 592,445 Total 2,037,207 –701 2,036,505 0.03 Stage 2 (lifetime ECL) Loans1) 2) 61,848 –832 61,016 Financial assets 61,848 –832 61,016 Financial guarantees and Loan commitments 10,918 –91 10,828 Total 72,766 –922 71,844 1.27 Stage 3 (credit impaired/lifetime ECL) Loans1) 3) 8,071 –3,722 4,349 Financial assets 8,071 –3,722 4,349 Financial guarantees and Loan commitments 352 –120 232 Total 8,424 –3,842 4,582 45.61 Total Debt securities 17,936 –1 17,935 Loans1) 1,496,585 –5,094 1,491,490 Financial assets 1,514,521 –5,095 1,509,426 Financial guarantees and Loan commitments 603,875 –370 603,505 TOTAL 2,118,396 –5,465 2,112,931 0.26 1) Excluding demand deposits credit institutions. 2) Whereof gross carrying amounts SEK 1,427m and ECL allowances SEK 2m under Lifetime ECLs -simplified approach for trade receivables. 3) Whereof gross carrying amounts SEK 2,258m and ECL allowances SEK 952m for Purchased or originated credit impaired loans. Stage 3 loans / Total loans, gross, % 0.54 Stage 3 loans / Total loans, net, % 0.29 Parent company, 2018 Gross carrying amounts/ Carrying amounts/ ECL coverage Stage 1 (12-month ECL) Nominal amounts ECL allowances Net amounts ratio, % Debt securities 17,537 –1 17,536 Loans1) 1,370,604 –534 1,370,070 Financial assets 1,388,141 –534 1,387,606 Financial guarantees and Loan commitments 544,335 –177 544,158 Total 1,932,475 –711 1,931,764 0.04 Stage 2 (lifetime ECL) Debt securities 32 32 Loans1) 2) 59,135 –1,104 58,031 Financial assets 59,167 –1,104 58,063 Financial guarantees and Loan commitments 12,655 –195 12,460 Total 71,822 –1,299 70,523 1.81 Stage 3 (credit impaired/lifetime ECL) Loans1) 3) 4,587 –1,705 2,882 Financial assets 4,587 –1,705 2,882 Financial guarantees and Loan commitments 70 –11 59 Total 4,656 –1,716 2,941 36.85 Total Debt securities 17,569 –1 17,568 Loans1) 1,434,325 –3,343 1,430,982 Financial assets 1,451,895 –3,344 1,448,551 Financial guarantees and Loan commitments 557,060 –382 556,677 TOTAL 2,008,954 –3,726 2,005,228 0.19 1) Excluding demand deposits credit institutions. 2) Whereof gross carrying amounts SEK 1,225m and ECL allowances SEK 2m under Lifetime ECLs -simplified approach for trade receivables. 3) Whereof gross carrying amounts SEK 1,227m and ECL allowances SEK 296m for Purchased or originated credit impaired loans. Stage 3 loans / Total loans, gross, % 0.32 Stage 3 loans / Total loans, net, % 0.20 SEB Annual Report 2019 — 119 Financial statements – Notes Note 18 continued Loans Loans and expected credit loss (ECL) allowances by industry The table shows gross carrying amounts for loans measured at amortised cost and ECL allowances as a mean to put ECL allowances in context to overall lending. Net carrying Gross carrying amounts ECL allowances amount Stage 3 Stage 3 Stage 1 Stage 2 (credit Stage 1 Stage 2 (credit (12-month (lifetime impaired/­ (12-month (lifetime impaired/­ Group, 2019 ECL) ECL) lifetime ECL) Total ECL) ECL) lifetime ECL) Total Total Banks 64,952 1,665 66,617 –5 –2 –7 66,610 Finance and insurance 111,610 960 57 112,627 –33 –10 –5 –49 112,579 Wholesale and retail 78,052 3,080 1,092 82,224 –48 –38 –706 –792 81,433 Transportation 35,169 581 41 35,791 –17 –4 –14 –35 35,757 Shipping 54,975 1,871 1,771 58,616 –24 –11 –669 –704 57,912 Business and household services 136,838 9,673 843 147,354 –154 –408 –421 –983 146,372 Construction 11,201 1,083 201 12,484 –8 –9 –83 –101 12,384 Manufacturing 97,737 3,280 2,671 103,688 –56 –44 –1,331 –1,431 102,257 Agriculture, forestry and fishing 21,654 1,501 190 23,345 –8 –7 –44 –58 23,287 Mining, oil and gas extraction 26,608 5,695 1,343 33,645 –12 –53 –558 –624 33,021 Electricity, gas and water supply 43,940 407 211 44,558 –17 –34 –78 –129 44,429 Other 39,564 2,762 151 42,477 –22 –46 –49 –117 42,360 Corporates 657,347 30,894 8,571 696,812 –398 –666 –3,959 –5,022 691,789 Commercial real estate management 150,747 2,287 377 153,410 –14 –12 –140 –166 153,244 Residential real estate management 114,923 1,804 48 116,775 –8 –1 –1 –10 116,765 Real Estate Management 265,670 4,091 425 270,186 –22 –13 –141 –176 270,009 Housing co-operative associations 52,598 7,410 3 60,011 –2 –3 60,008 Public Administration 15,284 276 53 15,613 –1 –4 –2 –6 15,607 Household mortgages 527,100 22,765 1,137 551,003 –49 –136 –360 –546 550,457 Other 40,079 5,358 1,207 46,644 –167 –239 –747 –1,153 45,491 Households 567,179 28,124 2,344 597,646 –216 –375 –1,107 –1,698 595,948 TOTAL 1,623,030 72,459 11,396 1,706,885 –643 –1,059 –5,212 –6,913 1,699,972 Excluding demand deposits credit institutions and including trade and client receivables presented as other assets. Group, 2018 Banks 97,795 900 98,695 –2 –2 –4 98,691 Finance and insurance 97,505 660 15 98,180 –17 –4 –11 –32 98,148 Wholesale and retail 77,427 3,120 550 81,097 –42 –82 –181 –306 80,792 Transportation 34,437 691 105 35,232 –14 –7 –77 –97 35,135 Shipping 50,121 963 1,694 52,779 –18 –5 –407 –430 52,349 Business and household services 140,094 7,035 862 147,991 –143 –227 –351 –721 147,271 Construction 9,981 1,281 223 11,486 –7 –14 –47 –68 11,418 Manufacturing 90,701 3,642 730 95,073 –82 –73 –529 –683 94,390 Agriculture, forestry and fishing 19,859 1,258 128 21,245 –8 –7 –40 –55 21,190 Mining, oil and gas extraction 14,615 6,046 530 21,191 –30 –421 –97 –548 20,644 Electricity, gas and water supply 38,990 761 2 39,752 –15 –44 –60 39,692 Other 44,385 2,857 115 47,357 –57 –72 –237 –366 46,991 Corporates 618,115 28,314 4,955 651,384 –433 –956 –1,977 –3,365 648,019 Commercial real estate management 142,857 2,750 561 146,169 –17 –19 –188 –224 145,945 Residential real estate management 90,985 824 87 91,897 –5 –1 –31 –37 91,860 Real Estate Management 233,843 3,574 648 238,065 –23 –19 –219 –261 237,805 Housing co-operative associations 54,807 8,695 63,502 –1 –2 –4 63,498 Public Administration 13,013 280 2 13,296 –1 –4 –2 –7 13,289 Household mortgages 497,351 23,132 1,374 521,856 –54 –148 –422 –623 521,233 Other 38,029 5,230 1,179 44,438 –129 –236 –710 –1,074 43,364 Households 535,381 28,362 2,552 566,295 –182 –383 –1,132 –1,698 564,597 TOTAL 1,552,954 70,125 8,158 1,631,237 –643 –1,364 –3,331 –5,338 1,625,899 Excluding demand deposits credit institutions and including trade and client receivables presented as other assets. 120 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Financial statements – Notes Note 18 continued Loans Stage 3 loans (credit-impaired) and collaterals by industry The table shows gross carrying amounts and ECL allowances for credit-impaired loans divided by stage 3 and the fair value of collaterals for these assets. Gross carrying Carrying Fair value of Group, 2019 amounts ECL allowances amounts collaterals Banks 0 0 0 0 Corporates 8,571 –3,959 4,612 4,374 Real Estate Management1) 425 –141 283 370 Public Administration 53 –2 51 1 Household 2,347 –1,109 1,237 1,016 TOTAL 11,396 –5,212 6,184 5,761 Group, 2018 Banks 0 0 0 0 Corporates 4,977 –1,979 2,998 2,920 Real Estate Management1) 655 –222 433 526 Public Administration 2 –2 1 1 Household 2,524 –1,129 1,395 1,236 TOTAL 8,158 –3,331 4,827 4,683 1) Including co-operative associations. Exposure by risk classification category The table shows gross carrying amounts for exposures on balance and nominal amounts for exposures off-balance divided by stage and risk classification category. The risk classification categories are further explained in Note 40. Stage 3 Stage 1 Stage 2 (credit impaired/ Group, 2019 (12-month ECL) (lifetime ECL) lifetime ECL)1) Total Investment grade 1,734,473 23,990 1,758,463 Standard monitoring 534,250 39,310 573,559 Watch list 5,343 23,060 28,403 Default 11,836 11,836 TOTAL 2,274,066 86,360 11,836 2,372,262 Group, 2018 Investment grade 1,469,235 18,693 1,487,928 Standard monitoring 702,940 42,885 745,825 Watch list 25,260 25,260 Default 8,400 8,400 TOTAL 2,172,175 86,837 8,400 2,267,412 1) Whereof gross carrying amounts SEK 2,309m (1,281) and ECL allowances SEK 1,002m (349) for Purchased or originated credit impaired loans. Movements in allowances for expected credit losses Reconciliation of movements of allowance accounts for on balance exposures (Loans and Debt securities measured at amortised cost) and off balance exposures (Financial guarantees and Loan commitments). 2019 Group Parent company Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 (12-month (lifetime (credit impaired/­ (12-month (lifetime (credit impaired/ Loans and Debt securities ECL) ECL) lifetime ECL) Total ECL) ECL) lifetime ECL) Total Opening balance 643 1,364 3,331 5,339 534 1,104 1,705 3,344 New and derecognised financial assets, net 366 –78 77 365 356 –37 101 420 Changes due to change in credit risk –370 –257 2,606 1,979 –354 –266 2,258 1,638 Changes due to modifications 16 0 16 11 0 11 Changes due to methodology change –8 –15 –8 –31 –4 –4 4 –4 Decreases in ECL allowances due to write-offs –845 –845 –360 –360 Exchange rate differences 12 29 49 90 9 23 14 46 TOTAL 644 1,058 5,211 6,913 542 832 3,722 5,095 Financial guarantees and Loan commitments Opening balance 195 240 38 474 177 195 11 382 New and derecognised financial assets, net 56 –74 –5 –24 49 –78 14 –16 Changes due to change in credit risk –67 –47 107 –7 –72 –32 98 –6 Changes due to modifications 0 0 Changes due to methodology change –1 –2 –1 –3 0 –1 –1 –2 Decreases in ECL allowances due to write-offs Exchange rate differences 6 9 –2 13 6 8 –2 11 TOTAL 189 127 138 454 160 91 120 370 Total Loans, Debt securities, Financial guarantees and Loan commitments Opening balance 838 1,605 3,370 5,813 711 1,299 1,716 3,726 New and derecognised financial assets, net 422 –152 72 342 405 –115 114 404 Changes due to change in credit risk –437 –304 2,713 1,972 –426 –298 2,356 1,632 Changes due to modifications 16 0 16 11 0 11 Changes due to methodology change –9 –17 –8 –34 –4 –5 4 –6 Decreases in ECL allowances due to write-offs –845 –845 –360 –360 Exchange rate differences 18 38 47 103 15 31 11 58 TOTAL 832 1,185 5,349 7,367 701 922 3,842 5,465 SEB Annual Report 2019 — 121 Financial statements – Notes Note 18 continued Loans The increase in total ECL allowances in 2019 was due to growth in exposures In stage 2 both exposures and ECL allowances was reduced primarily because and higher ECL allowances as a consequence of changes in credit risk. of a migration to stage 3 due to credit quality deterioration. There was exposure growth in Stage 1 while the amount of ECL allowances There was an inflow of exposures and ECL allowances to stage 3 due to was unchanged since growth due to new exposures was offset by a migration changes in credit risk, which was partly off-set by write-offs. resulting from changes in credit risk. 2018 Group Parent company Stage 3 Stage 3 Stage 1 Stage 2 (credit Stage 1 Stage 2 (credit (12-month (lifetime impaired/­ (12-month (lifetime impaired/lifeLoans and Debt securities ECL) ECL) lifetime ECL) Total ECL) ECL) time ECL) Total ECL allowance as of 1 January 2018 624 1,142 3,688 5,453 399 876 2,013 3,288 New and derecognised financial assets, net 542 –361 158 339 520 –324 132 328 Changes due to change in credit risk –448 543 614 710 –434 489 513 568 Decreases in ECL allowances due to write-offs –1,267 –1,267 –931 –931 Exchange rate differences –74 40 139 104 49 63 –21 91 TOTAL 643 1,364 3,331 5,339 534 1,104 1,705 3,344 Financial guarantees and Loan commitments ECL allowance as of 1 January 2018 164 283 229 676 133 109 140 381 New and derecognised financial assets, net 68 –224 –86 –242 52 –230 –74 –253 Changes due to change in credit risk –44 175 –73 58 –32 189 –64 92 Exchange rate differences 8 7 –32 –18 25 128 10 162 TOTAL 195 240 38 474 177 195 11 382 Total Loans, Debt securities, Financial guarantees and Loan commitments ECL allowance as of 1 January 2018 787 1,425 3,917 6,129 532 985 2,152 3,669 New and derecognised financial assets, net 610 –585 72 97 572 –554 58 75 Changes due to change in credit risk –492 718 541 768 –466 678 448 660 Decreases in ECL allowances due to write-offs –1,267 –1,267 –931 –931 Exchange rate differences –66 46 107 87 74 191 –11 253 TOTAL 838 1,605 3,370 5,813 711 1,299 1,716 3,726 The decrease in total ECL allowances in 2018 was due to write-offs of expoKey macroeconomic variable assumptions for calculating ECL sures in Stage 3. ­allowances ECL allowances in Stage 1 increased due to the growth in exposures. The group uses internally developed macroeconomic forecasts as the basis for While Stage 2 exposures decreased the Stage 2 ECL allowances increased the forward-looking information incorporated in the ECL measurement. In order as a result of negative migration of exposures with higher ECL cover ratio. to ensure an unbiased estimation of credit losses under IFRS 9, at least three There was also an outflow of exposures from Stage 2 to Stage 3 due to credit scenarios are used. One of the scenarios is the base case scenario, representing quality deterioration and to Stage 1 driven by improvements in data quality. the most likely outcome, which is also applied in the financial planning and Stage 3 exposures and ECL allowances were significantly reduced by writebudgeting process, while the other case scenarios represent more positive or offs, partly off-set by an inflow of exposures to Stage 3 due to deterioration in negative outcomes. The probability weights assigned to each scenario are credit risk. determined using a combination of statistical analysis and expert judgment. The scenarios are reviewed four times a year, or more frequently when appropriate due to rapid developments. The most significant macroeconomic variable assumptions of the Base scenario used as of 31 December 2019, are set out below. Individual scenarios for SEB’s home markets are used. 2019 2020 2021 2022 Domestic GDP growth, SEB's home markets 0.5% – 3.6% 0.6% – 3.2% 1.1% – 3.3% 1.5% – 3.0% World GDP (PPP) growth 2.9% 3.0% 3.3% 3.4% Household Consumption expenditure growth, Sweden 0.7% 1.3% 1.7% 2.0% Interest rate (STIBOR) 0.2% 0.2% 0.2% 0.75% Residential real estate price growth, Sweden 1.0% 2.0% 3.0% 3.0% Unemployment rate, Baltic countries 5.3% – 6.5% 5.8% – 6.2% 6.2% – 6.4% 6.0% – 6.2% Inflation rate, Baltic countries 2.2% – 2.8% 2.0% – 2.3% 2.2% – 2.5% 2.0% – 2.2% Nominal wage growth, Baltic countries 7.3% – 8.2% 6.0% – 6.5% 4.5% – 5.8% 4.5% – 5.0% The most significant assumptions affecting the ECL allowance of the non-retail and retail portfolios, respectively, are as follows: Non-retail portfolios (i) GDP impact on companies' performance (ii) Real estate price growth impact on collateral valuations Retail portfolios (i) Household consumption expenditure growth impact on borrowers' ability to meet their contractual obligations (ii) Residential real estate price growth impact on mortgage colleral values (iii) Unemployment rate impact on borrowers' ability to meet their contractual obligations (iv) Interest rates impact on borrowers' ability to meet their contractual obligations (v) Inflation rate impact on borrowers' ability to meet their contractual obligations (vi) Nominal wage growth impact on borrowers' ability to meet their contractual obligations As of 31 December 2019, the probability of the negative scenario was estimated to 20–25 per cent and the probability of the positive scenario was 17 per cent. 122 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Financial statements – Notes Note 18 continued Loans Sensitivity analysis of macroeconomic assumptions increase in the probability of the positive scenario occurring will have the In general, a worsening of the outlook on forecasted macroeconomic variables opposite positive impact. for each scenario or an increase in the probability of the negative scenario Should the positive and negative scenarios be assigned 100 per cent prob­ occurring will both increase the number of loans migrating from Stage 1 to ability of occurring, the model calculated ECL allowances would increase by Stage 2 and increase the estimated ECL allowances. On the other hand, an 7 per cent and decrease by 4 per cent, respectively compared to the weighted improvement in the outlook on forecasted macroeconomic variables or an scenario. ECL allowances Difference from the probability resulting from scenario weighted ECL allowances, % Negative scenario 7,854 7% Group Positive scenario 7,088 –4% Negative scenario 4,582 6% Large Corporates & Financial Institutions Positive scenario 4,163 –3% Negative scenario 1,910 9% Corporates & Private Customers Positive scenario 1,661 –6% Negative scenario 1,224 5% Baltic Positive scenario 1,129 –3% Key assumptions for triggering significant increase in credit risk the scenario weighted annualised lifetime PD at the reporting date with the sce(SICR) nario weighted annualised lifetime PD at initial recognition. For arrangements For arrangements with initial origination date as of 1 January 2018 or later, the with an initial origination date prior to 1 January 2018 changes in SEB internal primary indicator is changes in lifetime probability of default (PD) by comparing risk classification since initial origination are used as the primary indicator. Quantitative measures for triggering significant increase in credit risk (SICR) For arrangements o ­ riginated For arrangements o ­ riginated prior to 1 January 2018 on or after 1 January 2018 1) 1) Watch list Investment grade 2–7 grades Annualised lifetime PD increase Standard monitoring 1–2 grades by 200% and ≥ 50 basis points 1) Placement of a financial asset on watch list automatically classifies it as a significant increase in credit risk and places it in Stage 2. Regardless of the quantitative indicator, a significant increase in credit risk – recognising as Stage 2 SICR all exposures that have a worsened risk grade of is triggered if the following back-stop indicators occur: 1 notch or more; – payments are past due >30 days but <90 days, or – reduction of Stage 2 SICR triggering thresholds to 30bp increase in annual– financial assets are forborne (where due to the customer’s financial diffi­ ised lifetime PD. culties the contractual terms of the loans have been revised and concessions given). Total ECL as at 31 December 2019 would increase by 3.2 per cent when recognising all exposures which have been downgraded by one notch or more comBack stop indicators normally overlap with the quantitative indicator of pared to the grade at origination as Stage 2. The impact on total ECL as at 31 ­significant increase in credit risk. December 2019 from reduction of the Stage 2 SICR trigger threshold to 30bps is below 0.1 per cent. The sensitivities are minor due to the fact that backstop Sensitivity analysis of significant increase in credit risk (SICR) trigger indicators capture a large portion of exposures in Stage 2 regardless of the ­assumptions changes in the quantitative trigger measures. In addition, the impact of severe The sensitivity of ECL to changes in the quantitative triggering approach is anaadverse macroeconomic developments on the loan portfolio is tested as part of lysed regularly, including tests of the following alternative triggers: the regular ICAAP process, described in more detail in note 41 Capital adequacy. Past due loans Group Parent company 2019 2018 2019 2018 ≤ 30 days 12,644 3,540 10,133 1,708 >30 ≤ 90 days 2,871 2,560 2,514 2,062 > 90 days 2,753 4,350 1,521 1,883 TOTAL 18,269 10,450 14,169 5,653 Forborne loans Group Parent company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Total forborne loans 15,439 13,339 12,493 9,911 of which performing1) 6,746 7,793 5,533 6,095 1) According to EBA definition. SEB Annual Report 2019 — 123 Financial statements – Notes 19 Debt securities Group, 2019 Swedish Swedish Swedish mortgage Other Swedish Foreign Other ­foreign Debt securities by issuers ­government ­municipalities institutions ­issuers ­government issuers Total Eligible debt securities1) Held for trading 2,686 49 1,882 9,038 13,655 Fair value through profit or loss mandatorily 7,636 3,430 1,351 34,144 46,135 4,880 97,575 Fair value through profit or loss designated 1,011 4,260 1,134 96 6,500 Amortised cost 5,231 3 5,234 Total 11,333 3,480 5,611 34,144 54,381 14,017 122,965 Other debt securities Held for trading 13,230 3,755 29,539 46,525 Fair value through profit or loss mandatorily 321 7,241 18,172 5,375 377 26,961 58,447 Fair value through profit or loss designated 50 1 17 262 331 Amortised cost 9,231 9,231 Total 371 7,241 31,403 9,147 377 65,994 114,534 Accrued interest 1,080 TOTAL 11,704 10,721 37,014 43,291 54,758 80,011 238,578 Group, 2018 Eligible debt securities1) Held for trading 3,786 7,652 2,168 13,607 Fair value through profit or loss mandatorily 7,392 2,725 1,048 187 34,461 2,713 48,527 Fair value through profit or loss designated 950 111 3,947 1,066 95 6,168 Amortised cost 8,509 8,509 Total 12,128 2,836 4,995 187 51,688 4,976 76,811 Other debt securities Held for trading 2,638 3,725 5 24,224 30,592 Fair value through profit or loss mandatorily 377 3,840 9,396 4,049 912 21,434 40,008 Fair value through profit or loss designated 50 1 22 152 225 Amortised cost 7,649 7,649 Total 427 3,840 12,035 7,796 918 53,458 78,474 Accrued interest 844 TOTAL 12,555 6,676 17,030 7,983 52,606 58,435 156,128 1) Eligible papers are considered as such if they, according to national legislation, are accepted by the Central bank in the country in which SEB is located. Parent company, 2019 Swedish Swedish Swedish mortgage Other Swedish Foreign Other ­foreign Debt securities by issuers ­government ­municipalities institutions issuers ­government issuers Total Eligible debt securities1) Held for trading 2,686 49 1,439 9,029 13,204 Fair value through profit or loss mandatorily 6,834 3,430 34,043 30,442 3,117 77,866 Amortised cost 3,350 5,231 8,581 Total 9,520 3,480 37,393 37,112 12,146 99,651 Other debt securities Held for trading 13,230 3,755 29,532 46,517 Fair value through profit or loss mandatorily 7,241 16,953 3,913 26,931 55,038 Amortised cost 9,231 9,231 Total 7,241 30,183 7,668 65,694 110,786 Accrued interest 979 TOTAL 9,520 10,721 30,183 45,062 37,112 77,840 211,417 Parent company, 2018 Eligible debt securities1) Held for trading 3,786 7,470 2,144 13,400 Fair value through profit or loss mandatorily 6,840 2,725 11,409 1,486 22,461 Amortised cost 8,509 8,509 Total 10,626 2,725 27,389 3,630 44,370 Other debt securities Held for trading 2,638 3,725 24,179 30,543 Fair value through profit or loss mandatorily 3,840 7,973 2,707 21,416 35,937 Amortised cost 7,649 7,649 Total 3,840 10,612 6,432 53,244 74,128 Accrued interest 729 TOTAL 10,626 6,565 10,612 6,432 27,389 56,874 119,227 1) Eligible papers are considered as such if they, according to national legislation, are accepted by the Central bank in the country in which SEB is located. 124 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Financial statements – Notes 20 Equity instruments Group Parent company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Fair value through profit or loss held for trading 56,795 33,192 56,794 33,191 Fair value through profit or loss mandatorily 21,687 17,242 5,008 3,801 TOTAL1) 78,482 50,434 61,802 36,993 1) Of which seized shares for protection of claim SEK 29m (29). 21 Derivatives and hedge accounting Group Parent company Derivatives 2019 2018 2019 2018 Interest-related 71,371 56,262 68,013 54,598 Currency-related 56,604 42,260 56,358 41,879 Equity-related 3,118 4,428 3,007 4,432 Other 8,335 12,513 8,335 12,373 Positive replacement values 139,427 115,463 135,713 113,282 Interest-related 45,774 35,701 44,366 35,723 Currency-related 63,022 41,976 61,872 40,490 Equity-related 5,002 3,825 4,877 3,825 Other 8,395 15,371 8,395 15,231 Negative replacement values 122,192 96,872 119,511 95,269 Positive replacement values Negative replacement values Group, 2019 Nominal amount Book value Nominal amount Book value Options 206,711 5,033 302,354 5,139 Futures 1,867,853 98 2,024,963 104 Swaps 5,898,123 66,239 5,549,161 40,531 Interest-related 7,972,687 71,371 7,876,479 45,774 of which exchange traded 2,970 3 2,000 11 Options 155,197 912 80,502 1,036 Futures 515,004 29,358 610,572 29,388 Swaps 1,517,122 26,334 1,670,363 32,597 Currency-related 2,187,323 56,604 2,361,437 63,022 of which exchange traded 5 29 Options 10,721 1,450 9,424 2,039 Futures 275 333 275 393 Swaps 28,157 1,335 43,126 2,570 Equity-related 39,153 3,118 52,825 5,002 of which exchange traded 479 1,416 Options 45,110 2,673 70,914 2,745 Futures 70,764 4,077 77,921 4,713 Swaps 27,330 1,584 33,404 936 Other 143,205 8,335 182,240 8,395 of which exchange traded 41,676 1,055 15,851 1,954 TOTAL 10,342,368 139,427 10,472,981 122,192 of which exchange traded 44,646 1,542 17,851 3,411 Group, 2018 Options 178,317 2,923 180,630 2,931 Futures 2,003,207 75 1,822,075 57 Swaps 4,534,026 53,264 3,925,372 32,713 Interest-related 6,715,550 56,262 5,928,077 35,701 of which exchange traded 1,226 139 25 103 Options 227,898 1,658 130,787 1,863 Futures 677,737 12,158 666,221 11,096 Swaps 1,838,641 28,444 1,802,621 29,017 Currency-related 2,744,276 42,260 2,599,629 41,976 of which exchange traded 9 60 Options 13,019 1,124 13,078 1,721 Futures 991 1,104 Swaps 36,170 2,314 15,921 1,000 Equity-related 49,189 4,428 29,000 3,825 of which exchange traded 721 2,041 Options 37,252 3,010 58,610 3,065 Futures 54,981 8,780 52,439 10,564 Swaps 18,687 723 36,699 1,742 Other 110,920 12,513 147,748 15,371 of which exchange traded 31,443 5,071 7,454 6,018 TOTAL 9,619,936 115,463 8,704,454 96,872 of which exchange traded 32,669 5,941 7,479 8,222 SEB Annual Report 2019 — 125 Financial statements – Notes Note 21 continued Derivatives and hedge accounting Positive replacement values Negative replacement values Parent company, 2019 Nominal amount Book value Nominal amount Book value Options 125,813 1,675 129,349 2,099 Futures 1,864,883 97 2,022,963 103 Swaps 5,906,652 66,241 5,553,158 42,163 Interest-related 7,897,348 68,013 7,705,471 44,366 of which exchange traded 2 11 Options 154,201 894 78,809 1,025 Futures 515,020 29,353 611,047 29,404 Swaps 1,506,434 26,111 1,657,151 31,443 Currency-related 2,175,655 56,358 2,347,007 61,872 of which exchange traded 5 29 Options 10,721 1,450 9,424 2,026 Futures 326 386 Swaps 26,746 1,230 41,715 2,466 Equity-related 37,467 3,007 51,139 4,877 of which exchange traded 368 1,305 Options 45,126 2,673 70,914 2,745 Futures 70,764 4,077 77,921 4,713 Swaps 27,330 1,584 33,404 936 Other 143,221 8,335 182,240 8,395 of which exchange traded 41,676 1,055 15,851 1,954 TOTAL 10,253,691 135,713 10,285,857 119,511 of which exchange traded 41,676 1,430 15,851 3,299 Parent company, 2018 Options 148,362 1,857 148,640 2,015 Futures 2,001,981 74 1,822,050 57 Swaps 4,538,798 52,667 3,928,277 33,651 Interest-related 6,689,140 54,598 5,898,967 35,723 Options 228,913 1,662 131,213 1,864 Futures 501,649 12,152 509,422 11,081 Swaps 1,831,138 28,066 1,811,430 27,544 Currency-related 2,561,699 41,879 2,452,065 40,490 of which exchange traded 9 60 Options 13,019 1,124 13,063 1,721 Futures 991 1,104 Swaps 36,155 2,318 15,921 1,000 Equity-related 49,174 4,432 28,985 3,825 of which exchange traded 721 2,041 Options 36,253 2,892 57,611 2,948 Futures 53,838 8,758 51,296 10,542 Swaps 18,687 723 36,699 1,742 Other 108,778 12,373 145,606 15,231 of which, cleared 29,301 4,931 5,312 5,878 TOTAL 9,408,792 113,282 8,525,623 95,269 of which exchange traded 29,301 5,662 5,312 7,980 126 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Financial statements – Notes Note 21 continued Derivatives and hedge accounting Hedge accounting Accounting policy Fair value hedges and portfolio hedges As the International Accounting Standards Board issued the new accounting The group holds a portfolio of long-term fixed rate mortgages and long-term standard IFRS 9 they provided entities with an accounting policy choice fixed rate issued debt securities of which are exposed to fluctuations in fair between applying the hedge accounting requirements in IFRS 9 or continuing value due to movements in market interest rates. The interest rate risk compoto apply the existing hedge accounting requirements in IAS 39 for all hedge nent is determined as the change in fair value of the long-term fixed rate mortaccounting. SEB has decided to continue to apply hedge accounting requiregages and issued debt securities arising solely from changes in discounting ments in IAS 39. rates such as applicable IBOR rates. The group hedges a portion of its existing interest rate risk from these financial assets and financial liabilities against IBOR Reform (Interest Rate Benchmark Reform) changes in fair value. For this purpose the group are entering pay fixed/receive Following the financial crisis, the reform and replacement of benchmark interfloating interest rate swaps for hedging of long-term fixed rate mortgages and est rates such as USD LIBOR and GBP LIBOR among other interbank offered receive fixed/pay floating interest swaps for hedging of long-term fixed rate rates has become a priority for global regulators. There is uncertainty around issed debt securities thus resulting in fixed interest rates on the hedged item the timing and precise nature of these changes. SEB’s hedging accounting risk being swapped to floating interest rates. The hedges are executed item by item exposure that is directly affected by the interest rate benchmark reform is for long-term fixed rate issued debt securities and by aggregation of items USD LIBOR and GBP LIBOR. grouped by maturity for long-term fixed rate mortgages. It is currently expected that SOFR (Secured Overnight Financing Rate) will replace USD LIBOR and SONIA (Sterling Overnight Index) will replace GBP Sources of hedge ineffectiveness LIBOR. There are key differences between USD LIBOR and SOFR and GBP The effectiveness of the hedge strategy is assessed by the degree to which LIBOR and SONIA. USD and GBP LIBOR are ‘term rates’, which means that they changes in fair value of the hedged item that are attributable to the changes in are published for a borrowing period (such as 3 months), and are ‘forward-lookbenchmark rate used for discounting are offset by changes in fair value of the ing’, because they are published at the beginning of the borrowing period. SOFR hedging instrument. Possible sources of hedge ineffectiveness are as follows: and SONIA are currently ‘backward-looking’ rates; they are based on overnight (i) the discounted cash flow from floating rate payments from the hedging instrurates from actual transactions and are published at the end of the overnight ment does not have an equivalent cash flow from the long-term fixed mortborrowing period. Furthermore, USD and GBP LIBOR include a credit spread gages or issued debt securities thus give rise to hedge inefficiencies; over the risk-free rate, which SOFR and SONIA do not. To transition existing con(ii) deviations in critical factors between the hedged item and the fixed rate leg in tracts and agreements that reference USD LIBOR to SOFR and GBP LIBOR and the hedging instrument (‘proxy bond’) will give rise to hedge inefficiencies; SONIA, adjustments for term differences and credit differences might need to (iii) different benchmark rates used for discounting of the hedged item and the be applied to SOFR and SONIA, to enable the benchmark rates to be economihedging instrument. For example the use of either secured or unsecured benchcally equivalent on transition. mark rate depending on the collaterialised characteristisc of hedging instruThe group has applied its best judgement to analyse market expectations ment while unsecured benchmark rates are applied for the hedged item; when determining the fair value of the hedging instrument and present value of (iv) funding value adjustments which impacts the fair value of hedging instruestimated cash flows of the hedged item. ments for which central counterparty clearing is not applied. Equivalent fair The table below indicates the nominal amount and risk of hedging items that value adjustment is not applicable for the hedged item; will be affected by IBOR reform. Risk figures are expressed as one basis point’s (v) the effects of the forthcoming reforms to USD LIBOR and GBP LIBOR, because parallel shift of the interest rate curve in each currency. these might take effect at a different time and have a different impact on the hedged item and the hedging instrument. Further details of these reforms are Fair value hedges of set out above. ­interest rate risk Notional Asset Liability Cash flow hedges USD Libor USD 11 bn USD 1.7m The group holds a portfolio of lending and deposits with floating interest rates GBP Libor GBP 900m GBP 0.2m of which are exposed to fluctuations in cash flow due to movements in market interest rates. The interest rate risk component is determined as the variability Cash flow hedges of in cash flows from floating rate lending and floating rate deposits arising solely ­interest rate risk Notional Asset Liability from changes in applicable benchmark rates. The group hedges a portion of its USD Libor USD 54bn USD 3,600 existing exposure from these financial assets and financial liabilities against GBP Libor GBP 84m GBP 9,800 variability in cash flows. For this purpose the group are entering interest rate swaps where the net exposures of lending and deposits with floating rates are The group has established a project to lead the transition to alternative benchswapped to fixed interest. Group either pays or receives the fixed leg of the mark rates. This transition project will coordinate needed changes to systems, interest rate swap depending on whether volumes on floating rate lending outprocesses, risk and valuation models, as well as managing related tax and weighs floating rate deposits or vice versa. Interest flows from deposits and accounting implications. At the same time, the group is continuously monitoring lending with floating interest rates are expected to be amortised to profit or and actively participating in market discussions to further prepare for a smooth loss during the period 2020 to 2037. transition. The IASB is currently working through Phase 2 of amendments to IAS 39 and Sources of hedge ineffectiveness IFRS 9 for IBOR reform (se Accounting principles for information about Phase 1), The effectiveness of the hedge strategy is assessed by the degree to which which is expected to focus on, amongst other topics, accounting for modificachanges in present value of the hedged expected future cash flows that are tions for contracts following IBOR reform, and amendments to hedge accountattributable to the changes in benchmark rate used for estimating future cash ing documentation for IBOR reform. The group continues to follow the status of flows are offset by changes in fair value of the hedging instrument. Possible the IASB’s IBOR reform project, and it will assess the impact for the group as sources of hedge ineffectiveness are as follows: further information becomes available. (i) deviations in critical factors between the hedged item (‘hypothetical derivative’) and the floating rate leg in the hedging instrument will give rise to hedge Risk management strategy inefficiencies; The Board of Directors defines how much market risk is acceptable by setting (ii) funding value adjustments which impacts the fair value of hedging instruments the overall market risk limits and general instructions. The market risk tolerance for which central counterparty clearing is not applied. Equivalent fair value and limits are defined for the trading book, banking book and defined benefit adjustment is not applicable for the hedged item. plans. The Group Risk Committee delegates the market risk mandate to the divi(iii) the effects of the forthcoming reforms to USD LIBOR and GBP LIBOR, because sions and the treasury function, which in turn further allocate the limits interthese might take effect at a different time and have a different impact on the nally. The treasury function has overall responsibility for managing these risks, hedged item and the hedging instrument. Further details of these reforms are which are consolidated centrally. set out above. Risk category and designated risk exposure Net investment hedges Interest rate risk is the designated risk exposure for fair value and cash flow The group hedges the currency translation risk of net investments in foreign hedge accounting. Interest rate risk in the banking book arises from changes in operations through currency borrowings. Borrowing in foreign currency at an market interest rates as a result of mismatches in interest terms and interest amount of SEK 47,708m (46,983) were designated as hedges of net investrate periods on the balance sheet. ments in foreign operations. Ineffectiveness in the hedges has been reported in Net financial income (note 6). SEB Annual Report 2019 — 127 Financial statements – Notes Note 21 continued Derivatives and hedge accounting Hedging instruments Positive replacement values Negative replacement values Group, 2019 Nominal amount Book value Change in value Nominal amount Book value Change in value Derivatives 75,622 3,662 –854 430,724 415 2,276 Fair value hedges of interest rate risk 75,622 3,662 –854 430,724 415 2,276 Derivatives 180,750 93 503 9,500 0 –19 Portfolio fair value hedges of interest rate risk 180,750 93 503 9,500 0 –19 Derivatives 18,345 404 –386 5,883 730 –3 Portfolio cash flow hedges of interest rate risk 18,345 404 –386 5,883 730 –3 TOTAL 274,717 4,159 –736 446,107 1,145 2,254 Group, 2018 Derivatives 386,505 4,372 –41 44,892 0 –126 Fair value hedges of interest rate risk 386,505 4,372 –41 44,892 0 –126 Derivatives 10,750 0 3 84,400 10 –15 Portfolio fair value hedges of interest rate risk 10,750 0 3 84,400 10 –15 Derivatives 39,990 723 –1,129 28,750 707 –15 Portfolio cash flow hedges of interest rate risk 39,990 723 –1,129 28,750 707 –15 TOTAL 437,245 5,095 –1,167 158,043 717 –157 Fair value hedges of interest rate risk Remaining­ The accumulated amount of The change in value of accumulated Hedge­ fair value hedge adjustments the hedged item used as the ­adjustments for ineffectiveness Book value on the hedged item included basis for recognizing hedge ­discontinued ­recognized in Group, 2019 hedged item in the carrying amount ineffectiveness for the period micro hedges profit or loss Income Statement Net other Income 39 Balance sheet Debt securities issued 516,766 –5,455 –1,384 Fair value hedges of interest rate risk 516,766 –5,455 –1,384 39 Income Statement Net other Income 27 Balance sheet Loans to the public 269,737 Fair value changes of hedged items in a portfolio hedge –420 –458 Portfolio fair value hedges of interest rate risk 269,737 –420 –458 27 TOTAL 786,503 –5,875 –1,842 66 Group, 2018 Income Statement Net other Income –42 Balance sheet Debt securities issued 440,227 –3,913 125 Fair value hedges of interest rate risk 440,227 –3,913 125 –42 Income Statement Net other Income –7 Balance sheet Loans to the public 189,373 Fair value changes of hedged items in a portfolio hedge 38 5 –7 Portfolio fair value hedges of interest rate risk 189,373 38 5 –7 –7 TOTAL 629,600 –3,876 130 –7 –49 128 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Financial statements – Notes Note 21 continued Derivatives and hedge accounting Portfolio cash flow hedges of interest rate risk The change in value of The balances Hedging gains/losses The amount reclassithe hedged item used in the cash flow reserve of the reporting period Hedge fied from cash flow as the basis for recogthat were recognized ­ineffectiveness reserve for which nizing hedge ineffecContinuing Discontinued in other comprehenrecognized in hedge accounting had Group, 2019 tiveness for the period hedges hedges sive income profit or loss previously been used Income Statement Net other Income –4 1 Statement of comprehensive income Cash flow hedges –385 Balance sheet Loans to the public and deposits and borrowing from the public 385 Equity Cash flow hedges –158 172 TOTAL 385 –158 172 –385 –4 1 Group, 2018 Income Statement –13 Net other Income Statement of comprehensive income Cash flow hedges –1,132 Balance sheet Loans to the public and deposits and borrowing from the public 1,132 Equity Cash flow hedges 313 TOTAL 1,132 313 –1,132 –13 Hedging instruments Positive replacement values Negative replacement values Parent company, 2019 Nominal amount Book value Change in value Nominal amount Book value Change in value Derivatives 75,622 3,662 –854 430,724 415 2,276 Fair value hedges of interest rate risk 75,622 3,662 –854 430,724 415 2,276 Derivatives 180,750 93 503 9,500 –19 Portfolio fair value hedges of interest rate risk 180,750 93 503 9,500 –19 Derivatives 18,345 404 –386 5,883 730 –3 Portfolio cash flow hedges of interest rate risk 18,345 404 –386 5,883 730 –3 TOTAL 274,717 4,159 –736 446,107 1,145 2,254 2018 Derivatives 386,505 4,372 –42 44,892 –126 Fair value hedges of interest rate risk 386,505 4,372 –42 44,892 –126 Derivatives 10,750 3 84,400 10 –15 Portfolio fair value hedges of interest rate risk 10,750 3 84,400 10 –15 Derivatives 39,990 723 –1,129 28,750 707 –15 Portfolio cash flow hedges of interest rate risk 39,990 723 –1,129 28,750 707 –15 TOTAL 437,245 5,095 –1,168 158,043 717 –157 SEB Annual Report 2019 — 129 Financial statements – Notes Note 21 continued Derivatives and hedge accounting Fair value hedges of interest rate risk The accumulated amount of The change in value of Hedge fair value hedge adjustments the hedged item used as the ­ineffec­tiveness on the hedged item included basis for recognizing hedge ­recognized in Parent company, 2019 Book value in the carrying amount ineffectiveness for the period profit or loss Income Statement Net other Income 39 Balance sheet Debt securities issued 516,766 –5,455 –1,384 Fair value hedges of interest rate risk 516,766 –5,455 –1,384 39 Income Statement Net other Income 27 Balance sheet Loans to the public 269,737 Fair value changes of hedged items in a portfolio hedge –420 –458 Portfolio fair value hedges of interest rate risk 269,737 –420 –458 27 TOTAL 786,503 –5,875 –1,842 66 Parent company, 2018 Income Statement Net other Income –42 Balance sheet Debt securities issued 440,227 –3,913 126 Fair value hedges of interest rate risk 440,227 –3,913 126 –42 Income Statement Net other Income –7 Balance sheet Loans to the public 189,373 Fair value changes of hedged items in a portfolio hedge 38 5 Portfolio fair value hedges of interest rate risk 189,373 38 5 –7 TOTAL 629,600 –3,876 131 –49 Portfolio cash flow hedges of interest rate risk The change in value of The balances Hedging gains/losses The amount reclassithe hedged item used in the cash flow reserve of the reporting period Hedge fied from cash flow as the basis for recogthat were recognized ­ineffectiveness reserve for which nizing hedge ineffecContinuing Discontinued in other comprehenrecognized in hedge accounting had Parent company, 2019 tiveness for the period hedges hedges sive income profit or loss previously been used Income Statement Net other Income –4 1 Statement of comprehensive income Cash flow hedges –385 Balance sheet Loans to the public and deposits and borrowing from the public 385 Equity Cash flow hedges –158 172 1 TOTAL 385 –158 172 –385 –4 1 Parent company, 2018 Income Statement –13 Net other Income Statement of comprehensive income Cash flow hedges –1,132 Balance sheet Loans to the public and deposits and borrowing from the public 1,132 Equity Cash flow hedges 313 TOTAL 1,132 313 –1,132 –13 130 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Financial statements – Notes 22 Investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures Group Parent company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Shares in Swedish subsidiaries 14,531 15,646 Shares in foreign subsidiaries1) 144 142 35,365 35,007 Investments in associates and joint ventures, strategic investments 386 295 270 189 Investments in associates, venture capital holdings 466 758 466 758 TOTAL 997 1,195 50,632 51,600 of which holdings in credit institutions 33,951 33,755 1) Some dormant subsidiaries in the Group are consolidated using the equity method. 2019 2018 Swedish subsidiaries Country Book value Dividend Ownership, % Book value Dividend Ownership, % Aktiv Placering AB, Stockholm Sweden 38 100 38 100 Enskilda Kapitalförvaltning SEB AB, Stockholm Sweden 0 100 0 100 Försäkringsaktiebolaget Skandinaviska Enskilda C ­ aptive, Stockholm Sweden 100 100 100 100 Parkeringshuset Lasarettet HGB KB, Stockholm Sweden 0 99 0 99 Repono Holding AB, Stockholm Sweden 3,227 100 3,227 100 SEB Förvaltnings AB, Stockholm Sweden 5 100 5 100 SEB Internal Supplier AB, Stockholm Sweden 12 100 12 100 SEB Investment Management AB, Stockholm Sweden 541 100 541 100 SEB Kort Bank AB, Stockholm Sweden 3,760 828 100 3,760 508 100 SEB Life and Pension Holding AB, Stockholm Sweden 6,424 1,500 100 6,424 5,000 100 SEB Portföljförvaltning AB, Stockholm Sweden 1,115 100 SEB Strategic Investments AB, Stockholm Sweden 424 322 100 424 100 Skandinaviska Kreditaktiebolaget, Stockholm Sweden 0 100 0 100 TOTAL 14,531 2,649 15,646 5,508 Foreign subsidiaries Baltectus B.V., Amsterdam Netherlands 0 214 100 DSK Hyp AG, (former SEB AG), Frankfurt am Main Germany 16,121 100 16,563 300 100 SEB Bank JSC, St Petersburg Russia 458 100 458 100 SEB Banka, AS, Riga Latvia 1,911 478 100 1,853 730 100 SEB bankas, AB, Vilnius Lithuania 6,871 1,105 100 6,750 1,107 100 SEB Corporate Bank, PJSC, Kiev Ukraine 138 100 138 100 SEB do Brasil Representacões LTDA, Sao Paulo Brazil 0 100 0 100 SEB Fund Services S.A., Luxembourg Luxembourg 115 SEB Leasing Oy, Helsinki Finland 4,672 100 4,555 100 SEB Njord AS, Oslo Norway 0 100 0 100 SEB Pank, AS, Tallinn Estonia 3,125 658 100 2,706 716 100 SEB Securities Inc, New York USA 52 100 48 100 Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken S.A., Luxembourg Luxembourg 1,567 157 100 1,528 214 100 Skandinaviska Enskilda Ltd, London Great Britain 451 100 409 100 TOTAL 35,365 2,397 35,007 3,396 Information about the corporate registration numbers and numbers of shares of the subsidiaries is available upon request. SEB Annual Report 2019 — 131 Financial statements – Notes Note 22 continued Investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures Significant restrictions on the ability to use assets and settle company. To meet these requirements the subsidiaries hold capital instruliabilities of the group ments and other forms of subordinated l­ iabilities. Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB (Publ) can obtain distributions of capital, use assets and settle liabilities of members of the group within the limitation Statutory requirements of some regulatory, statutory and contractual restrictions. These restrictions Subsidiaries are required to have a certain level of solvency and are are: restricted to make distributions of capital and profits leading to a solvency below that level. Regulatory requirements Regulated subsidiaries are subject to prudential regulatory capital requireContractual requirements ments in the countries in which they are regulated. These subsidiaries are The group pledges some of its financial assets as collateral for financing and required to maintain a certain level of own funds in relation to their expoliquidity purposes. Encumbered assets can’t be transferred within the group. sures, restricting their ability to distribute cash or other assets to the parent Such assets are described further in the note 47 Pledged assets. Investments in associates and joint ventures – Strategic i­ nvestments Assets1) Liabilities1) Revenues1) Profit or loss1) Book value Ownership, % Bankomat AB, Stockholm 4,734 4,350 720 10 66 20 BGC Holding AB, Stockholm 741 141 885 9 103 33 Getswish AB, Stockholm 115 37 176 13 19 20 Nordic KYC Utility AB 24 17 P27 Nordic Payments AB 57 17 USE Intressenter AB, Stockholm 1 0 0 0 0 28 Parent company holdings 270 Holdings of subsidiaries 19 Group adjustments 97 GROUP HOLDINGS 386 1) Retrieved from respective Annual report 2018. 2019 2018 Investments in associates – Venture capital holdings Book value Ownership, % Book value Ownership, % Airsonett AB, Ängelholm 25 37 18 33 Apica AB, Stockholm 73 29 39 28 Avidicare Holding AB, Ängelholm 19 33 22 37 Capres A/S, Copenhagen 136 42 Coinify ApS, Herlev 0 23 12 18 InDex Pharmaceuticals Holding AB, Stockholm 76 15 94 21 Leasify AB, Stockholm 10 19 10 19 Now Interact Nordic AB, Stockholm 11 11 11 11 NuEvolution AB, Stockholm 156 20 OssDsign AB, Uppsala 47 15 61 24 Scandinova Systems AB, Uppsala 65 22 78 30 Scibase Holding AB, Stockholm 9 13 7 13 Senion AB, Linköping 18 34 19 34 TSS Holding AB, Stockholm 113 43 95 43 Parent company holdings 466 758 GROUP HOLDINGS 466 758 Information about the corporate registration numbers and numbers of shares of the associates is available upon request. Strategic investments in associates in the group are accounted for using All financial assets within the group’s venture capital business are managed the e­ quity method. and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis in accordance with Investments in associates held by the venture capital organisation of ­documented risk management and investment strategies. the group have, in accordance with IAS 28, been designated as at fair value Fair values for investments listed in an active market are based on quoted through profit and loss. market prices. If the market for a financial instrument is not active, fair value Some entities, in which the bank has an ownership of less than 20 per cent, is established by using valuation techniques based on discounted cash flow has been classified as investments in associates. The reason is that the bank analysis, valuation with reference to financial instruments that is substantially is represented in the board of directors and participates in the policy making the same, and valuation with reference to observable market transactions in processes of those entities. the same financial instrument. 132 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Financial statements – Notes 23 Intangible assets Group Parent company Deferred Internally Other Internally Other ­acquisition ­developed intangible ­developed intangible 2019 Goodwill1) costs IT-systems assets Total Goodwill1) IT-systems assets Total Opening balance 4,762 5,921 4,920 3,300 18,903 1,377 4,506 850 6,732 Additions from acquisitions and capitalisations 74 635 9 718 523 523 Reclassifications –9 9 Retirements and disposals –36 –36 –5 –5 Exchange rate differences 30 47 5 33 116 1 1 3 Acquisition value 4,792 6,042 5,551 3,316 19,701 1,377 5,029 846 7,252 Opening balance –4,694 –3,257 –2,796 –10,746 –1,377 –2,944 –635 –4,956 Current year’s amortisations –272 –395 –126 –793 –363 –63 –426 Impairments reversed 0 40 40 Reclassifications 1 –1 Retirements and disposals 36 36 5 5 Exchange rate differences –25 –2 –25 –52 –1 0 0 Accumulated depreciations –4,991 –3,653 –2,872 –11,515 –1,377 –3,308 –692 –5,377 TOTAL 4,792 1,051 1,898 444 8,186 0 1,721 154 1,875 1) Goodwill has an indefinite useful life. All other intangible assets have a definite useful life. Amortisation methods are described in note 1. 2018 Opening balance 4,727 4,941 4,623 3,475 17,765 1,377 4,320 901 6,598 Additions from acquisitions and capitalisations 259 580 89 928 477 69 546 Reclassifications 657 –213 444 Retirements and disposals –293 –132 –425 –293 –120 –413 Exchange rate differences 35 64 11 80 191 2 –1 1 Acquisition value 4,762 5,921 4,920 3,300 18,903 1,377 4,506 850 6,732 Opening balance –3,660 –3,012 –3,062 –9,734 –1,377 –2,917 –706 –5,001 Current year’s amortisations –337 –343 –137 –817 –320 –48 –369 Reclassifications –657 –192 333 –515 Retirements and disposals 293 132 425 293 120 413 Exchange rate differences –41 –4 –61 –106 0 1 0 Accumulated depreciations 0 –4,694 –3,257 –2,796 –10,746 –1,377 –2,944 –635 –4,956 TOTAL 4,762 1,227 1,663 505 8,157 1,561 215 1,776 Goodwill The Cash Generating Units (CGU) structure is aligned with the business unit (BU) combined with geography to reflect the importance of steering and measuring the customer-oriented organisation. Acquisition Opening Exchange rate Closing Exchange rate Closing CGUs year ­balance 2018 differences ­balance 2018 differences ­balance 2019 Card, Norway & Denmark1) 2002/2004 880 35 915 30 945 Life Sweden 1996/1997 2,343 2,343 2,343 Investment Management Sweden 1997/1998 1,504 1,504 1,504 TOTAL 4,727 35 4,762 4,792 1) The CGU:s are presented together since both acquisitions are related to the Eurocard business. Impairment test 2019 Result of impairment test Estimates and assumptions used: Cost of Equity (CoE) – discount rate The yearly impairment test for 2019 was performed in the fourth quarter. The discount rate used is 10.0 per cent post-tax for SEB Group and is deterThe impairment test did not result in any indication of impairment. mined based on information from external sources and applied on all CGUs except Investment Management. The higher discount rate for Investment Estimates and assumptions used: future cash flows ­Management, 12.0 per cent, is applied due to uncertainty related to limitations The impairment test on goodwill is based on value in use and builds on the busito retrocessions, possible further margin squeeze and the current low interest ness plan for 2020–2022 and projected cash flows for 2023–2024. The longenvironment that can create squeezed asset prices and volatility. term growth is based on expectations on inflation 1.5 per cent. The allocated Sensitivities capital is derived from the group’s internal capital allocation model that has An increase of one percentage of the discount rate (CoE), a decrease of the been aligned with the regulatory capital requirements including the manageaverage growth rates by one percentage point for earnings before amortisament buffer. The cash flows in the business plan starts with the assumptions tions during the projection period and a decrease of one percentage point of from the most recent Nordic outlook published. The main assumptions are; GDP the long term growth was applied in the sensitivity analysis. The sensitivity growth in Sweden from 1.2 per cent to 2.0 per cent over three years and other analysis carried out did not result in any indication of impairment. Nordic countries excluding Sweden from 2.1 per cent to 1.9 per cent; inflation in Sweden 1.6 per cent to 1.9 per cent and in Other Nordic countries from 1.6 per cent to 1.8 per cent. The repo rate in Sweden is assumed to be 0.00 per cent end of 2021. SEB Annual Report 2019 — 133 Financial statements – Notes Note 23 continued Intangible assets Impairment test 2018 Result of impairment test Estimates and assumptions used: Cost of Equity (CoE) – discount rate The yearly impairment test for 2018 was performed in the fourth quarter. The discount rate used is 9.5 per cent post-tax for SEB Group and is determined The impairment test did not result in any indication of impairment. based on information from external sources and applied on all CGUs except Investment Management. The higher discount rate for Investment ManageEstimates and assumptions used: future cash flows ment, 11.5 per cent, is applied due to uncertainty related to limitations to retroThe impairment test on goodwill is based on value in use and builds on the busicessions, possible further margin squeeze and the current negative interest ness plan for 2019–2021 and projected cash flows for 2022–2023. The longenvironment that can create squeezed asset prices and volatility. term growth is based on expectations on inflation 1.5 per cent. The allocated capital is derived from the Group’s internal capital allocation model that has Sensitivities been aligned with the regulatory capital requirements including the manageAn increase of one percentage of the discount rate (CoE), a decrease of the ment buffer. The cash flows in the business plan starts with the assumptions average growth rates by one percentage point for earnings before amortisafrom the most recent Nordic outlook published at the commencement of this tions during the projection period and a decrease of one percentage point of the business plan process. The main assumptions are; GDP growth in Sweden from long term growth was applied in the sensitivity analysis. The sensitivity analysis 2.2 per cent to 2.1 per cent over three years and other Nordic countries excludcarried out did not result in any indication of impairment. ing Sweden from 2,4 per cent to 2,0 per cent; inflation in Sweden 2.1 per cent troughout the period and in Other Nordic countries from 1.5 per cent to 1.9 per cent. The repo rate in Sweden is assumed to be 0.75 per cent end of 2020. 24 Properties and equipment Group Parent company Properties Equipment Properties for own leased to for own 2019 Equipment ­operations Total Equipment ­clients1) ­operations Total Opening balance 2,794 26 2,820 1,722 48,888 2 50,612 Additions from acquisitions and capitalisations 434 0 434 294 6,502 6,796 Reclassifications –33 0 –33 Retirements and disposals –201 –201 –13 –10,480 –10,493 Exchange rate differences 49 4 52 26 26 Acquisition value 3,042 30 3,072 2,029 44,910 2 46,941 Opening balance –1,510 –9 –1,519 –731 –15,872 –16,603 Current year’s depreciations –336 –1 –337 –241 –5,082 –5,323 Current year’s impairments –1 –1 Reclassifications 0 0 0 Retirements and disposals 188 188 8 4,960 4,968 Exchange rate differences –34 –1 –35 –17 258 241 Accumulated depreciations –1,692 –12 –1,704 –981 –15,736 –16,717 TOTAL 1,350 18 1,368 1,048 29,174 2 30,224 2018 Opening balance 2,500 28 2,528 1,410 48,903 2 50,316 Additions from acquisitions and capitalisations 433 0 433 322 5,602 5,923 Reclassifications –1 –1 –2 Retirements and disposals –189 –189 –16 –5,616 –5,632 Exchange rate differences 51 –2 49 6 6 Acquisition value 2,794 26 2,820 1,722 48,888 2 50,612 Opening balance –1,389 –9 –1,398 –568 –15,260 –15,829 Current year’s depreciations –249 –1 –250 –160 –4,985 –5,144 Current year’s impairments –3 –1 –4 Reclassifications 1 0 2 Retirements and disposals 179 1 180 13 3,995 4,008 Exchange rate differences –50 1 –49 –16 377 361 Accumulated depreciations –1,510 –9 –1,519 –731 –15,872 –16,603 TOTAL 1,284 17 1,300 991 33,016 2 34,009 1) Equipment leased to clients are recognised as financial leases and presented as loans in the group. See note 51. 25 Other assets Group Parent company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Trade receivables 1,381 1,169 1,427 1,225 Client receivables 12,476 12,826 11,951 12,429 Other assets 3,313 6,414 4,429 7,411 TOTAL 17,171 20,409 17,807 21,065 134 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Financial statements – Notes 26 Prepaid expenses and accrued income Group Parent company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Prepaid expenses 1,715 1,775 1,880 1,762 Accrued income 478 664 270 274 Other 42 32 255 335 TOTAL 2,235 2,471 2,404 2,371 27 Deposits Group Parent company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Deposits 36,385 47,830 36,384 47,830 Deposits from central banks 36,385 47,830 36,384 47,830 Deposits 45,272 70,002 84,683 95,262 Margins of safety 2,692 17,296 2,245 16,915 Repos 3,580 192 3,579 15 Registered bonds1) 113 399 Deposits from credit institutions 51,656 87,889 90,508 112,192 General governments 22,140 26,712 11,586 16,956 Financial corporations 215,091 226,434 199,684 206,272 Non-financial corporations 507,727 461,219 450,380 414,352 Households 346,455 323,100 250,211 236,954 Margins of safety 57,418 49,424 57,127 49,292 Repos 4,848 3,396 4,846 3,396 Registered bonds1) 7,808 21,103 Deposits and borrowings from the public 1,161,485 1,111,390 973,834 927,224 TOTAL 1,249,526 1,247,109 1,100,726 1,087,246 1) O  f which SEK 6,676m (8,911) at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss Designated (FVDPL) for the group. The group’s contractual liability is SEK 5,228m (6,951). Difference between carrying amount and the amount the company is contractually obligated to pay to holders of registered bonds at maturity are, for the group SEK 1,447m (1,960). The accumulated impact from reflecting the group’s own credit standing in the fair value measurement amounts to SEK 170m (166), of which SEK 4m (–210) relates to 2019. For registered bonds at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss Designated (FVDPL) changes in the benchmark interest rate. change in fair value attributable to change in credit risk is determined, by first The company believes that this approach most faithfully represents the determining the changes due to market conditions which give rise to market amount of change in fair value due to own credit risk, as the changes in factors risk, and then deducting those changes from the total change in fair value of contributing to the fair value of the registered bonds other than changes in the the registered bonds. Market conditions which give rise to market risk include benchmark interest rate are not deemed to be significant. 28 Liabilities to policyholders Financial liabilities for which the customers bear the investment risk, Group investment contracts1) 2019 2018 Opening balance 270,556 284,291 Reclassification to insurance contracts –86 Change in investment contract provisions2) 45,734 –15,827 Exchange rate differences 1,369 2,092 TOTAL 317,574 270,556 1) Insurance provisions where the policyholders are carrying the risk. The liabilities and the underlying assets are reported at fair value mandatory through profit or loss. 2) The net of premiums received during the year, return on investment funds less payments to the policyholders and deduction of fees and policyholders’ tax. Group Liabilities to policyholders, insurance contracts 2019 2018 Opening balance 21,846 18,911 Reclassification from investment contracts 86 Change in other insurance contract provisions1) 4,579 2,844 Exchange rate differences 36 90 TOTAL 26,547 21,846 1) The net of premiums received during the year, allocated return on investment funds less payments to the policyholders and deduction of fees and policyholders’ tax. SEB Annual Report 2019 — 135 Financial statements – Notes 29 Debt securities issued Group Parent company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Senior bonds1) 193,991 203,729 193,859 203,528 Senior non-preferred bonds 10,258 10,258 Covered bonds 364,901 334,244 364,901 334,244 Commercial Papers/Certificates of Deposits 289,023 142,697 288,949 142,624 TOTAL 858,173 680,670 857,968 680,396 1) Of which SEK 20,207m (18,518) at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss Designated (FVDPL) for the group and 20,075m (18,316) at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss Designated (FVDPL) for the parent company. The group’s contractual liability is SEK 18,785m (19,310) and for the parent company SEK 18,655m (19,110). Difference between carrying amount and the amount the company is contractually obligated to pay to holders of issed securities at maturity are, for the group SEK 1,422m (-792) and for the parent company SEK 1,420m (-794). The accumulated impact from reflecting the group’s own credit standing in the fair value measurement amounts to SEK 13 m (34), of which SEK –21 m (–113) relates to 2019. The corresponding amount for the parent company is SEK 14 m (34), of which SEK –20 m (–113) relates to 2019. For issued securities at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss Designated (FVDPL) ded derivatives are excluded from the assessment of market risk fair value change in fair value attributable to change in credit risk is determined, by first changes. determining the changes due to market conditions which give rise to market The company believes that this approach most faithfully represents the risk, and then deducting those changes from the total change in fair value of amount of change in fair value due to own credit risk, as the changes in factors the issued securities. Market conditions which give rise to market risk include contributing to the fair value of the issued securities other than changes in the changes in the benchmark interest rate. Fair value movements on the embedbenchmark interest rate are not deemed to be significant. 30 Short positions Group Parent company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Equity instruments 17,352 13,498 17,352 13,498 Debt securities 9,991 9,646 9,991 9,646 TOTAL 27,343 23,144 27,343 23,144 31 Other liabilities Group Parent company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Trade payables 1,049 1,305 867 1,023 Client payables 8,298 9,572 6,603 8,509 Lease liabilities1) 5,854 Other liabilities 21,189 13,117 16,566 7,010 TOTAL 36,389 23,995 24,035 16,543 1) IFRS 16 Leases is applied for group from 1 January 2019. For transition disclosures, see note 49 Leases. 32 Accrued expenses and prepaid income Group Parent company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Accrued expenses 4,123 3,845 2,701 2,659 Prepaid income 1,162 1,351 144 145 Other 75 65 72 66 TOTAL 5,360 5,260 2,917 2,871 136 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Financial statements – Notes 33 Provisions Group Parent company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Other restructuring and redundancy reserves 142 550 37 3 Provisions for Financial guarantees and Loan commitments (note 18) 454 474 370 382 Other provisions 499 793 TOTAL 1,095 1,817 407 385 Other restructuring and redundancy reserves Opening balance 550 810 3 28 Additions 35 1 35 Amounts used –156 –215 Other movements –302 –80 –25 Exchange differences 15 34 TOTAL 142 550 37 3 The main part of the reserve will cover redundancy costs to be used within three years. Other provisions Opening balance 793 799 38 Effect from transition to IFRS 16 –122 Additions 1 108 30 Amounts used –79 –113 –68 Unused amounts reversed –77 –15 Other movements –24 Exchange differences 7 14 TOTAL 499 793 0 Other provisions mainly consist of costs for re-organisation within the group to be used within four years and unsettled claims covering all operating segments. 34 Subordinated liabilities Group Parent company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Debenture loans 19,776 18,987 19,326 18,987 Debenture loans, perpetual 24,243 15,251 24,243 15,251 Change in the value due to hedge accounting at fair value 257 –7 257 –7 Accrued interest 364 290 364 290 TOTAL 44,639 34,521 44,189 34,521 Debenture loans Original nom. Rate of Currency amount Book value interest, % 2014/2026 EUR 1,000 10,446 2.500 2016/2028 EUR 850 8,880 1.380 Total parent company 19,326 Debenture loans issued by other subsidiaries 450 TOTAL 19,776 Debenture loans, perpetual Original nom. Rate of Currency amount Book value interest, % 2014 USD 1,100 10,257 5.750 2017 USD 600 5,595 5.625 2019 USD 900 8,392 5.125 TOTAL 24,243 SEB Annual Report 2019 — 137 Financial statements – Notes 35 Untaxed reserves 1) Parent company 2019 2018 Depreciation in excess of plan on office equipment/leased assets 19,875 20,855 TOTAL 19,875 20,855 1) In the balance sheet of the group untaxed reserves are reclassified partly as deferred tax liability and partly as restricted equity. Parent company Excess Other untaxed ­depreciation ­reserves Total Opening balance 21,423 6 21,429 Reversals –568 –568 Exchange rate differencies –6 –6 Closing balance 2018 20,855 0 20,855 Reversals –980 –980 Exchange rate differencies CLOSING BALANCE 2019 19,875 0 19,875 36 Fair value measurement of assets and liabilities 2019 Group Parent company Quoted Quoted prices in Valuation Valuation prices in Valuation Valuation active ­tech­nique ­using ­technique ­using active ­tech­nique ­using ­technique ­using ­markets observ­able non-­observable ­markets ­observ­able non-­observable Assets (Level 1) ­inputs (Level 2) ­inputs (Level 3) Total (Level 1) ­inputs (Level 2) ­inputs (Level 3) Total Loans 190,090 190,090 190,090 190,090 Debt securities 110,101 113,884 5 223,990 86,494 106,988 193,481 Equity instruments 59,029 6,403 13,050 78,482 52,799 6,197 2,805 61,802 Financial assets for which the customers bear the investment risk 308,909 7,236 631 316,776 0 Derivatives – Interest related 65 66,669 478 67,211 64 63,312 478 63,854 Derivatives – Equity related 308 2,699 0 3,007 308 2,699 0 3,007 Derivatives – Currency related 522 56,081 56,604 64 56,294 56,358 Derivatives – Credit related 1,579 1,579 1,579 1,579 Derivatives – Commodities related 6,756 6,756 6,756 6,756 Derivatives – Other related 111 111 0 Derivatives – Hedge accounting 4,159 4,159 4,159 4,159 Investment in associates1) 85 381 466 85 381 466 TOTAL 479,130 455,557 14,544 949,231 139,813 438,075 3,665 581,552 Liabilities Deposits 15,103 15,103 8,427 8,427 Financial liabilities for which the customers bear the investment risk 309,772 7,178 625 317,574 0 Liabilities to policyholders 25,399 1,147 26,547 0 Debt securities issued 20,207 20,207 0 Short positions debt securities 8,322 1,669 9,991 8,322 1,669 9,991 Short positions equity instruments 17,311 41 17,352 17,311 0 41 17,352 Derivatives – Interest related 78 44,209 342 44,629 78 42,801 342 43,221 Derivatives – Equity related 290 4,601 4,891 277 4,601 4,877 Derivatives – Currency related 1,075 61,947 63,022 81 61,791 61,872 Derivatives – Credit related 891 891 891 891 Derivatives – Commodities related 7,504 7,504 7,504 7,504 Derivatives – Other related 111 111 0 Derivatives – Hedge accounting 1,145 1,145 1,145 1,145 Other financial liabilities 44 2,405 2,449 44 2,405 2,449 Debt securities at fair value through profit and loss 0 20,075 20,075 TOTAL 362,402 168,004 1,008 531,414 26,113 151,309 383 177,805 1) Venture capital activities designated at fair value through profit and loss. 138 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Financial statements – Notes Note 36 continued Fair value measurement of assets and liabilities 2018 Group Parent company Quoted Quoted prices in Valuation Valuation prices in Valuation Valuation active ­tech­nique ­using t­ echnique ­using active ­tech­nique ­using t­ echnique ­using ­markets observ­able non-­observable ­markets ­observ­able non-­observable Assets (Level 1) ­inputs (Level 2) ­inputs (Level 3) Total (Level 1) ­inputs (Level 2) ­inputs (Level 3) Total Loans 100,037 100,037 100,037 100,037 Debt securities 62,812 76,976 4 139,792 34,711 66,948 101,659 Equity instruments 38,697 3,835 7,902 50,434 33,317 1,576 2,099 36,993 Financial assets for which the customers bear the investment risk 261,056 7,943 614 269,613 Derivatives – Interest related 75 50,583 510 51,168 74 48,920 510 49,503 Derivatives – Equity related 562 3,865 4,427 562 3,869 0 4,432 Derivatives – Currency related 550 41,710 42,260 85 41,794 41,879 Derivatives – Credit related 683 683 683 683 Derivatives – Commodities related 11,690 11,690 11,690 11,690 Derivatives – Other related 140 140 Derivatives – Hedge accounting 5,095 5,095 5,095 5,095 Investment in associates1) 256 501 758 256 501 758 TOTAL 364,148 302,417 9,531 676,096 69,005 280,614 3,110 352,729 Liabilities Deposits 12,497 12,497 3,411 3,411 Financial liabilities for which the customers bear the investment risk 262,029 7,924 603 270,556 Liabilities to policyholders 21,752 95 21,847 Debt securities issued 18,518 18,518 Short positions debt securities 5,275 4,371 9,646 5,275 4,371 9,646 Short positions equity instruments 13,435 63 13,498 13,435 0 63 13,498 Derivatives – Interest related 57 34,453 473 34,983 57 34,486 473 35,015 Derivatives – Equity related 1,408 2,416 3,824 1,409 2,416 3,825 Derivatives – Currency related 1,011 40,965 41,976 46 40,443 40,490 Derivatives – Credit related 1,744 1,744 1,744 1,744 Derivatives – Commodities related 13,488 13,488 13,488 13,488 Derivatives – Other related 140 140 Derivatives – Hedge accounting 717 717 708 708 Other financial liabilities 18 3,595 3,613 18 3,595 3,613 Debt securities at fair value through profit and loss 18,316 18,316 TOTAL 305,125 140,783 1,139 447,047 20,240 122,976 536 143,753 1) Venture capital activities designated at fair value through profit and loss. Fair value measurement portfolio adjustments are made to cover the credit risk. To reflect counterparty The objective of the fair value measurement is to arrive at the price at which an risk and own credit risk in OTC derivatives, adjustments are made based on the orderly transaction would take place between market participants at the measnet exposure towards each counterpart. These adjustments are calculated on a urement date under current market conditions. counterparty level based on estimates of exposure at default, probability of The group has an established control environment for the determination of fair default and recovery rates. Probability of default and recovery rate information is values of financial instruments that includes a review, independent from the busigenerally sourced from the CDS markets. For counterparties where this informaness, of valuation models and prices. If the validation principles are not adhered tion is not available, or considered unreliable due to the nature of the exposure, to, the Head of Group Finance shall be informed. Exceptions of material and prinalternative approaches are taken where the the probability of default is based on cipal importance require approval from the GRMC (Group Risk Measurement generic credit indices for specific industry and/or rating. The impact from these Committee) and the ARC (Accounting Reporting Committee). adjustments are shown in note 6. In order to arrive at the fair value of a financial instrument SEB uses different When valuing financial liabilities at fair value own credit standing is reflected. methods; quoted prices in active markets, valuation techniques incorporating Fair values of financial assets and liabilities by class can be found in note 37. observable data and valuation techniques based on internal models. For discloIn order to arrive at the fair value of investment properties a market particisure purposes, financial instruments carried at fair value are classified in a fair pant’s ability to generate economic benefit by using the asset in its highest and value hierarchy according to the level of market observability of the inputs. Group best use are taken into account. The highest and best use takes into account the Risk classifies and continuously reviews the classification of financial instruments use of the asset that is physically possible, legally permissible and financially feain the fair value hierarchy. The valuation process is the same for financial instrusible. The current use of the investment properties in SEB is in accordance with ments in all levels. the highest and best use. The valuation of investment properties is described in An active market is one in which transactions occur with sufficient volume and the accounting policies in note 1. The valuation of the investment properties is frequency to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis. The objective is to performed semi-annually, they are presented and approved by the board in each arrive at a price at which a transaction without modification or repackaging would real estate company. The valuation principles used in all entities are in accordoccur in the principal market for the instrument to which SEB has immediate ance with regulations provided by the local Financial Supervisory Authorities access. (FSA) which is in accordance with international valuation principles and in Fair value is generally measured for individual financial instruments, in addition accordance with IFRS. SEB Annual Report 2019 — 139 Financial statements – Notes Note 36 continued Fair value measurement of assets and liabilities Level 1: Quoted market prices Level 3: Valuation techniques with significant unobservable inputs Valuations in Level 1 are determined by reference to unadjusted quoted market Level 3 valuation techniques incorporate significant inputs that are unobservaprices for identical instruments in active markets where the quoted prices are ble. These techniques are generally based on extrapolating from observable readily available and the prices represent actual and regularly occurring marinputs for similar instruments, analysing historical data or other analytical techket transactions on an arm’s length basis. niques. Examples of Level 1 financial instruments are listed equity securities, debt Examples of Level 3 financial instruments are more complex OTC derivasecurities, and exchange-traded derivatives. Instruments traded in an active tives, long term options for which the volatility is extrapolated or derivatives market for which one or more market participants provide a binding price quothat depend on an unobservable correlation. Other examples are instruments tation on the balance sheet date are also examples of Level 1 financial instrufor which there is currently no active market or binding quotes, such as unlisted ments. equity instruments and private equity holdings. If the fair value of financial instruments includes more than one unobservaLevel 2: Valuation techniques with observable inputs ble input, the unobservable inputs are aggregated in order to determine the In Level 2 valuation techniques, all significant inputs to the valuation models are classification of the entire instrument. The level in the fair value hierarchy observable either directly or indirectly. Level 2 valuation techniques include within which a financial instrument is classified is determined on the basis of using discounted cash flows, option pricing models, recent transactions and the the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value in its entirety. price of another instrument that is substantially the same. Examples of observable inputs are foreign currency exchange rates, binding Significant transfers and reclassifications between levels securities price quotations, market interest rates (Stibor, Libor, etc.), volatilities Transfers between levels may occur when there are indications that market implied from observable option prices for the same term and actual transacconditions have changed, e.g. a change in liquidity. The Valuation/Pricing comtions with one or more external counterparts executed by SEB. An input can mittee of each relevant division decides on material shifts between levels. At transfer from being observable to being unobservable during the holding period the end of the third quarter 2019 Equity instruments (Fund assets) within the due to e.g. illiquidity of the instrument. insurance holdings at the amount of SEK 2.3bn have been transferred from Examples of Level 2 financial instruments are most OTC derivatives such level 2 into level 3. The transfers are a result of calibration of the classification as options and interest rate swaps based on the Libor swap rate or a foreignmethodology, in particular with regards to investment funds and other collecdenominated yield curve. Other examples are instruments for which SEB tive investment vehicles. The reclassification generates an increase of the senrecently entered into transactions with third parties and instruments for which sitivity of Level 3 assets and liabilities to unobservable inputs of SEK 293m. SEB interpolates between observable variables. The largest open market risk within Level 3 financial instruments remains in the traditional life insurance investment portfolios within the insurance business. Changes in level 3 Group, 2019 Gain/loss Opening Reclassi­ in Income Transfers into Ex­­change rate Assets balance fication statement1) 2) Purchases Sales Settlements Level 3 differen­ces Total Debt securities 4 1 5 Equity instruments 7,902 32 1,542 3,069 –1,832 2,281 56 13,050 Financial assets for which the customers bear the investment risk 614 38 4 –200 164 11 631 Derivatives – Interest related 510 –68 34 2 478 Investment in associates1) 501 –65 70 –126 1 381 TOTAL 9,531 32 1,447 3,143 –2,158 34 2,445 70 14,544 Liabilities Financial liabilities for which the customers bear the investment risk 603 43 –195 164 10 625 Short positions equity instruments 63 –3 –24 5 41 Derivatives – Interest related 473 –132 5 –4 342 TOTAL 1,139 –92 –24 –185 –4 164 10 1,008 Group, 2018 Changes due to IFRS 9­ Gain/loss Opening imple­ in Income Transfers into Ex­­change rate Assets balance mentation statement1) 2) Purchases Sales Settlements Level 3 differen­ces Total Debt securities 571 –567 4 Equity instruments 1,787 2,497 1,084 2,594 –447 279 108 7,902 Financial assets for which the customers bear the investment risk 630 –53 105 –97 29 614 Derivatives – Interest related 686 76 5 –121 –136 0 510 Derivatives – Equity related 2 –1 0 0 –1 0 Equity instruments available-for-sale 627 –627 0 Investment in associates1) 592 –120 66 –42 5 501 TOTAL 4,895 1,303 986 2,770 –707 –136 279 141 9,531 Liabilities Financial liabilities for which the customers bear the investment risk 624 –53 100 –96 0 28 603 Short positions equity instruments 244 19 –203 3 63 Derivatives – Interest related 799 –75 –114 5 –142 473 TOTAL 1,667 –109 –217 –91 –142 31 1,139 1) Fair value gains and losses recognised in the income statement are included in Net financial income and Net other income. 2) Gains/losses recognised in the income statement relating to instruments held as of 31 December are SEK 1,357m (1,179). 140 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Financial statements – Notes Note 36 continued Fair value measurement of assets and liabilities Changes in level 3 Parent company, 2019 Gain/loss Opening in Income Exchange rate Assets balance s­ tatement1) 2) Purchases Sales Settlements ­differences Total Equity instruments 2,099 954 115 –415 52 2,806 Derivatives – Interest related 510 –68 0 34 2 478 Investment in associates1) 501 –64 70 –126 381 TOTAL 3,110 822 185 –541 34 55 3,665 Liabilities Short positions equity instruments 63 –4 –24 5 1 41 Derivatives – Interest related 473 –132 5 –4 342 TOTAL 536 –136 –24 10 –4 1 383 Parent company, 2018 Changes Gain/loss Opening due to IFRS 9 in Income Exchange rate Assets balance ­imple­men­tation s­ tatement1) 2) Purchases Sales Settlements ­differences Total Equity instruments 181 1,485 323 233 –224 100 2,099 Derivatives – Interest related 761 18 5 –121 –153 0 510 Derivatives – Equity related 2 –1 0 0 Equity instruments available-for-sale 474 –474 0 Investment in associates1) 592 –120 66 –42 6 501 TOTAL 2,010 1,011 220 303 –387 –153 106 3,110 Liabilities Short positions equity instruments 244 19 –203 3 63 Derivatives – Interest related 799 –75 –114 5 –142 473 TOTAL 1,043 –56 –317 5 –142 3 536 1) Fair value gains and losses recognised in the income statement are included in Net financial income and Net other income. 2) Gains/losses recognised in the income statement relating to instruments held as of 31 December are SEK 774m (461). Sensitivity of Level 3 financial instruments to unobservable inputs spreads or comparator multiples. It is unlikely that all unobservable inputs The table below illustrates the potential Profit or Loss impact of the relative would be simultaneously at the extremes of their ranges of reasonably possible uncertainty in the fair value of assets and liabilities that for their valuation are alternatives. There have been no significant changes during 2019. The largest dependent on unobservable inputs. The sensitivity to unobservable inputs is open market risk within Level 3 financial instruments is found within the insurassessed by altering the assumptions to the valuation techniques, illustrated ance business. below by changes in index-linked swap spreads, implied volatilities, credit 2019 2018 Group Assets Liabilities Net Sensitivity Assets Liabilities Net Sensitivity Derivative instruments1) 2) 5) 478 –342 136 36 510 –473 37 45 Equity instruments3) 6) 7) 2,399 –40 2,359 475 1,957 –63 1,894 380 Investments in associates 3) 788 788 158 627 627 125 Insurance holdings – Financial instruments4) 5) 7) 8) 9,960 9,960 1,110 5,576 5,576 697 1) 2019: Sensitivity quantified as the absolute value of range prices per maturity bucket multiplied by exposure in bps, and standard deviation multiplied by the confidence interval 1.28 and exposure in basis points. 2018: Sensitivity from a shift of inflation linked swap spreads by 16 basis points and implied volatilities by 5 percentage points. 2) 2019: Sensitivity from a shift of SEK denominated Bermudan swaption Vega exposures grouped by option maturities. 2018: Sensitivity from a shift of swap spreads by 5 basis points. 3) Valuation is estimated in a range of reasonable outcomes. Sensitivity analysis is based on 20 per cent (20) shift in market values. 4) Sensitivity for debt securities is generally quantified as shift in market values of 5 per cent (5) except for credit opportunity 10 per cent (10), distressed debt and structured credits 15 (15) are applied. 5) Shift in implied volatility by 10 per cent (10). 6) Sensitivity analysis is based on a shift in market values of hedge funds 5 per cent (20), private equity of 20 per cent (20), structured credits 15 per cent (10). 7) Sensitivity from a shift of investment properties/real estate funds market values of 10 per cent (10) and infrastructure/infrastructure funds market values of 20 per cent (10). 8) The sensitivity show changes in the value of the insurance holdings which do not at all times affect the P/L of the Group since any surplus in the traditional life portfolios are consumed first. SEB Annual Report 2019 — 141 Financial statements – Notes 37 Financial assets and liabilities by class Group, 2019 Book value Fair value Valuation Quoted Valuation technique prices in technique using nonHedge active using observobservable instrumarkets able inputs inputs Assets FVHFT FVMPL FVDPL ments AmC Total (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3) Total Loans1) 186,706 3,384 1,843,189 2,033,280 29,544 194,020 1,810,085 2,033,650 Debt securities 60,454 156,666 6,870 14,588 238,578 112,878 125,996 5 238,878 Equity instruments 56,795 21,687 78,482 59,029 6,403 13,050 78,482 Financial assets for which the customers bear the investment risk 316,776 316,776 308,909 7,236 631 316,776 Derivatives 135,268 4,159 139,427 1,006 137,943 478 139,427 Other 16,584 16,584 2,507 14,078 16,584 Financial assets 439,223 498,513 6,870 4,159 1,874,362 2,823,127 513,873 471,598 1,838,326 2,823,797 Other assets (non-financial) 33,521 TOTAL 439,223 498,513 6,870 4,159 1,874,362 2,856,648 Liabilities Deposits 8,427 6,676 1,234,423 1,249,526 35,023 21,860 1,191,956 1,248,839 Financial liabilities for which the customers b ­ ear the instruments investment risk 317,574 317,574 309,772 7,178 625 317,574 Debt securities issued 20,207 882,606 902,812 51 895,671 473 896,194 Short positions debt s­ ecurities 9,991 9,991 8,322 1,669 9,991 Short positions equity instruments 17,352 17,352 17,311 41 17,352 Derivatives 121,047 1,145 122,192 1,554 120,296 342 122,192 Other 2,449 420 15,580 18,449 139 2,642 15,671 18,451 Financial liabilities 159,266 344,877 1,145 2,132,608 2,637,896 372,171 1,049,314 1,209,108 2,630,593 Liabilities to policyholders 26,547 Other liabilities (non-financial) 36,505 Total equity 155,700 TOTAL 159,266 344,877 1,145 2,132,608 2,856,648 1) Includes Cash balances at central banks SEK 144,185m. Group, 2018 Book value Fair value Valuation Valuation Quoted technique technique prices in using using nonHedge active observable observable instrumarkets inputs inputs Assets FVHFT FVMPL FVDPL ments AmC Total (Level 1) (Level 2) (Level 3) Total Loans1) 98,136 1,901 1,829,234 1,929,272 29,234 105,813 1,795,423 1,930,470 Debt securities 44,461 88,896 6,435 16,336 156,128 68,871 87,254 4 156,129 Equity instruments 33,192 17,242 50,434 38,697 3,835 7,902 50,434 Financial assets for which the customers bear the investment risk 269,613 269,613 261,056 7,943 614 269,613 Derivatives 110,368 5,095 115,463 1,327 113,626 510 115,463 Other 67 17,127 17,194 2,249 14,945 17,194 Financial assets 286,158 377,652 6,502 5,095 1,862,697 2,538,104 401,434 318,471 1,819,398 2,539,303 Other assets (non-financial) 29,412 TOTAL 286,158 377,652 6,502 5,095 1,862,697 2,567,516 Liabilities Deposits 3,586 8,911 1,234,613 1,247,109 35,054 18,636 1,192,268 1,245,958 Financial liabilities for which the customers b ­ ear the instruments investment risk 270,556 270,556 262,029 7,924 603 270,556 Debt securities issued 18,518 696,674 715,192 50 713,910 23 713,983 Short positions debt s­ ecurities 9,646 9,646 5,275 4,371 9,646 Short positions equity instruments 13,498 13,498 13,435 63 13,498 Derivatives 96,155 717 96,872 2,616 93,783 473 96,872 Other 3,613 22 11,087 14,722 93 3,596 11,033 14,722 Financial liabilities 126,497 298,007 717 1,942,374 2,367,595 318,552 842,220 1,204,463 2,365,235 Liabilities to policyholders 21,847 Other liabilities (non-financial) 29,285 Total equity 148,789 TOTAL 126,497 298,007 717 1,942,374 2,567,516 1) Includes Cash balances at central banks SEK 206,866m. 142 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Financial statements – Notes Note 37 continued Financial assets and liabilities by class Parent company, 2019 Book value Hedge Assets FVHFT FVMPL FVDPL instruments AmC Total Loans1) 186,706 3,384 1,613,642 1,803,732 Debt securities 59,995 133,486 17,935 211,417 Equity instruments 56,794 5,008 49,896 111,698 Derivatives 131,553 4,159 135,713 Other 14,183 14,183 Financial assets 435,049 141,878 4,159 1,695,656 2,276,742 Other assets (non-financial) 41,930 TOTAL 435,049 141,878 4,159 1,695,656 2,318,672 Liabilities Deposits 8,427 1,092,298 1,100,726 Debt securities issued 20,075 882,082 902,157 Derivatives 118,366 1,145 119,511 Other 29,792 8,267 38,059 Financial liabilities 156,585 20,075 1,145 1,982,647 2,160,452 Other liabilities (non-financial) 19,810 Total equity and untaxed reserves 138,410 TOTAL 156,585 20,075 1,145 1,982,647 2,318,672 1) Includes Cash balances at central banks SEK 110,039m. Parent company, 2018 Book value Hedge Assets FVHFT FVMPL FVDPL instruments AmC Total Loans1) 98,136 1,901 1,594,908 1,694,945 Debt securities 44,172 57,486 17,568 119,227 Equity instruments 33,191 3,801 50,653 87,646 Derivatives 108,188 5,095 113,282 Other 38 14,763 14,801 Financial assets 283,688 63,189 38 5,095 1,677,893 2,029,902 Other assets (non-financial) 48,373 TOTAL 283,688 63,189 38 5,095 1,677,893 2,078,275 Liabilities Deposits 3,411 1,083,835 1,087,246 Debt securities issued 18,316 696,600 714,917 Derivatives 94,551 717 95,269 Other 26,757 9,743 36,500 Financial liabilities 124,719 18,316 717 1,790,178 1,933,931 Other liabilities (non-financial) 10,794 Total equity and untaxed reserves 133,550 TOTAL 124,719 18,316 717 1,790,178 2,078,275 1) Includes Cash balances at central banks SEK 163,925m. SEB has classified its financial instruments by class taking into account the held for trading and hedging purposes. These are further specified in note 21. ­characteristics of the instruments: Investment contracts include those assets and liabilities in the Life insurance Loans and deposits includes financial assets and liabilities with fixed or operations where the policyholder is carrying the risk of the contractual agreedeterminable payments that are not quoted in an active market. Loans are ment (is not qualified as an insurance contract under IFRS 4). The Life insurance ­further specified in note 18 and 40 f. operations are further specified in note 42. Equity instruments includes shares, rights issues and similar contractual Insurance contracts includes those assets and liabilities in the Life insurance rights of other entities. operations where SEB is carrying the insurance risk of a contractual agreement Debt instruments includes contractual rights to receive or obligations to (is qualified as an insurance contract under IFRS 4). The Life insurance operadeliver cash on a predetermined date. These are further specified in note 19 tions are further specified in note 42. and 40 f. Other includes other financial assets and liabilities recognised in accordance Derivatives includes options, futures, swaps and other derived products with IFRS 9, i.e. Trade and client receivables and payables. SEB Annual Report 2019 — 143 Financial statements – Notes 38 Assets and liabilities distributed by main currencies Group, 2019 SEK EUR USD GBP DKK NOK Other Total Cash and cash balances and loans to central banks 7,252 101,852 32,162 260 1,355 4,024 4,281 151,186 Loans to credit institutions 3,280 8,847 17,822 3,026 1,449 1,724 10,845 46,995 Loans to the public 1,051,572 388,169 180,674 31,076 90,356 67,875 27,884 1,837,605 Other financial assets 488,904 112,295 107,895 11,550 25,212 35,835 5,649 787,341 Other assets 5,388 24,819 1,100 399 906 514 395 33,521 TOTAL ASSETS 1,556,396 635,982 339,653 46,312 119,278 109,972 49,054 2,856,648 Deposits from central banks 426 12,542 14,248 858 0 0 8,312 36,385 Deposits from credit institutions 15,029 15,728 6,681 683 5,990 4,358 3,187 51,656 Deposits and borrowing from the public 577,486 307,743 130,735 39,800 35,673 43,038 27,011 1,161,485 Other financial liabilities 640,071 308,155 372,161 35,395 14,816 8,024 3,894 1,382,517 Other liabilities 44,229 10,695 3,364 742 3,967 3,888 2,021 68,905 Total equity 155,700 155,700 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 1,432,940 654,863 527,189 77,478 60,447 59,307 44,425 2,856,648 Group, 2018 Cash and cash balances and loans to central banks 25,253 79,844 75,738 271 6,111 1,628 53,564 242,408 Loans to credit institutions 3,163 7,568 19,201 2,656 896 1,450 9,353 44,287 Loans to the public 942,874 368,465 134,514 25,688 79,289 61,950 32,045 1,644,825 Other financial assets 356,893 113,651 79,282 5,267 18,424 26,898 6,169 606,584 Other assets 1,124 25,746 947 111 892 236 357 29,412 TOTAL ASSETS 1,329,306 595,276 309,681 33,993 105,611 92,162 101,486 2,567,516 Deposits from central banks 411 3,582 20,534 797 16,731 5,775 47,830 Deposits from credit institutions 18,410 12,129 32,712 645 3,156 13,058 7,779 87,889 Deposits and borrowing from the public 538,153 274,963 153,034 48,810 26,378 42,495 27,556 1,111,390 Other financial liabilities 555,042 265,362 249,171 32,140 9,983 4,199 4,589 1,120,487 Other liabilities 30,545 10,623 3,160 672 2,340 1,844 1,946 51,131 Total equity 148,789 148,789 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 1,291,350 566,659 458,611 83,064 41,857 78,327 47,645 2,567,516 Parent company, 2019 SEK EUR USD GBP DKK NOK Other Total Cash and cash balances at central banks 7,229 65,660 32,087 0 1,320 1,485 2,324 110,104 Loans to credit institutions 8,832 39,161 17,519 4,881 4,361 8,274 9,423 92,450 Loans to the public 1,020,111 202,412 178,661 27,948 86,246 60,147 25,718 1,601,243 Other financial assets 202,143 85,937 104,667 11,984 26,759 35,756 5,698 472,945 Other assets 12,890 22,489 1,307 858 881 3,135 371 41,930 TOTAL ASSETS 1,251,204 415,659 334,240 45,671 119,566 108,797 43,534 2,318,672 Deposits from central banks 426 12,541 14,248 858 0 0 8,312 36,384 Deposits from credit institutions 28,566 29,035 13,089 1,284 6,395 7,750 4,390 90,508 Deposits and borrowing from the public 573,969 146,006 120,383 39,171 35,103 39,594 19,608 973,834 Other financial liabilities 360,132 264,871 372,920 35,375 14,779 7,866 3,783 1,059,727 Other liabilities 7,174 1,234 2,950 432 3,080 3,025 1,915 19,810 Shareholders’ equity and untaxed reserves 138,410 0 0 0 0 0 0 138,410 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 1,108,676 453,687 523,590 77,120 59,356 58,236 38,007 2,318,672 Parent company, 2018 Cash and cash balances at central banks 891 34,903 75,675 1,261 1,617 49,734 164,081 Loans to credit institutions 35,172 38,121 20,475 3,612 8,559 5,900 8,494 120,333 Loans to the public 906,762 188,945 132,227 22,030 75,444 55,143 30,135 1,410,687 Other financial assets 118,923 83,189 76,209 5,396 18,430 26,758 5,897 334,801 Other assets 17,540 24,459 1,209 1,132 892 2,786 356 48,373 TOTAL ASSETS 1,079,287 369,615 305,795 32,170 104,587 92,204 94,616 2,078,275 Deposits from central banks 411 3,582 20,534 797 16,731 5,775 47,830 Deposits from credit institutions 25,110 22,259 37,903 984 3,182 14,471 8,283 112,192 Deposits and borrowing from the public 533,911 116,319 142,857 47,550 25,797 39,869 20,920 927,224 Other financial liabilities 321,998 224,158 249,791 32,131 9,939 4,162 4,506 846,685 Other liabilities 2,208 648 2,821 545 1,761 901 1,911 10,794 Shareholders’ equity and untaxed reserves 133,550 133,550 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 1,017,188 366,966 453,906 82,007 40,679 76,134 41,395 2,078,275 144 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Financial statements – Notes 39 Current and non-current assets and liabilities Group 2019 2018 Current­ Non-current Current­ Non-current Assets assets assets Total assets assets Total Cash and cash balances at central banks 146,691 146,691 209,115 209,115 Loans to central banks 4,494 4,494 33,294 33,294 Loans to credit institutions 41,793 5,202 46,995 38,963 5,324 44,287 Loans to the public 741,676 1,095,930 1,837,605 745,077 899,748 1,644,825 Debt securities 238,578 238,578 156,128 156,128 Equity instruments 78,482 78,482 50,434 50,434 Financial assets for which the customers bear the investment risk 316,776 316,776 269,613 269,613 Derivatives 139,427 139,427 115,463 115,463 Fair value changes of hedged items in a portfolio hedge of interest rate risk 67 67 Investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures 997 997 0 1,195 1,195 Intangible assets 793 7,393 8,186 817 7,340 8,157 Properties and equipment 337 1,031 1,368 251 1,049 1,300 Right-of-use assets 5,288 5,288 Current tax assets 6,549 6,549 6,404 6,404 Deferred tax assets 259 259 0 251 251 Retirement benefit assets 5,545 5,545 4,104 4,104 Other assets 17,171 17,171 20,409 20,409 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 2,235 2,235 2,471 2,471 TOTAL 1,745,837 1,110,811 2,856,648 1,652,609 914,907 2,567,516 2019 2018 Current Non-current Current Non-current Liabilities ­liabilities liabilities Total ­liabilities liabilities Total Deposits from central banks and credit institutions 86,641 1,400 88,041 133,501 2,218 135,719 Deposits and borrowing from the public 1,145,895 15,590 1,161,485 1,088,202 23,188 1,111,390 Financial liabilities for which the customers bear the investment risk 16,397 301,177 317,574 744 269,812 270,556 Liabilities to policyholders 1,891 24,656 26,547 1,494 20,352 21,846 Debt securities issued 402,477 455,696 858,173 248,316 432,354 680,670 Short positions 27,343 27,343 23,144 23,144 Derivatives 122,192 122,192 96,872 96,872 Other financial liabilities 2,449 2,449 3,613 3,613 Fair value changes of hedged items in a portfolio hedge 420 420 22 22 Current tax liabilities 1,764 1,764 1,734 1,734 Deferred tax liabilities 7,117 7,117 7,141 7,141 Other liabilities 36,389 36,389 23,995 23,995 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 5,360 5,360 5,260 5,260 Provisions 1,095 1,095 1,817 1,817 Retirement benefit liabilites 359 359 427 427 Subordinated liabilities 364 44,275 44,639 290 34,231 34,521 TOTAL 1,849,583 851,364 2,700,947 1,627,187 791,540 2,418,727 Assets and liabilities are classified as current assets and current liabilities when realised within twelve months. All other assets and liabilities are classified as they are cash or cash equivalents, are hold for trading purposes, are expected non-current. to be sold, ­settled or consumed in normal business, and are expected to be 40 Risk disclosures SEB assumes credit, market, operational, business, insurance, liquidity and envithe risks, SEB holds a capital buffer and liquidity reserves in case of unforeseen ronmental, social and governance (ESG) risks. SEB defines risk as the possibility events. SEB strives to continuously identify and manage risks in its operations, of a negative deviation from an expected financial outcome. SEB’s profitability both existing and emerging risks, in a designated risk management process. is directly dependent upon its ability to evaluate, manage and price the risks The aggregate risk profile of SEB is regularly monitored and reported to the encountered, while maintaining an adequate capital and liquidity position to GRC and Board. In the annual capital adequacy process, the capital needs are meet unforeseen events. The Board of Directors is responsible for setting the evaluated based on the risk profile and future business strategy, taking into maximum acceptable levels of risks to be taken by the bank. The risk tolerance consideration the financial stability requirements of the regulators, debt invesstatements of the Board conveys the direction and level of risk, funding structors, business counterparties and shareholders’ required rate of return. ture, and necessary liquidity and capital buffers.  Further information about SEB’s risk, liquidity and capital management is avail­ SEB’s main risk is credit risk. Other risks include market risk, operational risk, able on pages 52–57, notes 18 and 41 and in SEB’s report under Pillar 3: Capital business risk, insurance and pension risk, and liquidity risk. In order to cover Adequacy and Risk Management Report (available on www.sebgroup.com). SEB Annual Report 2019 — 145 Financial statements – Notes 40 a Credit risk Definition Loans where the contractual terms have been amended in favour of the cusCredit risk is the risk of loss due to the failure of an obligor to fulfil its obligations tomer due to financial difficulties are referred to as forborne loans. Forbeartowards SEB. The definition also comprises counterparty risk derived from the ance measures range from amortisation holidays (the most common measure) trading operations, country risk, settlement risk, and credit concentration risk. to refinancing with new terms and debt forgiveness. Changes in contractual Credit risk is the main risk in SEB, which arises in the lending and commitments terms may be so significant that the loan can also be considered impaired. to customers, including corporates, financial institutions, public sector entities A relevant credit approval body shall approve the forbearance measures as and private individuals. This is referred to as the credit portfolio. SEB’s total credit well as the classification of the loan as being forborne or not. exposure consists of the credit portfolio as well as debt instruments and repos. Credit portfolio analysis and stress tests Risk management The risk organisation regularly reviews and assesses the aggregate credit Credit policies and approval process ­portfolio based on industry, geography, risk class, product type, size and other The main principle in SEB’s general credit policy is that all lending is based on parameters. Risk concentrations in geographic and industry sectors as well as credit analysis and is proportionate to the customer’s cash flow and ability to in large single names are thoroughly analysed, both in respect of direct and indirepay. The customer shall be known by the bank and the purpose of the loan rect exposures and in the form of collateral, guarantees and credit derivatives. shall be fully understood. The business units take full responsibility of the credit As of year-end, the 20 largest corporate exposures (including real estate manrisk until repayment. agement) corresponded to 93 per cent of the capital base (87). Stress tests of A credit approval is based on an evaluation of the customer’s creditworthithe credit portfolio, including reverse stress tests, are performed regularly as ness and the type of credit. Relevant factors include the customer’s current and a part of SEB’s annual internal capital adequacy assessment process. Specific anticipated financial position and protection provided by covenants and collatanalyses and stress tests of certain sectors or sub-portfolios are performed as eral. A credit approval takes the proposed transaction into account as well as required. the customer’s total business with the bank. The credit decision also includes a risk classification of the customer based on this analysis. The process differs Risk measurement depending on the type of customer (e.g., retail, corporate or institutional), risk Credit risk is measured for all exposures, both in the banking book and the level, and size and type of transaction. For larger corporate customers, indetrading book. An internal ratings-based (IRB) risk classification system appropendent and professional credit analysis is particularly important, and the decived by the regulator is used for the majority of the bank’s portfolios and sions are mostly taken by a credit committee. For private individuals and small reflects the risk of default on payment obligations. SEB received approval businesses, the credit approval is often based on credit scoring models. Every for a significant amendment of its risk classification system for the nonretail credit decision of significance requires approval from an independent credit portfolio in the parent company at the end of 2015 and for SEB AG in 2016. officer. Credit decision-making is based on a hierarchical structure, with the Approval for the Baltic subsidiaries was received in 2018. Group Risk Committee being the highest credit granting body, subject to limited For significant corporate portfolios, the risk classification system contains exceptions. Below the Group Risk Committee, there are divisional credit comspecific rating tools and PD (probability of default) scales. Larger and midmittees and, in turn, local credit committees depending on the location of the sized counterparties are measured on a risk class scale of 1–16, while Smallcustomer, with small approval authorities for certain bank officers. The approval and Medium-sized Enterprises (SMEs) are measured on a scale of 1–12. mandates for each level are set on a risk-adjusted basis using both quantitative Defaulted counterparties are given the highest risk class, and the three risk and qualitative criteria. classes prior to default are defined as “watch list”. For each risk class scale, SEB’s credit policies reflect the group’s approach to sustainability as SEB makes individual one-year, through-the-cycle probability of default estidescribed in the Corporate Sustainability Policy, the Environmental Policy, the mates, which are based on more than 20 years of internal and external data. Human Rights Policy, and the Credit Policy on Corporate Sustainability. Position For private individuals and small businesses, SEB uses credit scoring sysstatements on climate change, child labour, and access to fresh water, as well tems to estimate PD for the customer. To achieve greater accuracy, SEB uses as a number of industry sector policies, including Forestry, Fossil fuel, Mining different credit scoring models for different regions and product segments, and metals, Renewable energy and Shipping, shall be considered in the credit as both data accessibility and customer characteristics normally vary by granting process and are also used in customer dialogues. Environmental, social country and product. and governance risks shall be considered in the credit analysis. The exposure weighted PD of the total credit portfolio increased to 0.57 per cent at year-end (0.58).  The risk distribution of the non-retail Risk mitigation and h­ ousehold portfolios is shown on page 148. In order to reduce the credit risk, a number of credit risk mitigation techniques are used. The method used depends on its suitability for the product and the Counterparty credit risk in derivative contracts customer in question, its legal enforceability, and on SEB’s experience and SEB enters into derivative contracts primarily to support customers in the mancapacity to manage and control the particular technique. The most important agement of their financial exposures. SEB also uses derivatives to protect cash credit risk mitigation techniques are collateral pledges, guarantees and netting flows and fair values of financial assets and liabilities in its own book from maragreements. The most common types of pledges are real estate, floating ket fluctuations. charges and financial securities. For large corporate customers, credit risk is Counterparty credit risk in derivative contracts is the risk of a counterparty often mitigated by the use of covenants. In the trading operations, daily margin not living up to its contractual obligations where SEB has a claim on the counterarrangements are frequently used to mitigate net open counterparty exposures party. The claim on the counterparty corresponds to a net positive exposure in at any point in time. favour of SEB. Since the market value of a derivative fluctuates during the term to maturity, the uncertainty of future market conditions must be taken into Limits and monitoring account. The potential future exposure (PFE) is calculated by applying an addTo manage the credit risk for individual customers or customer groups, a limit on to current market value. The add-on is generated either through simulation is established that reflects the maximum exposure that SEB is willing to accept. (internal model method) or by applying a standard add-on which is set by a fixed Limits are also established for total exposure in countries in certain risk classes, value depending on product type and time to maturity which reflects potential certain customer segments and for settlement risks in the trading operations. market movements for the specific contract (standardised method). SEB continuously reviews the quality of its credit exposures. All limits and SEB’s simulation-based approach for calculating potential future exposure risk classes are reviewed at least annually by a credit approval body (a credit (internal model method) is approved by the Swedish FSA for external capital committee consisting of at least two bank officers as authorised by the group’s reporting of counterparty credit risk of repos, interest rate derivatives and FX Credit Instruction, adopted by the Board). derivatives in the parent company. Weak or impaired exposures are subject to more frequent reviews. The Counterparty credit risk in derivative contracts is reduced through the use objective is to identify credit exposures with an elevated risk of loss at an early of close-out netting agreements, where all positive and negative market values stage and to work together with the customer towards a solution that enables under an agreement can be netted at the counterparty level, and through collatthe customer to meet its financial obligations and SEB to avoid or limit credit eral arrangements. losses. In its core markets, SEB maintains local restructuring teams that are Counterparty credit risk in derivative contracts affects the profit and loss engaged in problem exposures. These are supported by a global restructuring through credit/debit valuation adjustments (CVA/DVA) reflecting the credit risk function with overall responsibility for managing problem exposures. associated with derivative positions. These adjustments depend on market risk Allowances are made for expected credit losses of financial assets in scope factors such as interest rate, foreign exchange rates and credit spreads. There is of the accounting standard IFRS 9 Financial Instruments. The guiding principle also a regulatory capital requirement for credit valuation adjustments under of the expected credit loss model is to reflect the general pattern of deterioraBasel III. tion or improvement in the credit quality of the assets. For a description of the methodology to estimate the expected credit loss allowance, refer to note 1 and note 18. 146 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Financial statements – Notes Note 40 a continued Credit risk Credit exposure by industry Total credit exposure comprises the group’s credit portfolio (lending, contingent ances. Debt instruments comprise all interest-bearing instruments at nominal liabilities and counterparty risks arising from derivative, repo and collateral amounts, considering credit derivatives and futures. Debt instruments in the margin contracts) and debt instruments. Counterparty risks are reported based Life and Investment Management divisions are excluded. on exposure-at-default calculations. Exposures are presented before allowDerivatives, repos and Lending Contingent liabilities ­collateral margins Total Group 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Banks 38,207 31,536 25,649 21,094 35,197 40,701 99,053 93,331 Finance and insurance 93,029 73,437 50,143 48,132 45,425 39,650 188,597 161,219 Wholesale and retail 83,637 81,793 43,156 39,097 1,393 1,062 128,185 121,952 Transportation 36,305 36,788 23,900 24,678 2,636 3,186 62,841 64,652 Shipping 58,781 52,927 13,728 13,001 1,846 1,565 74,355 67,492 Business and household services 152,487 137,313 108,900 96,724 5,747 4,733 267,134 238,770 Construction 12,564 11,446 25,502 21,286 581 555 38,647 33,287 Manufacturing 108,139 96,158 146,881 141,186 12,516 11,404 267,537 248,748 Agriculture, forestry and fishing 23,371 21,275 2,550 3,138 72 74 25,992 24,487 Mining, oil and gas extraction 33,998 21,535 27,741 27,146 1,283 1,121 63,023 49,802 Electricity, gas and water supply 52,913 50,080 47,494 38,603 13,519 10,754 113,926 99,437 Other 14,073 20,841 22,748 15,008 822 386 37,642 36,235 Corporates 669,297 603,593 512,742 467,999 85,839 74,490 1,267,879 1,146,082 Commercial real estate management 156,559 158,077 26,557 23,558 4,783 3,880 187,900 185,515 Residential real estate management 116,858 98,629 8,820 7,205 5,454 4,452 131,132 110,286 Real Estate Management 273,417 256,706 35,378 30,763 10,237 8,332 319,031 295,801 Housing co-operative associations 60,002 59,195 2,616 4,081 1 2 62,619 63,278 Public Administration 16,271 16,512 23,059 21,580 32,566 16,850 71,896 54,942 Household mortgage 551,001 521,912 38,066 29,809 589,067 551,720 Other 45,683 44,287 42,032 42,197 766 185 88,482 86,669 Households 596,684 566,199 80,098 72,006 766 185 677,549 638,389 Credit portfolio 1,653,878 1,533,740 679,543 617,523 164,607 140,559 2,498,028 2,291,823 Debt instruments 207,900 141,174 TOTAL 2,705,928 2,432,997 Certain balances in the credit portfolio disclosure were reclassified during the than a nominal amount and repos are now included, also based on an exposurefirst quarter 2019 to better reflect the portfolio characteristics. Furthermore, at-default value. Historic information has been restated. collateral margin is reflected based on an exposure-at-default amount rather Credit portfolio by industry and geography Total credit portfolio comprises the group’s lending, contingent liabilities and Counterparty risks are reported based on exposure-at-default calculations. Expocounterparty risks arising from derivative, repos and collateral margin contracts. sures are presented before allowances. Other Nordic Group, 2019 Sweden countries Baltic countries Germany, UK Other Total Banks 60,416 16,112 1,282 5,203 16,040 99,053 Finance and insurance 127,389 13,819 456 39,646 7,286 188,597 Wholesale and retail 50,599 30,795 25,699 11,237 9,856 128,185 Transportation 18,699 20,600 11,128 12,202 212 62,841 Shipping 17,704 26,020 867 22,445 7,319 74,355 Business and household services 124,987 52,156 7,890 77,770 4,331 267,134 Construction 19,129 7,331 3,638 5,668 2,881 38,647 Manufacturing 107,737 82,265 15,133 42,857 19,545 267,537 Agriculture, forestry and fishing 15,685 2,110 8,012 84 103 25,992 Mining, oil and gas extraction 6,268 51,707 755 3,139 1,155 63,023 Electricity, gas and water supply 26,665 50,474 12,924 23,719 144 113,926 Other 28,496 2,123 819 5,694 510 37,642 Corporates 543,358 339,399 87,321 244,462 53,340 1,267,879 Commercial real estate management 107,188 42,398 23,902 12,941 1,472 187,900 Residential real estate management 125,488 2,609 3,031 4 131,132 Real Estate Management 232,676 45,007 23,902 15,972 1,475 319,031 Housing co-operative a ­ ssociations 62,618 2 62,619 Public Administration 55,178 3,859 4,001 4,742 4,116 71,896 Household mortgage 519,647 1,198 62,238 5,984 589,067 Other 46,691 29,386 9,450 2,954 88,482 Households 566,338 30,585 71,688 8,938 677,549 TOTAL 1,520,584 434,963 188,194 270,379 83,909 2,498,028 SEB Annual Report 2019 — 147 Financial statements – Notes Note 40 a continued Credit risk Other Nordic Group, 2018 Sweden countries Baltic countries Germany, UK Other Total Banks 59,493 10,705 2,198 5,562 15,373 93,331 Finance and insurance 112,623 10,943 772 30,276 6,606 161,219 Wholesale and retail 50,521 25,211 25,087 12,221 8,912 121,952 Transportation 17,589 24,217 11,162 11,638 46 64,652 Shipping 14,386 23,074 991 23,044 5,997 67,492 Business and household services 116,204 41,465 9,281 67,993 3,827 238,770 Construction 15,631 6,516 4,197 4,264 2,680 33,287 Manufacturing 105,603 68,648 13,722 42,059 18,717 248,748 Agriculture, forestry and fishing 14,246 1,852 8,283 97 8 24,487 Mining, oil and gas extraction 6,518 39,984 815 2,167 318 49,802 Electricity, gas and water supply 24,730 36,345 11,777 26,457 129 99,437 Other 25,894 4,865 777 4,117 583 36,235 Corporates 503,942 283,120 86,864 224,334 47,822 1,146,082 Commercial real estate management 100,835 44,136 23,718 15,274 1,552 185,515 Residential real estate management 106,280 217 3,787 2 110,286 Real Estate Management 207,115 44,353 23,718 19,061 1,554 295,801 Housing co-operative associations 63,278 63,278 Public Administration 36,820 4,411 3,666 8,656 1,389 54,942 Household mortgage 487,253 1,302 57,044 6,121 551,720 Other 45,284 29,609 8,857 6 2,913 86,669 Households 532,537 30,911 65,901 6 9,034 638,389 TOTAL 1,403,184 373,501 182,348 257,619 75,172 2,291,823 As of 2019, the geographic split of the credit portfolio is based on SEB’s operations, in order to more accurately match where profit is reported. The credit portfolio in previous periods have been restated to reflect these changes. Credit portfolio by PD range Group, 2019 Total, excluding households Households Probability of Real estate Housing Public Households2) Category D ­ efault (PD) range S&P/Moody’s1) Banks Corporates management Co-ops ­Admin. Total PD range 0 < 0.01% AAA/Aaa 3.0% 0.5% 0.1% 0.0% 77.5% 3.6% 0.01 < 0.03% AA/Aa 40.1% 11.3% 6.4% 0.0% 12.4% 11.6% 0 < 0.2% 63.1% Investment grade 0.03 < 0.12% A/A 35.5% 30.0% 8.9% 9.3% 9.4% 25.0% 0.2 < 0.4% 21.0% 0.12 < 0.46% BBB/Baa 10.5% 36.3% 53.1% 86.0% 0.5% 38.3% 0.4 < 0.6% 0.3% Standard 0.46 < 1.74% BB/Ba 6.6% 16.4% 29.9% 4.0% 0.1% 17.2% 0.6 < 1% 7.8% ­monitoring 1.74 < 7% B/B 2.3% 3.6% 1.3% 0.8% 0.0% 2.9% 1 < 5% 5.5% 7 < 9% B/B 0.8% 0.5% 0.1% 0.0% 0.0% 0.4% 5 < 10% 0.9% Watch list 9 < 22% CCC/Caa 1.3% 0.6% 0.1% 0.0% 0.0% 0.5% 10 < 30% 0.8% 22 < 100% C/C 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 30 < 50% 0.3% Default 100% D 0.0% 0.7% 0.1% 0.0% 0.1% 0.5% 50 < 100% 0.4% TOTAL 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% TOTAL 100% Group, 2018 0 < 0.01% AAA/Aaa 5.2% 0.8% 0.3% 0.0% 70.8% 3.4% 0.01 < 0.03% AA/Aa 42.4% 11.2% 6.8% 0.0% 15.2% 11.9% 0 < 0.2% 65.0% Investment grade 0.03 < 0.12% A/A 32.2% 29.2% 10.0% 9.8% 12.6% 24.7% 0.2 < 0.4% 19.5% 0.12 < 0.46% BBB/Baa 10.5% 37.3% 52.6% 86.1% 0.8% 39.1% 0.4 < 0.6% 0.4% Standard 0.46 < 1.74% BB/Ba 5.0% 16.5% 28.8% 4.0% 0.3% 17.0% 0.6 < 1% 7.3% ­monitoring 1.74 < 7% B/B 1.7% 3.4% 1.2% 0.2% 0.1% 2.7% 1 < 5% 5.5% 7 < 9% B/B 0.6% 0.6% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.5% 5 < 10% 0.9% Watch list 9 < 22% CCC/Caa 2.3% 0.5% 0.1% 0.0% 0.0% 0.5% 10 < 30% 0.8% 22 < 100% C/C 0.0% 0.1% 0.1% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 30 < 50% 0.3% Default 100% D 0.0% 0.4% 0.2% 0.0% 0.0% 0.3% 50 < 100% 0.4% TOTAL 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% TOTAL 100% 1) Estimated link between internal PDs and external ratings based on comparison of historical default outcomes. 2) Household exposure based on internal ratings based (IRB) reported as exposure in the event of a default (EAD – exposure at default). 148 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Financial statements – Notes Note 40 a continued Credit risk Credit portfolio protected by guarantees, credit derivatives and collaterals 1) Group Parent company Protection via Protection via guarantees Protection Of which, guarantees Protection Of which, Credit and credit via pledged ­financial Credit and credit via pledged ­financial 2019 ­portfolio ­derivatives collaterals collaterals ­portfolio ­derivatives collaterals collaterals Banks 99,053 2,599 7,748 1,781 95,453 2,599 7,748 1,781 Corporates, Real estate management and Housing co-operative associations 1,649,530 26,377 403,549 27,907 1,490,334 24,719 345,804 27,376 Public Administration 71,896 866 1 64,840 574 Households 677,549 8 504,604 292 545,028 443,033 152 TOTAL 2,498,028 28,983 916,766 29,982 2,195,655 27,317 797,159 29,309 2018 Banks 93,331 2,312 12,318 7,145 88,952 2,312 12,317 7,145 Corporates, Real estate management and Housing co-operative associations 1,505,161 24,397 353,424 23,789 1,354,218 22,793 292,092 23,033 Public Administration 54,942 1,165 326 46,524 947 325 Households 638,389 8 477,053 454 512,098 420,892 303 TOTAL 2,291,823 26,717 843,960 31,715 2,001,792 25,105 726,248 30,805 1) Only risk mitigation arrangements eligible in capital adequacy reporting are represented in the tables above. For information on collaterals that have been taken in possession, see note 20 Equity instruments. Debt instruments At year-end 2019, SEB’s credit exposure in the bond portfolio amounted to SEK 208m (141). The exposure comprises all interest-bearing instruments at nominal amounts including certain credit derivatives and futures. Distribution by geography Central & local Asset-backed ­governments Corporates Covered bonds ­securities Financials Total 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Sweden 26.3% 13.8% 0.7% 0.8% 10.5% 9.4% 0.1% 7.0% 37.5% 31.0% Germany 12.9% 23.7% 0.2% 0.1% 0.2% 0.3% 0.0% 0.1% 13.4% 24.2% US 12.4% 6.6% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 12.4% 6.6% Norway 3.0% 6.0% 0.2% 0.0% 5.6% 5.9% 1.8% 1.2% 10.7% 13.1% Denmark 2.4% 1.4% 0.0% 0.1% 6.2% 9.0% 0.0% 0.1% 8.7% 10.6% Luxembourg 2.4% 3.2% 4.4% 6.8% 3.2% Finland 1.5% 2.8% 0.0% 0.1% 3.0% 1.7% 0.9% 0.1% 5.5% 4.7% Baltics 0.7% 1.8% 0.7% 1.8% Netherlands 0.3% 0.4% 0.0% 0.0% 0.1% 0.0% 0.4% 0.4% Europe, other 1.7% 2.2% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.1% 1.7% 2.3% Rest of world 2.2% 2.0% 0.0% 2.2% 2.0% TOTAL 65.8% 63.9% 1.2% 1.1% 25.6% 26.3% 4.4% 0.0% 2.9% 8.6% 100.0% 100.0% Distribution by rating AAA 52.7% 43.9% 0.1% 0.2% 25.3% 25.8% 3.6% 0.3% 0.1% 82.0% 70.0% AA 7.7% 12.1% 0.0% 0.0% 0.1% 1.0% 0.2% 8.7% 12.5% A 0.7% 0.6% 0.1% 0.0% 0.9% 0.1% 0.2% 1.8% 0.9% BBB 0.4% 0.5% 0.0% 0.1% 0.4% 0.7% BB/B 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.1% CCC/CC 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% No issue rating1) 4.8% 7.2% 0.5% 0.4% 0.3% 0.3% 1.4% 7.9% 7.0% 15.8% TOTAL 65.8% 63.9% 1.2% 1.1% 25.6% 26.3% 4.4% 0.0% 2.9% 8.6% 100.0% 100.0% 1) Mainly German local governments (Bundesländer). SEB Annual Report 2019 — 149 Financial statements – Notes 40 b Market risk Definition in this portfolio are classified as assets in the banking book as of 1 January Market risk is the risk of losses in balance sheet positions and obligations, 2018, while from a risk management perspective they are monitored together ­arising from adverse movements in market prices. Market risk can arise from with trading-related market risk. changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, credit spreads, commodity Market risk also arises in the bank’s traditional life insurance operations and and equity prices, implied volatilities, inflation and market liquidity. A clear disthe defined benefit plans for employees as a result of mismatches between the tinction is made between market risks related to trading activity, i.e. trading market value of assets and liabilities. Market risk in the pension obligations and book risks, and structural market and net interest income risks, i.e. banking book the life insurance business are not included in the market risk figures below. risks. Whereas positions in the trading book are held with a trading intent and  Refer to note 40 e for information on market risk in the life i­ nsurance business. under a daily mark-to-market regime, positions in the banking book do not have The Board of Directors defines how much market risk is acceptable by seta trading intent and are typically held at amortised cost. ting the overall market risk limits. Limits are defined for the trading book, banking book and defined benefit plans. The Group Risk Committee delegates the Risk management market risk mandate to the divisions and the treasury function, which in turn Market risk in the trading book arises from SEB’s customer-driven trading further allocate the limits internally. The trading book risks are managed at the activities. The trading activities are carried out by the Large Corporates & different trading locations within a comprehensive set of limits including VaR, Financial Institutions division in its capacity as market maker in international stop-loss, sensitivities and stress tests. foreign exchange, equity and debt capital markets. The risk organisation measures the market risk taken by the various units Market risk also arises in the form of interest rate risk in the banking book as within the group on a daily basis. The risk organisation also independently veria result of balance sheet mismatches in currencies, interest terms and interest fies the valuation of positions held at fair value and calculates the capital buffer rate periods. The treasury function has overall responsibility for managing for prudent valuation. The risk control function is present in the trading rooms these risks, which are consolidated centrally. The treasury function also manand monitors limit compliance and market prices at closing as well as valuation ages a liquidity portfolio, which is part of SEB’s liquidity reserve. Market risk in standards and the introduction of new products. Market risks are reported at the liquidity portfolio arises from credit spread risk and interest rate risk in least on a monthly basis to the Group Risk Committee and the Board’s Risk and pledgeable and highly liquid bonds. For capital adequacy purposes, the assets Capital Committee. SEB is exposed to the following market risk types: Risk type Defined as the risk of loss or reduced income due to Source Interest rate risk Changes in interest rates Inherent in all banking business Credit spread risk A change in the creditworthiness of an issuer of, Primarily present in the bank’s bond holdings for instance, a bond or a credit derivative Foreign exchange risk Variations in the exchange rates Foreign exchange trading and the bank’s operations in various markets Equity price risk Variations in equity prices Market making and customer activity in equities and equity derivatives Commodity price risk Variations in commodity prices Customer-driven activities in commodities Volatility risk Changes in implied volatility Market making and customer activity of options across all asset classes Inflation risk Change in inflation Bond holdings, value of assets on balance sheet Market liquidity risk Bid-ask spread widenings Sale of assets or closing of positions Credit value adjustment1) Variations in the counterparty credit risk based OTC derivative contracts on the expected future exposure 1) Credit value adjustment is fundamentally credit risk, but the exposure is calculated using market risk drivers (interest rate, currency, etc.). Risk measurement measure, limit and report VaR. The model aggregates market risk exposure for When assessing the market risk exposure, SEB uses measures that capture all risk types and covers a wide range of risk factors in all asset classes. SEB losses under both normal and stressed market conditions. Market risks under also uses a stressed VaR measure, where VaR is calculated for the current portnormal market circumstances are measured using Value at Risk (VaR), folio using market data from a historic, turbulent time period covering the Expected Shortfall (ES), as well as specific measures that are relevant for the Lehman Brothers’ default. The VaR model is validated using back-­testing analysis. various risk types. These measures are complemented by stress tests and sceA limitation of SEB’s VaR model is that it uses historical data to estimate nario analyses, in which potential losses under extreme market conditions are potential market changes. As such it may not predict all outcomes, especially in estimated. Since no method can cover all risks at all times, several approaches a rapidly changing market. Also, VaR does not take into account any actions to are used, and the results are assessed based on judgment and experience. reduce risk as the model assumes that the portfolio is unchanged. SEB’s VaR and stressed VaR models have been approved by the Swedish FSA Value at Risk and Stressed Value at Risk for calculation of regulatory capital requirements for all the general market risks VaR expresses the maximum potential loss that could arise during a certain in the bank’s trading book in the parent bank and the subsidiary Skandinaviska time period with a given degree of probability. SEB uses a historical simulation Enskilda Banken S.A. in Luxembourg. VaR model with a ten-day time horizon and 99 per cent confidence interval to Value at Risk 2019 Trading Book (99%, ten days) Min Max 31 Dec 2019 Average 2019 Average 2018 Commodities risk 9 70 27 21 19 Credit spread risk 19 53 23 29 23 Equity price risk 21 90 21 48 35 Foreign exchange rate risk 11 99 29 42 41 Interest rate risk 38 103 40 65 51 Volatilities risk 20 44 27 33 27 Diversification –108 –140 –106 TOTAL 59 159 59 98 90 Banking Book (99%, ten days) Credit spread risk 38 149 50 52 42 Equity price risk 35 73 36 46 36 Foreign exchange rate risk 0 2 1 1 0 Interest rate risk 133 244 197 171 177 Diversification –77 –76 –80 TOTAL 135 261 206 194 176 150 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Financial statements – Notes Note 40 b continued Market risk Expected Shortfall future (hypothetical or forward-looking scenarios). Reverse stress tests are Expected Shortfall (ES) is the expected loss given a pre-defined time horizon, also used for the total trading portfolio as well as for individual divisions and conditional that the loss is greater than the VaR for a specific confidence level. business units, to identify scenarios that would lead to a given significant loss, Thus, while VaR only shows the loss at a specific confidence level, ES takes the for instance, the breach of a stop-loss limit. This type of analysis provides manwhole loss distribution into account and calculates the expected loss of all of agement with a view on the potential impact that large market movements in the worst outcomes. SEB currently uses ES to calculate economic capital for individual risk factors, as well as broader market scenarios, could have on a market risk in the trading book. portfolio. The risk tolerance framework includes limits on different stress test scenarios. Scenario analysis and stress tests Scenario analysis and stress tests are a key part of the risk management frameSpecific risk measures work, complementing the VaR measure. In particular, they test portfolios using VaR and stress tests are complemented by specific risk measures including scenarios other than those available in the VaR simulation window and cover Delta 1% for interest risk, and Single and Aggregated FX for currency risk. longer time horizons. SEB stresses its portfolios by applying extreme moveIn addition, all units that handle risk for financial instruments valued at marments in market factors which have been observed in the past (historical sceket are limited by a stop-loss limit. The stop-loss limit indicates the maximum narios) as well as extreme movements that could potentially happen in the loss a unit can incur before mitigating actions are taken. CVA/DVA sensitivities The credit and debit valuation adjustments (CVA/DVA) are sensitive to market by comparing the original CVA/DVA numbers with the stressed CVA/DVA nummovements, in particular to movements in interest rates, credit spreads and forbers where the current rates and credit spreads have been moved up 100 basis eign exchange rates. points and where SEK has appreciated 5 per cent to all other currencies comIn order to monitor this sensitivity, SEB stresses these asset classes on a regpared with the current level. ular basis and calculates the impact on the valuation adjustments. This is done 2019 CVA DVA Total Interest rates + 100bp 176 57 233 Credit spreads + 100bp –892 390 –503 SEK + 5% 17 –4 13 2018 Interest rates + 100bp 173 78 251 Credit spreads + 100bp –696 387 –309 SEK + 5% 21 –3 18 Interest rate risk Interest rate risk refers to the risk that the value of the group’s assets, liabilities periods of assets and liabilities, including derivatives. and interest-related derivatives will be negatively affected by changes in interThe table below shows the sensitivity to a +100 basis point change in the est rates or other relevant risk factors. interest rates on the banking and trading book by currency and in different The majority of the group’s interest rate risks are structural and arise within buckets of maturity. This is calculated as the value change for a shift of 1 basis the banking operations when there is a mismatch between the interest fixing point and then scaled up to reflect a 100 basis point move. Interest rate sensitivity in trading book per time buckets 3–12 2019 < 3 months months 1–2 years 2–5 years 5–10 years >10 years Total EUR –20 48 105 479 –69 –482 61 SEK –50 –130 122 103 –65 32 12 USD –40 98 –20 20 –46 –29 –17 Other –41 63 –205 –307 –81 506 –65 TOTAL –151 79 2 295 –261 27 –9 2018 EUR 1 –137 617 –46 –268 –70 97 SEK –19 –24 27 34 71 –29 60 USD –44 48 –62 43 –35 1 –49 Other –19 113 –505 31 208 192 20 TOTAL –81 0 77 62 –24 94 128 Interest rate sensitivity in banking book per time buckets1) 3–12 2019 < 3 months months 1–2 years 2–5 years 5–10 years >10 years Total EUR –5 –271 –187 –267 –47 111 –666 SEK –216 –466 –290 –285 –370 43 –1,584 USD –39 115 34 47 55 112 324 Other 0 –66 –22 –24 –2 0 –114 TOTAL –260 –688 –465 –529 –364 266 –2,040 2018 EUR 14 –309 –221 –294 29 128 –653 SEK –179 –675 –321 –586 –205 56 –1,910 USD –7 36 39 –6 8 131 201 Other –24 –92 –11 –33 –3 0 –163 TOTAL –196 –1,040 –514 –919 –171 315 –2,525 1) by currency SEK m/100 basis points SEB Annual Report 2019 — 151 Financial statements – Notes 40 c Operational risk Definition SEB ensures that the organisation is prepared to respond to and operate Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal throughout a period of major disruption by identifying critical activities and processes, people and systems (e.g. breakdown of IT systems, mistakes, fraud, maintaining updated, annually tested and communicated business continuity other deficiencies in internal control) or from external events (natural disasplans in a group-wide system for this purpose. ters, external crime, etc.). The definition includes conduct, compliance, legal All employees are required to escalate and register risk-related events or and financial reporting, information-, cyberand physical security, and venture incidents so that risks can be properly identified, assessed, monitored, mitiexecution risks, but excludes strategic and reputational risk. gated and reported. SEB uses a group-wide IT application to capture risk events, loss levels and other operational risk data for analysis and benchmarkRisk management ing towards peers. Operational risk is inherent in all of SEB’s operations and the responsibility to SEB conducts regular training and education in key areas, including mandamanage operational risks rests with all managers throughout the bank. SEB tory training for all staff in information security, fraud prevention, anti-money aims to maintain a sound risk culture with low operational risk and loss level laundering, know-your-customer procedures, GDPR and SEB’s Code of Conduct. through an effective internal control environment by ensuring a structured SEB also has a formal external whistle-blower procedure that encourages and consistent usage of risk mitigating tools and processes. employees to report improprieties and unethical or illegal conduct. All new or changed products, processes and/or systems as well as reorganiSEB’s approach to meet cyber and other security threats is to prioritise techsations are evaluated in a group-common New Product Approval Process nical protection, raise awareness and continuously enhance the cyber risk cul(NPAP). The aim is to identify potential operational risks and ensure that pro­ ture among both employees and customers. Necessary security updates, sysactive measures are taken to protect SEB from entering into unintended risktem upgrades, and implementation of new features and secure measurements taking that cannot be immediately managed by the organisation. The process are performed on a regular basis. is also used for yearly reviews of significant outsourcing arrangements in the The risk organisation is responsible for measuring and reporting SEB’s operagroup. tional risks. Significant incidents and the risk level, both on Group and divisional/ All business units with significant risk embedded in their operations shall site level, are analysed and reported monthly to the Group Executive Commit­regularly complete Risk and Control Self-Assessments (RCSA) according to a tee, the Group Risk Committee and the Board’s Risk and Capital Committee as group-wide methodology. The assessments are designed to identify and mitiwell as local/divisional management. In 2019, the total losses from operational gate significant operational risks embedded in SEB’s various business and supincidents amounted to SEK 120m (197). port processes, from an end-to-end perspective. There is comprehensive participation by each business unit throughout the organisation. The RCSA frameRisk measurement work is used to analyse SEB’s operational risk profile and achieving operational SEB uses the Advanced Measurement Approach (AMA) to calculate the regulaexcellence and high performance. tory capital requirement for operational risk. A model risk framework has been implemented to capture risks embedded in models and processes across the bank. 40 d Business risk Definition Risk management Business risk is the risk of lower revenues due to reduced volumes, price presBusiness, strategic and reputational risks are inherent in doing business. Digitalsure or competition. Business risk includes venture decision risk (related to isation of the banking industry is accelerating and new types of competitors are undertakings such as acquisitions, large IT projects, transformations, outsourcemerging. The extensive new regulatory framework for banking and financial ing, etc.). Strategic risk is close in nature to business risk, but focuses on largeinstitutions is significantly impacting the industry. Corporate sustainability plays scale or structural risk factors. Reputational risk is the risk arising from negative an increasingly important part of a company’s reputation. SEB continuously perception of SEB or the industry in general. works to mitigate business, strategic and reputational risks in many ways, for example, with regular strategic business reviews, proactive cost management, an agile step-by-step IT development approach, an ambitious corporate sustainability agenda and active dialogues on regulatory matters. 40 e Insurance risk Definition obligations, if positive, constitutes a buffer which can act as a mitigant for any Insurance risk in SEB consists of all risks related to the group’s insurance operapotential P&L volatility. tions. SEB’s life insurance operations consist of unit-linked insurance and tradiUnderwriting risks are controlled through the use of actuarial analysis and tional life insurance. The main risks include market risk and underwriting risk. stress tests of the existing insurance portfolio. Mortality and disability/morbidMarket risk in the insurance business is the risk of losses on traditional life ity risks are reinsured for large individual claims or for several claims attributainsurance policies with guaranteed benefits due to changes in fair value of ble to the same event. Underwriting risk parameters are validated annually. assets and liabilities. Such changes in fair value can be caused by changes in ­Policyholders within certain traditional life insurance products are free to move for example interest rates, credit spreads, equity prices, exchange rates and their policies from SEB. The utilisation of this option has been very low historiimplied volatilities. cally. Nevertheless, to safeguard against unplanned cash outflows, sufficient Underwriting risk pertains to the risk of loss or of negative changes in the liquid investments are maintained. Regular cash flow analysis is conducted to value of insurance liabilities (technical provisions) due to inadequate pricing mitigate this risk. and/or provisioning assumptions. It includes factors such as average mortality, The risk organisation is responsible for measuring and controlling the risks longevity, disability/morbidity (including risks that result from fluctuation in the inherent in SEB’s life insurance operations. Measurement and monitoring of timing and amount of claim settlements), catastrophe risk (e.g., extreme or ALM risk measures, VaR, scenario analysis and stress tests are performed on irregular events), expense risk and lapse risk (i.e., policyholder behaviour risk). a regular basis for each insurance company. The risk organisation also has the role of independent risk management function in the respective insurance comRisk management and measurement panies from a Solvency II perspective. Key risks are reported regularly to the In unit-linked insurance, the market risk is borne by the policyholder, while the Group Risk Committee, the Board’s Risk and Capital Committee and to the underwriting risk is limited. However, there is an indirect exposure to market boards of each insurance company. risk through the policyholders’ investments, since a significant part of the future Solvency II, effective as of 1 January 2016, is a harmonised regulatory frameincome stream of the life insurance business is based on assets under managework with respect to governance, internal control and capital requirements ment. The profitability for existing and new business is closely monitored. across insurance companies in the EU. Solvency II calculations are performed Market risk in the traditional life insurance products with guaranteed returns regularly, and the required reporting is submitted to the financial supervisors on is mitigated through standard market risk hedging schemes and monitored a quarterly basis. With regards to current regulatory requirements, calculations through asset/liability management (ALM) risk measures and stress tests. This show that SEB’s life companies are financially strong and resilient to different is supplemented by market risk tools such as VaR and scenario analysis. In the stressed scenarios. traditional products, the difference between asset values and the guaranteed 152 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Financial statements – Notes 40 f Liquidity risk Definition l­ iability side should be based on the composition of assets. The more long-term Liquidity risk is the risk that the group is unable to refinance its existing assets lending and other illiquid assets, the more stable funding is required. In SEB, this or is unable to meet the demand for additional liquidity. Liquidity risk also is measured as the Core Gap ratio, which is conceptually equivalent to the Basel entails the risk that the group is forced to borrow at unfavourable rates or is Committee’s Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR). I.e. a ratio between stable fundforced to sell assets at a loss in order to meet its payment commitments. ing (over 1 year maturity) and illiquid assets (over 1 year maturity). The difference between the internal Core Gap ratio and the external NSFR is that the Liquidity management and risk measurement Core Gap ratio is calculated on a more detailed level based on internal statistics, The Board of Directors has established a comprehensive framework for managwhich results in different weightings of available and required stable funding. ing the bank’s liquidity requirements in the shortand long-term. The aim of SEB’s liquidity risk management is to ensure that the group has a controlled Wholesale funding dependence liquidity risk situation, with adequate volumes of liquid assets in all relevant One way of measuring tolerance for deteriorating market conditions is to assess ­currencies to timely meet its liquidity requirements in all foreseeable circumthe time that SEB’s liquid assets would last if the wholesale and interbank fundstances, without incurring substantial cost. ing markets were closed. This measure, the maturing funding ratio, captures the The liquidity risk is managed through the limits set by the Board which are bank’s liquid assets in relation to wholesale funding and net interbank borrowfurther allocated by the Group Risk Committee. Liquidity limits are set for the ings that come to maturity over the coming months, or as the number of months group, branches and specific legal entities, as well as for exposures in certain it would take to deplete the liquid assets in a scenario where all maturing funding currencies. The treasury function has the overall responsibility for liquidity must be repaid from liquid assets. Wholesale funding dependence is also measmanagement and funding, supported by local treasury centres in the group’s ured as the loan to deposit ratio, excluding repos. major markets. The risk function regularly measures and reports limit utilisation based on different market conditions and liquidity stress tests to the Group Risk Stressed survival horizon Committee and the Board’s Risk and Capital Committee. While liquidity manSevere stress can be modelled by combining assumptions of a wholesale fundagement is an ongoing process, an internal evaluation of the liquidity need is ing market shutdown with assumptions of deposit outflows and drawdowns on performed annually to identify potential gaps relative SEB’s long-term liquidity commitments, etc. The outcome is captured by the regulatory defined Liquidity targets and to ensure that liquidity management is sufficient. Coverage Ratio (LCR) where, in a stressed scenario, modelled net outflows durLiquidity management and the structuring of the balance sheet from a liquiding a 30-day period are related to the amount of total liquid assets. As of 1 Januity point of view are built on three basic perspectives: ary 2018, EU’s definition of LCR is used. SEB also measures the time it would (i) t he structural liquidity perspective, in which stable funding is put in relation take for the liquid assets to be depleted in a severely stressed scenario, to illiquid assets; expressed as the stressed survival horizon. In addition, SEB monitors various (ii) the bank’s tolerance for short-term stress in the form of a shutdown of ­ rating agencies’ survival metrics. the wholesale and interbank funding markets (wholesale funding dependence); and, Internal liquidity adequacy assessment process (iii) t he bank’s tolerance to a severe stress scenario where, in addition to a Liquidity risk is not primarily mitigated by capital. However, there are strong ­shutdown of the funding market, the bank experiences a severe outflow links between a bank’s capital and liquidity position. Hence, an internal liquidity of deposits. adequacy assessment process (ILAAP) complements the ICAAP. The ILAAP is designed to identify potential gaps against SEB’s long-term desired level of Structural liquidity risk liquidity adequacy, taking into account that effective liquidity management In order to maintain a sound structural liquidity position, the structure of the is an ongoing improvement process. Liquid assets1) 2019 2018 SEK EUR USD Other Total SEK EUR USD Other Total Cash and balances with central banks 7,251 97,437 31,182 4,193 140,063 25,252 76,610 74,934 51,613 228,409 Securities issued or guaranteed by sovereigns, central banks, MDBs and international organisations 56,531 16,270 69,527 23,801 166,128 8,140 29,137 33,144 8,947 79,368 Securities issued by municipalites and PSEs 3,522 5,720 3,404 4,429 17,074 2,725 7,035 1,124 2,318 13,203 Extremely high quality covered bonds 73,879 954 507 43,906 119,244 26,672 657 448 38,770 66,546 Other assets Level 1 assets 141,182 120,380 104,620 76,329 442,510 62,789 113,438 109,650 101,648 387,525 Securities issued or guaranteed by sovereigns, central banks, municipalities and PSEs 187 0 187 High quality covered bonds 16,786 1,262 9,351 27,399 4,569 15 9,609 14,193 Corporate debt securities (lowest rating AA–) 11 0 11 118 118 Other assets Level 2A assets 16,786 11 1,449 9,351 27,597 4,569 15 118 9,609 14,311 Asset-backed securities High quality covered bonds Corporate debt securities (rated A+ to BBB–) 299 0 299 687 2 0 688 Shares (major stock index) Other assets Level 2B assets 299 0 299 687 2 0 688 Level 2 assets 16,786 310 1,449 9,351 27,896 4,569 702 120 9,609 15,000 TOTAL LIQUID ASSETS 157,968 120,690 106,069 85,680 470,406 67,358 114,140 109,770 111,257 402,525 1) The liquid assets are presented in accordance with the template defined by the Swedish Bankers’ Association. All definitions are in accordance with Liquidity coverage Ratio in CRR. Liquidity risk management measures 2019 2018 Core Gap ratio1) 109% 110% Loan to deposit ratio 143% 137% Liquidity Coverage Ratio 218% 147% 1) Core Gap ratio represents the Parent company, DSK Hyp AG (former SEB AG, Germany), SEB Pank AS (Estonia), SEB Banka AS (Latvia), SEB bankas AB (Lithuania), Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken S.A. (Luxembourg) and SEB Kort AB (Sweden). SEB Annual Report 2019 — 153 Financial statements – Notes Note 40 f continued Liquidity risk Contractual maturities The following tables present cash flows by remaining contractual maturities at discounted. Derivatives are reported at fair value. Obligations such as loan the balance sheet date and applies the earliest date on which the group can be ­commitments are reported as when the obligation matures. required to pay regardless of probability assumptions. The cash flows are not Group, 2019 Balance sheet Payable on Not Discount (contractual maturity dates) demand < 3 months1) 3–12 months 1–5 years >5 years ­distributed Subtotal ­effect Total Cash and cash balances at central banks 146,691 146,691 146,691 Loans to central banks 4,103 402 4,504 –10 4,494 Loans to credit institutions 13,441 20,869 7,563 4,808 507 47,189 –194 46,995 of which repos 1,353 1,353 –3 1,350 General governments 521 6,833 1,283 6,177 5,513 20,326 –1,036 19,290 Households2) 6,561 16,791 29,827 50,837 605,902 709,918 –78,317 631,601 Corporates 53,340 460,885 167,456 437,803 106,432 1,225,917 –39,202 1,186,715 Loans to the public 60,422 484,508 198,566 494,817 717,847 1,956,160 –118,555 1,837,605 of which repos 185,084 1 185,085 –934 184,151 Debt securities 51,414 26,842 142,496 25,483 246,235 –7,657 238,578 of which eligible debt securities 46,581 11,913 60,137 7,356 125,987 –3,022 122,965 of which other debt securities 4,250 14,461 82,341 18,117 119,169 –4,635 114,534 Equity instruments 78,482 78,482 78,482 Derivatives 139,427 139,427 139,427 Financial assets for which the customers bear the investment risk 316,776 316,776 316,776 Financial assets at fair value 51,414 26,842 142,496 25,483 534,685 780,920 –7,657 773,263 Other assets 13,856 218 84 329 33,139 47,626 –28 47,598 of which other financial assets 12,284 16 3 108 1,695 14,106 –28 14,078 Total assets 220,555 574,750 233,591 642,205 744,166 567,824 2,983,092 –126,444 2,856,648 of which accrued interest loans 2,513 2,513 2,513 of which accrued interest debt s­ ecurities 1,080 1,080 1,080 Deposits from central banks and credit institutions 32,196 31,242 23,434 613 852 88,337 –296 88,041 of which repos 3,588 3,588 –8 3,580 General governments 11,896 1,423 5,449 713 2,774 22,255 –115 22,140 Households 317,211 22,046 6,154 1,005 99 346,515 –60 346,455 Corporates 692,803 86,309 2,849 7,391 3,849 793,200 –310 792,890 Deposits and borrowings from the public 1,021,910 109,778 14,452 9,109 6,722 1,161,970 –485 1,161,485 of which deposits 901,775 81,700 10,106 5,886 2,734 1,002,201 –279 1,001,922 of which borrowing 5,179 57 63 5,299 –9 5,290 of which repos 4,853 1 4,854 –6 4,848 Financial liabilities for which the customers bear the investment risk 317,574 317,574 317,574 Liabilities to policyholders 525 1,422 5,722 18,878 26,547 26,547 Certificates 79,891 208,928 3,129 291,948 –2,925 289,023 Covered bonds 10,852 52,479 284,877 31,504 379,712 –14,811 364,901 Other bonds 9,084 45,289 143,057 14,349 211,779 –7,530 204,249 Debt securities issued 99,827 306,696 431,063 45,853 883,439 –25,266 858,173 Debt securities 137 3,284 2,670 4,840 10,931 –940 9,991 Equity instruments 17,352 17,352 17,352 Derivatives 122,192 122,192 122,192 Other liabilities 1,027 1,420 8 420 2,875 –6 2,869 Financial liabilities at fair value 1,164 4,704 2,678 4,840 139,964 153,350 –946 152,404 Other liabilities 9,125 1,228 1,658 5,651 34,497 52,158 –73 52,085 of which other financial liabilities 8,369 175 –27 903 158 9,579 –73 9,506 of which lease liabilities 50 123 1,093 4,057 5,323 531 5,854 Subordinated liabilities 1 374 55,594 55,969 –11,330 44,639 Equity 155,700 155,700 155,700 Total Liabilities and Equity 1,054,106 251,662 352,309 450,842 138,389 647,735 2,895,044 –38,396 2,856,648 of which accrued interest d­ eposits and borrowing 646 646 646 of which accrued interest issued s­ ecurities 3,147 3,147 3,147 Off balance sheet items Loan commitments 8,161 275,686 62,895 276,623 14,646 337 638,348 638,348 Acceptances and other financial facilities 115,113 10,731 4,828 8,627 163 139,462 139,462 Total liabilities, equity and off balance sheet items 1,062,267 642,461 425,935 732,293 161,662 648,235 3,672,854 –38,396 3,634,458 1) Includes items available overnight. 2) For 2019, the households mortgages are presented based on contractual maturity dates for the loan agreements. 2018, the contractual maturity dates were set to the interest reset dates. 154 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Financial statements – Notes Note 40 f continued Liquidity risk Group, 2018 Balance sheet Payable on Not Discount (contractual maturity dates) demand <3 months1) 3–12 months 1–5 years >5 years ­distributed Subtotal ­effect Total Cash and cash balances at central banks 209,115 209,115 209,115 Loans to central banks 24,346 8,491 476 0 33,313 –19 33,294 Loans to credit institutions 10,812 20,268 8,049 4,857 506 44,492 –205 44,287 of which repos 1,461 1,461 –3 1,458 General governments 420 5,283 2,316 6,341 5,396 19,756 –1,009 18,747 Households2) 5,928 31,434 170,899 352,985 63,344 624,590 –26,822 597,768 Corporates 50,402 349,863 138,686 415,092 110,825 1,064,868 –36,557 1,028,311 Loans to the public 56,750 386,580 311,901 774,418 179,565 1,709,213 –64,388 1,644,825 of which repos 98,417 98,417 –481 97,936 Debt securities 16,747 26,576 94,183 24,353 161,859 –5,731 156,128 of which eligible debt securities 14,570 14,827 39,834 10,049 79,280 –2,469 76,811 of which other debt securities 1,803 11,332 54,313 14,288 81,736 –3,262 78,474 Equity instruments 50,434 50,434 50,434 Derivatives 115,463 115,463 115,463 Financial assets for which the customers bear the investment risk 269,613 269,613 269,613 Financial assets at fair value 16,747 26,576 94,183 24,353 435,510 597,370 –5,731 591,639 Other assets 14,581 357 8 717 28,751 44,414 –57 44,357 of which other financial assets 14,425 5 564 9 15,003 –57 14,946 Total assets 301,023 446,667 347,358 873,466 205,141 464,261 2,637,916 –70,400 2,567,516 of which accrued interest loans 2,423 2,423 2,423 of which accrued interest debt s­ ecurities 845 845 845 Deposits from central banks and credit institutions 50,840 66,045 16,886 1,167 1,146 136,083 –364 135,719 of which repos 192 192 192 General governments 9,609 8,130 5,321 782 3,006 26,848 –133 26,715 Households 290,845 25,065 6,300 928 25 323,164 –63 323,101 Corporates 558,381 175,884 8,624 10,113 9,217 762,219 –645 761,574 Deposits and borrowings from the public 858,836 209,079 20,246 11,823 12,247 1,112,231 –841 1,111,390 of which deposits 761,616 170,390 10,008 7,169 5,960 955,143 –506 954,637 of which borrowing 3,722 5 52 87 3,866 –8 3,858 of which repos 3,400 3,400 –4 3,396 Financial liabilities for which the customers bear the investment risk 270,556 270,556 270,556 Liabilites to policyholders 10,875 1,050 3,103 6,818 21,846 21,846 Certificates 33,316 107,164 3,739 144,219 –1,522 142,697 Covered bonds 2,584 46,848 271,287 27,007 347,726 –13,482 334,244 Other bonds 25,562 28,969 151,945 3,809 210,285 –6,556 203,729 Debt securities issued 61,462 182,981 426,971 30,816 702,230 –21,560 680,670 Debt securities 70 7,008 3,144 10,222 –576 9,646 Equity instruments 13,498 13,498 13,498 Derivatives 96,872 96,872 96,872 Other liabilities 1,315 2,047 285 3,647 –12 3,635 Financial liabilities at fair value 1,385 2,047 7,293 3,144 110,370 124,239 –588 123,651 Other liabilities 11,820 1,049 605 869 26,065 40,408 –35 40,373 of which other financial liabilities 10,863 16 16 170 60 11,125 –35 11,090 Subordinated liabilities 298 42,825 43,123 –8,602 34,521 Equity 148,789 148,789 148,789 Total Liabilities and Equity 909,675 360,666 224,557 450,962 97,866 555,780 2,599,506 –31,990 2,567,516 of which accrued interest d­ eposits and borrowing 1,048 1,048 1,048 of which accrued interest issued s­ ecurities 3,704 3,704 3,704 Off balance sheet items Loan commitments 7,453 241,376 50,268 262,779 26,780 376 589,032 589,032 Acceptances and other financial facilities 16,577 26,474 27,759 26,394 39,076 154 136,434 136,434 Operating lease commitments 249 746 2,757 3,466 7,218 7,218 Total liabilities, equity and off balance sheet items 933,705 628,765 303,330 742,892 167,188 556,310 3,332,190 –31,990 3,300,200 1) Includes items available overnight. 2) For 2019, the households mortgages are presented based on contractual maturity dates for the loan agreements. 2018, the contractual maturity dates were set to the interest reset dates. SEB Annual Report 2019 — 155 Financial statements – Notes Note 40 f continued Liquidity risk Parent company, 2019 Balance sheet Payable on Not Discount (contractual maturity dates) demand <3 months1) 3–12 months 1–5 years >5 years ­distributed Subtotal ­effect Total Cash and cash balances at central banks 110,082 22 110,104 110,104 Loans to credit institutions 26,271 24,658 22,293 18,519 1,207 92,947 –497 92,450 of which repos 2,560 2,560 2,560 General governments 510 6,136 357 1,250 954 9,206 –204 9,002 Households2) 6,545 7,743 21,298 21,273 547,285 604,144 –65,999 538,145 Corporates 57,349 432,691 149,167 362,010 83,462 1,084,678 –30,582 1,054,096 Loans to the public 64,403 446,569 170,821 384,533 631,701 1,698,028 –96,785 1,601,243 of which repos 185,031 185,031 –882 184,149 Debt securities 49,589 22,862 122,766 23,352 218,569 –7,152 211,417 of which eligible debt securities 45,551 9,081 41,877 5,465 101,974 –2,323 99,651 of which other debt securities 4,038 13,781 80,889 17,886 116,594 –4,829 111,765 Equity instruments 112,434 112,434 112,434 Derivatives 135,713 135,713 135,713 Financial assets at fair value 49,589 22,862 122,766 23,352 248,147 466,716 –7,152 459,564 Other assets 14,273 1,654 17,802 8,852 12,756 55,338 –27 55,311 of which other financial assets 13,282 16 107 13,405 –27 13,378 Total assets 200,756 535,112 217,630 543,620 665,112 260,903 2,423,133 –104,461 2,318,672 of which accrued interest loans 2,201 2,201 of which accrued interest debt securities 979 979 Deposits by credit institutions 56,995 33,666 31,872 4,142 658 127,332 –441 126,891 of which repos 3,588 3,588 –8 3,580 General governments 2,327 1,157 4,919 648 2,640 11,692 –106 11,586 Households 239,353 7,844 2,543 423 73 250,236 –25 250,211 Corporates 630,800 74,957 2,137 4,283 712,177 –140 712,037 Deposits and borrowings from the public 872,480 83,958 9,599 5,354 2,714 974,105 –271 973,834 of which deposits 872,480 78,784 9,599 5,354 2,715 968,932 –266 968,666 of which borrowing 5,174 5,174 –6 5,168 of which repos 4,852 4,852 –6 4,846 Certificates 79,817 208,928 3,129 291,873 –2,924 288,949 Covered bonds 10,852 52,480 284,878 31,503 379,714 –14,813 364,901 Other bonds 9,084 45,289 142,921 14,348 211,643 –7,525 204,118 Issued securities 99,753 306,698 430,927 45,852 883,230 –25,262 857,968 Debt securities 137 3,262 2,614 4,581 10,594 –603 9,991 Equity instruments 17,352 17,352 17,352 Derivatives 119,511 119,511 119,511 Other liabilities 2,449 2,449 2,449 Financial liabilities at fair value 137 3,262 2,614 4,581 139,311 149,905 –603 149,302 Other liabilities 7,766 100 265 97 19,860 28,088 –11 28,077 of which other financial liabilities 7,686 72 67 34 420 8,278 –11 8,267 Subordinated liabilities 1 374 55,041 55,415 –11,226 44,189 Untaxed reserves 19,875 19,875 19,875 Equity 118,535 118,535 118,535 Total Liabilities and Equity 929,475 225,281 351,904 443,302 108,943 297,581 2,356,486 –37,814 2,318,672 of which accrued interest deposits and ­borrowing 742 742 742 of which accrued interest issued securities 3,021 3,021 3,021 Off balance sheet items Loan commitments 54,058 57,578 261,473 12,397 385,506 385,506 Acceptances and other financial facilities 21,031 32,636 48,646 43,854 146,166 146,166 Operating lease commitments 3 40 673 4,844 5,560 –494 5,066 Total liabilities, equity and off balance sheet items 929,475 300,372 442,159 754,094 170,037 297,581 2,893,719 –38,308 2,855,411 1) Includes items available overnight. 2) For 2019, the households mortgages are presented based on contractual maturity dates for the loan agreements. 2018, the contractual maturity dates were set to the interest reset dates. 156 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Financial statements – Notes Note 40 f continued Liquidity risk Parent company, 2018 Balance sheet Payable on Not Discount (contractual maturity dates) demand < 3 months1) 3–12 months 1–5 years >5 years ­distributed Subtotal ­effect Total Cash and cash balances at central banks 164,081 164,081 164,081 Loans to credit institutions 23,619 67,330 14,388 14,784 640 120,761 –428 120,333 of which repos 200 200 200 General governments 55 3,665 1,655 1,346 320 7,040 –136 6,904 Households2) 5,346 22,314 162,301 324,270 13,630 527,861 –18,208 509,653 Corporates 50,360 327,093 121,898 341,048 81,278 921,676 –27,546 894,130 Loans to the public 55,760 353,072 285,854 666,663 95,228 1,456,577 –45,890 1,410,687 of which repos 98,377 98,377 –451 97,926 Debt securities 7,443 21,074 74,137 22,648 125,301 –6,074 119,227 of which eligible debt securities 6,440 10,250 21,482 8,218 46,391 –2,021 44,370 of which other debt securities 1,002 10,823 52,655 14,429 78,910 –4,053 74,857 Equity instruments 87,646 87,646 87,646 Derivatives 113,282 113,282 113,282 Financial assets at fair value 7,443 21,074 74,137 22,648 200,928 326,230 –6,074 320,156 Other assets 14,408 2,222 16,997 13,821 15,615 63,063 –44 63,019 of which other financial assets 13,143 5 558 38 13,743 –44 13,699 Total assets 243,460 442,252 323,538 772,581 132,336 216,543 2,130,711 –52,436 2,078,275 of which accrued interest loans 1,936 1,936 1,936 of which accrued interest debt securities 729 729 729 Deposits by credit institutions 36,025 89,482 25,665 8,509 944 160,626 –604 160,022 of which repos 15 15 15 General governments 1,352 7,677 4,506 725 2,812 17,072 –113 16,959 Households 225,810 8,481 2,286 398 236,975 –20 236,955 Corporates 547,548 115,335 1,711 6,021 2,976 673,591 –281 673,310 Deposits and borrowings from the public 774,710 131,493 8,503 7,144 5,787 927,638 –414 927,224 of which deposits 774,710 127,771 8,502 7,144 5,787 923,915 –409 923,506 of which borrowing 3,722 3,722 –4 3,718 of which repos 3,400 3,400 –4 3,396 Certificates 33,243 107,168 3,741 144,151 –1,527 142,624 Covered bonds 2,584 46,851 271,324 27,016 347,775 –13,531 334,244 Other bonds 25,562 28,970 151,756 3,811 210,099 –6,571 203,528 Issued securities 61,388 182,989 426,821 30,827 702,025 –21,629 680,396 Debt securities 70 7,009 3,146 10,225 –579 9,646 Equity instruments 13,498 13,498 13,498 Derivatives 95,269 95,269 95,269 Other liabilities 1,283 2,006 285 48 3,623 –10 3,613 Financial liabilities at fair value 1,353 2,006 7,294 3,146 108,815 122,614 –589 122,025 Other liabilities 9,765 48 205 282 10,269 20,569 –31 20,538 of which other financial liabilities 9,574 15 16 170 9,774 –31 9,743 Subordinated liabilities 0 298 42,825 43,123 –8,602 34,521 Untaxed reserves 20,855 20,855 20,855 Equity 112,695 112,695 112,695 Total Liabilities and Equity 810,735 293,483 219,509 449,973 83,811 252,634 2,110,144 –31,869 2,078,275 of which accrued interest deposits and ­borrowing 873 873 873 of which accrued interest issued securities 3,530 3,530 3,530 Off balance sheet items Loan commitments 47,788 44,320 258,401 15,704 366,213 366,213 Acceptances and other financial facilities 24,817 30,273 32,101 47,126 134,317 134,317 Operating lease commitments 180 541 2,080 3,307 6,108 6,108 Total liabilities, equity and off balance sheet items 810,735 366,267 294,643 742,555 149,949 252,634 2,616,782 –31,869 2,584,914 1) Includes items available overnight. 2) For 2019, the households mortgages are presented based on contractual maturity dates for the loan agreements. 2018, the contractual maturity dates were set to the interest reset dates. Group Parent company Average remaining maturity (years) 2019 2018 2019 2018 Loans to credit institutions 0.56 0.60 0.90 0.56 Loans to the public 4.29 2.45 4.27 2.11 Deposits from credit institutions 0.32 0.24 0.33 0.38 Deposits from the public 0.06 0.11 0.06 0.11 Borrowing from the public 0.27 0.38 0.13 0.13 Certificates 0.51 0.57 0.51 0.57 Covered bonds 3.12 3.16 3.12 3.16 Other bonds 2.79 2.42 2.79 2.42 SEB Annual Report 2019 — 157 Financial statements – Notes 41 Capital adequacy Capital management SEB takes various types of risks in line with the bank’s strategy and business Economic capital constitutes an important part of capital adequacy assessment. plan. In order to sustain these risks and guarantee SEB’s long-term survival, the It is an internal measurement of risk, similar to the rules for capital adequacy in bank must maintain satisfactory capital strength. At the same time, SEB must that many of the underlying risk components are the same. The economic capital balance the trade-off between financial reward and overall risk tolerance. In calculation is based on a confidence level of 99.97 per cent, which is equivalent particular, SEB’s capital management balances the following dimensions: to the capital requirement for a very high rating. The economic capital or inter1. regulatory: the capital requirements established by the EU regulation and nally assessed capital requirement for SEB Group including insurance risk directives through Swedish law on capital adequacy, and by the bank’s amounted to SEK 68bn (67). supervisory authorities, SEB employs an internal capital allocation framework for measuring return on 2. a  ccess to debt investors: the capitalisation level required to support a risk, named business equity. It is similar to regulatory capital models including ­certain rating level in order to reach a debt investor base necessary for Pillar 2 requirements and is calibrated with SEB’s capital targets. ­conducting SEB’s business activities, The regulatory supervisors annually assess SEB and its ICAAP in accordance 3. a  ccess to financial products: the capital level required by corporate clients with the parameters of the Supervisory Review and Evaluation Process (SREP). and other counterparties to facilitate the bank’s activity in the capital marThe assessment covers SEB’s capital adequacy, risk measurement models and kets, including derivatives and foreign exchange, and risk governance, among other things, and in the SREP 2019 it was concluded that 4. optimal return on equity: the balance between the shareholders’ expected SEB is sufficiently capitalised and adequately measures and manages risks. return on capital and risks taken. Regulatory requirements To meet expectations of shareholders, supervisors and market participants, The capital adequacy requirements have evolved over the last few years, SEB’s capitalisation is based on an assessment of all risks incurred in SEB’s busiboth in terms of which risks that are covered and in terms of the capital base ness, and forward-looking, aligned with longand short-term business plans and components. The requirements are split into Pillar 1 (general minimum requirewith expected macroeconomic developments. Furthermore, the capitalisation ments for all institutions) and Pillar 2 (requirements based on an individual is stress-tested to identify the potential effect of adverse changes to SEB’s assessment of each institution). Pillar 1 requirements for CET1 is expressed financial situation. as a REA ratio requirement and consists of the following components: i) a legal minimum requirement of 4.5 per cent, Internal capital adequacy assessment process ii) a capital conservation buffer of 2.5 per cent, The internal capital adequacy assessment process (ICAAP) encompasses SEB’s iii) a systemic risk buffer of 3.0 per cent, and internal views on material risks and their development as well as risk measureiv)  countercyclical buffers of 1.5 per cent. ment models, risk governance and risk mitigants. It is linked to overall business planning and establishes a strategy for maintaining appropriate capital levels. As opposed to Pillar 1, the Pillar 2 requirements for CET1 are not calculated as a Together with continuous monitoring and reporting of the capital adequacy to percentage of the total REA. As a result, the Pillar 2 requirements, expressed as the Board, this ensures that the relationship between shareholders’ equity, ecocapital ratio requirements (except the systemic risk requirement), are likely to nomic capital, regulatory and rating-based requirements are managed so that vary in relation to REA over time. The Pillar 2 requirements consist of the followthe bank’s survival is not jeopardised. Thus, the ICAAP is integrated with SEB’s ing components: business planning, internal governance framework and internal control sysv) specific own funds requirement for systemic risk (“Systemic risk requiretems. ment”) expressed as a CET1 ratio requirement of 2.0 per cent; and SEB’s capital plan covers the strategic planning horizon and projects economic vi) other specific risks. The risks currently identified by the Swedish FSA that and legal capital requirements, as well as available capital resources and relevant apply to all Swedish banks are a) credit concentration risks, b) interest rate ratios. It is forward-looking, taking into account current and planned business volrisk in the banking book, c) pension risk, and d) a maturity floor for corpoumes as well as strategic initiatives. The capital plan is stress tested to potential rate exposures. In addition to this, SEB-specific requirements for other down-turns in the macroeconomic environment, to strategic risk factors identified risks can be added as part of the SREP. in the business planning, and to other relevant scenarios. The capital plan is estabThe requirements are specified below. lished annually, and updated as needs arise during the year. Ratio requirement (explicit or implicit) Pillar 1 CET1 AT1 Tier 2 Total Minimum requirement 4.5% 1.5% 2.0% 8.0% Capital conservation buffer 2.5% 2.5% Systemic risk buffer 3.0% 3.0% Subtotal 10.0% 1.5% 2.0% 13.5% Countercyclical buffer 1.5% 1.5% TOTAL 11.5% 1.5% 2.0% 15.0% Pillar 2 CET1 AT1 Tier 2 Total Systemic risk requirement 2.0% 2.0% Credit concentration risk 0.3% 0.0% 0.1% 0.4% Interest rate risk in the banking book 0.5% 0.1% 0.1% 0.6% Pension risk 0.5% 0.1% 0.1% 0.7% Corporate exposures – maturity floor 0.3% 0.0% 0.1% 0.4% TOTAL 3.6% 0.2% 0.3% 4.2% Total requirement 15.1% 1.7% 2.3% 19.2% 158 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Financial statements – Notes Note 41 continued Capital adequacy Capital adequacy analysis Consolidated situation Parent company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Own funds Common Equity Tier 1 capital 131,155 125,857 113,893 108,336 Tier 1 capital 155,398 141,108 138,136 123,587 Total own funds 173,382 159,331 155,921 141,904 Own funds requirement Risk exposure amount 745,637 716,498 668,708 640,442 Expressed as own funds requirement 59,651 57,320 53,497 51,235 Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio 17.6% 17.6% 17.0% 16.9% Tier 1 capital ratio 20.8% 19.7% 20.7% 19.3% Total capital ratio 23.3% 22.2% 23.3% 22.2% Own funds in relation to own funds requirement 2.91 2.78 2.91 2.77 Regulatory Common Equity Tier 1 capital requirement including buffer 11.5% 11.2% 8.6% 8.3% of which capital conservation buffer requirement 2.5% 2.5% 2.5% 2.5% of which systemic risk buffer requirement 3.0% 3.0% of which countercyclical capital buffer requirement 1.5% 1.2% 1.6% 1.3% Common Equity Tier 1 capital available to meet buffer1) 13.1% 13.1% 12.5% 12.4% Leverage ratio Exposure measure for leverage ratio calculation 3,063,481 2,773,608 of which on balance sheet items 2,554,625 2,311,250 of which off balance sheet items 508,856 462,358 Leverage ratio 5.1% 5.1% 1) CET1 ratio less minimum capital requirement of 4.5 per cent excluding buffers. In addition to the CET1 requirements there is a total capital requirement of an additional 3.5 per cent. Own funds Consolidated situation Parent company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Total equity according to balance sheet1) 155,700 148,789 134,299 128,962 Deductions related to the consolidated situation and other foreseeable charges –14,075 –14,227 –13,493 –14,017 Common Equity Tier 1 capital before regulatory adjustments 2) 141,626 134,562 120,806 114,944 Additional value adjustments –1,033 –868 –1,014 –839 Intangible assets –6,688 –6,467 –5,233 –5,134 Fair value reserves related to gains or losses on cash flow hedges –15 –313 –15 –313 Negative amounts resulting from the calculation of expected loss amounts –816 –78 –325 Gains or losses on liabilities valued at fair value resulting from changes in own credit standing 19 8 –151 –151 Defined-benefit pension fund assets –1,761 –816 Direct and indirect holdings of own CET1 instruments –176 –172 –176 –172 Total regulatory adjustments to Common Equity Tier 1 –10,471 –8,705 –6,914 –6,608 Common Equity Tier 1 capital 131,155 125,857 113,893 108,336 Additional Tier I instruments 24,243 15,251 24,243 15,251 Tier 1 capital 155,398 141,108 138,136 123,587 Tier 2 instruments 19,326 18,987 19,326 18,987 Net provisioning amount for IRB-reported exposures 309 436 109 529 Holdings of Tier 2 instruments in financial sector entities –1,650 –1,200 –1,650 –1,200 Tier 2 capital 17,985 18,222 17,785 18,316 TOTAL 173,382 159,331 155,921 141,904 1) For the parent company Total equity includes Untaxed reserves net of tax. 2) The Common Equity Tier 1 capital is presented on a consolidated basis, and differs from total equity according to IFRS. The insurance business contribution to equity is excluded and there is a d­ ividend d ­ eduction calculated according to Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 (CRR). SEB Annual Report 2019 — 159 Financial statements – Notes Note 41 continued Capital adequacy Risk exposure amount Consolidated situation Parent company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Risk Risk Risk Risk exposure Own funds exposure Own funds exposure Own funds exposure Own funds Credit risk IRB approach amount ­requirement1) amount ­requirement1) amount ­requirement1) amount ­requirement1) Exposures to central governments or central banks 12,283 983 11,602 928 6,908 553 6,232 499 Exposures to institutions 54,421 4,354 51,033 4,083 52,865 4,229 49,759 3,981 Exposures to corporates 369,055 29,524 342,713 27,417 302,737 24,219 275,630 22,050 Retail exposures 67,255 5,380 63,171 5,054 40,717 3,257 37,322 2,986 of which secured by immovable property 39,616 3,169 36,720 2,938 30,762 2,461 28,189 2,255 of which retail SME 7,094 567 7,027 562 498 40 of which other retail exposures 20,546 1,644 19,424 1,554 9,955 796 9,133 731 Securitisation positions 1,195 96 987 79 1,195 96 987 79 Total IRB approach 504,210 40,337 469,506 37,560 404,423 32,354 369,931 29,594 Credit risk standardised approach Exposures to central governments or central banks 1,361 109 2,241 179 Exposures to institutions 1,057 85 649 52 19,000 1,520 17,793 1,423 Exposures to corporates 6,505 520 14,539 1,163 3,025 242 11,072 886 Retail exposures 13,691 1,095 13,310 1,065 7,939 635 7,881 630 Exposures secured by mortgages on immovable ­property 2,278 182 2,184 175 537 43 614 49 Exposures in default 82 7 168 13 30 2 12 1 Exposures associated with particularly high risk 933 75 761 61 933 75 761 61 Exposures in the form of collective investment ­undertakings (CIU) 58 5 45 4 Equity exposures 3,589 287 4,045 324 39,676 3,174 41,586 3,327 Other items 10,735 859 5,885 471 2,688 215 4,456 356 Total standardised approach 40,290 3,223 43,827 3,506 73,827 5,906 84,176 6,734 Market risk Trading book exposures where internal models are applied 21,195 1,696 25,020 2,002 21,172 1,694 24,990 1,999 Trading book exposures applying standardised ­approaches 6,913 553 7,711 617 6,746 540 7,534 603 Foreign exchange rate risk 2,889 231 3,934 315 2,844 228 Total market risk 28,107 2,249 35,620 2,850 31,852 2,548 35,368 2,829 Other own funds requirements Operational risk advanced measurement ­approach 47,444 3,796 47,151 3,772 36,363 2,909 35,310 2,825 Settlement risk 0 0 9 1 0 0 9 1 Credit value adjustment 7,932 635 7,605 608 7,868 629 7,428 594 Investment in insurance business 16,633 1,331 16,633 1,331 16,633 1,331 16,633 1,331 Other exposures 4,870 390 4,556 365 1,597 128 Additional risk exposure amount 2) 96,151 7,692 91,591 7,327 96,147 7,692 91,587 7,327 Total other own funds requirements 173,030 13,842 167,545 13,404 158,606 12,688 150,967 12,078 TOTAL 745,637 59,651 716,498 57,320 668,708 53,497 640,442 51,235 1) The Own funds requirement is 8 per cent of risk exposure amount according to Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 (CRR). 2) Additional risk exposure amount according to Article 458, Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 (CRR), for risk-weight floors in the Swedish mortgage portfolio. Average risk-weight Consolidated situation Parent company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Exposures to central governments or central banks 3.7% 3.0% 2.5% 2.0% Exposures to institutions 24.9% 25.4% 25.0% 25.5% Exposures to corporates 30.2% 31.0% 27.3% 27.8% Retail exposures 10.3% 10.2% 7.6% 7.4% of which secured by immovable property 6.9% 6.8% 6.0% 5.8% of which retail SME 57.3% 57.7% 35.5% 35.5% of which other retail exposures 31.8% 30.8% 41.8% 37.8% Securitisation positions 9.6% 9.3% 9.6% 9.3% The consolidated SEB Group must also comply with capital requirements conSEK 182.2bn while the Own funds amounted to SEK 218.8bn. In these total figcerning combined banking and insurance groups, i.e. financial conglomerates. ures, SEB Life and Pension Holding AB has contributed with Solvency II figures The combined capital requirement for the SEB financial conglomerate was from September 30, 2019. 160 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Financial statements – Notes 42 Life insurance operations Group Income statement 2019 2018 Premium income, net 4,811 6,863 Income investment contracts – Own fees including risk gain/loss 1,455 1,471 – Commissions from fund companies 1,791 1,899 3,246 3,371 Net investment income 1,819 747 Other operating income 485 420 Total income, gross 10,361 11,401 Claims paid, net –1,538 –4,901 Change in insurance contract provisions –4,544 –1,984 Total income, net 4,279 4,516 Of which from other units within the SEB Group 1,489 1,483 Direct acquisition costs investment and insurance contracts –811 –953 Change in deferred acquisition costs –277 –112 –1,089 –1,065 Commissions received and profit share from ceded reinsurance 113 121 Other expenses –1,587 –1,653 Total expenses –2,563 –2,596 Net expected credit losses –1 –2 OPERATING PROFIT 1,715 1,917 Change in surplus values in division life Present value of new sales1) 967 1,054 Return on existing policies 1,190 1,557 Realised surplus value in existing policies –2,347 –2,665 Actual outcome compared to assumptions2) –39 –1,486 Change in surplus values from ongoing business, gross –228 –1,541 Capitalisation of acquisition costs –74 –319 Amortisation of capitalised acquisition costs 351 431 Change in deferred front end fees –21 23 Change in surplus values from ongoing business, net3) 29 –1,406 Financial effects due to short-term market fluctuations4) 2,334 –1,664 Change in assumptions5) –838 –762 TOTAL CHANGE IN SURPLUS VALUES6) 1,525 –3,833 Calculations of surplus value in the life insurance operations are based on assumptions of the future development of existing insurance contracts and a riskadjusted discount rate. The most important assumptions (Swedish unit-linked – which represent 86 per cent (85) of the total surplus value). 2019 2018 Discount rate 6.5% 7.0% Growth in fund units, gross before fees and taxes 4.7% 5.0% Transfer rate 3.81% 3.47% Lapse rate of regular premiums unit-linked 8.2% 8.2% Surrender of endowment insurance contracts: contracts signed within 1 year / 1-4 years / 5 years / 6 years / thereafter 2%/6%/13%/12%/8% 2%/6%/15%/13%/8% Inflation CPI / Inflation expenses 2% / 3% 2% / 3% Mortality The group's experience The group's experience 1) Sales defined as new contracts and extra premiums in existing contracts. 2) The actual outcome of previously signed contracts is compared with previous assumptions and deviations are calculated. Important components are the duration of contracts and cancellations. 3) Acquisition costs are capitalised and amortised according to plan. Certain front end fees are also recorded on the balance sheet and recognized as revenue in the income statement during several years. The reported change in surplus values is adjusted by the net effect of changes in deferred acquisition costs and front end fees during the period. 4) Assumed investment return (growth in fund values) is 4.7 per cent (5.0) gross before fees and taxes. Actual returns results in positive or negative financial effects. 5) Effect of changes in assumptions such as frequency of surrenders, transfers out and assumed expenses. The negative effect in 2018 mainly relates to increase in expected transfers out of policies and higher assumed expenses. The negative effect in 2019 is related to various changes in assumptions such as: positive effect from lower discount rate and negative effect from transfers out, lower growth in funds and higher expenses. 6) The calculated surplus value is not included in the SEB Group’s consolidated accounts. The surplus value is net of capitalised acquisition costs and deferred front end fees. SUMMARISED FINANCIAL INFORMATION FOR GAMLA LIVFÖRSÄKRINGSBOLAGET SEB TRYGG LIV* Income statement, condensed 2019 2018 Life insurance technical result 12,175 4,444 Other costs and appropriations 13 16 Taxes –229 –291 NET RESULT 11,958 4,169 Balance sheet, condensed TOTAL ASSETS 184,226 176,190 Total liabilities 87,364 84,451 Consolidation fund / equity 96,767 91,631 Untaxed reserves 95 108 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 184,226 176,190 *S EB owns all shares of Gamla Livförsäkringsbolaget SEB Trygg Liv except for a golden share owned by Trygg-Stiftelsen. Gamla Livförsäkringsbolaget SEB Trygg Liv is not consolidated as subsidiary of the group, since the ownership of SEB in Gamla Livförsäkringsbolaget SEB Trygg Liv does not result in control. Current year figures are unaudited. SEB Annual Report 2019 — 161 Financial statements – Notes 43 Assets in unit-linked operations Within the unit-linked business SEB holds, for its customers’ account, a share of The total value of those funds amounted to SEK 145,039m (124,353) of which more than 50 per cent in 19 (43) funds, where SEB is the investment manager. SEB, for its customers’ account, holds SEK 97,936m (89,547). 44 Interest in unconsolidated structured entities Group Parent company Special purpose Asset Special purpose Asset Assets, 2019 entities m ­ anagement1) Total entities ­management1) Total Loans to the public 11,177 148 11,324 11,177 148 11,324 Financial assets 8 298,794 298,802 8 1,380 1,388 of which derivatives 8 8 8 8 TOTAL 11,185 298,941 310,126 11,185 1,527 12,712 Liabilities Deposits and borrowings from the public 501 1,594 2,094 501 1,594 2,094 Financial liabilities 1 1 1 1 of which derivatives 1 1 1 1 TOTAL 502 1,594 2,095 502 1,594 2,096 Obligations 444 444 444 444 The group’s maximum exposure to loss 11,629 16,873 28,501 11,629 1,527 13,156 1) Investments in SEBand non-SEB managed funds Assets, 2018 Loans to the public 9,778 184 9,962 9,778 184 9,962 Financial assets 3 249,894 249,897 3 1,081 1,084 of which derivatives 3 3 6 3 3 6 TOTAL 9,781 250,078 259,859 9,781 1,265 11,046 Liabilities Deposits and borrowings from the public 375 230 605 375 230 605 Financial liabilities 0 0 0 0 0 0 of which derivatives 0 0 0 0 0 0 TOTAL 376 230 606 376 230 606 Obligations 341 341 341 341 The group’s maximum exposure to loss 10,122 5,939 16,060 10,122 1,265 11,387 1) Investments in SEBand non-SEB managed funds Interests in unconsolidated structured entities refers to cases when the group Interests in other structured entities has interests in structured entities which it does not control. A structured entity The group has had a role in establishing structured entities to support customer is an entity that is designed so that voting or similar rights are not the dominant transactions. The purpose of these entities is to provide alternative f­ unding and factor in deciding who controls the entity, such as when any voting rights relate liquidity improvement to the sellers and investment opportunities to investors to administrative tasks only and the relevant activities are directed by means of by purchasing assets and obtain funding for the purchases with the assets as contractual arrangements. collateral. The group provides senior revolving credit facilities and administraThe group enters into transactions with structured entities in the normal tive services to the entities and earn fee and interest income on market based cause of business for various reasons. Depending on the type of structured conditions. ­entity the p ­ urpose is to support customer transactions, to engage in specific­ The group holds the most senior investments in debt instruments issued by ­investment oppor­tunities and to facilitate the start-up of certain entities. banks, through securitisation vehicles (SPV) whose purpose is to provide alterThe group has interests in the following types of structured entities: native funding to the issuers and investment opportunities to investors. The SPVs purchase pools of asset from the originating banks balance sheet, e.g. Interests in funds credit card loans, residential mortgage loans, loans to small and medium sized The group establishes and manages funds to provide customers with investenterprises and fund these purchases by issuing debt securities with the assets ment opportunities, SEB is considered to be the sponsor of those funds. Total as collateral. The securities have multiple tranches of subordination. assets under management represent the size of a fund. Total assets under manThe maximum exposure to loss regarding investments in other structured agement of funds managed by SEB are SEK 736bn (622). The total assets of ­entities is limited to the carrying amount of the investments and may occur only non-SEB managed funds are not publically available and not considered meanafter losses by creditors with junior exposures. The maximum exposure to loss ingful for understanding related risks, and have therefore not been presented. does not reflect the probability of loss and hedging or collateral arrangements In some cases the group facilitates the start-up of funds by holding units and it are not considered. The total assets for these entities are not considered meanmay hold units in funds managed by the group or by a third party for investment ingful information for the purpose of understanding the related risks and therepurposes within the life business. The funds managed by the group generate fore have not been presented. income in the form of management fees and performance fees based on the assets under management. The income from asset management is presented in note 5. The maximum exposure to loss is limited to the carrying amount of units held by the group. This amount does not reflect the probable loss. 162 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Financial statements – Notes 45 Related parties Group Associated companies Key management Other related parties Assets/­ Assets/ Assets/ Group, 2019 Liabilities Interest L­ iabilities Interest ­Liabilities Interest Loans to the public 653 12 256 4 7 0 Notional amount of derivatives 2,870 Deposits and borrowings from the public 15 0 30 715 –1 Group, 2018 Loans to the public 830 18 246 4 71 1 Notional amount of derivatives 2,837 Deposits and borrowings from the public 51 38 717 Parent company Associated companies Group companies Assets/ Assets/ Parent company, 2019 L­ iabilities Interest L­ iabilities Interest Loans to credit institutions 39,224 197 Loans to the public 653 13 5,895 16 Interest-bearing securities 3,350 23 Positive replacement values of derivatives 836 Other assets 6 1,298 0 TOTAL 659 13 50,602 236 Deposits from credit institutions 41,475 –565 Deposits and borrowings from the public 15 –1 13,057 –19 Negative replacement values of derivatives 2,649 Other liabilities 0 191 –3 TOTAL 15 –1 57,371 –587 Parent company, 2018 Loans to credit institutions 39,575 106 Loans to the public 830 17 6,638 56 Interest-bearing securities 1,233 32 Positive replacement values of derivatives 580 Other assets 5 726 5 TOTAL 835 17 48,752 199 Deposits from credit institutions 28,955 –470 Deposits and borrowings from the public 51 1 13,884 –19 Negative replacement values of derivatives 1,641 Other liabilities 1 147 –4 TOTAL 52 1 44,627 –493 Key management above refers to the Board of Directors and the Group Execuconditions on the market. SEB has received SEK 123m (120) under the insurtive Committee. Entities with significant influence or significantly influenced by ance administration agreement and SEK 256m (402) under the asset managekey management in the group, and post-employment benefit plans are prement agreement. For more information on Gamla Livförsäkringsbolaget SEB sented as other related parties. Investor AB and the pension foundation SEBTrygg Liv, see note 42. stiftelsen are within this category as well as close family members to key manThe parent company is a related party to its subsidiaries and associates. agement. In addition the Group has insurance administration and asset manageSee note 22 Investments in associates and subsidiaries for disclosures of ment agreements with Gamla Livförsäkringsbolaget SEB Trygg Liv based on investments. SEB Annual Report 2019 — 163 Financial statements – Notes 46 Financial assets and liabilities subject to offsetting or netting arrangements Financial assets and liabilities subject to offsetting or netting arrangements Related arrangements Other instruments in balance sheet Master Collaterals not subject to Total in Gross Net amounts in ­netting ­received/ Net netting balance Group, 2019 amounts Offset balance sheet ­ rrangements a pledged amounts ­arrangements sheet Derivatives 143,112 –4,391 138,721 –80,251 –35,229 23,242 706 139,427 Reversed repo receivables 267,841 –81,176 186,664 –8,426 –178,238 1,299 187,963 Securities borrowing 20,099 20,099 –19,753 347 593 20,692 Client receivables 82 –82 12,476 12,476 ASSETS 431,134 –85,649 345,484 –88,677 –233,220 23,588 15,074 360,558 Derivatives 125,074 –4,391 120,682 –80,251 –27,189 13,242 1,510 122,192 Repo payables 89,602 –81,176 8,426 –8,426 8,426 Securities lending 11,502 11,502 –10,849 653 4 11,506 Client payables 82 –82 8,298 8,298 LIABILITIES 226,260 –85,649 140,610 –88,677 –38,038 13,896 9,812 150,423 Group, 2018 Derivatives 119,346 –4,593 114,753 –59,473 –32,842 22,439 710 115,463 Reversed repo receivables 158,494 –60,367 98,127 –2,892 –95,235 1,258 99,385 Securities borrowing 28,690 28,690 –28,497 193 208 28,898 Client receivables 190 –190 12,826 12,826 ASSETS 306,720 –65,150 241,570 –62,364 –156,574 22,632 15,002 256,572 Derivatives 100,059 –4,593 95,467 –59,473 –25,894 10,100 1,406 96,872 Repo payables 63,433 –60,367 3,066 –2,892 175 522 3,588 Securities lending 26,059 26,059 –25,388 670 3 26,062 Client payables 190 –190 9,572 9,572 LIABILITIES 189,742 –65,150 124,591 –62,364 –51,283 10,945 11,502 136,094 Financial assets and liabilities subject to offsetting or netting arrangements Related arrangements Other instruments in balance sheet Master Collaterals not subject to Total in Gross Net amounts in ­netting ­received/ Net netting balance Parent company, 2019 amounts Offset balance sheet ­arrangements pledged amounts ­arrangements sheet Derivatives 135,713 135,713 –77,518 –34,863 23,331 135,713 Reversed repo receivables 267,841 –81,176 186,664 –8,426 –178,238 186,664 Securities borrowing 19,861 19,861 –19,861 19,861 Client receivables 82 –82 11,951 11,951 ASSETS 423,496 –81,258 342,238 –85,944 –232,963 23,331 11,951 354,189 Derivatives 119,511 119,511 –77,518 –27,189 14,803 119,511 Repo payables 89,602 –81,176 8,426 –8,426 8,426 Securities lending 10,849 10,849 –10,849 10,849 Client payables 82 –82 6,603 6,603 LIABILITIES 220,043 –81,258 138,785 –85,944 –38,038 14,803 6,603 145,388 Parent company, 2018 Derivatives 113,282 113,282 –58,486 –32,642 22,154 113,282 Reversed repo receivables 158,494 –60,367 98,127 –2,892 –95,235 98,127 Securities borrowing 28,700 28,700 –6,966 –21,733 28,700 Client receivables 190 –190 12,429 12,429 ASSETS 300,666 –60,557 240,109 –68,344 –149,610 22,154 12,429 252,538 Derivatives 95,269 95,269 –58,486 –25,894 10,888 95,269 Repo payables 63,259 –60,367 2,892 –2,892 519 3,411 Securities lending 25,388 25,388 –6,966 –18,422 25,388 Client payables 190 –190 8,509 8,509 LIABILITIES 184,106 –60,557 123,548 –68,344 –44,316 10,888 9,029 132,577 The table shows financial assets and liabilities that are presented net in the Financial assets and liabilities subject to enforceable master netting arrange­balance sheet or with potential rights to off-set associated with enforceable ments or similar arrangements that are not presented net in the­­balance sheet master netting arrangements or similar arrangements, together with related are arrangements that are usually enforceable in the case of bankruptcy or collateral. default but not in the ordinary course of business or arrangements where SEB Financial assets and liabilities are presented net in the balance sheet when does not have the intention to settle the instruments simultaneously. SEB has legally enforceable rights to set-off, in the ordinary cause of business Assets and liabilities that are not subject to offsetting or netting arrangeand in the case of bankruptcy, and intends to settle on a net basis or to realize ments, i.e those that are only subject to collateral agreements, are presented the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously. Repos with central counteras Other instruments in balance sheet not subject to ­netting arrangements. party clearing houses that SEB has agreements with and client receivables and client payables are examples of instruments that are presented net in the balance sheet. 164 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Financial statements – Notes 47 Pledged assets Group Parent company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Pledged assets and comparable securities for own liabilities 496,406 510,424 486,823 489,784 Pledged assets for own liabilities to insurance policyholders 344,121 292,402 Other pledged assets and comparable securities 91,477 97,713 86,088 82,072 TOTAL 932,004 900,539 572,911 571,856 Pledged assets and comparable securities for own liabilities* Repos 15,184 31,531 15,184 31,356 Assets collateralised for issued mortgage covered bonds 366,154 342,758 362,444 332,889 Assets collateralised for issued public covered bonds 2,801 7,042 Other collateral 112,267 129,093 109,195 125,539 of which group internal 168 22 TOTAL 496,406 510,424 486,823 489,784 * Transfers that do not qualify for derecognition. Pledged assets for own liabilities to insurance policyholders Assets pledged for insurance contracts 26,547 21,846 Assets pledged for investment contracts1) 317,574 270,556 TOTAL 344,121 292,402 1) Shares in funds. Other pledged assets and comparable collateral Bonds1) 58,523 58,652 58,523 58,652 Securities lending 5,389 15,641 Other 27,565 23,419 27,565 23,419 TOTAL 91,477 97,713 86,088 82,072 1) Pledged but unencumbered bonds. Transferred financial assets entirely recognized1) Associated Transferred assets Associated liabilities collateral ­received2) Securities Repurchase Securities Repurchase Group, 2019 lending agreements Other3) Total lending agreements Other3) Total Securities lending Equity instruments 17,102 407 17,509 2,344 234 2,578 14,636 Debt securities 7,444 452 684 8,580 310 452 524 1,286 7,088 Financial assets held for trading 24,546 452 1,090 26,089 2,654 452 757 3,863 21,724 Group, 2018 Equity instruments 13,255 1,211 14,467 3,734 939 4,674 8,852 Debt securities 6,420 307 3,656 10,383 182 305 2,690 3,177 6,528 Financial assets held for trading 19,676 307 4,867 24,850 3,916 305 3,630 7,850 15,380 Associated Transferred assets Associated liabilities collateral ­received2) Securities Repurchase Securities Repurchase Parent company, 2019 lending agreements Other3) Total lending agreements Other3) Total Securities lending Equity instruments 17,145 407 17,552 2,343 366 2,709 14,659 Debt securities 7,444 452 123 8,019 315 452 767 7,081 Financial assets held for trading 24,590 452 530 25,571 2,658 452 366 3,476 21,740 Parent company, 2018 Equity instruments 13,170 1,211 14,381 3,710 898 4,608 8,794 Debt securities 6,420 307 732 7,459 177 305 481 5,940 Financial assets held for trading 19,590 307 1,943 21,840 3,886 305 898 5,089 14,734 1) Carrying amount and fair value are the same. 2) Other than cash collateral. 3) Assets provided as collateral for derivatives trading, clearing etc. Pledged assets Assets are transferred for repurchase agreements and securities lending agreeapartment buildings. The loan-to-value ratio does not exceed 75 per cent. In the ments. The counterpart has the right to sell or repledge the assets. Other transevent of SEB’s insolvency, the holders of the covered bonds have priority to the ferred assets refer to assets provided as collateral for derivatives trading, clearassets registered as collateral. ing etc., where the title to the instrument has been transferred to the counterparty. The assets continue to be recognised on SEB’s balance sheet since SEB is Obtained collateral still exposed to changes in the fair value of the assets. The carrying value and fair SEB obtains collateral under reverse repurchase agreements and securities borvalue of the assets transferred as collateral for liabilities or contingent liabilities rowing agreements. Under the terms of standard financial market agreements are shown in the table above. SEB has the right to sell or repledge the collateral, subject to returning equivalent SEB issues covered bonds secured by mortgage loans pledged as security securities on settlement of the transactions. ­according to the local legislation. The pledged securities are mainly residential More information about the accounting of repurchase agreements and securimortgages in single family homes, tenant owned homes or other residential ties lending can be found in the accounting principles. SEB Annual Report 2019 — 165 Financial statements – Notes 48 Obligations Group Parent company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Contingent liabilities 139,462 136,435 146,166 134,317 Commitments 638,348 589,032 578,619 535,168 TOTAL 777,810 725,467 724,786 669,486 Contingent liabilities Own acceptances 2,721 1,297 2,663 1,232 Financial guarantees given1) 8,705 19,932 22,525 22,546 of which group internal 14,583 11,912 Other guarantees given 128,035 115,206 120,978 110,539 of which group internal 1,209 3,129 Guarantees given 136,740 135,138 143,504 133,085 TOTAL 139,462 136,435 146,166 134,317 1) SEB does not regularly securitise its assets and has no outstanding own issues. Other contingent liabilities Legal proceedings The parent company has issued a deposit guarantee for DSK Hyp AG (former Within the ordinary course of business SEB is engaged in various legal proceedSEB AG) in Germany to the Bundesverband deutscher Banken e.V. ings, both in Sweden and in other jurisdictions. SEB does not expect these curThe parent company has issued an irrevocable standby letter of credit in rent legal proceedings to have a significant adverse effect on the financial posifavor of MasterCard in the amount of USD 215m related to card business in the tion of the group. subsidiaries. Commitments Group Parent company 2019 2018 2019 2018 Granted undrawn credit facilities 401,174 377,440 385,506 361,371 of which group internal 169 Unutilised part of overdraft facilities 112,575 104,027 76,074 66,183 of which group internal 12,231 9,643 Repledged collaterals 98,162 99,239 98,218 99,289 of which group internal 163 247 Other commitments given 26,437 8,325 18,821 8,325 TOTAL 638,348 589,032 578,619 535,168 Discretionary managed assets Discretionary managed assets in the parent company amounted to SEK 395bn (385). 166 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Financial statements – Notes 49 Leases Group Lessee 2019 Income statement Interest expense on lease liabilities (Net interest income) 92 Expenses relating to short-term leases (Other expenses) 42 Expenses relating to leases of low-value assets (Other expenses) 72 Depreciation expense of right-of-use assets (Depreciation, amortisation)1) 843 Balance sheet Right-of-use assets – additions 62 Right-of-use assets – closing balance2) 5,288 Lease liabilities (Other liabilities) 5,854 1) of which Property leases SEK 805m and Other (mainly IT equipment) SEK 38m. 2) of which Property leases SEK 5,227m and Other (mainly IT equipment) SEK 61m. Lessor Group Finance lease 2019 2018 Undiscounted lease payments expected after reporting date and within year 1 8,382 7,994 year 2 10,021 9,739 year 3 10,565 10,137 year 4 7,778 9,641 year 5 7,157 8,173 year 6 and later 20,219 22,027 Total undiscounted lease payments receivable 64,123 67,710 Unearned finance income –3,196 –4,254 NET INVESTMENT LEASES 60,927 63,456 Finance income (interest income) on the net investment 1,232 1,214 Lessor portfolio mainly includes transport vehicles, machinery and facilities. Residual value risk is not significant, because of the existence of a secondary market. SEB Annual Report 2019 — 167 Financial statements – Notes Note 49 continued Leases IFRS 16 Leases – transition disclosures – SEB Group IFRS 16 Leases replaces IAS 17 Leases and related interpretations. The standard The main impact on the group’s financial statements is from the accounting is effective as from 1 January 2019 and is endorsed by the EU. The new standof property leases. There is no significant impact on the income statement, ard significantly changes how SEB as a lessee accounts for leases by introducalthough the presentation in the income statement changes as other expenses ing a single, on-balance sheet lease accounting model requiring the recognition will be replaced by depreciation of the right-of-use asset and interest expenses of lease assets (right-of-use assets) and corresponding lease liabilities. In the on the lease liability. There is no significant impact on large exposures and capiincome statement, the straight-line operating lease expense is replaced by tal adequacy. depreciation of the lease assets and an interest expense on the lease liability. The new standard also introduces new estimates and judgements that affect The accounting requirements for lessors are in practice unchanged. the measurement of lease liabilities. SEB measures the lease liability at the Upon transition to IFRS 16, the group has decided to apply the modified retrocommencement date and may be required to revise it, e.g. the assessment of spective approach. For the purpose of applying the modified retrospective whether an option is reasonably certain to be exercised. As this will increase approach to the leases, the group has elected, lease-by-lease, to measure the financial statement volatility, this is revised and monitored by the group continright-of-use assets either, (i) to an amount as if the group had applied IFRS 16 uously. The new standard will not be applied in the legal entity reporting for the since the commencement date using the incremental borrowing rate at the date parent company. of initial application or, (ii) to an amount equal to the lease liability. In addition, The tables show the transition effects of IFRS 16 on SEB’s balance sheet the group decided to apply the practical expedients to use hindsight when ­reconciling the closing balances under IAS 17 as of 31 December 2018 with assessing the lease term, not to recognise a right-of-use asset or lease liability the opening balances under IFRS 16 as of 1 January 2019. to leases for which the lease term ends within 12 months of the date of initial application and not to include assets of low value. Closing balance Opening balance SEK m 31 December 2018 IFRS 16 transition 1 January 2019 Cash and cash balances at central banks 209,115 209,115 Loans to central banks 33,294 33,294 Loans to credit institutions 44,287 44,287 Loans to the public 1,644,825 1,644,825 Debt securities 156,128 156,128 Equity instruments 50,434 50,434 Financial assets for which the customers bear the investment risk 269,613 269,613 Derivatives 115,463 115,463 Other assets1) 44,357 5,939 50,296 TOTAL ASSETS 2,567,516 5,939 2,573,455 Closing balance Opening balance SEK m 31 December 2018 IFRS 16 transition 1 January 2019 Deposits from central banks and credit institutions 135,719 135,719 Deposits and borrowings from the public 1,111,390 1,111,390 Financial liabilities for which the customers bear the investment risk 270,556 270,556 Liabilities to policyholders 21,846 21,846 Debt securities issued 680,670 680,670 Short positions 23,144 23,144 Derivatives 96,872 96,872 Other financial liabilities 3,613 3,613 Other liabilities2) 74,916 6,183 81,099 Total liabilities 2,418,727 6,183 2,424,910 Total equity 148,789 –244 148,545 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 2,567,516 5,939 2,573,455 1) Increase in Other assets comes from increases in Right-of-use assets SEK 5,747m, Deferred tax assets SEK 51m and Other assets SEK 141m. 2) Increase in Other liabilities comes from an increase in Lease liabilities SEK 6,337m offset by decreases in Provisions SEK 122m and Other liabilities SEK 32m. Bridge showing the transition from IAS 17 to IFRS 16 accounting for leases SEK m Future minimum payments for operational leases per 31 December 2018 7,217 Discounting1) –727 Present value for lease liabilities previously classified as operating leases 6,490 applying IAS 17 Short-term leases expensed on a straight-line basis over the lease term –43 Leases for which the underlying assets is of low-value expensed on a straightline basis –109 Other –1 Lease liabilities as of 1 January 2019 applying IFRS16 6,337 1) The weighted average incremental borrowing rate is 1.53 per cent. 168 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Financial statements – Notes 50 Events after the balance sheet date Cross-border merger of Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken SA bank’s activities in Luxembourg are operated through SEB AB’s Luxembourg Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB (publ.) (SEB AB) and Skandinaviska branch. Enskilda Banken SA in Luxembourg (SEB SA) decided on 19 June 2019 to On 7 February 2020, Jonas Ahlström was named head of the Baltic division. ­dissolve SEB SA without liquidation by transfer of all assets and liabilities to Riho Unt will remain as chair in SEB’s supervisory council for the Baltic banks SEB AB in a cross-border merger. The purpose is to simplify the group’s governand as strategic adviser until fall of 2020.. ance structure and increase efficiency. Starting from 2 January 2020, the SEB Annual Report 2019 — 169 Five-year summary – The SEB Group The SEB Group Income Statement SEK m 2019 2018 20173) 20162) 20151) 2) Net interest income 22,950 21,022 19,893 18,738 19,020 Net fee and commission income 18,709 18,364 17,677 16,628 18,345 Net financial income 7,617 6,079 6,880 7,056 6,298 Net other income 858 402 1,112 829 1,002 Total operating income 50,134 45,868 45,561 43,251 44,665 Staff costs –14,660 –14,004 –14,025 –14,422 –14,436 Other expenses –6,623 –7,201 –6,947 –6,619 –6,355 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of tangible and intangible assets –1,662 –735 –964 –771 –1,011 Total operating expenses –22,945 –21,940 –21,936 –21,812 –21,802 Gains less losses on disposals of tangible and intangible assets –2 18 –162 –150 –213 Net expected credit losses4) –2,294 –1,166 –808 –993 –883 Operating profit before items affecting comparability 24,894 22,779 22,655 20,296 21,767 Items affecting comparability 4,506 –1,896 –5,429 –902 Operating profit 24,894 27,285 20,759 14,867 20,865 Income tax expense –4,717 –4,152 –4,562 –4,249 –4,284 NET PROFIT 20,177 23,134 16,197 10,618 16,581 Attributable to shareholders 20,177 23,134 16,197 10,618 16,581 1) Comparable figures for 2015 restated in line with changed reporting of life insurance business. 2) Items affecting comparability restated. 3) The 2017 income statement has been restated for the transition to IFRS 15. 4) 2018–2019: IFRS 9 expected loss model. 2015–2017: IAS 39 incurred loss model. Balance sheet SEK m 2019 2018 20171) 2) 20161) 20151) Cash and cash balances and loans to central banks 151,186 242,408 190,000 217,808 133,651 Loans to central banks and credit institutions 46,995 44,287 38,717 50,527 58,542 Loans to the public 1,837,605 1,644,825 1,486,765 1,467,960 1,359,092 Other financial assets 787,341 606,584 629,907 842,817 894,161 Other assets 33,521 29,412 211,520 41,534 50,518 TOTAL ASSETS 2,856,648 2,567,516 2,556,908 2,620,646 2,495,964 Deposits from central banks and credit institutions 88,041 135,719 95,489 119,864 118,506 Deposits and borrowing from the public 1,161,485 1,111,390 1,032,048 991,950 911,829 Other financial liabilities 1,414,917 1,120,487 1,059,241 1,230,863 1,187,794 Other liabilities 36,505 51,131 228,892 136,993 135,037 Total equity 155,700 148,789 141,237 140,976 142,798 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 2,856,648 2,567,516 2,556,908 2,620,646 2,495,964 1) 2015–2017 have been restated for changes in the presentation of the balance sheet. 2) 2017 has been restated for the transition to IFRS 15. Key figures 2019 2018 20173) 2016 2015 Return on equity, % 13.7 16.3 11.7 7.8 12.2 Return on equity excluding items affecting comparability, % 13.8 13.4 12.9 11.3 12.9 Basic earnings per share, SEK 9.33 10.69 7.47 4.88 7.57 Cost/Income ratio 0.46 0.48 0.48 0.50 0.49 Net ECL level1), % 0.10 0.06 0.05 0.07 0.06 Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio2), % 17.6 17.6 19.4 18.8 18.8 Tier 1 capital ratio2), % 20.8 19.7 21.6 21.2 21.3 Total capital ratio2), % 23.3 22.2 24.2 24.8 23.8 1) 2018–2019: Net ECL level based on IFRS 9 expected loss model. 2015–2017: Credit loss level based on IAS 39 incurred loss model. 2) Basel III. 3) 2017 has been restated for the transition to IFRS 15. 170 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Five-year summary – Parent company Parent company Income Statement SEK m 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Net interest income 23,402 21,860 20,017 19,242 19,488 Net fee and commission income 10,461 10,064 9,557 8,843 9,200 Net financial income 5,838 4,574 4,493 4,642 3,428 Other income 6,930 10,900 8,323 7,398 9,165 Total operating income 46,631 47,398 42,390 40,125 41,281 Administrative expenses –16,345 –15,263 –14,252 –15,039 –13,458 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment of tangible and intangible assets –5,749 –5,512 –6,377 –5,775 –5,447 Total operating costs –22,094 –20,775 –20,629 –20,814 –18,905 Profit before credit losses 24,537 26,623 21,761 19,311 22,376 Net expected credit losses –2,044 –1,020 Net credit losses –749 –789 –520 Impairment of financial assets –741 –2,928 –1,497 –3,841 –775 Operating profit 21,752 22,675 19,515 14,681 21,081 Appropriations including pension compensation 2,694 2,716 1,885 2,437 781 Taxes –4,140 –3,671 –3,590 –2,740 –3,817 NET PROFIT 20,305 21,720 17,811 14,378 18,045 Balance sheet SEK m 2019 2018 20171) 20161) 20151) Cash and cash balances at central banks 110,104 164,081 97,741 70,671 55,712 Loans to central banks and credit institutions 92,450 120,333 198,781 287,059 164,852 Loans to the public 1,601,243 1,410,687 1,205,906 1,192,569 1,090,488 Other financial assets 472,945 334,801 343,890 401,831 508,072 Other assets 41,930 48,373 45,845 47,714 47,480 TOTAL ASSETS 2,318,672 2,078,275 1,892,163 1,999,844 1,866,605 Deposits from central banks and credit institutions 126,891 160,022 134,561 168,852 134,816 Deposits and borrowing from the public 973,834 927,224 849,479 812,506 718,345 Other financial liabilities 1,059,727 846,685 770,333 885,528 877,577 Other liabilities 19,810 10,794 11,599 9,823 14,621 Total equity and untaxed reserves 138,410 133,550 126,191 123,135 121,246 TOTAL LIABILITIES, UNTAXED RESERVES AND EQUITY 2,318,672 2,078,275 1,892,163 1,999,844 1,866,605 1) 2015–2017 have been restated for changes in the presentation of the balance sheet. Key figures 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Return on equity, % 15.9 18.1 16.3 12.6 16.5 Cost/Income ratio 0.47 0.44 0.49 0.52 0.46 Net ECL level1), % 0.10 0.07 0.05 0.06 0.04 Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio2), % 16.9 16.9 19.8 18.8 19.2 Tier 1 capital ratio2), % 20.6 19.3 22.5 21.7 22.1 Total capital ratio2), % 23.2 22.2 25.5 26.1 25.0 1) 2018–2019: Net ECL level based on IFRS 9 expected loss model. 2015–2017: Credit loss level based on IAS 39 incurred loss model. 2) Basel III. SEB Annual Report 2019 — 171 Proposal for the distribution of profit Proposal for the distribution of profit Standing at the disposal of the Annual The Board proposes that, following apIt is the assessment of the Board of DirecGeneral Meeting in accordance with the proval of the balance sheet of Skandinators that the proposed dividend is justifibalance sheet of Skandinaviska Enskilda viska Enskilda Banken AB for the financial able considering the demands which are Banken AB: year 2019, the Annual General Meeting imposed by the nature, scope, and risks should distribute the earnings as follows: associated with the business and the size of the parent company’s and the group’s SEK equity and need for consolidation, liquidity Dividend to shareholders: and financial position in general. –S EK 6.25 per Class A share  13,562,620,588 SEK – SEK  6.25 per Fair value reserve –259,365,642 Class C share 150,953,175 1) The parent company’s equity would have been Retained earnings  62,896,371,755 To be carried forward to: SEK 12,416m lower if assets and liabilities had not been measured at fair value in accordance with Chapter 4, Net profit for the year 20,305,199,643 – retained earnings 69,228,631,994 Section 14 of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. Total1)82,942,205,757 Total  82,942,205,757 172 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Signatures of the Board of Directors and the President Signatures of the Board of Directors and the President The Board of Directors and the President declare that the consolprinciples in Sweden and give a true and fair view of the parent idated financial statements have been prepared in accordance company’s financial position and results of operations. with IFRS as adopted by the EU and give a relevant and faithful The Report of the Directors for the group and the parent representation of the group’s financial position and results of company provides a fair review of the development of the group’s operations. and the parent company’s operations, financial position and results The financial statements of the parent company have been of operations and describes material risks and uncertainties prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting ­facing the parent company and companies included in the group. Stockholm 18 February 2020 Marcus Wallenberg Chair Sven Nyman Jesper Ovesen Vice chair Vice chair Johan H. Andresen Signhild Arnegård Hansen Anne-Catherine Berner Director Director Director Samir Brikho Winnie Fok Lars Ottersgård Helena Saxon Director Director Director Director Anna-Karin Glimström Håkan Westerberg Director Director Appointed by the employees Appointed by the employees Johan Torgeby President and Chief Executive Officer Director SEB Annual Report 2019 — 173 Auditor’s report Auditor’s report To the general meeting of the shareholders of Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB (publ), corporate identity number 502032-9081 Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts Opinions Basis for Opinions We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standof Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB (publ) (“SEB” or “the ards on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standGroup”) for the year 2019 with the exception of the sustainability ards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are report on pages 32–38. The annual accounts and consolidated further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are accounts of the company are included on pages 32–173 in this independent of the parent company and the Group in accordance document. with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with accordance with the Annual Accounts Act for Credit Institutions these requirements. This includes that, based on the best of our and Securities Companies and present fairly, in all material knowledge and belief, no prohibited services referred to in the respects, the financial position of the parent company as of 31 Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 5.1 have been provided to December 2019 and its financial performance and cash flow for the audited company or, where applicable, its parent company the year then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act or its controlled companies within the EU. for Credit Institutions and Securities Companies. The consolidatWe believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is suffied accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual cient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and Securities Companies and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position Key Audit Matters of the Group as of 31 of December 2019 and their financial Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our performance and cash flow for the year then ended in accordprofessional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of ance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the current as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act for Credit period. These matters were addressed in the context of our Institutions and Securities Companies. A corporate governance audit of, and in forming our opinion thereon, the annual accounts statement has been prepared. and consolidated accounts as a whole, but we do not provide a Our opinions do not cover the statutory sustainability report separate opinion on these matters. For each matter below, our on pages 32–38. The statutory administration report and the description of how our audit addressed the matter is provided in corporate governance statement are consistent with the other that context. parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, and the We have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the Auditor’s corporate governance statement is in accordance with the Annuresponsibilities for the audit of the financial statements section al Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and Securities Companies. of our report, including in relation to these matters. Accordingly, We therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareour audit included the performance of procedures designed to holders adopts the income statement and balance sheet for the respond to our assessment of the risks of material misstatement parent company and the Group. of the financial statements. The results of our audit procedures, Our opinions in this report on the annual accounts and consoliincluding the procedures performed to address the matters bedated accounts are consistent with the content of the additional low, provide the basis for our audit opinion on the accompanying report that has been submitted to the parent company’s audit financial statements. committee in accordance with the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 11. 174 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Auditor’s report Provision for expected credit losses Valuation of financial instruments at fair value Description Description As of 31 December 2019, loans amounts to 1 889 094 mSEK SEB holds financial instruments where unadjusted quoted market for the Group, which represents 66 % of the Group’s total assets. prices are not readily available, thus fair value is determined The total credit risk exposure, including off-balance commiteither using valuation techniques based on observable market ments, amounts to 2 357 673 mSEK for the Group. The provision parameters (categorized as level 2 under IFRS fair value hierarfor expected credit losses on loans amounts to 6 912 mSEK for chy) or using valuation techniques with significant unobservable the Group. inputs (categorized as level 3 under IFRS fair value hierarchy). In order to provide for expected credit losses, management The Group has financial assets and financial liabilities in level uses both a model-based approach and individual assessments 2 of 455 557 mSEK and 168 004 mSEK and financial assets and to consider factors not captured by this model. Expected credit liabilities in level 3 of 14 544 mSEK and 1 008 mSEK. The main losses shall be measured in a way that reflects an unbiased and part of the financial instruments in level 2 are comprised of reprobability weighted amount that is determined by evaluating a purchase agreements, debt securities and derivative contracts. range of possible outcomes and is based on past events, current Financial instruments in level 3 primarily consist of unlisted equiconditions and forecasts of future economic conditions. ty securities. Due to the complexity in the calculation of fair value To calculate the provision SEB is required to make estimates as well as the need for SEB to make assessments of valuation and assumptions regarding for example criteria to identify a sigparameters, the valuation of financial instruments with no readily nificant increase in credit risk and methods to calculate expected available unadjusted quoted market prices is deemed to be a key credit losses. Due to the complexity of the calculation and that audit matter. it requires SEB to make estimates and assumptions, provisioning Detailed information and description of the key audit matter for expected credit losses is considered a key audit matter. is provided in the annual accounts in notes 1 and 36. Detailed information and description of the key audit matter is provided in the annual accounts in notes 1 and 18. How our audit addressed this key audit matter We have assessed the SEB approach for valuing financial instruHow our audit addressed this key audit matter ments with no readily available quoted market prices, including the We have tested the design and operating effectiveness of key classification in the valuation hierarchy in accordance with IFRS 13. controls in the credit process, credit approval, credit review, rating We have tested the key controls in the valuation process, includclassification as well as identifying and determining credits to be ing SEB’s assessment and approval of assumptions and methods in default. We have also tested controls relating to input data to used in model-based calculation, control of data quality as well models and the general IT-controls including the handling of as handling of changes in internal valuation models. We have also authorizations within these systems. tested the general IT-controls with respect to relevant IT-systems We have assessed the ECL model including the model assumpfor the valuation process. tions and input parameters as well as assessed how the model Further, we have evaluated the methods and assumptions made calculates. Our assessment of input parameters includes probabilwhen valuing financial instruments with no readily available quoted ity of default, loss given default, exposure at default and staging market prices available. We have compared the valuation models criteria, parameters determining a significant increase in credit risk with valuation guidelines and industry practice. We have compared at engagement level in accordance with IFRS 9. assumptions with appropriate reference sources and examined any We have on a sample basis challenged SEB’s initial and current significant deviations. engagement risk rating. We have tested that data used from supWe have also checked the accuracy of the valuations by conductporting systems used in the ECL model, is complete and accurate. ing sample tests and performed our own independent valuations. We have also assessed the model validations which have been perWe have engaged our internal valuation specialists to support formed and reviewed the reasonableness of the macroeconomic us when performing our audit procedures. data used in the ECL model. We have assessed the reasonableness of the manual adjustments made by SEB. In our audit we have used our internal model specialists to support us when performing the audit procedures. We have also ensured that the disclosures presented in the annual accounts regarding credit risk are appropriate. SEB Annual Report 2019 — 175 Auditor’s report Provision for uncertain tax positions Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director Description The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsiSEB is subject to taxation in many jurisdictions and in many cases ble for the preparation of the annual accounts and consolidated the final tax treatment is not determined until resolved with the accounts and that they give a fair presentation in accordance relevant tax authority. Consequently, SEB makes judgements with the Annual Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and Securiabout the probability and amount of tax liabilities which are subties Companies and, concerning the consolidated accounts, in acject to assessments by tax authorities and potentially associated cordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors with legal processes. Given the complexity of calculations and and the Managing Director are also responsible for such internal the need for SEB to make assessments, provision for uncertain control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation tax positions is deemed to be a key audit matter. of annual accounts and consolidated accounts that are free from Detailed information and description of the key audit matter material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. is provided in the annual accounts in notes 1 and 15. In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsiHow our audit addressed this key audit matter ble for the assessment of the company’s and the Group’s ability We have evaluated whether SEB’s method for assessing provisions to continue as a going concern. They disclose, as applicable, matfor uncertain tax positions is in accordance with IFRS. We have ters related to going concern and using the going concern basis substantively tested the process for uncertain taxes. In performof accounting. The going concern basis of accounting is however ing these procedures, we have used our specialists to examine not applied if the Board of Directors and the Managing Director potential implications of ongoing tax audits and similar processes. intends to liquidate the company, to cease operations, or has no We have obtained correspondence with tax authorities and opinions realistic alternative but to do so. SEB received from its external legal advisers. The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board We have also independently assessed matters in dispute and of Director’s responsibilities and tasks in general, among other the provisions made by SEB. things oversee the company’s financial reporting process. Other Information than the annual accounts Auditor’s responsibility and consolidated accounts Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whethThis document also contains other information than the annual er the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole accounts and consolidated accounts and is found on pages 1–31 are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or and 179–180. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinions. are responsible for this other information. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated acguarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with ISAs and counts does not cover this other information and we do not generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always express any form of assurance conclusion regarding this other detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements information. can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, indiIn connection with our audit of the annual accounts and vidually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected consolidated accounts, our responsibility is to read the inforto influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of mation identified above and consider whether the information these annual accounts and consolidated accounts. is materially inconsistent with the annual accounts and consoliA further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the dated accounts. In this procedure we also take into account our annual accounts and the consolidated accounts is located at Reviknowledge otherwise obtained in the audit and assess whether sorsinspektionen’s (the Swedish Inspectorate of Auditors) website the information otherwise appears to be materially misstated. at: http://www.revisorsinspektionen.se/rn/showdocument/docuIf we, based on the work performed concerning this informaments/rev_dok/revisors_ansvar.pdf. This description forms part tion, conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other of our auditor’s report. information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard. 176 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Auditor’s report Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriOpinions ations of the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated about this, is to assess with reasonable degree of assurance accounts, we have also audited the administration of the Board whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. of Directors and the Managing Director of Skandinaviska Enskilda Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not Banken AB (publ) for the year 2019 and the proposed appropriaa guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with genertions of the company’s profit or loss. ally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that actions or omissions that can give rise to liability to the company, the profit be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in or that the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or the statutory administration report and that the members of the loss are not in accordance with the Companies Act. Board of Directors and the Managing Director be discharged from A further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the liability for the financial year. administration is located at at Revisorsinspektionen’s (the Swedish Inspectorate of Auditors) website at: http://www.revisorsinspekBasis for opinions tionen.se/rn/showdocument/documents/rev_dok/revisors_ansvar. We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted pdf. This description forms part of our auditor’s report. auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities Auditor’s report on section. We are independent of the parent company and the the statutory sustainability report Group in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in It is the Board of Directors who is responsible for the statutory Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities sustainability report for the year 2019 on pages 32–38 and that in accordance with these requirements. it has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is suffiAct. cient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor’s report regarding the Responsibilities of the Board of Directors statutory sustainability report. This means that our examination and the Managing Director of the statutory sustainability report is different and substanThe Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for aptially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with propriations of the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted dividend, this includes an assessment of whether the dividend auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination is justifiable considering the requirements which the company’s has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinions. and the Group’s type of operations, size and risks place on the size of the parent company’s and the Group’s equity, consolidaA statutory sustainability report has been prepared. tion requirements, liquidity and position in general. The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s Ernst & Young AB was appointed auditor of Skandinaviska organization and the administration of the company’s affairs. Enskilda Banken AB (publ) by the general meeting of the shareThis includes among other things continuous assessment of the holders on the 26 of March 2019 and has been the company’s company’s and the Group’s financial situation and ensuring that auditor since the 26 of March 2019. the company’s organization is designed so that the accounting, management of assets and the company’s financial affairs Other matters otherwise are controlled in a reassuring manner. The Managing The audit of the annual accounts for 2018 was performed by Director shall manage the ongoing administration according to another auditor who submitted an auditor’s report dated February the Board of Directors’ guidelines and instructions and among 19, 2019, with unmodified opinions in the Report on the annual other matters take measures that are necessary to fulfill the accounts. company’s accounting in accordance with law and handle the management of assets in a reassuring manner. Stockholm February 18, 2020 Ernst & Young AB Auditor’s responsibility Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence to assess with a reasonable degree of assurance Hamish Mabon whether any member of the Board of Directors or the Managing Authorized Public Accountant Director in any material respect: • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which can give rise to liability to the company, or • in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the Banking and Financing Business Act, the Annual Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and Securities Companies or the Articles of Association. SEB Annual Report 2019 — 177 Auditor’s report Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report on Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB (publ)’s Sustainability Report This is the translation of the auditor’s report in Swedish. To Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB (publ), corporate, identity number 502032-9081 Introduction in nature from, and are less in scope than for, a reasonable assurWe have been engaged by the Board of Directors of Skandinaance engagement conducted in accordance with IAASB’s Standviska Enskilda Banken AB (publ) to undertake a limited assurards on Auditing and other generally accepted auditing standards. ance engagement of Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB (publ)’s The firm applies ISQC 1 (International Standard on Quality Sustainability Report for the year 2019. The sustainability report Control) and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of includes the pages 32–38 in this document, which is the statutoquality control including documented policies and procedures ry sustainability report, as well as the Sustainability Fact Book regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional including the GRI index. We refer to these publications collectivestandards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. We ly as the “Sustainability Report”. are independent of Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB (publ) in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordand the Executive Management for ance with these requirements. the Sustainability Report The procedures performed, consequently, do not enable us to The Board of Directors and the Executive Management are obtain assurance that we would become aware of all significant responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report in matters that might be identified in a reasonable assurance enaccordance with the applicable criteria, as explained on page gagement. Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable assur32, and are the parts of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines ance conclusion. published by Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) that are applicaOur procedures are based on the criteria defined by the Board ble to the Sustainability Report, as well as the accounting and of Directors and the Executive Management as described above. calculation principles that the Company has developed. This We consider these criteria suitable for the preparation of the responsibility also includes the internal control relevant to the Sustainability Report. We believe that the evidence we have preparation of a Sustainability Report that is free from material obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our misstatements, whether due to fraud or error. conclusion below. Responsibilities of the Auditor Conclusion Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the SustainaBased on the limited assurance procedures we have performed, bility Report based on the limited assurance procedures we nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that have performed. Our review is limited to the information in this the Sustainability Report is not prepared, in all material respects, document as well as the document Sustainability Fact Book & in accordance with the criteria defined by the Board of Directors GRI Index 2019, and to historical information and does therefore and Executive Management. not include future oriented information. We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordStockholm February 18, 2020 ance with ISAE 3000 Assurance engagements other than audits Ernst & Young AB or reviews of historical financial information. A limited assurance engagement consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report, and applying analytical and other limited assurance procedures. The Hamish Mabon Charlotte Söderlund procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary Authorized Public Accountant Authorized Public Accountant 178 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Definitions Definitions Alternative Performance Measures (APMs)1) Items affecting comparability Diluted earnings per share To facilitate the comparison of operating profit between current and Net profit attributable to shareholders in relation to the weighted previous periods, items with significant impact that management average3) diluted number of shares. The calculated dilution is considers affect the comparability or are relevant for the understandbased on the estimated economic value of the long-term ing of the financial result, are identified and presented separately, for equity-based programmes. example impairment of goodwill, restructuring, gains and losses from divestments and other income or costs that are not recurring. Net worth per share The total of shareholders’ equity, the equity portion of any Operating profit surplus values in the holdings of debt securities and the surplus Total profit before tax. value in life insurance operations in relation to the number of shares outstanding. Operating profit before items affecting comparability Total profit before items affecting comparability and tax. Equity per share Shareholders’ equity in relation to the number of shares Net profit outstanding. Total profit after tax. Core Gap ratio Return on equity Structural liquidity risk measure defined as total liabilities Net profit attributable to shareholders in relation to average2) deemed to mature beyond one year in relation to total assets shareholders’ equity. deemed to mature beyond one year. Return on equity excluding items affecting comparability Expected credit losses, ECL Net profit attributable to shareholders, excluding items affecting Probability weighted credit losses with the respective risk comparability and their related tax effect, in relation to average2) of a default. shareholders’ equity. ECL allowances Return on tangible equity The allowance for expected credit losses on financial assets, Net profit attributable to shareholders in relation to average2) contract assets, loan commitments and financial guarantee shareholders’ equity less intangible assets. contracts. Return on tangible equity excluding Net ECL level items affecting comparability Net credit impairments in relation to the opening balance of the Net profit attributable to shareholders, excluding items affecting year of debt securities, loans to the public and loans to credit comparability and their related tax effect, in relation to average2) institutions measured at amortised cost, financial guarantees shareholders’ equity less intangible assets and items affecting and loan commitments, net of ECL allowances. comparability. ECL coverage ratio Return on business equity ECL allowances in relation to underlying gross carrying amounts Operating profit by division, reduced by a standard tax rate, in for loans and debt securities as well as nominal amounts of finanrelation to the divisions’ average2) business equity (allocated cial guarantees and loan commitments. capital). Stage 3 loans / Total loans, gross Return on total assets Gross carrying amount for stage 3 loans (credit-impaired loans) Net profit attributable to shareholders, in relation to average2) in relation to gross carrying amount for total loans measured at total assets. amortised cost (excluding demand deposits credit institutions and including trade and client receivables presented as other Return on risk exposure amount assets). Net profit attributable to shareholders in relation to average2) risk exposure amount. Stage 3 loans / Total loans, net Carrying amount for stage 3 loans (credit-impaired loans) in reCost/income ratio lation to carrying amounts for total loans measured at amortised Total operating expenses in relation to total operating income. cost (excluding demand deposits, credit institutions and including Basic earnings per share trade and client receivables presented as other assets). Net profit attributable to shareholders in relation to the weighted average3) number of shares outstanding before dilution. The excel file Alternative Performance Measures, available on sebgroup.com/ir, provides information on how the measures are calculated. 1) Alternative Performance Measures, APMs, are financial measures of historical or future financial performance, financial position, or cash flows, other than those defined in the applicable financial reporting framework (IFRS) or in the EU Capital Requirements Regulation and Directive CRR/CRD IV. APMs are used by SEB when relevant to assess and describe SEB’s financial situation and provide additional relevant information and tools to enable analysis of SEB’s performance. APMs on basic earnings per share, diluted earnings per share, net worth per share, equity per share, return on equity, return on tangible equity, return on total assets and return on risk exposure amount provide relevant information on the performance in relation to different investment measurements. The cost/income ratio provides information on SEB’s cost efficiency. APMs related to lending provide information on provisions in relation to credit risk. All these measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies. 2) Average for the year, calculated on month-end figures. 3) Average, calculated on a daily basis. SEB Annual Report 2019 — 179 Definitions Definitions Abbreviations According to the EU Capital Requirements IFRS 9 abbreviations: Regulation no 575/2013 (CRR) FVTPL Fair Value Through Profit or Loss FVHFT Fair Value Through Profit or Loss Held for Trading Risk exposure amount FVMPL Fair Value Through Profit or Loss Mandatorily Total assets and off balance sheet items, risk-weighted in FVDPL Fair Value Through Profit or Loss Designated accordance with capital adequacy regulations for credit risk FVOCI Fair Value Through Other Comprehensive Income and market risk. The operational risks are measured and added AmC Amortised Cost as risk exposure amount. Risk exposure amounts are only defined for the consolidated situation, excluding insurance entities and exposures deducted from own funds. Common Equity Tier 1 capital Shareholders’ equity excluding proposed dividend, deferred tax assets, intangible assets and certain other regulatory adjustments defined in EU Regulation no 575/2013 (CRR). Tier 1 capital Common Equity Tier 1 capital plus qualifying forms of sub­­­­ordinated liabilities, so-called additional tier 1 instruments. Tier 2 capital Mainly subordinated liabilities not qualifying as Tier 1 capital contribution. Own funds The total of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital. Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio Common Equity Tier 1 capital as a percentage of risk exposure amount. Tier 1 capital ratio Tier 1 capital as a percentage of risk exposure amount. Total capital ratio Total own funds as a percentage of risk exposure amount. Leverage ratio Tier 1 capital as a percentage of total assets including off­-balance sheet items with conversion factors according to the standardised approach. Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) High-quality liquid assets in relation to the estimated net cash outflows over the next 30 calendar days. 180 — SEB Annual Report 2019 Calendar Annual Report 2 March 2020 SEB corporate website Annual General Meeting 23 March 2020 Financial information, publications Quarterly report January – March 29 April 2020 and other information regarding SEB is available at Quarterly report April– June 15 July 2020 sebgroup.com Quarterly report July– September 22 October 2020 Financial information and publications 2019 2019 Quarterly Report Fact Book Fourth quarter 2019 Annual Accounts 2019 Full year 2019 Annual Report Annual Review STOCKHOLM 29 JANUARY 2020 STOCKHOLM 29 JANUARY 2020 SEB quarterly report – fourth quarter 2019 SEB Fact Book Annual Accounts 2019 Annual Report Annual Review Interim Reports and Fact Books Information on SEB’s busiAn abbreviated version Quarterly reports on SEB’s financial position and results. ness, strategy, risk manageof the Annual Report. Detailed information in Fact Books. ment and corporate governance. Detailed information on SEB’s financial position and results. Includes SEB’s Sustainability Report. 2019 2019 2019 SEB Green Bond Impact Report Capital Adequacy & Risk Management Report Pillar 3 Sustainability Fact Book & GRI Index The Sustainability Fact Book consists of data for SEB's sustainability related areas and the GRI Index according to the GRI Standards Core option. The document also includes information about SEB's stakeholder dialogue and materiality analysis. Capital Adequacy & Sustainability SEB Green Bond Risk Management Report Fact Book & GRI Index Impact Report (Pillar 3) Detailed information on Overview of SEB’s green Disclosure on capital sustainability matters and loan portfolio and the adequacy and risk managea GRI (Global Reporting green bond that was ment in accordance with Initiative) Index. issued in 2017. regulatory requirements. New shareholders are automatically offered a subscription of the Annual Report or the Annual Review. Order printed copies of the Annual Report and the Annual Review on sebgroup.com/ir Subscribe to digital versions of the quarterly reports (pdf) and the Fact Book (pdf) on sebgroup.com/press Please Production: SEB and Springtime–Intellecta • Photos; Banfa Jawla, Johnér, Shutterstock, recycle me!  Hans-Erik Nygren, Andreas Lind, Joachim Lundgren, Joel Sherwood and others • Printing: Elanders Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held on Monday 23 March 2020 at 1 pm (CET) at Stockholm Concert Hall, Hötorget, Stockholm, Sweden. A notice convening the Annual General Meeting, including an agenda, is available on sebgroup.com Shareholders who wish to attend the Annual General Meeting shall at the latest on Tuesday 17 March 2020: • be registered in the shareholder register kept by Euroclear Sweden AB, and • have notified the bank in either of the following ways: – by telephone 0771 23 18 18 (+46 771 23 18 18 from outside Sweden) between 9 am and 4.30 pm (CET) or – at sebgroup.com or – in writing to the following address: Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken c/o Euroclear Sweden, Box 191, 101 23 Stockholm, Sweden Dividend The Board proposes a dividend of SEK 6.25 per share for 2019. Wednesday 25 March 2020 is proposed as record date for the dividend payments. If the Annual General Meeting resolves in accordance with the proposal, the share will be traded ex-dividend on Tuesday 24 March 2020 and dividend payments are expected to be distributed by Euroclear Sweden AB on Monday 30 March 2020. Head office Postal address SEB, SE-106 40 Stockholm, Sweden Visiting address Kungsträdgårdsgatan 8, Stockholm, Sweden Telephone +46 771 62 10 00 Contacts Masih Yazdi Frank Hojem Chief Financial Officer Head of Corporate Communication Telephone: +46 771 62 10 00 Telephone: +46 707 63 99 47 E-mail: masih.yazdi@seb.se E-mail: frank.hojem@seb.se Christoffer Geijer Malin Schenkenberg Head of Investor Relations Financial Information Officer Telephone: +46 707 62 10 06 Telephone: +46 8 763 95 31 E-mail: christoffer.geijer@seb.se E-mail: malin.schenkenberg@seb.se Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB (publ) – Corporate registration number 502032-9081
