Sustainability Report 2019 Contents We’re growing with our changing world Sydney Airport | Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability at 02 Chair and CEO message Sydney Airport 04 Performance highlights 06 Our approach to sustainability 08 2019-2021 Sustainability commitments 10 Material issues 12 Stakeholder engagement 14 Benchmark and ratings performance 1. 17 Safety 20 Security 20 Operational efficiency and continuous improvement Responsible 22 Environmental management business 26 Our people 28 Fair and ethical business 2. 31 Climate resilience 34 Sustainable development of the airport 34 Airspace and airfield efficiency Planning for 36 TCFD disclosure the future 40 Customer experience 42 Access to and from the airport 43 Innovation and technology 3. 45 Community engagement 46 Community investment 48 Reconciliation Action Plan Supporting our 48 Aircraft noise community 49 Airport community 50 Scope 3 emissions reduction 50 Economic contribution 4. 53 General metrics 53 Health and safety 54 Environment Performance data 55 Customer 56 People and organisation 57 Community investment 5. 59 GRI index 63 Glossary 64 Limited assurance statement Other 67 Photo credits information About this report This 2019 Sustainability Report covers Sydney Airport's operations for the year 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2019, except for environmental data sets which are reported for 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019, in line with Sydney Airport’s regulatory environmental reporting. All financial values are in Australian dollars. This report is prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative Standards: Core option and the UN Sustainable Development Goals guide our reporting of relevant global issues. The Management Approach for each our material issues can be found at www.sydneyairport.com.au/corporate/ sustainability. To provide confidence in our reporting, we engaged KPMG to provide limited assurance over selected data sets within our 2019 Sustainability Report. KPMG’s assurance statement is included at the end of this report. We welcome feedback on our sustainability reporting and performance. Please email us at sustainability@syd.com.au. sydneyairport.com.au 01 Chair and CEO message We are Sydney’s Airport and we want to make you proud every day In 2019 we made the decision to change our company purpose statement to one that guides our thinking and decision making and sets an aspirational goal that we can all rally around. Our new purpose is “to make Sydney proud every day” and we apply it to everything we do every day, including sustainability. We’re proud of our sustainability It provides an update on progress people with 840 completed during the achievements to date. Sydney Airport we have made in the first year of our year. The number of employee lost time was the first airport in Australia to three-year sustainability strategy and injuries fell from 10 to five, a reflection report publicly on our sustainability sets out our goals for the future. Our of the renewed focus on safety across performance and we have continued to sustainability strategy is built around the organisation. build on this foundation of transparency three pillars: responsible business, In 2019 we were particularly proud and accountability. Our commitment to planning for the future and supporting of our award-winning A$1.4 billion further embedding sustainability into our communities. Sustainability Linked Loan, which links all our decision making will ensure we remain a leader in this space. Responsible business our cost of capital to our performance We recognise the importance of on a range of sustainability metrics. Having said that, there is more we operating and growing our airport This world leading loan shows that we're can, and need, to do. As the global responsibly, making it a safe place prepared to put our money where our demand for travel continues to grow, for workers and passengers while mouth is, and we encourage you to read so does the focus on sustainable minimising and managing the more about this landmark transaction aviation. Airports have an important environmental impact of our activities. in this report. role in this transition. We have an We took a number of important steps Our work to reduce our carbon footprint opportunity to show real leadership on this year to enhance the safety culture saw carbon intensity per passenger social and environmental issues and within our organisation and across the improve to its lowest level in 10 years to set the standards to which other airport community. A key initiative has of measurement and our absolute industries aspire. been the instigation of quarterly safety CO2 emissions reduce by four per cent. This report is one of the ways we share walks, which are designed to raise Output from our onsite rooftop solar our performance with our stakeholders awareness of hazards and recognise generation more than doubled in the and build confidence and trust in our safe work practices around the airport. first full year of its operation, and our ability to deliver on our commitments. Safety walks have been embraced by our work with retailers across our terminals 1 Australian Bureau of Statistics, June 2018 02 Sydney Airport | Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability at Sydney Airport Trevor Gerber Geoff Culbert Chairman Chief Executive Officer saw us achieve our three‑year target Accessibility to and from the airport We have a proud 18-year partnership to remove single use plastic bags remained a priority focus area for us. with Surf Life Saving Sydney. This year and straws from our terminals We initiated changes to traffic flows we provided more than $300,000 to in just one year. within the domestic and international help keep our beaches safe through our terminal precincts that delivered Centenary Partnership and Christmas Our innovative approach to sustainability significant improvements during Giving Appeal funds. Our annual Responsible business is being recognised in Australia and peak periods. Importantly, the NSW lost property auction raised a record around the world. This year, we moved Government’s Sydney Gateway project $190,000, which was shared with nine up to third in Sustainalytics’ global progressed well which, once complete, community organisations. airports subindustry sector. We were will provide a faster connection again rated ‘AAA’ by MSCI and ranked The first projects funded under the to the airport. in the 90th percentile in our industry Community and Environmental Projects group on the DJSI. We continued to To improve accessibility within our Reserve Fund established with Bayside support and align our efforts with the terminals, a new partnership with Aira Council were announced this year. United Nations Sustainable Development was formed which helps blind and low We will contribute $1 million over five Goals and the Principles of the UN vision travellers navigate the airport. years to a new Green Bayside project to Global Compact. This partnership was recognised by the plant trees and $5 million to the upgrade Australian Airport Association with the of the Botany Aquatic Centre. We were also proud to support an Planning for the future 2019 Customer Experience Award. Australian-first campaign to raise Looking forward awareness of forced marriage in This year, we continued to deliver on Through our strategic initiatives, partnership with the Australian Federal key elements of our Master Plan we’re committed to operating and Police and Anti-Slavery Australia and 2039. The construction of additional developing our airport in a way that joined the United for Wildlife Transport aprons and taxiways began as well as makes Sydney proud. Taskforce in the fight against illegal baggage and freight facilities which wildlife trafficking. will enhance capacity, efficiency and We are pleased with the progress we operational resilience. are making on our commitments and Planning for the future invite you to read on to learn more We take a long-term approach to Our focus on innovation continued as about our initiatives and performance managing our airport and recognise the we explored opportunities associated throughout 2019. role business plays in addressing the with biometrics, which have the potential Supporting our community to improve our passenger experience. We commend this report to you and global climate challenge. New technologies were trialled across welcome your feedback. Sydney Airport provides essential the airport including an automated regional and national infrastructure aerobridge docking system, which was a and we are committed to improving first for an Australian airport. our resilience to a changing climate. This year, we expanded our scenario Supporting our communities analysis and reviewed and updated We’re proud to be a part of the vibrant our Climate Risk and Adaptation Plan and exciting community that is Sydney. to consider key risks and opportunities In our centenary year, we celebrated the Trevor Gerber associated with the transition to a low history of our airport while continuing Chairman carbon economy. We also strengthened to build and foster strong links our disclosure in line with the Taskforce with the community. on Climate Related Disclosures (TCFD) Performance data We were proud to invest $5.2 million in recommendations in both our Annual our communities during 2019 through Report and this report. community investment, sponsorships, We’re building our airport for the future donations and our people volunteering and our customers are at the heart of in the community. Geoff Culbert all that we do. Our customer experience Chief Executive Officer To celebrate our centenary, we scores reached their highest levels this announced the new SYD100 scholarship year, which reflects our commitment program. This provides a scholarship to our customers to improve their every year for the next 100 years for a airport experience. student to study in the fields of aviation Other information and commerce at the University of New South Wales. sydneyairport.com.au 03 Performance highlights Delivering for the long term 34.5% reduction of emissions 43.4% waste $1.4 b Sustainability intensity (per pax) recycling rate 2 Linked Loan since 2010 ↑ from 42.9% in 2018 $5.2m in community 840 safety walks 95.9 gender pay equity ratio investment completed ↑ from 93.4 in 2018 2 Excludes quarantine waste, which cannot be recycled due to quarantine restrictions and requirements 04 Sydney Airport | Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability at Sydney Airport Responsible business Planning for the future Supporting our community 5 employee 4.19/5 overall customer Lost Time Injuries satisfaction rating ↓ from 10 ↑ from 4.14 in 2010 in 2018 75% Performance data of current load contracted via a renewable 30% water recycling energy PPA rate at T1 Other information sydneyairport.com.au 05 Our approach to sustainability Responsible growth Sustainability underpins our commitment to responsible growth in a way that delivers positive outcomes for our customers, investors and the communities in which we operate. It is integral to our business strategy and the delivery of our purpose: to make Sydney proud every day. Our sustainability strategy responds to We participate in global industry forums Our Sustainability Working Group and our changing world and to the challenges to represent our sustainability focus and sustainability champions continued to and opportunities that shape business in draw from best practice globally and support the operational delivery of our Australia and globally. locally. Sydney Airport CEO Geoff Culbert sustainability commitments. sits on the Airports Council International We recognise the important role This report provides a clear account of (ACI) World Governing Board and Asia our airport can play in addressing our performance against our strategy. Pacific Regional Board, through which environmental and social challenges We have presented the information under he is championing a global approach to now and into the future. This was the the three strategic themes: Responsible climate for the aviation industry. first year of delivery under our refreshed Business, Planning for the Future and, sustainability strategy and three-year The Board's Safety, Security and Supporting our Communities. commitments. These commitments Sustainability (SSS) Committee assists drive our activities towards our strategic the Board to address its responsibilities. focus areas, which create the most value During 2019, we reviewed and updated for stakeholders. the committee’s Charter which continues to include climate change. Contributing to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) seek to address the most significant challenges our world is facing today. To play our role in addressing these challenges, we have mapped the SDG framework against our sustainability strategy. Details on what contributing to the SDGs means in the context of our airport operations is referenced throughout this report and is available on our website. Sydney Airport became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in 2017 and is pleased to reaffirm its commitment to this initiative and its principles. 06 Sydney Airport | Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability at Sydney Airport Global trends Evolution in our business context is taking many forms, from advancements in the aviation sector and technology disruption to climate change and changing consumer trends. Understanding and embracing change will shape our future and guide our strategic thinking. Responsible business Sustainable aviation fuels Sustainable aviation fuel derived from non fossil fuel sources is widely recognised as the best short to medium term opportunity to reduce aviation emissions. International Air Transport Association (IATA) has set a goal for one billion passengers to fly on aircraft powered by sustainable aviation fuel blends by 2025. Government policies supporting increased production are considered key to achieving this goal. We recognise the role sustainable aviation fuel can play in the aviation sector and the importance of our support for solutions, technologies and the infrastructure required to enable this transition. As an infrastructure provider we want to do our part to ensure there are no barriers to these fuels entering the market at Sydney Airport. Planning for the future Digitisation and new technology Digitisation and the rise of big data have the potential to transform the customer journey, optimise airport systems and personalise the travel experience. Biometrics can provide passengers with a seamless travel experience with a single identification, which will radically improve processing times and optimise the use of the terminal. Autonomous vehicles will provide new transport options within and around airports, while innovations in technology such as commercialised drones also have the potential to change how airspace is used and shared. We are committed to embracing innovation and technology to improve efficiencies and the customer experience, while maintaining aviation safety and security as priorities. Supporting our community A shrinking world With developments in ultra long-haul next generation aircraft technology almost 100 per cent of the world’s population will be within reach of Sydney in a single flight. This improved access creates opportunities for economic growth and increased productivity, linked to the ability to move people and products around the globe. A mobile global population Sydney continues to be one of the world's most multicultural cities, attracting people from all over the globe. In recent years, Sydney Airport has seen passenger growth from emerging markets such as Vietnam, India, China and the Philippines as well as from more mature markets like USA and Japan. Performance data With an increasingly mobile global population, facilitated by increased accessibility of air travel, the reasons for travel continue to grow and change. Our aviation business development team is focussed on ensuring we continue to connect the world to Sydney and Sydney to the world. Travelling more sustainably The number of international trips taken globally reached 1.4 billion in 2018, two years faster than original projections 3. Travellers are increasingly considering the impacts of their travel, whether it be transportation choices or concerns of overcrowding at popular tourism destinations. Other information We recognise that all parts of the travel industry need to focus on how to grow sustainably. We remain committed to ensuring we play a positive role in this shift. 3 UN World Tourism Barometer, January 2019 sydneyairport.com.au 07 2019-2021 Sustainability commitments Delivering on our commitments Our 2019-2021 commitments embed sustainability in all aspects of our business in line with the pillars of our strategy. Our flagship initiatives support these pillars and focus attention on issues where we can drive a step change in our performance. Responsible business Being ethically responsible and transparent in how we do business Safety and wellbeing of all airport users Operating ethically and with integrity Achieve year-on-year improvement in injury statistics Complete supplier questionnaire to assess and mitigate and aviation safety performance risks on biennial basis Increase uptake and awareness around wellbeing Align procurement policy with ISO 20400 and mental health Maintaining an environmentally responsible airport Continuing to support a diverse and Continue to meet regulatory compliance requirements inclusive workplace for noise and air quality Achieve a 10 per cent uplift in female representation in Reduce potable water use per passenger by 10 per cent management and overall on 2018 performance in terminals and commercial buildings Achieve 30 per cent female board representation Maintain 30 per cent average annual use of recycled water at T1 Looking after and developing our people Target an employee engagement score of at Reducing waste to landfill least 75 per cent Remove plastic straws and single-use plastic bags Deliver 1.5 days of training per employee per annum from our terminals Recycle landside organic waste at T1 Building operational resilience Deliver employee incident and crisis Protecting local natural areas and biodiversity management training Restore and rehabilitate Environmental Conservation Achieve a cyber security maturity target of 1 zones, predominantly consisting of the Sydney four out of five Airport Wetlands Achieved Significant progress In progress Not achieved 08 Sydney Airport | Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability at Sydney Airport Planning for the future Supporting our communities Delivering operational excellence through innovative, Working with communities to technology-based solutions and supporting create shared value customer needs now and into the future Responsible business Increasing and supporting landside efficiency Building relationships and supporting community Support diversity of public transport modal options resilience Establish a baseline for community investment Delivering better outcomes for our customers Develop a community investment strategy to drive Planning for the future Maintain a passenger satisfaction score above continuous improvement four out of five Work with business partners to deliver a pilot program towards prevention of human trafficking and slavery Sustainable development of the airport Achieve a minimum 4-Star Green Star Design and As‑Built rating for new developments Flagship initiatives Supporting our community Climate resilience Airspace and airfield efficiency Follow the recommendations of the Task Force on Deliver an Airport Collaborative Decision Making Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) (A-CDM) program together with business partners Achieve carbon neutrality by 2025 Improve airfield and aviation support infrastructure Reduce carbon emissions per passenger by Explore opportunities to further improve efficiencies 50 per cent from 2010 baseline levels by 2025 through initiatives such as co-location of certain Performance data domestic and international activities and Electrification runway rebalancing 100 per cent electric landside bus fleet Install Electric Vehicle (EV) charging stations in new landside facilities five per cent above EV market penetration Increase aircraft utilisation of both fixed ground power and pre-conditioned air at T1 from 20 per cent to above 50 per cent Other information Facilitate and support increase of Sydney Airport airside electric vehicle usage to 50 per cent sydneyairport.com.au 09 Material issues Focusing on the issues that matter Each year, we review a range of current and emerging issues that may impact our stakeholders and our business with consideration of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Reporting Principles. To determine our material issues, we reached out to our customers, government representatives, suppliers, employees, airport business partners, analysts, investors and representatives of tourism bodies. We asked them to tell us which issues matter most to them. This report details our performance in relation to the issues considered to be material to our business. During 2019, we updated our list of material issues within the context of global trends, the United Nations SDGs and our business strategy. This resulted in some changes to the material issues discussed in the previous report: ‘Economic performance’ and ‘Innovation and technology’ were added as new issues ‘Human rights’ and ‘Sustainable procurement’ are now included in ‘Fair and ethical business operations’ ‘Capacity’ is included in ‘Sustainable development of the airport’ 10 Sydney Airport | Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability at Sydney Airport Strategic pillar Responsible Planning for Supporting our Material issue Definition business the future communities Access to and Ensuring our passengers have a safe and efficient journey from the airport to and from the airport, and that a range of transport modes are available to suit their preferences Aircraft noise Working with government and airline partners to manage Responsible business and mitigate noise impacts Business continuity Designing and maintaining our facilities to ensure continuity and performance of operations under a range of different circumstances, for example increased competition or greater regulation Climate change Building resilience to the physical and strategic risks associated with climate change, and taking action to reduce our impacts including through our energy use Community Playing a meaningful role in our local community, investment and while building and maintaining enduring engagement relationships based on trust Customer Providing a superior customer experience for Planning for the future experience airlines and passengers Cyber security Prepare, prevent and respond to cyber attacks that could impact our operations and those of our customers Diversity and Creating and managing a diverse and inclusive workforce, inclusion and contributing to the creation of an inclusive society Economic The creation and distribution of economic value performance Employee Attracting, retaining and developing the best people to attraction, retention ensure the success of our business and development Environmental Operating an environmentally responsible airport, actively Supporting our community management managing the use of resources and minimising waste, protecting the local natural environment and managing impacts on the surrounding community Fair and ethical Respecting and protecting human rights across all business aspects of our operations. Maintaining an effective system of corporate governance and building a culture to maintain high ethical standards and integrity. Responsible management of our supply chain, working with suppliers to effectively manage environmental, social and governance risks Innovation and Embracing future trends to create new opportunities technology Operational Operating the airport efficiently to support customers, Performance data efficiency and environmental outcomes and On Time Performance, continuous while looking for ways to improve improvement Safety Managing health and safety risks and maintaining a strong safety culture, while providing a work environment that protects the health and wellbeing of our people and people working at the airport Security Working collaboratively with airport stakeholders to provide and maintain a safe and secure airport operating environment Other information Sustainable Sustainably developing the airport to meet passenger development of growth through collaborative decision making, the airport efficiency improvements, sustainable infrastructure design and strategic planning sydneyairport.com.au 11 Stakeholder engagement Listening to you Fostering positive, strong, lasting relationships with all those who might be affected by the decisions and activities concerning the airport’s development and operation is a priority for us, and we acknowledge that this is vital to our long term success. We recognise that each of our stakeholders has different interests, expectations and interactions with the airport. 12 Sydney Airport | Sustainability Report 2019 How we engage Key areas of interest Sustainability at Sydney Airport – Annual General Meeting – Economic and financial performance – Roadshows, meetings and conferences – Fair and ethical operations – ASX releases – Climate resilience Analysts and – Investor days, presentations and briefings – Operational efficiency and investors continuous improvement – Analyst surveys Responsible business – Website – Safety and security – ESG performance – Committees and forums – Safety and security – Briefings and meetings – Customer experience – Relationship managers – Operational efficiency and Business partners – Service requests continuous improvement – InfoSyd website – Business continuity and resilience – Service quality and value – Whistleblower policy – Satisfaction surveys – Customer experience Planning for the future – Feedback channels and service requests – Airport access Customers – Media and advertising – Safety and security – Competitions – Operational efficiency and service quality – Relationship managers – Engagement surveys – Safety and security – Employee committees and working groups – Sustainable development – Yammer (internal social media) – Growth and development – People leader forums – Health and wellbeing Employees – CEO newsletters and all staff briefings – Diversity – Intranet – Fair and ethical operations Supporting our community – Financial performance – Whistleblower policy – Briefings and meetings – Safety and security – Industry forums – Climate change – Submissions – Airport access Government and – Industry working groups – Operational efficiency and regulators continuous improvement – Environmental management – Sustainable development – Community forums – Safety – Council briefings – Economic and financial performance – Sentiment surveys – Airport access — roads and public transport Performance data Local community – Partnerships with community organisations – Noise and environmental management – Media and advertising – Community investment – Jobs for locals – Supplier forums – Safety and security – Meetings – Business continuity and resilience Suppliers – Assessment against our – Customer experience Supplier Code of Conduct – Fair and ethical operations – Whistleblower policy Other information – Meetings – Security Tourism bodies – Participation in events and conferences – Economic and financial performance and industry – Industry forums – Airport access associations – Customer experience – Sustainable development sydneyairport.com.au 13 Benchmark and ratings performance Benchmarking our performance We benchmark our progress against a number of leading sustainability indices and frameworks to drive better performance in environmental, social and governance issues. This year we improved our Sustainalytics ranking from 4th to 3rd globally and maintained our performance on other indices against which we benchmark ourselves. Ratings 4 Ranked in the Ranked 90th percentile globally in DJSI's 3rd globally in the Airports 5★ ‘Industry Leader’ rating, and Transport and Transportation sub industry group sitting in the top 20 per cent Infrastructure sector for the infrastructure industry for Master Plan 2039, Level 3 ‘AAA’ rating the first for an airport ‘Optimisation’ sitting in the top nine per cent of companies globally within Airport Carbon the infrastructure sector, and a Accreditation member of the MSCI Australia ESG Leaders Index Index Series Membership reflecting our strong ESG management practices 4 As at date of publication 14 Sydney Airport | Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability at Sydney Airport Recognition Frameworks Responsible business ACSI GRI ‘Leading’ rating This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global for our Sustainability Report Reporting Initiative Standards: by the Australian Council of Core option Superannuation Investors Supporter of the Task Force Planning for the future on Climate-related Financial Disclosures and commitment to 2019 Customer move towards alignment with its Experience Award recommendations Supporting our community Sustainability Linked Loan Participant in the United Green/SRI Loan of the Year Nations Global Compact and and Most impressive Green/ commitment to implementing SRI Loan Borrower the 10 principles Finance Asia Performance data Issuer of the Year — Sustainability Track and measure community investments in line with the framework developed by London Benchmarking Group Syndicated Loan Other information Deal of the Year sydneyairport.com.au 15 Responsible business We strive to be ethically responsible and transparent in how we do business 43.4% 5 waste recycling employee LTIs, 0 class 1 rate 5 down from 10 in 2018 injuries 39% women in our 95.9 gender pay 30% water recycling workforce equity ratio rate at T1 5 Excludes quarantine waste, which cannot be recycled due to quarantine restrictions and requirements 16 Sydney Airport | Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability at Sydney Airport Responsible business Planning for the future Sustainability Linked Loan Safety The safety and security of all our passengers, Our Sustainability Linked Loan (SLL), the first syndicated visitors and staff is our first priority. SLL in Australia, largest syndicated SLL across the Asia Pacific and largest syndicated airport SLL globally, Safety is a responsibility for us all at Sydney Airport Supporting our community is a clear example of innovation. and across our airport community. We are committed to ensuring the highest levels of safety across our The $1.4 billion loan establishes a direct two-way link operations. Our Safety Policy sets out our objectives while between our sustainability performance and funding our safety management system provides the framework costs, where rates decrease or increase depending on for managing risk in our operations. More information our sustainability performance over time as measured about our management approach to safety can be found by Sustainalytics, a leading specialist investment on our website. research and ratings provider dedicated to ESG globally. The loan provides a significant incentive for us to embed Improving safety performance sustainability within our business and deliver on our This year, we updated our safety strategy to further sustainability commitments. develop our safety culture and build on safety systems to enhance risk management. We were proud to be recognised by GlobalCapital as the Most Impressive Green/SRI Borrower of the Year We are focussed on driving a culture that supports a Performance data and Green/SRI Loan of the Year. Sydney Airport was reduction in injuries. also named Issuer of the Year — Sustainability by Pleasingly, we saw the number of Lost Time Injuries FinanceAsia and the SLL as Syndicated Loan Deal of the reduce from 10 in 2018 to five over more than Year by KangaNews. 931,675 hours worked by Sydney Airport staff in 2019 across the airport. This was the result of a reduction in low-risk high-frequency incidents in the corporate areas of the business. We saw an increase in the Lost Time Injuries of our service providers 6, up to 13 from nine in 2018. Over the coming year, we will continue to work with our service providers to Other information further improve their safety performance. 6 Service providers engaged by Sydney Airport include cleaning, security, kerb side management, waste management, parking and trolleys and bussing sydneyairport.com.au 17 Responsible business Strengthening our safety culture Passenger safety work and during lunchtimes and held a Our diverse safety risk profile means that Passenger safety and first aid continues number of lunch and learn sessions for a strong safety culture is one of the ways to be a focus in the terminals and across our people addressing mental health. we can ensure everyone works safely our workplaces due to the volume of To further strengthen the focus on and goes home safe and well. passengers we serve. Our dedicated health, safety and wellbeing, a revised terminal services teams are often This year, we have further strengthened Fatigue Management Policy and the first responders in situations the safety culture across our team and assessment process was introduced, where passengers require emergency the airport community. with particular focus on shift workers. medical assistance. We launched SYD Safety Rules during We strengthened the mental health Our passenger incident rate dropped Airport Safety Week, confirming 13 rules expertise in our business by adding from 1.03 in 2018 to 0.9 in 2019, that are based on safe behaviours for the a new mental health specialist to our with medical incidents being the most airport community. safety team. In 2020, a mental health frequent passenger incident, followed by strategy will be developed. Our objective Critical Risk Standards were slips, trips and falls. Analysis of these is to build better mental health for developed in 2019 in consultation with events has led to improved wayfinding our people by promoting wellbeing, stakeholders. These focus on a number and emergency stop and assistance supporting mental ill-health conditions of critical safety risks primarily related signage at escalators. We also began and protecting the mental health of staff. to maintenance and construction stocking EpiPens in first aid kits to We will undertake a psychosocial risk work across the airport. They will be ensure a quick response is possible in assessment to better understand the implemented during 2020. the event of an allergic reaction. risks which exist across our business New safety KPIs for people leaders Mental health and wellbeing and our workforce. We will also build introduced in 2018 led to a stronger Our focus on mental health and a mental health champions program safety culture across the organisation, wellbeing across our airport community and work to develop mental health with more than 90 per cent of our continued this year. capabilities in our people leaders. people leaders completing four safety walks each in 2019 – exceeding We again supported RU OK? Day, hosting our target. There were no class 17 sessions for people working at the injuries or illnesses. airport that sought to reduce the stigma often associated with mental illness in the workplace. We continued to offer free yoga classes for our people before 7 A class 1 injury or illness is one which results in a fatality, total permanent disability or permanent partial disability 18 Sydney Airport | Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability at Sydney Airport Aviation safety SYD Safety Rules One of the most serious risks to aviation safety is Foreign Object Debris (FOD), which can make its way on to the runway Hazard Control Responsible business and pose a risk to the safe operation Prioritise safety at all times of the aircraft. Our FOD management program is designed to minimise this risk and actively manage FOD on the airfield. Energy Isolation We use statistical analysis and spatial Verify isolation and zero energy before work begins mapping to examine the types and locations of FOD on the airfield. In addition to our sweeper and spill Hot Work response trucks, this year we introduced Control flammables and ignition sources two additional FOD walkers on the international aprons to gather small items that accumulate during the day. Planning for the future We also created a sub-committee of Safe Mechanical Lifting our Aviation Safety Committee to bring Plan lifting operations and control the area together ground handlers, airlines and airport staff to specifically look at FOD management. Working at Height Another risk to aviation safety is Protect yourself against a fall when working at height equipment on the airfield that isn’t properly stored. This year we built a new Unit Load Device (ULD) storage area to Line of Fire better organise ULDs on the airfield and Keep yourself and others out of the line of fire protect them from damage. Supporting our community Wildlife in and around the airfield can also pose a safety risk and may cause Fit for Work damage to aircraft. We do everything we Be in a state to perform work safely can to divert wildlife from making the airfield their permanent home. We also actively manage those animals whose Manual Handling natural habitat is the airport precinct. Look after your body and perform tasks safely The airfield team constantly monitors the aerodrome to ensure birds are not jeopardising the safety of aircraft Foreign Object Debris operations and use a range of strategies to disperse birds primarily through FOD is everybody’s responsibility noise, including pyrotechnics and sirens. Performance data This year, there were 2.3 wildlife strikes per 10,000 aircraft movements, Safety Controls an increase on 2018. Obtaining authorisation before overriding or disabling safety controls Safety Behaviours Lead by example Confined Space Other information Obtain authorisation before entering a confined space Driving Follow safe driving rules sydneyairport.com.au 19 Responsible business Security Managing drones Operational efficiency and We continued to work with the Australian Remotely piloted aircraft systems, or continuous improvement Government and border agencies drones, are increasingly common around This year, we continued to deliver to respond to emerging risks in the the world. Uncontrolled, drones can pose upgrades across the airport. security environment. significant risks to aviation safety. We completed the T2 lifestyle precinct, Drone activity in Australia is regulated delivering new commercial space and In late 2019 we assumed security by the Civil Aviation Safety Authority comfortable dwell areas for passengers. screening responsibilities for T3, the Qantas seamless transfer area and (CASA). As Sydney Airport is a controlled At T1, we updated the Departures wall to Qantas Lounge delivery dock as part aerodrome, drone activity is prohibited in provide an enhanced visitor experience of the T3 transition from Qantas to areas within three nautical miles (5.5 km) and increased capacity to allow faster Sydney Airport. This is in addition to our under these regulations. movement of passengers to border screening responsibilities at T1 and T2. During the year we met with processing at peak times. We also representatives from State and local refurbished the T1 baggage reclaim We completed a CT Scanning trial for government and other stakeholders hall to provide an improved arrivals checked and carry-on baggage as we to raise awareness of the aviation experience and increased efficiency. progressively roll out new equipment to safety risks associated with drones Our Pier C gate lounge expansion and meet government-mandated security and to encourage clear and prominent upgrade of the Pier B concourse and requirements. The trial achieved signage prohibiting drone activity lounges were also completed. improved security outcomes and enabled increased throughput delivering a faster, within these areas. We will continue Baggage handling system upgrades more seamless customer experience. to work with councils to place CASA Baggage handling systems are critical Further work on the progressive approved signage within open spaces to the smooth and continuous operation implementation of new security around the airport. of our airport. requirements will continue in 2020. Cyber security We progressed the replacement of the We also completed the introduction of As the security threat landscape evolves T1 Baggage Handling System (BHS) random and unpredictable screening we remain focused on managing current High Level Control (HLC) sortation on entry to the security restricted area. and emerging cyber risks. We constantly software system. The HLC system is Multiple teams are now conducting monitor the threat environment and are responsible for handling the accurate screening of pedestrian and vehicle continuing to build our resilience. and on time sorting of bags. This entry points using explosive trace upgrade will improve system and Our cyber security program is supported detection, hand-held metal detectors and service resilience, which is critical to by our Information Security Management physical searches. operational resilience. It will facilitate the System (ISMS) and our Incident Action In September, we supported the Plan (IAP). These are collectively automated routing of bags around areas Australian Defence Force (ADF) to run designed to protect our IT infrastructure experiencing congestion or equipment a simulated counter-terrorism training and data from attack through a series of unavailability, reducing dependence on activity at Sydney Airport, providing a defence mechanisms, and support our manual operational responsiveness. realistic urban training environment. response in the event of an incident. It also creates a 3D view of the entire This was part of the ADF’s regular T1 BHS with actual bag flows updated We continue to invest in systems and in real-time, allowing greater situational training program to ensure it has the processes to ward off growing cyber awareness and a better quality baggage highest level of capability to protect security threats and have strengthened service for our airline partners and Australia’s national interests and provide our cyber security maturity rating by passengers. The new system is expected assistance in civil emergencies. investing in the security awareness of to be operational in mid-2020. our people. In 2019, we invested in staff phishing training, tests and awareness We are also developing the T1 Southern campaigns and implemented enhanced bag room to provide additional monitoring on critical systems. We also capacity, and improve the redundancy worked with external experts to and resilience of the system. This will benchmark our cyber maturity and align enhance baggage security screening and it with our ISO 27001 certification. introduce new automation to minimise manual handling and mishandled bags. 20 Sydney Airport | Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability at Sydney Airport Resilience Upgrades to airfield infrastructure companies, cargo terminal operators, As a piece of critical national During the year, both parallel runways catering and cabin cleaning infrastructure, we need to ensure we are were upgraded to enhance our ability companies and aircraft maintenance resilient and can continue to operate to facilitate aircraft operations in low providers, among others. Responsible business under a range of differing circumstances. visibility conditions, including weather The draft licence documentation events such as fog. We estimate around During the year, we continued to test our was issued for consultation during 80 diversions from Sydney Airport resilience with emergency exercises. the year ahead of its implementation were avoided following these upgrades, We hosted multi-agency desktop in 2020. Discussions were held to resulting in less inconvenience for exercises under a range of scenarios finalise the AOL terms including safety, customers and a large saving in fuel including the activation of the Emergency environmental and operational standards burn for aircraft. Operations Centre in a missing flight and behaviours, and the associated scenario, a drone activity response Airport Operators Licence enforcement process, as well as scenario and a health pandemic scenario We continued to progress the vehicle replacement and electrification on an inbound flight requiring quarantine. introduction of an Airport Operators requirements. We commenced the We also conducted a modular exercise Licence (AOL) this year, which will recruitment process for a Manager of to test the aerodrome secondary establish a direct relationship between Ground Operations Compliance, the first Planning for the future staging area and site control activation, the airport and ground service providers. role in the Office of the AOL. and another for an active armed offender Internationally, AOLs improve safety scenario on the airport precinct. standards, infrastructure utilisation and Through our commitment We revised and improved our crisis accountability across the airfield. to operational resilience and efficiency, we protocol and delivered refresher training The AOL will establish and enforce contribute to developing in incident and crisis management to minimum standards to improve quality, reliable, key personnel involved in responding behaviours and enhance outcomes sustainable and resilient to a crisis situation. across safety, security, environment, infrastructure to support operational and sustainability economic development. performance for companies operating on the airfield. This includes ground Supporting our community handling agents, aircraft refuelling Performance data Other information sydneyairport.com.au 21 Responsible business Environmental management 8 Our priority is to deliver the highest We continued our lighting replacement We are committed to continual levels of safety for our people, program in our terminals, upgrading to improvement of environmental contractors, passengers, community and LED lighting in wayfinding signage at T1 performance at the airport. stakeholders, and to ensure we operate this year. We also upgraded airfield and sustainably by minimising impacts on landside lighting systems, including the The strategic direction for environmental our local environment. installation of a new lighting control performance and management of system in the baggage reclaim halls Sydney Airport is set every five years A detailed overview of our approach to which allows us to switch to power in our Airport Environment Strategy. managing PFAS at Sydney Airport is savings modes during curfew periods. Our current strategy was approved available on our website. We completed the replacement of our in early 2019 and covers the period Emissions management taxiway and stop bar signs with LED between 2019 and 2024. It is available to We remain committed to reducing lights, which are more reliable, visible and download from our website. our emissions footprint and have use less energy, and we reviewed the use set ourselves a target to achieve a of moving walkways and escalators to We adopt a risk-based approach to 50 per cent reduction in emissions per reduce energy consumption. environmental management. During the year, we refreshed and updated our passenger by 2025 9, and to achieve carbon neutrality by 2025 in line with Emissions intensity Environmental Management System. We engaged an external auditor to the Airport Carbon Accreditation (ACA) (tCO2e/passenger) assess its alignment with AS/NZ ISO program. We maintained our Level 3 3.05 2.79 2.73 2.59 14001, which confirmed our EMS is ‘Optimisation’ ACA during the period and 2.44 consistent with the standard. are actively implementing initiatives that will reduce our fuel consumption and PFAS management improve our energy efficiency. We are committed to communicating about how we are working with our During the period, our Scope 1 and 2 tenants and other stakeholders to safely emissions reduced by four per cent manage polyfluoroalkyl substance and our carbon intensity 10 continued a (PFAS) contamination at the airport. five-year downwards trend, taking our reduction in carbon intensity since 2010 Our Master Plan 2039 and Environment 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 to 34.5 per cent. Strategy 2019-2024 recognise that Sydney Airport has been impacted A key step in our pathway to carbon Emissions breakdown by the use of PFAS by a number of neutrality is to improve our fuel and third parties. The majority of PFAS on energy efficiency and continue to airport is attributed to the historical use grow onsite renewable generation. of fire fighting foams by fire service Energy consumption from solar more providers, primarily Airservices Australia. than doubled this year following the 91% 9% 93% 7% PFAS containing product is currently commissioning of a 550kw rooftop used in the Qantas and JUHI fire fighting solar PV array. deluge systems. Sydney Airport reduced the overall Sydney Airport is committed to applying number of pool cars in its fleet during the ‘precautionary principle’ to protect the reporting period and replaced three Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 human health and the environment in petrol cars with hybrid electric cars. relation to PFAS. That means we have requested tenants to cease the use of PFAS fire fighting foams on airport, are undertaking a detailed analysis of PFAS on airport and requiring polluters to develop plans for containment and remediation. 8 All environment data is reported for the period 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019. Sydney Airport assumed operational control of utility services for T3 in July 2019, and the associated data will be included in subsequent reports 9 Based on 2010 levels 10 kgCO2-e per passenger 22 Sydney Airport | Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability at Sydney Airport We continued to purchase offsets We continue to provide airport NOx and Suspended Particulate Matter for emissions from our car fleet and infrastructure to support an increased levels across the airport are directly expanded the program to include our utilisation rate of Ground Power Units related to fuel consumption across non-electric landside bus fleet and staff (GPU) and Pre-Conditioned Air (PCA) the airport. They remained steady Responsible business travel, covering 784tCO 2e. as well as to minimise Auxiliary Power during the period. Unit (APU) usage and fuel burn on We improved our Scope 3 reporting and the airfield. This has the benefit of methodology in 2019. During the year reduced CO2 and Oxides of Nitrogen our Scope 3 emissions were 884ktCO2e. (NOx) emissions, creating a healthier While the majority of Scope 3 emissions working environment on the airfield are caused by sources outside our and reducing ground-based noise from ownership and control, we are working to running engines at the gate. See the support business partners and others to ‘Supporting our communities’ section act to reduce these emissions. of this report for more on how we work with our stakeholders to reduce Scope 3 emissions. Planning for the future Supporting our community Performance data Other information sydneyairport.com.au 23 Responsible business Water management consumption increased by 14 per cent goal, securing the removal of plastic Sydney Airport is committed to the due to additional demand on cooling bags and straws from all three terminals responsible use of water across systems across the terminals. across 113 tenancies. the precinct. The major uses of Waste management This year we adopted organic water at Sydney Airport during the During 2019, total waste waste recovery with our T1 landside period continued to be restroom and generation at the airport reduced retailers, following a successful trial toilet facilities within the terminals, by two per cent and we diverted in 2018 and expanded the program to cooling towers for air conditioning, 43 per cent of non‑quarantine waste include food waste as well as coffee construction and maintenance activities generated from landfill. grounds. This waste is transported to and vehicle washing facilities. a waste to energy facility to generate We worked with the Institute for renewable electricity. Our onsite water treatment plant was Sustainable Futures at the University built in 2009 and supplies recycled of Technology Sydney to develop a Customers consistently request more water to T1. In its 10th year of operation, three‑stage roadmap to reduce waste water fountains across the precinct. it treated more than 197,000 KL of water, across all streams on the airport Three new water bottle refilling stations an increase of more than 31,800 KL on precinct. We will begin implementation of were installed across T1 and T2 this the prior year. This is the equivalent of 78 the strategy in 2020. year, bringing the total number of water Olympic-sized swimming pools. fountains and refilling stations across We continued to work with retailers to the airport to 31. Refills at these new This year, 30 per cent of our water remove single-use plastic bags and stations are averaging 1,400 vessels per consumption at T1 was from recycled straws. We set ourselves the target to day supporting a reduction in plastic sources. This water is used for toilet remove these from retailers in T1 by bottle waste generation. flushing and cooling towers. 2021 and this year we exceeded this Despite this, our total water 24 Sydney Airport | Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability at Sydney Airport Responsible business Planning for the future Supporting our community Profile Working together with retail partners to reduce waste We are working hard to reduce waste in and around our terminals. Throughout 2019, we worked with our retail partners across the airport to remove single use plastic bags and straws from terminals. The support and enthusiasm of our retailers and the retail team at Sydney Airport means we have achieved our three-year target in just one year. WH Smith removed single-use plastic bags from its stores, and donates profits from the sale of re-useable bags to Clean Up Australia. The Mantra Airport Hotel operates a plastic free bar, and our Duty Free partner Heinemann has replaced plastic bags from its stores at T1 with reusable bags, saving an estimated one million bags from this store alone from landfill every year. Performance data Retailers have reported they have had a fantastic response from customers to the initiative, and many are already planning to do more to reduce waste. Wetlands and vegetation management We continued to manage and maintain Our commitment Sydney Airport is home to the Sydney this important environmental asset to operating the Airport Wetlands, which are designated undertaking bush regeneration works. airport sustainably as an environmentally significant area More than 13,800 tubestock of native and reducing our under the Airports Act 1996. They are wetlands species were planted environmental footprint Other information part of the larger Botany Wetlands after the removal of noxious weeds. contributes to achieving system, which runs from Centennial Park Any vegetation removed for construction the sustainable to Botany Bay, and considered to be one projects were offset on site with native management and efficient of the last remaining green corridors in plants. Plants were selected so as not to use of resources. the Sydney area. attract birds and minimise bird strike risk. sydneyairport.com.au 25 Responsible business Our people Average hours of training as well as Conflict Management for our We recognise our people are (per employee) aviation and service teams. We also fundamental to our ongoing success. 15.5 provide quarterly operational safety 14.1 training for our baggage handing and This year, we launched a new facilities maintenance employees. 11.9 organisational purpose ‘Making Sydney These sessions have incorporated 10 proud every day’. This reflects our goal to 9.3 Manual Handling, First Attack Fire make a positive impact every day in the Fighting, Safety Risk Assessments, community, with our customers, for NSW Injury Management and Hot Works. and Australia more broadly. We held 20 lunch and learn 'SYDTalks' We also launched a new HR Information sessions covering topics as diverse as System to simplify our people processes. 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking The new system will provide solutions To facilitate more effective development in conjunction with the Australian for onboarding, people data, time and planning and career conversations, Federal Police to Fundamentals of attendance, payroll, performance, we relaunched our Individual Finance, with an average of 60 people and recruitment. It will allow our people Development Planning (IDP) process attending each session. and their managers to operate more across the organisation in early 2019. efficiently and provides capability for We encourage our people to apply This involved sessions for individual for internal job opportunities as a future growth and integration. employees and training to equip way to further develop their skills and Our workforce is made up of over 500 leaders to have career discussions experience, and continue their career employees, with the majority of these with their team. at Sydney Airport. During the year, in full time, permanent roles. This is an We launched a new Educational 31 per cent of roles were filled by increase on the prior reporting period. Support Policy in 2019, which internal candidates. Employee turnover increased in facilitates the ongoing development Diversity and inclusion 2019 following an organisational of employee capability through Part of making Sydney proud every day is restructure. We are working to reduce external tertiary programs. Since the our commitment to fostering workplace this by improving our learning and launch in March, we have received diversity and inclusion. development offerings, strengthening 20 applications and approved 19 career pathways and building stronger of these. We have committed $90,000 This year, we refreshed our Diversity employee engagement. since the program's launch. and Inclusion strategy with a renewed focus on building a robust We’re focused on making sure Sydney We also introduced LinkedIn Learning foundation and engagement across the Airport is a place our employees love for all employees, which provides access business through: to work. In surveys conducted during to an on-demand library of instructional the year, our people told us they feel videos and courses covering a range of – Talent management practices safe when they are at work, believe the business, software and creative skills. including recruitment, promotion and work they do is meaningful and are We continued to deliver Certificate development of talent excited about Sydney Airport’s future. 4 in Aviation (Aviation Supervision) – Reward and Recognition programs, In 2020, we are working to enhance and Certificate 3 in Aviation including remuneration, benefits and the experience of our people at work (Aerodrome Operations). gender pay gap by continuing to build a great culture, For the first time, we subscribed to the – Ability to retain our people, improving collaboration between teams, Australian Institute of Management including belonging, flexibility, communicating regularly and recognising (AIM) for leadership and professional careers and capability performance and achievement. development programs. This Learning and development subscription gives 50 nominated We want to develop and maintain a employees access to a full range of culture that supports our people to AIM short courses. Since July 2019, reach their full potential. we have had over 500 hours of learning completed with AIM. We provided 15.5 average hours of training per employee, an increase Our offering in 2019 has also included on last year. This year, we focused on a range of mandatory and elective improving access to programs and sessions for our operational teams. tools and introduced a number of new Examples of this have been Wildlife learning and development opportunities Management for our airfield teams for our people. 26 Sydney Airport | Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability at Sydney Airport Responsible business To support the development of the new strategy we conducted a diversity and inclusion survey to better understand our workforce. We learned that we come from 46 countries and speak over 30 languages, with 30 per cent of us speaking a language other than English at home. It is positive to learn that 75% Planning for the future of respondents felt comfortable bringing their whole selves to work, and over two thirds expressed they feel that Sydney Airport is an inclusive place to work. We reviewed our Diversity Council and Working Group which has executive sponsorship from our Chief Commercial Officer and Chief Financial Officer. The Diversity Council is supported by six working groups made up of representatives from the business, who are focussed on driving meaningful Supporting our community action and change around the priorities identified in the diversity survey. Profile The number of female employees across Tim Greenway, Sydney Airport Project Manager the organisation remained consistent This year, we introduced a new program to provide educational support to with 2018 at 39 per cent, while the eligible employees to undertake external courses of study relevant to their number of women in management roles work at Sydney Airport. increased from 35 per cent in 2018 to 37 per cent in 2019. Our gender pay ratio One of our first round participants was Project Manager Tim Greenway. continued to improve, up from 93.4 in He completed the final module of his Master in Project Management – 2018 to 95.9 this year continuing our “Project Management in Peripheral Communities”. The module requires three-year upward trend. students to take the skills learned throughout their Masters, apply them to not for profit organisations and support communities with the development of basic infrastructure. Performance data Our commitment to supporting equality for all As part of the course, Tim visited Cambodia to launch a building program that and promoting a diverse teaches school leavers basic construction skills. The program gives young and inclusive workplace adults a chance to learn important skills and set them up for a brighter future. contributes to ensuring equal opportunity Working in a small team made up of architects, construction undergraduates, and promoting socioproject managers and supervisors – the majority without building experience – economic inclusion. Tim and the team built a classroom and a workshop in 38-degree temperatures and 100 per cent humidity. “Being supported to finish my studies really took the financial pressure off and meant I could experience something different to bring back to my work at Other information Sydney Airport, Tim said. sydneyairport.com.au 27 Responsible business Fair and ethical business During the year we assessed Updating our Whistleblower Policy Our Code of Conduct sets the standard 25 suppliers against the expectations We reviewed and updated our for how we work together to operate set out in the Supplier Code of Conduct. Whistleblower Policy following changes the airport in a safe, secure, responsible This accounts for 72 per cent of our to the Corporations Act 2001 and and ethical manner. It underpins a in‑scope third party spend. Taxation Administration Act 1953. culture of high ethical standards and The majority of those suppliers met This updated Policy was approved by the integrity. We introduced a new online or exceeded our expectations, with six Audit and Risk Committee of the Board. Code of Conduct training module for supplier improvement plans issued. Our Directors and Executive Committee all employees to ensure everyone The areas identified for improvement participated in refresher training on the understands what is expected of centred around: process for handling any whistleblower them. Employees will be required to complaints they may receive directly. undertake refresher training each – Plans or initiatives supporting We communicated the revised policy year with 82 per cent completing their engagement of Aboriginal or to all employees via direct email and training in 2019. Torres Strait Islander employment, improved information available to all business or communities employees on our intranet about our Our respect for human rights is whistleblowing process. We will continue – Coverage of bribery and corruption enshrined in our Human Rights Policy, to embed this process in 2020. within submitted policies which we first introduced in 2017. We aligned our practices with the – Training of key policy documents (e.g. People wishing to raise a concern can UN Guiding Principles on Business work health and safety, governance) do so via Sydney Airport’s whistleblower and Human Rights and continued as – Lack of reference to Fair Work within hotline HALO, which is accessible members of the UNGC and the Global submitted documents 24/7. They can also make reports to Compact Network Australia’s Modern authorised people within the business Pleasingly, these suppliers actioned the including the General Counsel, Slavery Community of Practice. gaps identified in their individual supplier members of the Executive Leadership Supplier Code of Conduct improvement plans and all outstanding Team or the General Manager of Human Our Supplier Code of Conduct sets items were closed during 2019. Resources, who is also the Whistleblower out how we manage our relationships We continue to support the Business Protection Officer. Reports can be with suppliers and our minimum Council of Australia’s Australian Supplier made anonymously, and people who expectations. It covers areas including Payment Code, which is designed to report concerns will be supported and health and safety, corporate governance, support the long-term viability of small protected from reprisal or detriment. workplace conditions and human rights. businesses. We have reviewed the Our procurement spend mainly related to During 2019, one whistleblower suppliers we engage and can confirm all report was received and this remains construction projects, security services, small business supplier payment terms and facilities management services under investigation. are 30 days from the date of the invoice. including cleaning services and baggage handling operations. 28 Sydney Airport | Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability at Sydney Airport Responsible business Planning for the future Identifying and tackling modern slavery Modern slavery is a key human rights risk, both in operations and supply chains. This year we completed a risk assessment for modern slavery in our business and in our supply chain, identifying high risk areas. Existing controls for these risks were Supporting our community reviewed, and where necessary, we strengthened these to ensure we are not doing business with individuals or companies that profit from modern slavery. We will continue to review and strengthen our risk controls over 2020. Profile We developed a roadmap for the next 18 months to strengthen or AFP and Anti-Slavery Australia Forced Marriage campaign implement controls to meet stakeholder In 2019, Sydney Airport was proud to support a partnership between the AFP expectations and in preparation for and Anti-Slavery Australia to raise awareness of forced marriage, one of the reporting under the Commonwealth forms of modern slavery. Modern Slavery Act 2018 in early 2021. Performance data Late in 2019, custom-designed posters were rolled out in bathrooms and Combatting illegal wildlife trafficking offices across the airport as a part of a six-month pilot program. Bathrooms This year, Sydney Airport signed the were targeted for the campaign as this is one of the few locations victims of United for Wildlife Transport Taskforce this crime are on their own and may be in a position to seek help. Buckingham Palace Declaration to join the fight against illegal wildlife trafficking. Sydney Airport supported the campaign by showing the posters on key digital The Buckingham Palace Declaration is advertising screens to extend the reach of the campaign. an agreement which sets out tangible AFP Assistant Commissioner Debbie Platz, National Manager Crime steps that can be taken to close the Operations, hopes the initiative brings an often unspoken practice routes exploited by traffickers of the into the spotlight. illegal wildlife trade as they attempt to smuggle their products from Other information Supporting people in Australia who are at risk of forced marriages – rare and vulnerable ecosystems. particularly vulnerable teenagers – is crucial, as we recognise that Australia’s unique wildlife is often a target disruption and deterrence can have a far-reaching and lasting impact in of illegal wildlife trafficking, which makes our communities, Assistant Commissioner Platz said. Sydney Airport especially proud to support this important initiative. sydneyairport.com.au 29 Planning for the future Delivering operational excellence through innovative technology-based solutions and supporting customer needs now and into the future 34.5% reduction of emissions intensity 4.19/5 overall customer (per passenger) since 2010 satisfaction rating 75% of current load contracted Sydney Gateway road project via a renewable energy PPA enabling direct airport access from motorways 30 Sydney Airport | Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability at Sydney Airport Climate resilience We recognise our need to contribute During the year, we reassessed potential Sydney Airport is an essential piece to addressing climate change, and impacts and consequences of climate of regional and national infrastructure restrict global temperature increases change on the airport business and which supports the mobility and to less than 2°C in line with the operations in our updated Climate Risk economic growth of the communities we Paris Agreement. and Adaptation Plan. This enables us to Responsible business serve. Our infrastructure and operations prioritise and better respond to climate We are committed to reducing our deliver high levels of availability, risks. We assessed both physical and emissions footprint, improving our reliability and resilience and we recognise transition risks under three scenarios operational resilience and adapting to the climate change has the potential to based on Representation Concentration predicted effects of a changing climate affect our business through physical, Pathways (RCPs) outlined in the now and into the future. transitional and regulatory changes. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate We are supporters of the TCFD and Change (IPCC) Fifth Assessment have disclosed our climate change risk Report and International Energy Agency management in line with their reporting (IEA) scenarios outlined in the World framework since 2018. Energy Outlook 2018. Planning for the future Pathway to carbon neutral At Sydney Airport, we are on a pathway to be carbon neutral by 2025, in line with ACI’s Airport Carbon Accreditation Scheme. Our pathway considers various decarbonisation options ranging from energy efficiency, strategic sourcing of renewables, engagement and carbon offsets. A priority-based hierarchy is applied to ensure the transition provides flexibility in growth, a balanced risk portfolio and commercial competitiveness while striving to achieve carbon neutrality. Supporting our community Energy Renewable Power Onsite Carbon Engage and efficiency Purchase Agreements renewables offsets influence Reductions in A renewable energy Onsite renewable Carbon offsets that Although our boundary energy consumption PPA is a commercial generation reduces the provide socio-economic for carbon neutrality reduces our emissions. arrangement to purchase amount of non-renewable benefits will be used to covers our Scope 1 and the output of a renewable electricity Sydney Airport offset emissions that Scope 2 emissions, We aim to implement energy project. draws from the grid. can no longer be feasibly we aim to actively cost effective energy managed through engage with airline saving opportunities as Our first renewable We currently have one our energy efficiency, and retail business part of an Energy Savings energy PPA was rooftop solar installation renewable purchase and partners to influence a Plan which includes: completed in late 2018. on our P6 carpark. generation strategies. reduction in emissions We will continue to Performance data – Efficient equipment, Sydney Airport has outside our operational implement a renewable We will continue to materials and fixtures identified a number control (Scope 3). energy procurement monitor and review the – Systems of further potential strategy which considers role offsets play in our optimisation and onsite solar locations PPAs to source electricity neutrality pathway. monitoring to reduce and will continue to from renewable sources. operational energy use work to increase our onsite generation. – Consumption behaviour and education Other information sydneyairport.com.au 31 Planning for the future Climate adaptation planning Climate resilience commitment We understand the need to ensure that Integrate Sydney Airport’s position on climate resilience into decision our assets are designed and maintained making and investment to withstand future climatic conditions. We identified priority physical and transition climate-related risks and Future-planning and strategy opportunities in the 2019 Climate Integrate priority climate resilience responses into corporate Change Risk Assessment and Adaptation strategy and planning Plan and are implementing adaptation actions to address these. Our adaptation themes consider best Rapid response and operations practice in climate change adaptation Understand risks and proactively manage operational disruptions to and flood mitigation at national and minimise impacts international airports as well as Sydney Airport's ability to control and influence action. The actions describe mechanisms to embed climate change Interdependent systems adaptation and resilience into airport Continue to enhance relationships with stakeholders to anticipate planning, design and operations. change and address critical system interdependencies 32 Sydney Airport | Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability at Sydney Airport Electrification of vehicle fleet In addition, we are working with our Under a flagship commitment in our airport business partners to support 2019-2021 Sustainability Strategy, we are the electrification of the airside Ground committed to the electrification of our own Service Equipment (GSE) fleet. A smooth vehicle fleet and investing in infrastructure transition to electric equipment is a Responsible business which supports our business partners to key component of the AOL, and we are make the transition to an electric fleet. working with stakeholders to facilitate this. The transition from diesel equipment to We were Australia’s first airport to use electric will deliver environmental benefits electric buses as part of our commitment and health benefits for workers on the to low emission ground transport airfield and in the bag rooms. technology. Our commitment is to have a 100 per cent electric landside bus fleet by We are also incorporating infrastructure the end of 2021. required to support electrification of the airside vehicle and GSE fleet into planning The fleet of electric buses will deliver and design for new developments. carbon emission reductions in the long This includes forward planning to Planning for the future term and improve local air quality through incorporate charging stations for electric zero tailpipe emissions. The fleet will also vehicles and GSE. lower external noise levels, reduce waste fluids to zero and decrease the amount of We continue to work with tenants wanting toxic material generated during servicing. to install charging stations for electric vehicles on the airport. Sydney Airport is also seeking to facilitate and support an increase in Sydney Airport owned airside electric vehicle use to 50 per cent by the end of 2021. Supporting our community Performance data Other information sydneyairport.com.au 33 Planning for the future Sustainable development of the airport Our Master Plan 2039 is designed to maximise the capacity of the airport to meet demand within existing operational constraints. We commenced an apron expansion program to provide an additional four aircraft layover bays and improve the taxiway network servicing the aprons. We also finalised design work for the re-sheeting of the main runway in early 2020. Opportunities for energy efficiency and emission reductions are reviewed during the design phase of new projects on the airport. We commissioned a Water Sensitive Urban Design feasibility study to better understand the ways we can contribute to improved water quality in the local area. We also continued to provide aircraft with access to ground power and pre‑conditioned air. We extended pre-conditioned air to existing remote stands for the South West Sector aprons in 2019. Airspace and airfield efficiency Airspace and airfield efficiency is one of Sydney Airport’s flagship initiatives for 2019-2021, and is focused on supporting future growth through the utilisation and optimisation of our asset. During the year, we progressed our airfield efficiency objectives. We commenced the construction of additional aprons, taxiways, aircraft support infrastructure and baggage facilities. These projects include: – Provision of fuel infrastructure to the Northern Ponds apron to improve operational flexibility and efficiency to allow the aircraft to arrive and depart from this location without towing to and from the terminal and incurring runway crossings – The development of the South East Sector apron and Taxiways J and D. This will provide four additional aircraft stands, ground power and preconditioned air, fuel infrastructure as well a new Taxiways J and D to enhance operational outcomes and improved efficiency of the airfield – The development of a new ULD storage area to manage safe storage of ULDs used for baggage. The new storage area ensures containers are stored off the ground in accordance with industry standards and in a secure manner to protect them from damage. This also improves safety and efficiency on the airfield We actively participated in Airservices Australia's Airport Collaborative Decision Making (A-CDM) program during the year. This is the first network-wide implementation of A-CDM, with airports, key airlines and Airservices, working together to implement the program at Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Perth airports. A-CDM has the potential to improve the way airports, aircraft operators, ground handling organisations and Air Traffic Control work to harmonise airport operations. 34 Sydney Airport | Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability at Sydney Airport Responsible business Planning for the future Supporting our community Performance data Other information 35 sydneyairport.com.au Planning for the future Meeting our TCFD Roadmap We completed the 2019 activities in our TCFD Roadmap this year, which included expanding our scenario analysis, updating our climate risk and adaptation plan, strengthening internal engagement on climate risk and reviewing our climate-related targets. 2018 2019 2020 Public support for TCFD Expand scenario analysis — Further integrate scenario analysis Recommendations Review and update climate change into strategic planning and risk Conduct gap analysis against risk and adaptation plan management framework disclosure areas Internal engagement and training — Consider more detailed scenarios Identify internal team to assess on climate risk including transitional risks and risks and manage climate-related risks to the industry more broadly Review targets and opportunities — Develop third party mitigation strategies and collaborate more broadly — Report on metrics for assessing climate-related risks and opportunities Governance and oversight of times this year to update our climate risk We review our commercial, operational, climate-related risks assessment, review existing controls and regulatory and financial risks and discuss climate developments relevant uncertainties associated with operating Our Board oversees climate risk to our operating context. The team also Australia’s busiest airport each year management and its potential to advises the Executive Committee and in our annual planning process. influence and inform corporate strategy our Board on climate risk planning, and Climate change and its impact on and decision making. The Board is emerging issues and trends that may operations has been identified as supported by the Safety, Security and impact the broader strategy. a material risk. Our Climate Risk Sustainability Committee which Assessment and Adaptation Plan meets quarterly and has oversight of The Sustainability and Environment identifies climate-related risks and environmental and sustainability matters. teams are responsible for annual adaptation actions and sets out our reporting, compliance reporting and During 2019, we reviewed the Charter management and monitoring approach. initial risk assessment of climate-related for the Safety, Sustainability and Security The plan is included in operational risks and opportunities. Committee and it continues to include considerations and was updated in 2019. climate change. The committee received Climate resilience strategy As aviation and weather are briefings on the outcomes of our Our sustainability strategy forms an closely linked, airport operations climate risk assessment and adaptation integral part of our broader corporate and infrastructure development planning. Further support is provided strategy. A flagship program under our must consider climatic conditions. by the Audit and Risk Committee which strategy is to build resilience in our We understand the need to ensure our maintains oversight of risk management assets and operations to the impacts assets are designed and maintained to and internal controls. associated with climate change, and to withstand future climatic conditions. Sydney Airport has an established minimise the airport’s emissions footprint. Climate-related risks and We see achieving carbon neutral team dedicated to managing our TCFD opportunities are also incorporated into operations by 2025 as a contribution to journey and monitoring material climate the Airport Environment Strategy. the goals of the Paris Agreement. change issues. The team met several 36 Sydney Airport | Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability at Sydney Airport Responsible business Scenario analysis downscaled climate change modelling We aim to develop and use signposts Climate scenario analysis forms a available through the Climate Change in to help us understand which scenario key organisational control to identify Australia portal, developed by CSIRO and grows in dominance while exploring and manage climate change risk. the Bureau of Meteorology, and the NSW the potential implications for us both in In 2019, we conducted climate scenario and ACT Regional Climate Modelling an orderly and a more rapid transition analysis to understand the risks and (NARCliM) Project. to a 2°C world. This will enable us opportunities for our business using to continually adapt our approach, Planning for the future Outcomes of the Deep Decarbonisation three scenarios based on RCPs outlined implement priority adaptation actions Pathways Project, current Australian and in the IPCC Fifth Assessment Report and evolve to deliver long term New South Wales government policies and IEA scenarios outlined in the World shareholder value. and the 2019 Australian National Outlook Energy Outlook 2018. were drawn on to inform potential Given the global scale of the IPCC and transition pathways. IEA scenarios, physical and transition aspects of Sydney Airport's scenario analysis were further refined through Supporting our community Scenario IPCC Climate Scenario IEA Scenario Risk Assessment Focus Business as usual A high emissions pathway IEA Current Physical risks scenario RCP8.5 where physical impacts Policies Scenario (6°C) and opportunities (3.2 – 5.4°C) increase over time, particularly the intensity and frequency of extreme events. Transition risks are limited in this scenario Moderate transition A moderate emissions IEA INDC Scenario (2.6°C) Sensitivity test for moderate Performance data scenario RCP4.5 pathway resulting in physical and transition risks (1.7 – 3.2°C) both moderate physical and opportunities and transition risks for Sydney Airport Accelerated transition A low emissions IEA Sustainable Development Transition risks scenario RCP2.6 pathway which requires Scenario (1.5-2°C) and opportunities (0.9 – 2.3°C) implementation of ambitious global and local climate change policy Other information sydneyairport.com.au 37 Planning for the future Climate risk management and controls Our Enterprise Risk Management Framework and Risk Management Policy guide our approach to risk management in relation to climate change. Senior management assists the Board by monitoring key aspects of the risk framework, including policies, delegation of approvals required, risk management reporting, operational control assessments and due diligence. We have identified climate change risk as significant in our annual reporting since 2017. It is also an area of focus under the Responsible Business and Planning for the Future pillars of our 2019-2021 Sustainability Strategy. It is included in our company‑wide risk register and is subject to ongoing reviews to ensure relevancy and focus on risks associated with climate change and the transition towards a low-carbon economy. Driver Risk Existing and future control/s Physical risk Greater rainfall and Airside disruptions due to flooding and Airport Emergency Plan storm frequency and damage on airport Regular inspections of airfield intensity Stormwater drainage systems Maintenance teams in place to repair damage and/ or drainage failures Thunderstorm Warning System Airfield management e.g. temporary closure of taxiways and aprons Landside disruption due to flooding Integrated Operations Centre monitors transport and damage to metropolitan network around the airport transport infrastructure Traffic Management Centre liaison Sea level rise and Operational disruptions, increased Inspections of airfield and sea walls tidal intrusion frequency and duration of repair and Stormwater drainage systems maintenance activities Maintenance teams in place to repair damage and/ or drainage failures Reduced land for future Considered in strategic planning development capacity Higher temperatures Increased staff and / or passenger medical Procedures in place for outdoor workers and more severe incidents due to heat exposure heatwaves More stringent biosecurity requirements and Airport Emergency Plan potential for disease outbreaks due to global increase of communicable diseases Increased cost and disruption to airside and Back-up generators to maintain landside power supply due to increased critical infrastructure energy demand during heatwaves Energy efficiency initiatives Onsite generation Transition risk Legislative changes Government climate change policy may Policy engagement and advocacy limit air travel emissions, increase cost pass through and change travel patterns, resulting in reductions in anticipated passenger volumes and associated revenue Regulatory changes mandate zero carbon Consideration in strategic planning design and building standards, increasing development costs and delivery timeframes Decline in local Decline of environmental tourism and Policy engagement and advocacy and international impact of climate (flood, drought, fire, environmental assets dust) causes changes to international and domestic passenger volumes, reducing anticipated revenue 38 Sydney Airport | Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability at Sydney Airport Climate-related risks and supporting the resilience of our We will continue to review climate opportunities communities and their support for indicators developed for our scenario our activities analysis on an ongoing basis to We held internal workshops to assess – Lower operating costs by reducing understand and monitor evolving climate the materiality of climate-related energy consumption. change trajectories. Responsible business risks and opportunities across the medium (2030) and long term (2090), This year, Sydney Airport joined Our climate resilience targets using climate change scenarios. Bioenergy Australia’s Sustainable also support our ability to The workshops shortlisted priority risks, Aviation Fuel Alliance, together with manage climate‑related risks and evaluated existing climate risk controls airlines and other airports, to create a opportunities. They are: and developed adaptation and mitigation collaborative environment to advance – Follow the recommendations of the actions. Priority physical and transition sustainable aviation fuel production, TCFD in public disclosure risks were integrated into business wide policy, education and marketing in risk registers and monitored through – Achieve carbon neutrality by 2025, Australia and New Zealand. standard risk management processes. in line with the ACI’s Airport Carbon Climate-related metrics Accreditation Scheme These risks have an inherent risk rating and targets – Reduce carbon emissions per Planning for the future of medium over the medium term and We monitor and disclose the following passenger by 50 per cent from 2010 high over the long term. Medium risks metrics annually in our Sustainability baseline levels by 2025 are classified as requiring senior management attention and a mitigation Report which assists in understanding action plan. High risks require executive climate-related risks: As part of our goal attention, immediate action and to achieve carbon – Direct and indirect greenhouse gas ongoing monitoring. neutrality by 2025, we (GHG) emissions (Scope 1, 2 and 3) will increase the share Sydney Airport’s contribution to climate – Emissions intensity per passenger of renewable energy we change solutions will also present new – Energy consumption by source purchase and generate. opportunities. These include: including renewables – Supporting the move to a – Onsite generation carbon‑constrained world by working Supporting our community – Waste generation, disposal and with airline partners to provide intensity (per passenger) infrastructure to support further – Water consumption electrification and low emission fuels – Integrating climate adaptation opportunities into community investment strategies aimed at Performance data Other information sydneyairport.com.au 39 Planning for the future Customer experience We invested in projects to improve confidently navigate the airport through Our customers tell us that an easy, customer experience across all of our a smartphone connection. Sydney seamless and enjoyable journey is terminals. This year, we delivered new Airport covers the cost of the service what is most important to them. bathrooms in T1 and more than 1,000 for passengers departing or arriving in We are focused on investing in new charging points across T1 and Sydney, allowing them to connect to improvements and initiatives which T2. Further retail, food and beverage an Aira agent via a smartphone app. make a real difference to the experience enhancements provided more choice The Aira-trained professional provides of our customers. and additional seating for customers. on-demand, personalised access to We have also increased the number of information to enhance the everyday Creating a great customer experience e-directories to 24 with the installation experience of the user. Since its launch We continue to improve customer of five new devices for locating services. in May, the service has been used in the satisfaction each year. We continue to improve wayfinding airport's terminals for over 660 minutes. across the precinct and are focused on In 2018, we set ourselves a target to We upgraded infrastructure across strengthening our international arrivals maintain our customer satisfaction the airport to improve accessibility. experience. We listen to and deliver rating to above four out of five. A Changing-Places accredited for customers by ensuring our priority bathroom was opened at T1 Arrivals, This year, we achieved our highest ever projects reflect what our customers tell which includes full-sized changing customer satisfaction rating. Across all us is important. tables and hoists to assist people with terminals, we achieved a rating of 4.19 Improving accessibility profound disabilities. At T1 and T2 we out of five, with T1 rating 4.21 out of five, It is important to work together as built assistance animal facilities which up from 4.13 in 2018, and our domestic airports to ensure a seamless experience are wheelchair accessible and contain an terminals, achieving a rating of 4.16 out for passengers who may require artificial turf area, a disposable bin and of five, up from 4.14 last year. additional assistance. water bowl for companion animals. Our parent room also achieved an Australian We are committed to providing Breastfeeding Association five-star Customer satisfaction rating inclusive and accessible facilities (out of five) rating, the highest rating available. for all passengers and visitors. This 4.21 4.16 year, airports across Australia have In recent months, we have refreshed our 4.13 4.14 been working to continue to improve assistance webpage. We published a 4.01 accessibility for passengers through journey planner and introduced sensory 3.95 the Australian Airports Association's maps of our three terminals which help 3.89 3.91 3.83 3.85 Customer Experience Committee, customers identify high, medium and which Sydney Airport chairs. low sensory areas. This helps customers prepare for their journey and understand In an Australian airport first, Sydney where they will encounter additional Airport launched a partnership with noise and crowded areas, and to identify Aira, an international technology areas where they can stop in a quieter 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 company. Aira provides a service that area if required. International Domestic enables blind and low vision travellers to 40 Sydney Airport | Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability at Sydney Airport Responsible business Planning for the future Profile: Supporting our community Jack Tyrrell, Centre for Inclusive Design This year we launched Aira at Sydney Airport, a service that assists the visually impaired to navigate unfamiliar spaces. Before launching Aira, Sydney Airport worked with Jack Tyrrell from the Centre for Inclusive Design to test the app and understand how people who are blind or have low vision use the airport. Jack is a regular traveller and says having access to Aira has positively changed his travel experience at Sydney Airport. When I used to go to the airport, I'd go from the train station directly to my boarding gate as I was not able to distinguish what was around like shops and cafes. With Aira, I can now experience the airport the same way everyone else can and even enjoy a beer! . Aira's partnership with Sydney Airport was recognised by the Australian Airports Association with the 2019 National Airport Industry Award for Customer Experience. Performance data In Europe, travellers who wish to This year we were one of six airports Customer Experience Award at the self‑identify as having a hidden disability that contributed to the development Australian Airports Association (AAA) wear a lanyard with a sunflower design. of ACI's ‘Airport Customer Experience National Airport Industry Awards. This allows the teams at security Accreditation’. This program supports We were also recognised by the screening and passport control to airports globally to assess and improve Customer Service Institute at the identify these travellers and acknowledge their approach to customer experience Australian Service Excellence with they may need more time and support management through five levels of our partnership with Aira winning through processes. We completed the accreditation. We have been recognised the 2019 Customer Impact Project soft launch of this model in 2019 to drive with Level 2 accreditation. Service Champion. global consistency. Specialised training Other information Our commitment to improving our will be completed early next year to customers’ experience was recognised facilitate a formal launch of our hidden in 2019, reflecting the positive impact disability program. our projects have had on our customers. Sydney Airport was awarded the sydneyairport.com.au 41 Planning for the future Access to and from the airport 18 environmental chapters in the EIS encouraging people to share services Sydney Gateway is a NSW Government and MDP, covering topics including and reduce the total number of vehicles road project to connect the city’s traffic, transport and access, noise at the airport. We expect this will lead to motorway network to the airport. and vibration, airport operations improved traffic flows over the long term, Once complete, Sydney Gateway and air quality. while also offering a cheaper option and WestConnex will provide a faster for passengers. Over the year we implemented a number connection from the airport to greater of successful initiatives to improve We are also exploring the introduction of Sydney and assist in taking traffic not traffic flows within the domestic and electric charging stations for commercial destined for the airport off surrounding international airport precincts. These operators within the domestic precinct roads. Currently, about half of the traffic included creating an additional drop and at our valet services to allow vehicles on Airport Drive during the peak periods off zone for passengers at T1 during to be recharged while passengers is not destined for the airport. the morning peak, which reduced delay are travelling. With 70 per cent of the project’s times from 11 minutes to one minute construction taking place on for vehicles arriving along Airport Drive Sydney Airport land, we are working and from 13 minutes to nine minutes By supporting and closely with Road and Maritime for vehicles arriving from Marsh Street. investing in adequate Services (RMS) now to facilitate the Changes to the taxi drop off areas in the road and transport development of the project. This year, domestic precincts were also introduced. infrastructure we an Environmental Impact Statement Sydney Airport became the first airport contribute to providing (EIS) for NSW Government approvals, in Australia to make UberPool available access to safe, and a Major Development Plan (MDP) in 2019 as part of its commitment affordable, accessible for Commonwealth Government and sustainable to deliver greater choice and value approvals, were developed and transport systems. to customers. The service supports placed on public display. There are further reductions in congestion, Delay times Ma rsh Alexandra Canal reduced by St ↓25% Airport Drive Cooks River Airp ort D rive Air port Dri ve when arriving from Marsh St to Cit y Exit Delay times reduced by almost ↓90% Express Pick-up Priority Pick-up when arriving from Airport Dr P7 P6 KEY To General Parking To Free Kerbside drop off To Free Drop Off 42 Sydney Airport | Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability at Sydney Airport Innovation and technology Advisory biometrics think tank with more Air New Zealand. This allows airline We are committed to embracing than 100 representatives from airlines, operators to dock an aerobridge on to an innovation and technology across airports, government agencies and aircraft by simply pressing a button. our business and looking for new and vendors. We concluded our landmark The adoption of wireless charging in improved ways of doing things. We see biometrics trial with Qantas, which has Responsible business public spaces is expected to grow rapidly opportunities to adopt innovative provided us with a clear understanding in the coming years as it is one of the solutions that enhance the passenger of how biometrics will unlock significant most convenient charging methods. experience, improve the operations of benefits for the airport longer term. We are trialling the Aircharge wireless the airport and allow us to engage more During the year our planning and airfield charging solution at T1 arrivals to effectively with our community. design teams worked with Boeing to provide travellers with convenient and Investing in innovation assess airport compatibility with the safe charging methods and it is soon new 777-9, one of the largest and most to be deployed in the new dwell zone We are investing in technology to efficient twin-engine jets in the world. Our in Pier B of T2. make the airport experience easier for safety analysis was endorsed by CASA our passengers. This year, we continued to roll out and used to assist other international the installation of self-service kiosks Biometrics will provide an improved airports to assess their own compatibility Planning for the future across the airport. This technology experience for Sydney Airport ahead of the launch of the new aircraft. improves processing times for airlines passengers by removing the need to We were also the first airport in Australia and improves the check in experience queue and show passports and boarding to successfully trial an automated for passengers. The installation of passes at various steps of the journey. aerobridge docking system, working with these new kiosks brings the total This year, we hosted IATA’s One ID number in T1 to 122. Supporting our community Performance data Other information sydneyairport.com.au 43 Supporting our community Working with communities to create shared value $5.2m in community 29 local community investment organisations supported 32,000 people in our on-airport $1.64b economic value community generated via revenue 44 Sydney Airport | Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability at Sydney Airport Community engagement We are committed to developing and maintaining strong links with the community. Responsible business We engage with local communities and organisations about airport operations, proposed development and future planning. We continued to be active members of the Sydney Airport Community Forum, alongside government, local mayors and representatives of the local community and aviation industry. Our community engagement programs this year focused on the preliminary draft major development plan for the Planning for the future Sydney Gateway Project and the main north‑south runway resurfacing project. Profile In a first for a major Australian airport Susan Tracey, Sydney Airport Community Panel member we established a deliberative community I was lucky to be a community representative selected to be on the Sydney engagement forum, the Sydney Airport Community Panel. I found the experience a great opportunity to be Airport Community Panel, this year. part of a community-based approach with diverse views and opinions from a Panel members nominated to be a part wide range of people with different expertise and lived experience to bring to of this forum to answer the question the table. Within this disparate group, we all shared a commitment to take this “How can Sydney Airport support its opportunity to have a say with a respectful dialogue and help fulfil the brief local community?”. International best given to us: to inform Sydney Airport how it can best help its local community. practice examples were shared with Supporting our community We were privileged to have experts from the local community and the airport panel members who also heard from itself to brief us on specific topics requiring further exploration. Having key industry experts and community this direct line of access made for frank and open discussion across a speakers. A series of recommendations number of topics affecting the community and gave us an understanding in the areas of environment, education of how decisions are made. We learnt where Sydney Airport has authority, and employment, experience and influence and control – and where it doesn’t. equality were provided to Sydney Airport, which are under consideration by the In establishing this panel, Sydney Airport gave the local community a real executive team. voice into the ear of Australia’s largest and most complex airport at a grassroots level – something which I have not seen before. I really enjoyed being part of it, and I commend Sydney Airport for taking such an innovative grassroots approach to its community engagement. Performance data Other information sydneyairport.com.au 45 Supporting our community Community investment Sydney Airport is committed to making a meaningful contribution to the communities in which we live and work. Live Local We do this through a number of community initiatives, We are committed to being a good neighbour and partnering with charities and community organisations playing a role in keeping our local communities that align with our values, and those of our people. connected, healthy, vibrant and thriving We actively participate in and support our local communities through our established grants program, and through grass roots partnerships that support the communities in which we operate. Our investment strategy is evolving for 2020 to incorporate Leading and Learning feedback from our Community Panel sessions, and will We support initiatives that provide opportunities see Sydney Airport partner with organisations that help us for our leaders of tomorrow. We support those to create a better sense of community within our terminals, be the best in their field, with a particular focus on and our people. supporting minority groups and reducing inequalities We invest in our communities in line with three pillars: in our community Live Local, Leading and Learning and Sydney’s Airport. In 2019, we contributed $5.2 million in value to communities in which we live and work, as verified by the LBG Australia and New Zealand. This includes $4.4 million of cash, time, in-kind donations and management costs — more than double our Sydney’s Airport 2018 contribution of $2.2 million. In addition, we provided We are working to strengthen relationships between more than $720,000 in forgone revenue in the form of fees, the airport and our communities by supporting products and services provided for community benefit. tourism-generating initiatives that benefit the city and local communities, and by developing a sense of Sydney Airport also facilitated additional contributions to place at Sydney Airport that reflects our city the community from other sources such as customers and employees to the value of $75,700, which is referred to as 'leverage' in the LBG framework. Profile Surf Life Saving Sydney Sydney Airport has a proud 18-year partnership with Surf Life Saving Sydney, who not only train people to keep our beaches safe but also invest in our future leaders. In our centenary year, in addition to our annual partnership, we chose Surf Life Saving Sydney as our Centenary Partner and Christmas Giving Appeal funds recipient. In 2019, over $300,000 was raised for Surf Life Saving Sydney as part of our centenary celebrations and the Christmas Giving Appeal. One of the major fundraising events of the Christmas Giving Appeal was our annual Runway Run, which was the largest in the airport’s history with more than 1,000 runners taking to the runway. “The money raised by the Sydney Airport community will directly support the efforts of our frontline lifesavers in keeping Sydney’s beaches safe, Surf Life Saving Sydney President Peter Agnew said. “We’re proud of our decades-long partnership with Sydney Airport and to be a part of the airport’s centenary celebrations. 46 Sydney Airport | Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability at Sydney Airport Responsible business In our Centenary year, we announced a new SYD100 scholarship program in partnership with University of New South Wales (UNSW) Who we are proud to help foster education in the fields of aviation and commerce. to support Every year for the next 100 years the SYD100 scholarship will award one Marrickville Legal Centre was the major full scholarship to a student from a group under-represented in aviation grant recipient from the proceeds of including indigenous students, women, students from diverse cultural the 2019 Bid for Good lost property Planning for the future backgrounds and those who are financially disadvantaged. We will also auction. This $100,000 grant will fund continue to work with UNSW to provide ongoing opportunities for a financial empowerment project knowledge sharing and access to airfield and operations tours for targeting at-risk women. students undertaking studies in aviation. In addition to the major grant awarded from Sydney Airport has committed to invest $12 million to establish the our lost property auction, smaller grants of Community and Environmental Projects Reserve Fund with Bayside $10,000 and $20,000 were also provided to Council to deliver projects over 10 years. This year, we continued to work the following organisations: with Bayside Council to identify priority projects under this Fund. Dandelion Support Network The first project will be a new Greening Bayside project, to which we Providing disadvantaged families with cots, will contribute $1 million over five years. This will deliver extensive tree prams and baby products to help them care Supporting our community planting in streets and reserves across the Bayside local government for their children area, with benefits for local residents and the local environment. We are also contributing $5 million over several years to the upgrade of the Carer Support Services Botany Aquatic Centre. Supporting and training carers to look Each year, our Sydney Airport Lost Property Auction 'Bid for Good' after loved ones auctions off unclaimed items left in terminals to raise money for our One Meal It Makes a Difference local grassroots charities. In partnership with the Sydney Community Caring for the homeless community Foundation, this year’s auction raised $190,000 which was shared among nine community organisations. The major grant recipient of this St George Children with Disability Fund Inc. year’s auction was Marrickville Legal Centre, which received $100,000 Funding eye-gaze technology for children to fund a financial empowerment project. This project provides at-risk with disabilities women with the skills and confidence to identify financial abuse early The Harding Miller Education Foundation and seek assistance. Furthering our funding from 2018 to provide Performance data Employee volunteering and payroll giving financial and academic support for a group Sydney Airport provides employees with access to volunteering leave of disadvantaged high school students in and payroll giving programs so they can contribute to the communities their final year in which we operate and their own communities. During the year, Top Blokes Foundation our employees volunteered 185 hours of their time to support our community partners in the areas of education, families in need, Providing a program for teenage boys in health and the environment. our local area, teaching them emotional resilience and positive mental health Kooloora Community Centre Through our scholarship and community Providing an after-school program for ‘at-risk’ 13-16 year old students Other information development programs we support the increase Learning Links in the number of young Providing a reading program to assist with people who have access to relevant skills. early intervention for children with reading difficulties such as dyslexia sydneyairport.com.au 47 Supporting our community Reconciliation Action Plan a local Indigenous photographer and Noise sharing is the key aim of the We recognise the special significance formed an ongoing partnership with Long-Term Operating Plan (LTOP), the land on which our airport sits holds the Gujaga Foundation who will offer which involves varying the use of for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander consulting services to the airport with our runways to produce different peoples. This was the first year of our regard to progressing our RAP goals. combinations of flight paths affecting inaugural Innovate Reconciliation Action different parts of Sydney. We launched SYD Stories, an online Plan (RAP), which we officially launched platform that tells the stories and Noise from ground-based activities at during National Reconciliation Week. history of Sydney Airport. As part of this Sydney Airport is managed separately We celebrated Aboriginal and Torres platform, we collaborated with local from noise caused by in-flight aircraft Strait Islander culture at our airport with Indigenous people who have lived and operations, which is managed by smoking ceremonies and performances managed the land around Sydney Airport Airservices Australia. for passengers and staff during NAIDOC and Gamay (Botany Bay) for hundreds Engine ground running, which is an Week, Reconciliation Week and our of generations to tell their story. Go to essential part of aircraft operations centenary gala celebration. sydstories.com.au to learn more. and maintenance, is regulated by a A number of events were held at the We also welcomed another comprehensive set of operational rules airport during National Reconciliation CareerTrackers intern at Sydney Airport designed to maintain safety, comply with Week to celebrate Indigenous and Torres this year over the summer university relevant standards and practice, Strait Islander culture and heritage break in our Resilience team. and minimise noise. During 2019, including daily Acknowledgement of there were two ground running noise Aircraft noise complaints, down from 10 in 2018 and Country and smoking ceremonies in the Noise from aircraft is a significant there were no breaches of the aircraft arrivals forecourt of T1. We also held concern for people living around engine operating procedures. an event for staff to learn about local airports or under flight paths. A range Indigenous history and culture with the of international and local industry Gujaga Foundation and Dr Paul Irish, players and regulatory authorities have a prominent academic who specialises roles and responsibilities for managing in the history of the Aboriginal aircraft noise. people of Sydney. Sydney Airport works closely with the One of our goals included incorporating community, the aviation industry, and the Indigenous suppliers into our supply Australian, NSW and local governments chains, which we have done by procuring to manage and where possible, minimise an Indigenous stationery supplier, aircraft noise impacts. 48 Sydney Airport | Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability at Sydney Airport Airport community We are striving to build a community where our on-airport partners feel a shared sense of purpose with Sydney Airport. Responsible business This year, we began developing a new Community Portal for our on-airport community. This Portal will assist us to better communicate with our airport partners, and help to foster a better culture across our precinct. It will open up direct lines of communication between Sydney Airport and the 32,000 people working across our precinct by providing them with news, updates, safety information, key project Planning for the future notifications, staff-only retail offers, and staff profiles. The portal will also Profile facilitate opportunities for greater Michelle Minogue, Airport Ambassador Program Manager participation in activities and events Central to our airport community are our volunteer Airport Ambassadors who at the airport. staff our information desks, providing assistance to help make our customers' We created a SYD Support team of journey as seamless as possible. They are in both the international and employee volunteers to provide support domestic terminals daily and help customers to find their way around the and assistance to complement the airport, answering passenger queries and generally providing a friendly face to service delivery team assisting our anyone requiring assistance. customers along their journey in peak This year marks the 21st year of the Airport Ambassador program which times and during disruptions. Supporting our community kicked off in 1999 ahead of the Sydney Olympics. Since then, millions of Building our safety community visitors have been welcomed by our Ambassadors who have come to embody With 32,000 people working on the Australia's welcoming spirit for travellers stepping off long flights and setting airport every day, it’s important that foot in Sydney for the first time. we all work together to create and More than a quarter of our Ambassadors are multi-lingual, with 27 languages maintain a safe working environment. spoken across the team of 135. This year, we introduced an Airport Safety Community, a group of safety Michelle Minogue runs the Airport Ambassadors program. “Our ambassadors professionals who work at the airport come from a diverse range of backgrounds, including former airport and and represent many of the organisations airline employees. They are a vital part of our airport team and we’re grateful and workers who make up the airport for their commitment to making sure our customers have a great experience community. These people will continue to at Sydney Airport.” meet in 2020 to consult, cooperate and coordinate on common safety matters. Performance data Other information sydneyairport.com.au 49 Supporting our community Scope 3 emissions reduction Responsible Business section of this critical to achieving future local, state Scope 3 emissions arise from activities report, is designed to increase the use and national employment, tourism and that are central to the airport’s of this equipment across the airport development objectives. operations and that the airport can – Implementation of the A-CDM It is estimated that, in aggregate, guide and influence but is outside program next year is designed to the activities of the Sydney Airport of our direct control. Our Scope 3 create efficiencies across the airfield precinct generated or facilitated 338,500 emissions are reported in line with the and in the airspace. When realised, jobs in 2017 11. Around 32,000 of these Airport Council International’s Airport these efficiencies will drive down people come to work at Sydney Airport. Carbon Accreditation scheme in the emissions from the aircraft on the More than half of these people live locally Environment management section airfield and in the airspace in the Bayside, Randwick City, Inner West, of this report. These emissions are – Investing in gates and infrastructure to City of Sydney, Canterbury Bankstown, primarily made up of aircraft landing support next generation aircraft Georges River or Sutherland Shire local and take-off cycles (up to 1,000 metres government areas. elevation), and passenger, greeter/ Economic contribution fareweller and staff travel to and from Aviation is vitally important to the During the year, the value of the airport (surface access).This year we Australian economy. Sydney Airport Sydney Airport's economic value purchased offsets to cover the emissions makes a significant contribution by contribution included: associated with staff travel. facilitating the generation of $38 billion in – $1,639.7 million of direct economic economic activity 11. value generated in the form of revenue Several initiatives are underway as part of our commitment to working with our Sydney Airport is the largest airport – $1,622.3 million of economic value airport community to reduce Scope 3 in Australia, accounting for around distributed in the form of operating emissions. These include: 40 per cent of international passenger costs, payments to employees and movements 12, 47 per cent of air government, payments to providers of – Providing infrastructure at gates which freight, and 23 per cent of domestic capital and community investments offer an alternative to aircraft running passenger movements. It is their engines while parked at the gate. By supporting access to a identified as one of Sydney’s two 13 When aircraft plug in to the electricity worldwide transportation nationally significant trade gateways supply at Sydney Airport instead of network, the airport is and contributes 2.2 per cent of running their Auxiliary Power Units, important for global Australian Gross Domestic Product there are air quality and health businesses as it supports and 6.8 per cent of NSW Gross benefits, noise benefits, as well as the achievement of State Product 14. The sustainable emissions reductions. The introduction economic productivity. growth of Sydney Airport will be of the AOL, discussed in the 11 Deloitte Access Economics, Economic contribution of Sydney Airport (April 2018) 12 BITRE, International Airline Activity, June 2018 13 The other being Port Botany which is located immediately to the east of the airport. See, Greater Sydney Commission, Greater Sydney Region Plan, A Metropolis of Three Cities (March 2018) 14 Deloitte Access Economics, Economic Contribution of Sydney Airport, April 2018 50 Sydney Airport | Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability at Sydney Airport Responsible business Planning for the future Profile Supporting our community Helen, Johnny and Mariah Ahladiotis With more than 32,000 people working across its precinct, Sydney Airport is a significant job creator for the local area. Growing up across the Cooks River in the suburb of Kymeeah, Helen Ahladiotis and her family have shared a lifelong association with the airport. Helen has worked in a range of roles at our Airport Services Centre for the past 13 years, but says her memories of the airport go back much further. “My family grew up with planes in the backyard and I always loved the airport,” she said. Helen’s three children, Johnny, Kosta and Mariah, have all had after school jobs at the airport over the years working in different retail stores and providing support in the terminals. “The airport was great for after-school work for the kids because of the shifts and the fact we lived so close by.” Performance data After finishing Year 12, Johnny was able to use the connections he made through his after-school job to secure an apprenticeship with Honeywell at the airport, where he still works today. Mariah currently works part time at Heinemann, the airport’s duty free store, where the hours work in perfectly around her university studies. Kosta now works outside the airport. Helen’s also a member of SYD Support, the airport’s team of volunteers who provide support and assistance in and around the terminal during peak periods or disruptions. “Living so close means it's easy for me to come in and provide a hand when things get really busy,” Helen said. “Plus, I really love being able to help customers and to make sure they have a great experience at Sydney Airport.” Other information sydneyairport.com.au 51 Performance Data The data selected and reported in the Sustainability Report allows stakeholders to assess Sydney Airport's non-financial performance in areas of material significance. The data covers the performance and activities over which Sydney Airport had operational control during all, or part of, the year ended 31 December 2019. Environmental data sets (emissions, energy, waste, water, noise and environmental spills) are reported for 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019, in line with Sydney Airport’s regulatory environmental reporting. 52 Sydney Airport | Sustainability Sustainability Report Report2019 2019 Sustainability at Sydney Airport General metrics 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Revenue ($ million) 1,639.7 1,584.7 1,483.3 1,364.6 1,228.9 Number of passengers (million) 44.4 44.4 43.3 41.9 39.7 Number of domestic passengers (million) 27.5 27.7 27.4 26.9 25.9 Responsible business Number of international passengers (million) 16.9 16.7 16 14.9 13.7 Total number of aircraft movements 346,182 344,149 345,104 346,437 335,001 Total number of employees 508 487 441 418 379 Health and safety 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Injuries and injury rates Injuries by type — Employees Fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 Lost time 15 5 10 6 3 2 16 Planning for the future Medical treatment 9 8 10 12 6 Injuries by type — Service providers Fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 Lost time 13 9 13 19 14 Medical treatment 12 16 41 47 29 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) 17 Employees 5.4 9.6 6.0 3.3 2.4 Service providers 18 4.5 3.0 4.7 7.2 16 7.2 16 Supporting our community Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR) 19 Employees 15.0 17.3 16 17.6 9.6 Service providers 8.7 8.4 19.4 25.1 16 20.3 16 Other rates Passenger Incident Rate 20 0.9 1.0 1.0 1.1 1.0 Hours worked Employees 931,675 1,043,209 1,001,048 912,627 845,695 Service providers 2,882,777 2,961,796 2,788,259 2,631,284 2,120,579 Performance data Training hours and inspections Safety training hours 1,891 2,762 — — — Safety walks 840 — — — — Aviation safety hours 6,287 8,297 8,256 8,780 6,994 Wildlife strikes 21 2.3 1.2 1.9 1.8 1.5 15 LTI is a work–related injury that results in at least one full day or shift being lost after the day on which the injury or illness occurred 16 Result updated for accuracy based on a review of historical safety data Other information 17 Represents the number of LTIs per one million hours worked, incurred by employees, internal consultants and contractors 18 Service providers (including cleaning, security, kerb side management, waste management, parking and trolleys and bussing) engaged by Sydney Airport. 19 Represents the number of medical treatment injuries and LTIs per million hours worked 20 Number of first aid and medical treatment injuries per 100,000 passengers 21 Wildlife strikes per 10,000 aircraft movements sydneyairport.com.au 53 Performance data Environment (reported for period 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019) 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Total emissions (tCO2e) Total Scope 1 & 2 22 83,620 86,916 87,888 85,644 88,348 Scope 1 5,755 5,569 5,826 5,746 5,349 Scope 2 77,865 81,347 82,062 79,898 82,999 Scope 3 883,983 884,610 1,120,932 952,747 — Emissions intensity Intensity (kgCO2e/ PAX) 23 2.4 2.6 2.7 2.8 3.1 Carbon Offsetting (tCO2e) Total offsets 784 295 295 295 430 Energy Total energy consumption (GJ) 24 446,544 447,635 447,283 441,103 441,265 Stationary fuels 81,108 71,284 66,115 68,503 66,524 Transport fuels 18,067 22,577 29,472 30,179 27,302 Electricity (excl. Solar) 344,607 352,831 351,696 342,421 347,439 Solar 2,763 943 25 0 0 0 Water Total water consumption (KL) 705,702 617,891 756,081 719,585 880,171 Potable water consumption 526,698 465,960 600,845 507,211 671,031 Ground water 863 1,263 3,964 2,757 2,513 Water recycled (and consumed) 178,141 150,668 151,272 209,617 206,627 Total water recycled (%) 25% 24% 20% 29% 23% Total water recycled T1 (%) 30% 30% — — — Water intensity (L/PAX) 26 21 18 24 23 30 Environmental Spills Number of large spills (>100m2) 4 4 1 4 3 Noise Noise complaints and breaches 2 10 4 5 11 Number of Aircraft Engine Operating Procedure breaches 0 12 0 1 0 22 GHG inventory is compiled using the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting and the National Greenhouse Accounts Factors’ methodologies 23 Calculated by dividing total Scope 1 and 2 emissions by the number of passengers. Offsets purchased for Scope 1 emission sources are deducted for intensity calculation purposes. Excludes T3 24 Data for 2018 has been readjusted for compatibility with 2019 25 Part year result only. Solar array installed in Q1 2018 26 Calculated by dividing total water consumption emissions (L) by the number of passengers. Excludes T3 54 Sydney Airport | Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability at Sydney Airport Environment (reported for period 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019) 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Air emissions (kg) Carbon Monoxide (CO) 3,708 3,700 3,400 4,500 3,400 Responsible business Oxides of Nitrogen (NOx) 6,670 6,700 5,600 10,000 5,200 Oxides of Sulphur (SOx) 34 34 32 33 32 Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) 461 460 440 620 510 Suspended Particulate Matter (SPM) 831 840 730 1,110 680 Waste 27 Waste generated (tonnes) 6,360 6,489 6,438 5,740 5,324 Hazardous waste (quarantine) 1,772 1,704 1,486 1,330 1,268 Non—hazardous waste 28 4,588 4,785 4,952 4,410 4,056 Waste disposal (tonnes) 6,360 6,489 6,438 5,740 5,324 Planning for the future Recycling 1,990 2,052 2,101 1,799 1,687 Autoclaving and landfill 1,772 1,704 1,486 1,330 1,268 Landfill 2,598 2,733 2,851 2,611 2,369 Total waste recycled (%) 29 43.4% 42.9% 42.4% 31.3% 31.7% Waste intensity (kg/PAX) 30 0.19 0.19 0.20 0.19 0.18 Customer 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Customer satisfaction (out of five) International 4.21 4.13 4.01 3.89 3.83 Supporting our community Domestic 4.16 4.14 3.95 3.91 3.85 Ambience International 4.28 4.22 4.17 3.99 3.91 Domestic 4.20 4.14 4.11 4.06 3.98 Cleanliness International 4.31 4.27 4.24 4.13 4.07 Domestic 4.22 4.19 4.14 4.11 4.04 Wayfinding Performance data International 4.19 4.12 3.97 3.82 3.85 Domestic 4.25 4.21 4.09 4.02 3.98 Other information 27 Excludes waste generated on aircraft, T3, Qantas Premium Lounge, car parks and construction waste 28 Includes non-quarantine solid and liquid wastes. Reported in 2018 as ‘waste to landfill’ and ‘recycled waste’ 29 Excludes quarantine waste from 2017 onwards. This cannot be recycled due to quarantine restrictions and requirements 30 Calculated by dividing total hazardous (quarantine) and non-hazardous (solid and liquid) in kilograms by the number of passengers. Excludes T3 sydneyairport.com.au 55 Performance data People and organisation 31 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Total employees 508 487 441 418 379 Total Workforce by employment type M F Permanent full time 300 170 435 387 373 348 Permanent part time 10 19 30 26 18 11 Fixed term full time 2 7 20 24 26 19 Fixed term part time 0 0 2 4 1 1 Casual 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total Workforce by age M F <30 26 20 106 103 96 83 30—50 197 142 297 261 246 224 >50 89 34 84 77 76 72 Total Workforce by category M F Board 5 2 — — — — — — — — CEO 1 0 — — — — — — — — Key management personnel 32 2 1 — — — — — — — — Other executive / General Manager 33 10 6 — — — — — — — — Senior Manager 10 11 — — — — — — — — Other Manager 47 23 — — — — — — — — Professional 142 110 — — — — — — — — Technical and trade 96 10 — — — — — — — — Administration and clerical 4 35 — — — — — — — — Diversity Diversity in the total workforce Number of female employees 196 189 167 152 128 % women in the total workforce 39% 39% 38% 36% 34% % of females in management roles 37% 35% 39% 37% 33% Female representation by category 34 Board 29% 25% 29% 29% 29% CEO 0% 0% 100% 100% 100% Key management personnel 33% 30% 27% 33% 40% Other executive/ General Manager 38% Senior Manager 52% 45% 48% 41% 36% Other Manager 33% 33% 37% 36% 33% Professional 44% 46% 43% 42% 41% Technical and trade 9% 3% 8% 8% 6% Administration and clerical 90% 82% 92% 94% 91% 31 Gender based reporting by category and age adopted in reporting from 2019 onwards 32 These include Chief Financial Officer, Chief Commercial Officer and Chief Operating Officer 33 These include Chief Assets and Infrastructure Officer and Chief Strategy Officer and General Managers 34 Female representation by category for 2018 and prior have been adjusted to align with the new 2019 categories developed in line with Workplace Gender Equality Agency (WGEA) reporting requirements 56 Sydney Airport | Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability at Sydney Airport People and organisation 31 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Pay equity 35 Gender pay equity ratio 95.9 93.4 92.2 94.5 96.9 Responsible business Recruitment and retention New hires Total number of new hires 96 106 80 87 86 M F M F M F M F M F % of new hires by gender 55% 45% 57% 45% 50% 50% 53% 47% 51% 49% Turnover rate 19% 14% 14% 12% 15% Voluntary employee turnover rate 12% 10% 12% 8% 12% Involuntary employee turnover rate 7% 4% 2% 4% 3% Planning for the future Turnover rate by age and gender (%) M F <30 1% 1% — — — — — — — — 30—50 6% 7% — — — — — — — — >50 2% 2% — — — — — — — — Collective bargaining agreements % of employees in collective bargaining agreements 36% 40% — — — Internal movement and opportunities % internal recruitment 31% 48% 34% 39% 42% Supporting our community % of employees promoted 15% — — — — Training Average training hours and spend M F Total average hours of training a per employee 15.5 14.1 10.0 11.9 9.3 Average hours of training per employee by gender 15.6 15.3 — — — — Average amount spent per employee on training (AU$) 1,157 1,289 659 — — Community investment 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Community investment Total community investment (AU$ million) 36 5.2 5.7 5.0 3.3 2.6 Performance data Employee participation Volunteer hours 185 202 163 252 — % of employees participating in payroll giving 3% 3% 3% 4% 2% Other information 35 Calculated on base salary and superannuation 36 Calculated and verified in accordance with the London Benchmarking Group (LBG) Australia and New Zealand framework. See the community investment section of this report for a breakdown of contributions sydneyairport.com.au 57 Other Information 58 Sydney Airport | Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability at Sydney Airport GRI Index GRI Standards Disclosure Publication Disclosure Number Year Title Sydney Airport disclosure/ reference General Disclosures Responsible business 102-1 2016 Name of the organisation Sydney Airport Limited 102-2 2016 Activities, brands, products, and services SYD manages landside and airside operations of the Sydney (Kingsford Smith) Airport. SYD’s services and operations are segmented into four business units: 1. Aeronautical services: responsible for all aspects of the business associated with aviation operations, activity and revenue, security, safety, sustainability and environment. 2. Retail: responsible for the retail, food and dining portfolio across SYD, including leasing, marketing, brand space and advertising. 3. Property, car rental and hotels: responsible for the development, leasing and day to day management of SYD commercial assets located within terminals, the airfield, landside areas and hotels. 4. Landside operations and transport: responsible for all of SYD’s landside ground transport operations including car parking and commercial transport operators including buses, taxis, hire cars and rideshare. 102-3 2016 Location of headquarters Nigel Love Building, 10 Arrivals Court, Mascot, NSW, Australia 102-4 2016 Location of operations Sydney (Kingsford Smith) Airport, Mascot, NSW, Australia Planning for the future 102-5 2016 Ownership and legal form Sydney Airport Limited is the ultimate 100% parent company of Sydney Airport Corporation Limited, the operator of Sydney (Kingsford Smith) Airport. 102-6 2016 Markets served All of SYD's operations and services take place at Kingsford Smith Airport. Our key customers are the 44.4 million passengers moving through our terminals and the airlines flying to and from our airport. See 2019 Annual Report Highlights for a breakdown of the regional breakdown of passengers. 102-7 2016 Scale of the organization Total employees: 508 Detailed information on number of operations, quantity of services and financial scale of our business can be found in our 2019 Annual Report Highlights 102-8 2016 Information on employees All our workforce is employed in Australia. and other workers 2019 Sustainability Report Performance data > People and organisation. 102-9 2016 Supply chain SYD’s major suppliers include those that support the airport’s infrastructure development, deliver services to and support maintenance of airport facilities. In 2019, SYD’s main supplier categories by spend related to construction services, security services, facilities and asset maintenance services, civil & asphalt works and utilities (electricity, gas and water). Supporting our community 102-10 2016 Significant changes to the organisation Sydney Airport took over full management of T3 in 2019. Sydney Airport purchased and its supply chain T3 from Qantas in September 2015, four years ahead of the existing lease’s expiration date. The transition to Sydney Airport control was managed over two periods during the year to ensure a smooth transition with minimal passenger disruption. This culminated in Sydney Airport taking control of terminal operations, operational maintenance of the baggage handling system and security, access control, CCTV and checked bag screening in October For environment data, this change will be reflected in 2020 reporting given the current June-July reporting period. 102-11 2016 Precautionary Principle or approach The precautionary principle is reflected in Sydney Airport's approach to risk management. Refer to the risk disclosure in the 2019 Annual Report for further information 102-12 2016 External initiatives 2019 Sustainability Report Benchmark and ratings performance 102-13 2016 Membership of associations Current main memberships Botany Bay Business Enterprise Centre across the company: Business Council of Australia Airport Councils International Business Events Sydney ANZ Airports ICT Forum CAPA Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation ANZLF Forum 2018 (AustraliaCEDA Committee for the Economic Performance data New Zealand Leadership Forum 2018) Development of Australia Asia Pacific Travel Retail Association Committee for Sydney Asia Society Diversity Council of Australia (DCA) Australasian Investor Relations Financial Executives Institute (FEI) Association (AIRA) Green Building Council of Australia Australia Arab Chamber of Commerce Infrastructure Partnerships Australia Australia China Business Council LBG Corporate Citizenship (VCCP) Australia Indonesia Association NSW Business Chamber (Sydney & Metro Australia Indonesia Business Council Ltd Business Forum) Australia-Israel Chamber of Commerce NSW Business Chamber (Sydney First) Australia Tourism Export Council (ATEC) Outdoor Media Association Australian Airports Association Parking Australia Australian Chamber of Commerce and Property Council of Australia Industry (ACCI) (NSW Company Membership) Other information Australian Logistics Council Regional Aviation Association of Australia (RAAA) Sydney Roundtable strategic partnership Tourism and Transport Forum Australia (TTF) Strategy 102-14 2016 Statement from senior decision-maker 2019 Sustainability Report Chair and CEO message 102-15 2016 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 2019 Annual Report Risk management sydneyairport.com.au 59 GRI Index GRI Standards Disclosure Publication Disclosure Number Year Title Sydney Airport disclosure/ reference Ethics and integrity 102-16 2016 Values, principles, standards, and Purpose statement ‘Making Sydney proud every day’. norms of behaviour Sydney Airport website Vision and values 2019 Corporate Governance Statement Principle 3 102-17 2016 Mechanisms for advice and Sydney Airport Code of Conduct and Whistleblower Policy concerns about ethics 2019 Sustainability Report Fair and ethical business Governance 102-18 2016 Governance structure 2019 Annual Report Directors' Report 2019 Corporate Governance Statement Principle 2 102-22 2016 Composition of the highest governance 2019 Annual Report Directors' Report body and its committees 2019 Corporate Governance Statement Principle 2 102-23 2016 Chair of the highest governance body Mr Trevor Gerber, Chairman 2019 Annual Report Directors' Report 102-30 2016 Effectiveness of risk 2019 Corporate Governance Statement Principle 7 management processes Stakeholder engagement 102-40 2016 List of stakeholder groups 2019 Sustainability Report Stakeholder engagement 102-41 2016 Collective bargaining agreements 36% of our workforce was covered by an enterprise agreement at the end of the reporting period. 2019 Sustainability Report Performance data > People and organisation 102-42 2016 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 2019 Sustainability Report Stakeholder engagement 2039 Sydney Airport Master Plan Stakeholder and community engagement 102-43 2016 Approach to stakeholder engagement 2020 Sustainability Report Stakeholder engagement 2039 Sydney Airport Master Plan Stakeholder and community engagement 102-44 2016 Key topics and concerns raised 2019 Sustainability Report Stakeholder engagement 102-45 2016 Entities included in the consolidated 2019 Annual Report Directors’ Report financial statements Reporting practice 102-46 2016 Defining report content and 2019 Sustainability Report About this report topic boundaries 2019 Sustainability Report Material issues 102-47 2016 List of material topics 2019 Sustainability Report Material issues 102-48 2016 Restatements of information Where applicable, changes and restatements are indicated as footnotes in the Sustainability performance data section of the 2019 Sustainability Report 102-49 2016 Changes in reporting In 2019 we reviewed and updated our material issues. See the material issues section of this report for more information 102-50 2016 Reporting period 1 January 2019 to 31 December 2019, with the exception of environmental datasets which are reported for 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019, in line with Sydney Airport’s external environmental reporting 102-51 2016 Date of most recent report 2018 Sustainability Report, published in February 2019 102-52 2016 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 2016 Contact point for questions We welcome feedback on our sustainability reporting and performance. Please email us regarding the report at sustainability@syd.com.au 102-54 2016 Claims of reporting in accordance with 2019 Sustainability Report Benchmark and ratings performance the GRI Standards 102-55 2016 GRI content index 2019 Sustainability Report GRI index 102-56 2016 External assurance 2019 Sustainability Report Limited assurance statement Material topics Safety 103-1/2/3 2016 Explanation of the material topic and its 2019 Sustainability Report Material issues boundary. The management approach 2019 Sustainability Report Safety and its components. Evaluation of the Sydney Airport website Safety management approach 2019 Sustainability Report Our approach to sustainability 403-9 2018 Work-related injuries 2019 Sustainability Report Safety 2019 Sustainability Report Performance data > Health and safety Security, including cyber security 103-1/2/3 2016 Explanation of the material topic and its 2019 Sustainability Report Material issues boundary. The management approach 2019 Sustainability Report Security and its components. Evaluation of the Sydney Airport website Security management approach 2019 Sustainability Report Our approach to sustainability Own indicator Cyber security maturity rating 2019 Sustainability Report Security 60 Sydney Airport | Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability at Sydney Airport GRI Standards Disclosure Publication Disclosure Number Year Title Sydney Airport disclosure/ reference Environmental management Responsible business 103-1/2/3 2016 Explanation of the material topic and its 2019 Sustainability Report Material issues boundary. The management approach 2019 Sustainability Report Environmental management and its components. Evaluation of the Sydney Airport website Environmental management management approach 2019 Sustainability Report Our approach to sustainability Energy 302-1/3 2016 Energy consumption within the 2019 Sustainability Report Environmental management organisation and energy intensity 2019 Sustainability Report Performance data > Environment Water and effluents 303-5 2018 Water consumption 2019 Sustainability Report Environmental management 2019 Sustainability Report Performance data > Environment Biodiversity 304-3 2016 Habitats protected or restored 2019 Sustainability Report Environmental management 2019 Sustainability Report Performance data > Environment Planning for the future Effluents and waste 306-3 2016 Significant spills 2019 Sustainability Report Performance data > Environment Employee attraction, retention and development 103-1/2/3 2016 Explanation of the material topic and its 2019 Sustainability Report Material issues boundary. The management approach 2019 Sustainability Report Our people and its components. Evaluation of the Sydney Airport website Employee attraction, retention and development management approach 2019 Sustainability Report Our approach to sustainability Employment 401-1 2016 New employee hires and employee 2019 Sustainability Report Our people turnover 2019 Sustainability Report Performance data > People and organisation Training and education 404-1 2016 Average hours of training per 2019 Sustainability Report Our people Supporting our community year per employee 2019 Sustainability Report Performance data > People and organisation Diversity and inclusion 103-1/2/3 2016 Explanation of the material topic and its 2019 Sustainability Report Material issues boundary. The management approach 2019 Sustainability Report Our people and its components. Evaluation of the Sydney Airport website Employee attraction, retention and development management approach 2019 Sustainability Report Our approach to sustainability 405-1 2016 Diversity of governance 2019 Sustainability Report Our people bodies and employees 2019 Sustainability Report Performance data > People and organisation Fair and ethical business practices 103-1/2/3 2016 Explanation of the material topic and its 2019 Sustainability Report Material issues boundary. The management approach 2019 Sustainability Report Fair and ethical business and its components. Evaluation of the Sydney Airport website Fair and ethical business management approach 2019 Sustainability Report Our approach to sustainability Procurement practices Own indicator Suppliers against the expectations set out 2019 Sustainability Report Fair and ethical business Performance data in the Supplier Code of Conduct Public policy 415-1 2016 Political contributions $36,045 was paid to attend political events and conferences during the reporting period Climate change 103-1/2/3 2016 Explanation of the material topic and its 2019 Sustainability Report Material issues boundary. The management approach 2019 Sustainability Report Climate resilience and its components. Evaluation of the Sydney Airport website Climate resilience management approach 2019 Sustainability Report Our approach to sustainability Economic performance 201-2 2016 Financial implications and other risks and 2019 Annual Report Risk management Climate resilience and adaptation Other information opportunities due to climate change Emissions 305-1/2/3/4 2016 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions; Energy 2019 Sustainability Report Environmental management; Scope 3 emissions reduction indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions; Other 2019 Sustainability Report Performance data > Environment indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions; GHG 2019 Sustainability Report Climate resilience emissions intensity sydneyairport.com.au 61 GRI Index GRI Standards Disclosure Publication Disclosure Number Year Title Sydney Airport disclosure/ reference Sustainable development of the airport 103-1/2/3 2016 Explanation of the material topic and its 2019 Sustainability Report Material issues boundary. The management approach 2019 Sustainability Report Sustainable development of the airport and its components. Evaluation of the Sydney Airport website Sustainable development of the airport management approach 2019 Sustainability Report Our approach to sustainability Operational efficiency and business continuity 103-1/2/3 2016 Explanation of the material topic and its 2019 Sustainability Report Material Issues boundary. The management approach 2019 Sustainability Report Operational efficiency and continuous improvement and its components. Evaluation of the Sydney Airport website Operational efficiency and continuous improvement; Business management approach continuity and performance 2019 Sustainability Report Our approach to sustainability Own indicator Explore opportunities to further improve 2019 Sustainability Report Operational efficiency and continuous improvement efficiencies through initiatives such as co-location of certain domestic and international activities and runway rebalancing Customer experience 103-1/2/3 2016 Explanation of the material topic and its 2019 Sustainability Report Material issues boundary. The management approach 2019 Sustainability Report Customer experience and its components. Evaluation of the Sydney Airport website Customer experience management approach 2019 Sustainability Report Our approach to sustainability Own indicator Customer satisfaction 2019 Sustainability Report Performance data > Customer Own indicator Passenger incident rate 2019 Sustainability Report Performance data > Health and safety Access to and from the airport 103-1/2/3 2016 Explanation of the material topic and its 2019 Sustainability Report Material issues boundary. The management approach 2019 Sustainability Report Access to and from the airport and its components. Evaluation of the Sydney Airport website Access to and from the airport management approach 2019 Sustainability Report Our approach to sustainability Own indicator Support diversity of public 2019 Sustainability Report Access to and from the airport transport modal options Indirect economic impacts 203-1 2016 Infrastructure investments and 2019 Sustainability Report Access to and from the airport services supported Innovation and technology 103-1/2/3 2016 Explanation of the material topic and its 2019 Sustainability Report Material issues boundary. The management approach 2019 Sustainability Report Innovation and technology and its components. Evaluation of the Sydney Airport website Innovation and technology management approach 2019 Sustainability Report Our approach to sustainability Community investment and engagement 103-1/2/3 2016 Explanation of the material topic and its 2019 Sustainability Report Material issues boundary. The management approach 2019 Sustainability Report Community investment; Community engagement and its components. Evaluation of the Sydney Airport website Community investment and engagement management approach 2019 Sustainability Report Our approach to sustainability Own indicator 2016 Community investment 2019 Sustainability Report Performance data > Community Own indicator 2016 Noise management including aircraft noise 2019 Sustainability Report Aircraft noise Economic performance 103-1/2/3 2016 Explanation of the material topic and its 2019 Sustainability Report Material issues boundary. The management approach 2019 Sustainability Report Economic performance and its components. Evaluation of the Sydney Airport website Economic performance management approach 2019 Sustainability Report Our approach to sustainability Economic value 201-1 2016 Direct economic value generated 2019 Sustainability Report Economic performance and distributed 201-3 2016 Defined benefit plan obligations and other 2019 Annual Report Employee benefits Superannuation plans retirement plans 62 Sydney Airport | Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability at Sydney Airport Glossary AAA Australian Airports Association IPCC Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change ACA Airport Carbon Accreditation ISMS Information Security Management System A-CDM Airport Collaborative Decision Making JUHI Joint User Hydrant Installation Responsible business ACI Airports Council International LBG London Benchmarking Group ACSI Australian Council of Superannuation Investors LTIFR Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate ADF Australian Defence Force LTOP Long-Term Operating Plan AFP Australian Federal Police MDP Major Development Plan AIM Australian Institute of Management MSCI Morgan Stanley Capital International AOL Airport Operators Licence NAIDOC National Aborigines and Islanders Day Observance Committee APU Auxiliary Power Unit PCA Pre-Conditioned Air ASX Australian Securities Exchange PPA Power Purchase Agreement Planning for the future BHS Baggage Handling System PFAS Polyfluoroalkyl substance CASA Civil Aviation Safety Authority RAP Reconciliation Action Plan DJSI Dow Jones Sustainability Index RCP Representation Concentration Pathways EIS Environmental Impact Statement RMS Road and Maritime Services ESG Environment, Social and Governance SDG United Nations Sustainable Development Goal EV Electric vehicle SLL Sustainability Linked Loan FOD Foreign Object Debris SSS Safety, Security and Sustainability Committee FTSE Financial Times Stock Exchange SRI Socially Responsible Investment GPU Ground Power Unit T1 International Terminal GRI Global Reporting Initiative T2 & T3 Domestic terminals Supporting our community GRESB Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark TCFD Taskforce on Climate-related Financial Disclosures HLC High Level Control ULD Unit Load Device IAP Incident Action Plan UNGC United Nations Global Compact IATA International Air Transport Association UNSW University of New South Wales Performance data Other information sydneyairport.com.au 63 Limited assurance statement Independent Limited Assurance Report to the Directors of Sydney Airport Limited Conclusion Based on the procedures performed, and the evidence obtained, we are not aware of any material misstatements in the Selected Sustainability Information, which have been prepared by Sydney Airport Limited in accordance with the criteria as defined and described by management in the Sustainability Report for the year ended 31 December 2019. Information subject to assurance The Selected Sustainability Information, as presented in Sydney Airport Limited’s (“SYD”) Sustainability Report 2019 and available on SYD’s website, comprised the following: Selected Sustainability Information Value assured Total Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions for the period 1 July 83,620 2018 to 30 June 2019 (CO2e)* Passenger satisfaction score 2019 – International 4.21 Passenger satisfaction score 2019 – Domestic T2/T3 (in aggregate) 4.16 Female representation overall (%) 39 Waste to landfill (tonnes) for the period 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019* 2,598 Recycled waste (tonnes) for the period 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019* 1,990 Quarantine waste (tonnes) for the period 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019* 1,772 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) for SYD employees 5.4 Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR) for SYD employees 15.0 * Excludes T3, refer to footnotes in Performance Data section Criteria used as the basis of reporting The criteria used in relation to the Sustainability Report content are SYD’s policies, procedures and methodologies as disclosed in the 2019 Sustainability Report. Basis for conclusion We conducted our work in accordance with Australian Standard on Assurance Engagements ASAE 3000 (Standard). In accordance with the Standard we have: • used our professional judgement to plan and perform the engagement to obtain limited assurance that we are not aware of any material misstatements in the selected sustainability information, whether due to fraud or error; • considered relevant internal controls when designing our assurance procedures, however we do not express a conclusion on their effectiveness; and 64 Sydney Airport | Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability at Sydney Airport • ensured that the engagement team possess the appropriate knowledge, skills and professional competencies. Responsible business Summary of procedures performed Our limited assurance conclusion is based on the evidence obtained from performing the following procedures: • enquiries with relevant SYD personnel, and review of selected documentation; • enquiries with relevant SYD personnel to understand the internal controls, governance structure and reporting process of the Selected Sustainability Information; • reviews of corporate documents concerning sustainability strategy and policies for material issues, and the implementation of these across the business; • interviews with relevant staff at corporate level and service organisations engaged by Sydney Airport responsible for providing the information in the Sustainability Report; Planning for the future • analytical procedures over the Selected Sustainability Information; • agreement of a sample of Selected Sustainability Information to source documentation; • evaluating the appropriateness of the criteria with respect to the Selected Sustainability Information; and • reviewed the Sustainability Report in its entirety to ensure it is consistent with our overall knowledge based on the work undertaken during our limited assurance engagement. How the Standard defines limited assurance and material misstatement The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from, Supporting our community and are less in extent than for a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had a reasonable assurance engagement been performed. Misstatements, including omissions, are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence relevant decisions of the intended users taken on the basis of the Sustainability Report or the Selected Sustainability Information. Use of this Assurance Report This report has been prepared for the Directors of Sydney Airport Limited for the purpose of providing an assurance conclusion on the Sustainability Report and the Selected Sustainability Information and may not be suitable for another purpose. We disclaim any assumption of Performance data responsibility for any reliance on this report, to any person other than the Directors of Sydney Airport Limited, or for any other purpose than that for which it was prepared. Other information © 2020 KPMG, an Australian partnership and a member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity. All rights reserved. The KPMG name and logo are registered trademarks or trademarks of KPMG International. Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation. sydneyairport.com.au 65 Limited assurance statement Directors’ responsibility Our responsibility The Directors are responsible for: Our responsibility is to perform a limited assurance engagement in relation to the • determining that the criteria is appropriate to Sustainability Report and Selected meet their needs; Sustainability Information for the period 1 • preparing and presenting the Sustainability January 2019 to 31 December 2019, and to Report and the Selected Sustainability issue an assurance report that includes our Information in accordance with the criteria; conclusion. and Our independence and quality • establishing internal controls that enable the control preparation and presentation of the We have complied with our independence Sustainability Report and the Selected and other relevant ethical requirements of Sustainability Information that is free from the Code of Ethics for Professional material misstatement, whether due to Accountants issued by the Australian fraud or error; and maintaining integrity of Professional and Ethical Standards Board, the website. and complied with the applicable requirements of Australian Standard on Quality Control 1 to maintain a comprehensive system of quality control. KPMG Sydney 19 February 2020 © 2020 KPMG, an Australian partnership and a member firm of the KPMG network of independent member firms affiliated with KPMG International Cooperative (“KPMG International”), a Swiss entity. All rights reserved. The KPMG name and logo are registered trademarks or trademarks of KPMG International. Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation. 66 Sydney Airport | Sustainability Report 2019 Sustainability at Sydney Airport Photo credits Page Photo Credit Front cover Cover image Getty Images 01 Contents page Getty Images 03 Trevor Gerber and Geoff Culbert Armstrong Q 04-05 Aircraft image Nils Nedel, via Unsplash 07 Banner image Raj Eiamworakul, via Unsplash Responsible business 11 Banner image Tim Patch, via Unsplash 12 T1 Arrivals Meeting Point Kurt Ams 14-15 Sydney Opera House Simon Rae, via Unsplash 17 Sydney Airport staff at the Airport Safety Week FOD Walk Kurt Ams 18 Ground handling staff working on the Sydney Airport airfield Kurt Ams 21 T1 Departures wall Kurt Ams 23 Sydney Airport wetlands Kurt Ams 24 Sydney Airport environment team members Jake Atkins and Kurt Ams Philippa Scott planting in the Sydney Airport wetlands Planning for the future 25 T2 Lifestyle Precinct — 27 Sydney Airport Work Health Safety Manager Rob Cracknell Kurt Ams 27 Sydney Airport Project Manager Tim Greenway — 28-29 Sydney Airport Departures wall Kurt Ams 29 Anti-Slavery Australia Professor Jill McKeough, AFP Assistant — Commissioner Debbie Platz and Sydney Airport General Manager Operations Matt Duffy 30-31 Background image Bethany Legg, via Unsplash 32-33 Aircalin at Sydney Airport Kurt Ams 34-35 Sydney Airport aerial — Supporting our community 36-37 Airfield image from Sydney Airport 100 year gala dinner Luke Latty 39 Regionally significant swamp hibiscus (Hibiscus diversifolius) at Kurt Ams the Sydney Airport wetlands 39 Banner image Seth Doyle, via Unsplash 40 Assistance animal facilities at Sydney Airport Kurt Ams 41 Jack Tyrrell using the Aira service at Sydney Airport Larnce Gold 43 T2 Lifestyle Precinct — 44-45 Surf Life Saving Sydney nippers Renee Nowytarger 45 Sydney Airport Community Panel meeting — 46 Surf Life Saving Sydney President Peter Agnew Kurt Ams 47 Surf Life Saving Sydney nippers at Bondi Beach Luke Latty Performance data 48 Gamay dancers at Sydney Airport 100 year gala dinner Luke Latty 49 Airport Ambassador Program Manager Michelle Minogue and Kurt Ams airport ambassadors 49 Aircraft image James Lusher 50 Sydney Airport airfield Luke Latty 51 Helen, Johnny and Mariah Ahladiotis Seth Jaworski 52 Sydney skyline Getty Images 55 Banner image Shifaaz Shamoon, via Unsplash Other information 57 Banner image Kekai Ahsham, via Unsplash 58 Sydney Airport airfield Kurt Ams 61 Banner image Jenn Evelyn Ann, via Unsplash 65 Banner image Nigel Coghlan sydneyairport.com.au 67
