UN Global Compact Policy on Communicating Progress theOtherDada 1. CEO STATEMENT: July 23rd, 2020 To our Stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that theOtherDada, Regenerative Consultancy & Architecture firm, reaffirms its continuous support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. We are committed to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Sustainable Development Goals. Among these goals, theOtherDada specifically contributes the following Sustainable Development Goals throughout its projects and initiatives: GOAL 3: Good Health and Well-being/ GOAL 6: Clean Water and Sanitation/ GOAL 11: Sustainable Cities and Communities/ GOAL 12: Responsible Consumption and Production/ GOAL 13: Climate Action/ GOAL 14: Life Below Water/ GOAL 15: Life on Land/ GOAL 17: Partnerships to achieve the Goal We are also firmly committed to the Decade of Action, by being actively engaged on rewilding the city and reclaiming public space, by planting native forests in urban landfills. We will continue to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Adib Dada, Founder / CEO 2. HUMAN RIGHTS: Assessment, policy and goals • DESCRIPTION: Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. theOtherDada is committed to the internationally recognized human rights and respects the Universal Declaration of Human Rights throughout all its activities and policies. • IMPLEMENTATION: Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. To ensure that, the company has issued a company handbook that includes a written policy on safety, anti-discrimination, anti-harassment, and violence in the workplace. Our anti-discrimination and harassment policy explains how we, as a company, prevent discrimination, harassment, and bullying, and protect our team, clients and stakeholders from offensive and harmful behaviors. This policy supports our overall commitment to create a safe, inclusive and happy workplace for everyone. • MONITORING: Measurement of outcomes: Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. To monitor the implementation of policies, new staff members are required to sign and acknowledge the policy. We have also introduced a clear written procedure to report misconducts and an investigation mechanism. 3. LABOUR: Assessment, policy and goals • DESCRIPTION: Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rightsrelated risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. theOtherDada complies with the principles of the International Labor Organization along with the local labor laws (Lebanese Labor Law) within all the company’s activities and policies. • IMPLEMENTATION: Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations. To ensure that, tOD provides its team members with a written handbook that states all policies related to labor rights, responsibilities, benefits, compensation. In addition to that, it states that tOD is committed to provide equal work opportunities regardless of the individual’s race, color, religion, gender, orientation, nationality, age, marital status, disability or any other basis other than competence. Moreover, tOD does not engage in any type of work that includes forced or child labor. • MONITORING: Measurement of outcomes: Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. To monitor the implementation of the policies, new staff members are required to sign and acknowledge the Handbook, and suppliers/contractors are requested to sign a contract that states our policies regarding forced and child labor. To ensure that our conduct and processes are fair and lawful, we: ♣ Comply with minimum wage standards ♣ Ensure that the company does not participate in any form of forced or bonded labor ♣ Use inclusive language in job ads. ♣ Set formal job-related criteria to hire, promote and reward team members. ♣ Offer compensation and benefits according to position, seniority, qualifications and performance. We are also looking to incorporate additional measures which prevent discrimination, like: ♣ Redesigning the office to accommodating people with disabilities. ♣ Using hiring processes that reduce bias like structured interviews and blind hiring programs. 4. ENVIRONMENT: Assessment, policy and goals • DESCRIPTION: Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. Being an architectural firm that goes beyond sustainability on all levels of work, theOtherDada takes responsibility to minimize the environmental impact, reduce pollution, landfill, and the use of nonrenewable energy by setting a written environmental policy, therefore contributing to SDGs 6, 11, 13, 14 & 15. The aim of this policy is to raise awareness among staff, suppliers, and clients on topics like environmental impact, sustainability, waste management and pollution and emission reduction, and to encourage them to take the appropriate measures to comply with our environmental policy. We are also firmly committed to the Decade of Action, engaged on rewilding the city and reclaiming public space by planting native forests in urban landfills. • IMPLEMENTATION: Implementation: Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. In order to contribute to a better environment, theOtherDada is committed to: ♣ Plant dense native Miyawaki forests in urban settings to sequester CO2, reduce air and noise pollution, restore the water cycle and regenerate biodiversity in the city. ♣ Prioritize the environment during business decisions and operations ♣ Track sustainability key performance indicators of the company ♣ Minimize the environmental footprint and consider it in all work processes ♣ Set green guidelines for significant suppliers ♣ Avoid goods or services coming from non-sustainable or polluting sources ♣ Use reclaimed or recycled products whenever possible ♣ Minimize the use of energy and water, and eliminate wasteful use ♣ Provide advice, guidance and learning tools to any entity in order to widen public knowledge of pollutants, harmful products, availability of recycling outlets, and sustainable alternatives ♣ Follow developments in recycling techniques and sustainable systems and materials. • MONITORING: Measurement of outcomes: Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. To ensure proper implementation of the environmental policies, tOD has taken the following measures: ♣ We have installed LED bulbs all over the office and convince clients to install LED lighting in all projects ♣ We recycle all materials and place recycling bins in different places at the office. ♣ We use water responsibly and fix leaks promptly. ♣ We save paper by distributing materials electronically, using double-sided printing, and reusing oneside printed paper ♣ We provide reusable kitchenware in order to reduce the need for disposable items ♣ We do not provide bottled water and encourage the use of water coolers, pitchers, and reusable cups and bottles instead. ♣ We purchase environment friendly products such as recycled paper, and avoid disposable products like paper cups and plates, and flatware. ♣ We explore options for reuse and check surplus resources before purchasing new products. theOtherDada performs yearly environmental audits in the workplace to ensure that team members comply with the company’s Environmental Policy. We also introduced some indicators to keep track of and monitor our annual water and electricity consumption as well as our amount of waste and recyclables. 5. ANTI – CORRUPTION: Assessment, policy and goals • DESCRIPTION: Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anticorruption risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption. theOtherDada practices a zero tolerance approach to corruption. Zero tolerance means that we do not tolerate corruption in relation to any of our work, and that we investigate any suspicions of corruption seriously and act upon all such cases as appropriate and in a professional manner. • IMPLEMENTATION: Implementation: Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents. To ensure that, tOD commits to the following: ♣ Independence of any influence or interference of politics in all its activities. ♣ Compliance with transparency standards in day-to-day operations and projects. ♣ Communication and training for all employees on the anti-corruption commitment. ♣ Internal checks to ensure consistency with the anti-corruption commitment. ♣ Risk-based approach to identify and assess corruption-related inherent risks. • MONITORING: Measurement of outcomes: Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance. To monitor the implementation of the anti-corruption policies, tOD has taken the following measures: ♣ Conducting risk assessments on a regular basis. ♣ Employees and business partners are made aware of the company’s values and norms, including the consequences of non-adherence to the company’s zero-tolerance of corruption policy. ♣ Compliance-relevant data is collected into one standard Excel document for analysis and evaluation. ♣ Excel documents are prepared into reports that include visuals (charts and graphs) that are directly derived from the systems data. ♣ Internal and external reporting of qualitative and quantitative outcomes.
