Delivering clean, reliable energy across Africa 2019 Sustainability Report www.lekela.com • 2 About this report This report sets out Lekela’s approach to sustainability, and the important links between the successful delivery of clean and reliable energy in Africa and high environmental, social and governance standards. In this report we present our performance during 2019 and outline future goals designed to help us achieve our aim of being Africa’s leading renewable energy platform. Introducing Lekela............................................................................................................................................................................ 1 Lekela’s year in review: 2019....................................................................................................................................................... 2 Operating across Africa................................................................................................................................................................ 3 A message from our CEO.............................................................................................................................................................. 4 Climate change mitigation and adaptation in Africa.................................................................................................... 5 Stakeholder engagement and materiality.......................................................................................................................... 6 Lekela’s material areas.................................................................................................................................................................. 7 Securing Africa’s sustainable future through renewable energy.......................................................................... 8 1: Delivering clean, reliable energy.........................................................................................................................................12 2: Partnering with contractors and employees.............................................................................................................. 16 3: Empowering local communities.........................................................................................................................................22 4: Protecting the environment............................................................................................................................................... 30 5: Integrity......................................................................................................................................................................................... 36 UN Global Compact Ten Principles....................................................................................................................................... 41 Lekela’s impact on the SDGs in 2019................................................................................................................................... 42 Lekela Power B.V. • 2019 Sustainability Report Introducing Lekela Lekela is a renewable power company, building and operating utility-scale projects that generate much-needed clean energy in countries across Africa. Energy is a key catalyst for growth, prosperity and sustainability on the continent. Since 2015 we’ve delivered 415 MW of wind power into operations and brought a further 605 megawatts (MW) under construction. This shows our capacity to transform energy ideas into operational reality – a skill that remains critical in Africa to deliver competitively priced, clean, reliable power projects quickly and at scale. – Taiba N’Diaye Wind Farm Providing Africa with renewable energy; delivering environmental and social benefits Delivering clean power is only part of Lekela’s operaand associated employment opportunities, Lekela tional equation. We develop our projects while applying supports local education, enterprise and environmental rigorous environmental, social and governance (ESG) programmes. These initiatives help build up local skills, practices with the aim of delivering net positive envipromote sustainable livelihoods and tackle the pressronmental and social impacts. We especially recognise ing environmental challenges that threaten communiour power as a business to produce transformative ties near our projects. change in society. Central to our strategy is taking an This approach is integrated within every project from active role in driving the long-term prosperity of the the earliest stages of development or project aclocal communities in which we operate. quisition. To ensure success, we build local teams to Through each of our projects, we seek to make a work together with and empower local communities long-term positive impact. As well as providing power throughout the project lifespan and beyond. www.lekela.com • 1 Lekela’s year in review: 2019 Over 1,200 MW in the portfolio Over Over 6 Total Total 1,304 GWh 1,166,000 communities benefitted 605 MW 415 MW ze ro d tive s co m m ra t e d to n tia un n ca rb ne ne de n s C O av oi er tio o p e ti o n s e un it y on ti co n str u c ni e n e rg y g d i inve 2 st m e n ra Achieving over 1,000 MW under delivery since our founding in 2015 Over 1,800 Over 35% workers employed at of these workers the peak of construcemployed from tion across three different sites local communities 252 MW 55 MW under construction commissioned into in Egypt operations in Senegal 2 • Lekela Power B.V. • 2019 Sustainability Report 55 MW Operating across Africa Lekela’s project portfolio consists of over 1,200 MW. Over 1,000 252 MW MW have been delivered into operation or construction since 2015. Operation – 415 MW Senegal: Taiba N’Diaye Wind Farm – Phase 1 (55 MW) South Africa: Noupoort Wind Farm (80 MW) South Africa: Loeriesfontein 2 Wind Farm (140 MW) South Africa: Khobab Wind Farm (140 MW) Construction – 605 MW 103 MW 150 MW 75 MW Egypt: West Bakr Wind Farm (252 MW) Senegal: Taiba N’Diaye Wind Farm – Phases 2 and 3 (103 MW) South Africa: Kangnas Wind Farm (140 MW) 140 MW South Africa: Perdekraal East Wind Farm (110 MW) Development – 225 MW 140 MW Ghana: Ayitepa Wind Farm – Phase 1 (150 MW) 80 MW 110 MW Ghana: Ayitepa Wind Farm – Phase 2 (75 MW) 140 MW www.lekela.com • 3 A message from our CEO, Chris Antonopoulos Lekela has built on its objective to set the sustainability Our progress this year can be attributed to our commitments UN Global Compact (p41). We know that if we set robust tarbenchmark for energy companies in Africa. By keeping to operate with integrity, build excellence with our contracgets and place ESG at the heart of operations, we are better sustainability central to our approach, we have continued to tors and partners, empower and uplift local communities, and set to deliver Africa the energy it needs while empowering successfully deliver on our objectives, bringing renewable be good stewards of the environment. We know that valuing communities and protecting the environment and climate for assets under construction and into successful operations sustainability creates the right conditions for achieving our future generations. across the continent. goals – by seeking to avoid and mitigate environmental and Indeed with climate change as a real and present risk in social risks while optimising the transformative impact we In 2019, the first 55MW from the region’s first utility-scale Africa, securing a sustainable path to development has can deliver to society and the communities we operate in. wind power project started to generate into Senegal’s grid. never been more important. Now is the time to take bold This strategy underpins Lekela surpassing more than 1 GW This will be followed in early 2020 by the second and third action and Lekela is committed to help lead the continent’s of projects under construction or in operations – all since our phases to complete West Africa’s largest wind farm. Fijourney to decarbonisation. Our renewable energy projects founding in 2015. nancial close was also achieved on Lekela’s largest project, can both outcompete high-carbon sources in cost and avoid the 252 MW West Bakr Wind Farm in Egypt, expanding our Our 2019 Sustainability Report captures our performance and emissions. At the same time, we are seeking to help society portfolio under construction to 605 MW. This progress was the challenges we faced achieving this milestone. To drive adapt in the face of the emerging climate crisis. We recogunderpinned by excellent operational performance in South ourselves forward we have built on our previous ESG targets, nise we can’t do it alone, but this report sets out how we are Africa, where we currently have 360 MW of installed capacity ensuring they are linked to key sustainability frameworks such responding to these challenges with our partners to secure generating power and are on track to provide another 250 as the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and the Paris the sustainable future Africa needs. MW of clean power to the grid in 2020. At the same time our Agreement’s intent to keep within 2 degrees of warming this development pipeline continues to mature, with an expert century. Our 2020 targets are influenced by regular engageteam exploring the latest renewable technology solutions that ment with our stakeholders and recognition of the tenets of will support the continent’s growing need for power. conducting good business, including the ten principles of the 4 • Lekela Power B.V. • 2019 Sustainability Report Climate change mitigation and adaptation in Africa, Jennifer Boca Global warming is being caused by increasing wind farms. Lekela has a responsibility to help society concentrations of greenhouse gases in the earth’s find the zero-carbon solutions to meet the targets of atmosphere, which in turn change the conditions of Paris, but in this landscape of increased risk it is also our climate. Global temperatures are now averaging incumbent on our business to identify and address over 1 degree higher than the pre-industrial period, climate vulnerabilities impacting our host communithe impacts of which are being felt across the world. ties. We believe this approach – combining efforts to And while the 2015 Paris Agreement intended to keep mitigate emissions and help communities adapt – is heating well below a 2-degree threshold, the current essential to safeguard future prosperity and meet trajectory of global emissions risks pushing us past this, developmental targets such as those set out by the to a point where the impacts of climate change are SDGs. uncertain and potentially catastrophic. To ensure this pillar of our sustainability strategy is While Lekela has always recognised the importance of strengthened, in 2019 Lekela undertook a Climate Remitigating climate change through zero-carbon technolsiliency Assessment to better understand how existing ogies, now we are clear the issue is inseparable from our and projected climate risks intersect with the socioambition to work with communities to achieve positive economic vulnerabilities of our host communities. Climate projections for the regions developmental outcomes. In recent years existing where our projects are located In 2020 we will use the assessment to identify where community vulnerabilities have been put into sharp perour community investment programmes can address • Longer and more frequent heat waves/ spective by emerging risks that are strongly correlated warm spells vulnerabilities and strengthen resilience. This will to what has been predicted by climate change models: ensure that as well as our core business being com• Increases in daytime and night-time tem• The Northern Cape of South Africa (home to four patible with a low-carbon future, we will target our perature extremes of our wind farms) has experienced a severe period resources at community initiatives that are climate • Increasing chances of drought along with of drought for several years smart, serving to protect communities even under the trends of short-duration but extreme • Senegal experienced its third severe drought in six worst impacts of climate change. Corporately, Lekela precipitation events years in 2018 is also committed to reducing our operational carbon • Ras Ghareb (the community nearest our West Bakr footprint and will be working towards achieving carWind Farm in Egypt) experienced unprecedentbon neutrality in the coming years. ed flash flooding in 2016, causing loss of life and See more on how we are addressing climate change severe damage to infrastructure risk on p31. Climate change already appears to be having a disproportionate impact on people living near our www.lekela.com • 5 Stakeholder engagement and materiality Identify This report focuses on the ESG issues perceived to be most significant Review of Lekela’s strategy, operations, – or material – to our business and our stakeholders, and outlines how activities and stakeholder relationships with we respond to them to improve our performance. guidance from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines, the UN Global Compact Identifying and responding to the issues that matter is a core part of our Principles and the UN SDG Compass*. We Step prioritise material issues drawn from these strategy. By doing so we increase our chances of building a successful 1 standards according to: business while adding value to the communities where we work. • Lekela’s business objectives • Lekela’s operations Identifying our material issues Our community engagement • Key stakeholders linked to Lekela In 2019 we expanded on our materiality review Lekela’s engagement with stakeholders ex• External influences and global trends of 2018, particularly to understand emerging tends beyond validating the ESG issues that *the SDG Compass guides companies on how they can align their strategies as well as measure and manage their contriissues as our operations expand, and whether matter to us. We recognise that our operations bution to realising the SDGs. the importance and potential impact of existimpact on local communities and that we need ing issues has shifted. This iterative process to engage local stakeholders actively and in a ensures we can respond to the issues at hand, participatory manner. This ensures we make in a rapidly moving business, political and a positive impact and avoid or manage any social environment. impacts that might be negative. See Section 3: Empowering local communities for more on our community engagement process (p22). Engagement with stakeholders on materiality Read case studies on how we engage with communities: Undertaking conversations with stakeholders is integral to this process. Our potential impact • On community investment (p26) Review spans multiple interest groups and our value • On ensuring fair access to land (p27) chain, hence we consulted key internal and ex• On climate change (p31) Annual review of our material ESG ternal stakeholders to identify the ESG issues • On biodiversity (p33) Step issues which allows us to refine our sustainability strategy, ensuring we that matter most to them about our business. And read interviews with key ESG staff and stakeholders: 5 continue to strive to meet stakeholder Through this process, we sought to ensure that expectations in our ever-evolving enviLekela’s commercial objectives align with the • On community health and safety (p19) ronment and align ESG commitments goal of delivering sustainable development • On project ESG management (p37). with our business objectives. outcomes to those impacted by our business. 6 • Lekela Power B.V. • 2019 Sustainability Report Lekela’s material areas Validate internally Our reviews of materiality keep us up to The following issues, grouped under five Engagement with internal stakeholders to date with the ESG issues most significant to overarching priorities, inform our strategy identify any missing issues or adjustments our stakeholders and the risks and opportuand ESG objectives: needed, and prioritise issues by their imporStep nities that relate to our business. Undertaktance to business success. 2 ing this process improves our decision-makClean, reliable energy • Lekela’s management team including the ing and accountability, and ensures our ESG • Renewable and reliable energy production Executive Committee and ESG Committee Strategy and report focus on what matters People and partners • Employees most to us and our stakeholders. • Contractor partnerships • Shareholders • Health and safety Our sustainability priorities • Fair employment practices Over 20 ESG issues are currently considered Communities relevant to Lekela and our stakeholders. This • Community engagement and consultation list was refined through our validation exercise • Community investment to support jobs based on feedback from internal and external and develop skills stakeholders. Some issues were added to the • Responsible land development review while others were consolidated. Environment Validate externally One cross-cutting theme that developed • Climate change and emissions Engagement with external for Lekela in 2019 was gender equality and • Lifecycle environmental impacts stakeholders to adjust and Step women’s empowerment. We recognise • Biodiversity identify gaps in our material 3 that we have both the responsibility and Integrity issues and understand their the ability to drive economic and social • Governance and accountability priorities. empowerment for women in the communi• Ethical standards ties where we operate. Across our business • Human rights we are starting to work on diversity and inclusion, including gender. Our goal is to be Consolidate able to say that we are an inclusive energy Steps 1 to 3 used to prioritise company where the contributions of women and group our material issues are valued and celebrated. to develop our ESG strategy Step (p8) and define the focus ar4 eas for our ESG activities and sustainability reporting. www.lekela.com • 7 Our strategy Our ESG focus Securing Africa’s Build a platform to enable best-in-class Create long-term environmental and social sustainable future through delivery of utility-scale clean energy projects in Africa benefits through the delivery of clean, reliable energy renewable energy Sustainable economic growth in Africa has been challenged by the lack of access to reliable and affordable energy. Partnering with contractors and employees Meanwhile, the continent is vulnerable to deteriorating effects of climate change. • Prioritising health and safety • Achieving the highest standards with Through our aim to build and operate renewable power • Ensuring fair labour practices contractors and partners projects quickly and at scale, Lekela is responding to these challenges to show that clean, reliable energy can bring long-term benefits to society and the environment, along Empowering local communities with sustainable returns. This objective is core to our ESG Strategy, which includes • Engaging with communities • Acquiring and developing land Our commitments that support our long-term sustainability and • Investing in education, enterprise responsibly commitments business performance. and the environment Lekela is committed to: • Achieving the highest standards with our partners Protecting the environment • Empowering local communities • Protecting the environment These commitments are built on a foundation of integrity – • Helping climate change mitigation • Managing our lifecycle impacts an assurance that we seek to apply best practice governance and adaptation • Preserving and enhancing biodiversity and the highest ethical standards in everything we do. All our commitments are supported by focus areas and targets that will help us achieve our goal of being the leading Integrity based on the highest standards of governance and business ethics renewable power platform in Africa. This approach and resulting performance is covered in the corresponding sections of this report. • Applying robust governance to environmental and social issues Our • Treating people fairly foundation • Upholding the highest ethical standards when we do business 8 • Lekela Power B.V. • 2019 Sustainability Report Lekela’s core SDGs The projects we deliver to increase the share of renewable power in Africa, reduce emissions and work with partners to improve awareness and capacity for climate change management. New material SDG for 2019 Material SDGs We seek to be an equal opportunities employer and positively impact jobs where we operate by providing safe and secure working conditions. Through our community investment strategies we aim to reduce structural inequalities by enhancing lives in local communities, and through our operations we always seek to mitigate our impact on the natural environment. SDGs further impacted by Lekela’s ESG commitments Lekela’s approach to business can positively or negatively impact a broad range of SDGs beyond those highlighted by materiality reviews. Read on to see where Lekela has had an impact on each of these. www.lekela.com • 9 1 Delivering clean, The route to secure plentiful energy for all will have a key impact on Africa’s future. Poor energy access and grid reliability hinders growth, yet providing affordable, reliable reliable energy power remains a huge challenge. Lekela is seeking to meet this challenge using the continent’s extensive renewable resources. With the continued improvements in zero-carbon technology, we are determined to harness this energy to help secure Africa’s path to sustainable growth. Achievements Milestone reached of a gigawatt of projects either under construction or in operations Completed financing of the 252 MW West Bakr project in Egypt within five months of signing the power purchase agreement Challenges and learning – Kangnas Wind Farm, South Africa A change in engineering, procurement and construction contractor for the West Bakr project shortly before construction required us to re-permit the wind farm through supplementary environmental impact assessments to ensure the project’s delivery Sustainable power, sustainable livelihoods Harnessing Africa’s natural solar and wind resources can provide an affordable, secure and sustainable solution to the continent’s energy problem. This demand for power can be reconciled with the need to urgently transition to a global low-carbon economy. In Africa, the lack of access to reliable and affordImproved renewable technologies have made able power continues to challenge economic growth. reliable, low-carbon generation possible at a In addition to the two-thirds of people without competitive cost, where wind and solar resources access to electricity at home, it is widely recognised are available. Renewable energy also provides a that a lack of reliable electricity supply significantly secure domestic source of power, independent from harms the productivity of African businesses. resource constraints and volatile fuel prices. Bridging Africa’s electricity supply gap would help Security of supply and economic value complement bring about transformative change: reducing busithe clear environmental advantages of renewable ness uncertainty and improving performance in the power. As capacity increases, the cost and reliability wider economy. Together these would potentially of solar and wind technology are set to improve lead to more and better jobs. further still. And because the infrastructure can be deployed quickly, it is ideal for economies in urgent Through our mission to develop, build and operate need of new generation capacity. renewable power projects, Lekela aims to deliver long-term benefits and prosperity to Africa. Our The technical benefits of renewable power sit alongpipeline of projects will deliver low-carbon electricside improved global regulations and commitment ity across the continent, while offering affordable through the 2015 Paris Agreement to decarbonise and stable prices over the long term. the global economy. Lekela is determined to play its role in the transition to low-carbon power. Our assets are already helping countries achieve their Better energy for Africa climate goals while delivering a more sustainable, – Turbine deliveries for Our assets will harness Africa’s abundant supply of secure and affordable energy system. Taiba N’Diaye natural solar and wind resources for many years, proving that energy and prosperity do not need to compromise the environment for future generations. www.lekela.com • 13 Energy generated (GWh) 1,400 1,304 1,264 1,200 1,000 Our operations SDG 7 800 In 2019, 55 MW of our 157.8 MW Taiba N’Diaye projAffordable and 600 ect commenced producing power in Senegal to join Clean Energy our existing portfolio of 360 MW in South Africa. 400 374 Senegal is now enjoying its first utility-scale wind power from the project, which once complete in 200 152 2020 will provide a 15% uplift to Senegal’s electricity generation capacity. This year the project provided 0 technical skills training for community members as 2016 2017 2018 2019 well as supporting a range of community investment programmes across the local area. Construction Carbon emissions avoided (tonnes of CO2) In August 2019 Lekela reached financial close on its West Bakr Wind Farm in the Gulf of Suez region of 1,166,829 1,200,000 1,137,730 Egypt. At 252 MW gross capacity, the project has taken Lekela to over 1,000 MW in construction or operations in the five years since we were estab1,000,000 lished. The West Bakr project joins our three existing sites under construction, which have progressed at 800,000 a rapid pace while prioritising safety and maintaining SDG 13 excellent environmental and social performance 600,000 throughout the year. Climate Action 400,000 340,510 200,000 136,940 0 2016 2017 2018 2019 14 • Lekela Power B.V. • 2019 Sustainability Report targets n SDG to p ac Im Lekela construction sites Egypt plans to generate 22% of its elec7.2 tricity from renewable In focus: sources by 2022 West Bakr Wind Farm West Bakr Wind Farm is now under construction in Egypt. Once complete the project will utilise 96 turbines and the excellent wind resource in the Gulf of Suez to generate up to 252 MW of power. With a 24-month construction period, the project will contribute towards the country’s goal of producing 20% of its electricity 110 158.7 from renewable sources by 2022. The project Perdekraal East Wind Farm Taiba N’Diaye Wind Farm is expected to have a capacity factor in excess MW MW of 50%, providing excellent zero-carbon power West Bakr Wind Farm Due for completion in the Western 55 MW operating with 103 MW due for availability for the Egyptian grid. In total the was the largest wind Cape, South Africa in mid-2020 commissioning in early 2020 project is anticipated to avoid over 550,000 7.2 power project to be tonnes of CO2 each year. Similar to Lekela’s brought under construcexisting projects, the West Bakr Wind Farm tion in Africa in 2019 is expected to boost local employment and contribute to local development in the region. It will also employ a state-of-the-art turbine shutdown programme to mitigate against impacts it might have otherwise had on migratory birds. One challenge for the project in 2019 was to reissue the wind farm’s environmental permit following a change in engineering, procurement and construction contractor. Proactive cooperation with all stakeholders ensured the changes did not The carbon emissions impact the construction schedule. One upside to avoided by this project the change was that the project’s installed capacity are the equivalent of could be expanded from 250 to 252 MW. Kangnas Wind Farm 140 West Bakr Wind Farm 252 13.3 MW MW removing 119,000 pas[1] Source: United States Environmental Protection Agency (2018) senger vehicles [1] from Due to be operational in the Northern the road Cape, South Africa in mid-2020 www.lekela.com • 15 2 Partnering with Lekela provides our staff, contractors and suppliers with safe working conditions, valuable training and competitive terms of employment, aiming to create lasting, mutually contractors and beneficial partnerships built on trust. In doing so, we build successful teams that deliver well-performing assets. This focus on looking after partners and contributors is key employees to achieving our goals but also serves to maintain the rigorous standards we place on our business – across health and safety (H&S), fair labour practices, community engagement, the environment and our integrity as a company. Our ESG commitments • Prioritising H&S – Final foundation • Ensuring fair labour practices completed at Kangnas • Achieving the highest standards with contractors and Wind Farm partners Highlights Over 1,800 construction jobs created, with 35% of these for local community members Challenges and learning A transport contractor suffered a fatality in a motor vehicle accident 16 • Lekela Power B.V. • 2019 Sustainability Report Contractors and employees Lekela sets the highest standards for how we treat the people we work with and in turn expect our employees, contractors and suppliers to apply these rigorous standards too. Fair labour practices Lekela’s performance depends on our ability to Lekela’s H&S Strategy commits to: recruit, develop and motivate a skilled workforce of We apply the International Labour Organization employees and contractors. We seek to treat our • Continuously assess and manage H&S risks Conventions alongside the IFC Performance people and contractors fairly, protect their health, • Maintain safe and clean assets Standards on environmental and social sustainability. safety and security and provide a positive working • Prepare for potential incidents and emergencies While safeguarding our workers is our top priority, environment. We value our partnerships for enabling • Provide regular and applicable H&S training our management policy extends to nurturing a Lekela to stand out as Africa’s leading renewable • Actively improve performance happy and motivated workforce. energy platform. When entering into agreements with partners and We expect our employees and contractors to match suppliers we aim to ensure our values are aligned our values and performance, and apply fair labour and their management systems reflect the stanpractices across all operations, following Lekela’s Prioritising health and safety dards set under our own. This means we can effecSocial Policy. This protects the rights of all workers: The power sector requires the most rigorous H&S tively monitor and manage H&S performance across directly employed, contracted and in our supply and security practices. We are fully committed to our entire portfolio. chain, and links to our aim of advancing human rights promoting the well-being, safety and welfare of our (p31). Our Social Policy commits us to: employees and contractors. • Promote good worker–management relations We also recognise that applying best practice tech• Protect rights to collective bargaining niques boosts our: • Manage grievances effectively • Operational efficiency • Prioritise local employment • Compliance with regulations and performance • Engage with communities standards • Develop work skills to aid recruitment • Corporate reputation Lekela employs based on job requirements and Upholding robust H&S standards and managecandidate skills, not personal characteristics. Our ment systems is vital in a pan-continental business employer–employee relationships put equal opporthat partners with contractors and suppliers under tunity and fair treatment first. diverse regulatory frameworks. Our management systems ensure our contractors maintain the international H&S standards that Lekela and our — Blade delivery at stakeholders expect. Perdekraal East www.lekela.com • 17 Workforce relations In focus: Lekela respects the right of all employees and contractors to organise collective bargaining or Delivering technical training to join a trade union. Our workforce has our full supyoung Senegalese port and we commit to participatory engagement with all employees and their representatives. Lekela funded technical traineeships for young adults living in the communiAll employees can also access our grievance ty around Parc Eolien Taiba N’Diaye in mechanism, ensuring that any issues our Senegal. We spoke to two of our trainees, workforce raises are dealt with quickly and Mamadou Ndour and Moussa Ndiaye, who transparently. This aids accessibility, accounts explained that the training offered an opfor cultural sensitivities and imposes no costs or portunity to young people whose families retribution on the concerned parties. couldn’t afford to fund further study. They gained a certificate of attainment recLocal employment ognised in the professional environment. We hire locally wherever we can, meaning commuThe traineeship was designed to equip nities are as involved as possible in the construction participants with knowledge attained and operation of our projects. Similarly, we work through classroom-based modules and closely with our contractors to train workers to parpractical experience gained through ticipate in construction and operations. training onsite at the windfarm. Classroom subjects included English and electrical Local procurement wiring. The field training, delivered by the farm’s primary electrical works subcontracWhile Lekela often contracts with global equiptor, focused on its substation, electrical ment manufacturers to deliver our projects, works installation and commissioning we seek to ensure that procurement is done process. Mamadou and Moussa explained through local suppliers and subcontractors that the trainees participated with great as much as possible. A key consideration is to enthusiasm, building good relationships offer fair and competitive terms of business. with their field trainers, classroom tutors This aims to help our projects deliver positive and one another. socioeconomic impacts and provide lasting employment opportunities. As well as seeking Mamadou and Moussa hope the training local consultants to assist with project developwill help the boost the participants’ job ment, we prioritise local suppliers in community prospects, thereby reducing the uneminvestment opportunities. ployment rate of young people in the com– Technical trainees at munity and contributing to its economy. Taiba N’Diaye See Section 3: Empowering local communities for more on our approach to communities. 18 • Lekela Power B.V. • 2019 Sustainability Report A conversation about: Partnerships in outreach activities that promote community health and safety We spoke to Ousmane Diedhiou, Parc Eolien Taiba N’Diaye (PETN)’s Community Liaison Officer, and Kalilou Sagna, the Social Coordinator of Vestas (Lekela’s primary construction contractor). This team works together to facilitate outreach activities on community health and safety in Senegal. — Ousmane Diedhiou How do the activities aim to protect the community? During the construction phase we focused on safety measures to — Ousmane Diedhiou avoid incidents at the site when the machines are operating. Local (left) and Kalilou communities appreciated this communication, as many farmers and Sagna (right) with a families work in fields next to the works. We also ran activities in local farmer schools to make sure young people understand the risks of being in the operation areas. Safety measures include staying at least 300m away from the turbine components during construction. What do community members think of outreach activities? Feedback from our community indicates that PETN’s outreach helps maintain the company’s close links and relationship with the local communities. It shares a lot of information – through mosques, women and youth groups – about safety during the construction and installation phases. Have the activities affected the relationship between the community and the wind farm? They have greatly strengthened relations between the local communities and the wind farm and the exchanges are very cordial. — Kalilou Sagna Many people regularly come to share and exchange with the PETN team at our offices in Taiba N’Diaye. Is there a plan for future activities? We intend to continue communication with the 35 villages of the Taiba N’Diaye commune during the operational phase – different communication is needed for each phase of the project. www.lekela.com • 19 Contractor and employee ESG commitments and targets Commitments 2019 targets 2019 performance 2020 targets No LTIs on operational sites  No LTIs on operational sites  No LTIs on operational sites Total Recordable Incident Rate (LTIs, Prioritising H&S Outperform the US Occupational Safety and Outperform the US Occupational Safety and Health AdministraRWCs, MTCs) of 1.27 per 200,000 Pursuing continual improveHealth Administration (OSHA) Total Recordable Incidence Rate for utility system construction [2]  hours worked and an LTI rate of 0.51  tion (OSHA) Total Recordable Incidence Rate for utility system construction [2] ments with the aim of achievper 200,000 hours worked ing zero harm [1] Conduct at least one third-party health and Third party health and safety audits Establish a Lekela H&S Forum including all operational sites to leversafety audit at all construction sites to review processes against best practice  completed at each construction site [3]  age experience from across our markets No serious grievances from Lekela No serious grievances from Lekela employees and No serious grievances from Lekela employees and resolve 80% of resolve 80% of grievances within 30 days  employees, 100% of Lekela employee grievances resolved within 30 days  grievances within 30 days Ensuring fair labour practices At each construction site establish a Worker ComIn addition to site Worker Committees, at our new construction sites Worker Committee functional at each mittee to promote engagement and discussion on labour practices and working conditions  construction site [3]  implement weekly labour spot checks to check compliance with IFC Performance Standards Conduct defensive driver training for at least Implement a group-wide transportation and driving policy that will also 100% of Lekela and Lekela subsidiary 90% of the drivers employed by Lekela (or those subsidiaries managed by Lekela)  drivers trained in defensive driving  be applied to contractors and partners that accords with international best standards Achieving the highest standards with contractors and partners Technical training sessions delivered Undertake training exercises at all projects under construction to boost local employment  at each construction site increasing  Establish a partnership to operate construction and operations vocational training with contractors at the West Bakr Wind Farm in Egypt access to local employment pool [3]  Target fulfilled  Target on track  Target unfulfilled [1] all LTI performance figures and targets include direct Lekela employees and all contractors [2] Lekela aims to outperform the US OSHA Total Recordable Incidence Rate for our industry. In 2018 the OSHA rates for utility system construction (NAICS 2371) were published as 2.3 per 200,000 hours and 1.3 per 200,000 hours (for LTIs and RWCs combined) by the Labor Statistics. Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics [3] West Bakr Wind Farm construction site established in December 2019 Health, safety and environmental (HSE) audit, Worker Committee and technical training to coincide with mobilisation of main subcontractors during 2020 LTI – lost time incident: a work accident that requires an employee or contractor to spend days away from work to recover RWC – restricted work case: the requirement for an employee or contractor to be temporarily reassigned to a different task at work as a result of an accident MTC – medical treatment case: a work accident that requires treatment beyond first aid 20 • Lekela Power B.V. • 2019 Sustainability Report – Livestock in the fields at Taiba N’Diaye www.lekela.com • 21 3 Empowering local Building and operating renewable power plants is the cornerstone of Lekela’s business strategy. However, we always accompany this by taking an active role in initiatives that support the communities long-term prosperity of the communities where we operate. Our business model and participatory approach aim to make a lasting positive impact. We aim to generate employment opportunities during construction and operation either ourselves or by appointing local service providers. We also fund education, enterprise and environmental initiatives from project revenues. We aim to make a positive, transformative impact on our host communities and further afield in Africa, securing our social licence to operate now and into the future. Our ESG commitments • Engaging with communities • Investing in education, enterprise and the environment • Accessing land responsibly – Local farmers Highlights transporting produce in Taiba N’Diaye More than 4,500 children and youths at schools and nurseries supported by Lekela’s community investment programme Challenges and learning Completing livelihood restoration for 415 households economically impacted by our project in Senegal (see p27) 22 • Lekela Power B.V. • 2019 Sustainability Report Community engagement Lekela is highly invested in the communities where we work – aiming to support their long-term prosperity by creating jobs directly and indirectly, investing in community initiatives and operating systems to appropriately manage grievances. We recognise that shared value is best delivered by talking openly with local communities and other stakeholders close to where we operate. Such engagement is a valued aspect of our approach to project development and operations, providing a transparent and inclusive platform to inform our strategy, objectives and values. Using a two-way dialogue that is timely, transparent and inclusive to build trust, we aim to reduce social risk and optimise positive relationships with stakeholders across our project lifecycles. – Community We integrate our engagement process in every project from the earliest stages engagement event for of development or project acquisition, dedicating a Lekela employee to work Kangnas Wind Farm together with, and empower, local communities. Lekela’s approach to engagement and communities is set out in our Social Policy. Grievance management Our grievance management systems help us respond to issues raised by communities affected by our projects, thereby supporting participatory engagement. Every project has a grievance mechanism to receive, and help resolve, any concerns raised by the communities. In 2019 Lekela started using a web-based application (TIMBY) to log and manage grievances by employees in the field. This has significantly improved our processes by enabling employees to respond and track resolutions in real time, while improving governance and accountability. We inform communities about the mechanism from the start of our engagement with them. Any serious or recurring grievances are discussed by Lekela’s senior management team at ESG Committee meetings (p37). www.lekela.com • 23 Creating local employment When entering new markets and communities, Lekela strives During a project’s life, job opportunities emerge in three to widen our positive impact on jobs and skills development, key areas whether or not this is a contractual or regulatory requirement. Construction – While an asset is being built, a significant number of jobs All the assets we develop are able to support jobs – both diare available for up to two years. Workers are given training and skills rectly and indirectly – throughout their lifecycles. Our particidevelopment opportunities to boost their eligibility for future roles. Once patory approach to development prioritises local communities assets transition to operations, we seek to ensure that workers have a and suitably qualified nationals for employment opportunities record of these skills so they can pursue future construction jobs. wherever possible. To support this, we invest in skills development and training programmes to encourage community Peak number of jobs supported on our three conparticipation. We work closely with our contractors to make these accessible, using frequent communication and workshops struction sites in 2019: 1,892 to upskill workers. Operations – Renewable energy projects typically operate for between If appropriate training opportunities are made avail20 and 25 years. We also aim to employ suitably qualified local workers as able then local participation in the workforce can priority in this phase. Where possible, Lekela and our contractors provide be enhanced significantly. This is especially skills and training to enable optimum community participation. important in communities where there Enterprise development – Our community investment programmes is limited experience of large-scale are designed to build capacity for enterprise in local communities, aiming infrastructure projects. – Construction workers to support meaningful jobs that extend beyond our direct operations. celebrating the completion We hope our investment plans will positively impact job creation for long of the final foundation at after the operational lifespan of our projects. Taiba N’Diaye Wind Farm Skills programmes to catalyse employment In both Egypt and Senegal Lekela is developing skills programmes for local communities. In Senegal we worked together with a local construction partner to offer skills development for youths, while in Egypt we plan to upskill community members to participate in both construction and future operations as these activities ramp up in 2020. 24 • Lekela Power B.V. • 2019 Sustainability Report Community investment To increase our participation in local communities and deliver • In South Africa we have continued to support all levels of shared value, Lekela sets aside a portion of our energy revenue education in each of our communities. In 2019 we built for community investment schemes. on the success of the previous year, which saw improved teaching resources, learning infrastructure and attainment Our projects are based in countries with immense and varied levels in key subjects such as maths, literacy and science. development challenges. Many communities have low levels In addition to supporting schools, in 2019 our community of formal education and employment, insufficient healthcare, investment funds have supported 18 students with bursaries – New market place in environmental degradation, inadequate infrastructure and for higher education. Taiba N’Diaye poor living conditions. Enterprise and job creation Lekela’s Community Investment Strategy sets out our collective response to these challenges. We use participatory community • In Senegal we completed our second marketplace for the engagement to identify focus areas that make best use of our Taiba N’Diaye commune. With more than 60 covered stalls it expertise and competencies as a renewable energy business. has allowed women vendors to relocate from the makeshift shelters they previously used. By providing a safe and secure Our three focus areas for community investment are: trading environment, the marketplace will help contribute to • Education and skills job creation in the area. • Employment and enterprise • In South Africa our three operational projects have contin• Environment and energy ued supporting entrepreneurs through business incubation Our participatory approach to investment continues throughprogrammes. New businesses were launched in 2019 and out the project lifecycle, ensuring our investment strategy is existing enterprises were developed to support additional flexible to the changing needs and socioeconomic challenges jobs. An example of a successful venture is a new cooperacommunities face. tive established in Loeriesfontein that supports 15 full-time jobs providing local services such as construction, cleaning, catering and home-based care. Examples of our 2019 community investment Energy and the environment initiatives Education and skills • In Egypt Lekela has helped establish a Centre of Excellence for Bird Monitoring Training in the Gulf of Suez. We • In Senegal we started building a new Information Technolsponsored 38 trainees through courses in 2019, capacitating ogy Centre for the Taiba N’Diaye High School in October these individuals to seek work as bird observers on the many 2019. The new facility will provide vital e-learning resources wind farms being developed in the region. to more than 1,500 students. • In South Africa we continued work on Loeriesfontein’s sports – Loeriesfontein Safe Park • We forged a partnership with our electrical works contracfield refurbishment, upgrading floodlighting and installing an tor to provide vocational training for young people from improved irrigation system from the water treatment plant the Taiba N’Diaye community. Read our ‘In focus’ case constructed in 2018. study to understand more about this initiative (p18). www.lekela.com • 25 In focus: Building a safe and vibrant marketplace Lekela’s social investment programme in 2019 funded a new marketplace in a village in Taiba N’Diaye, Senegal, at the request of a local women’s association. This builds on the previous year’s successful completion of a marketplace in the next-door village, Mbayenne. Those who have been making use of it were happy to discuss some of the benefits they have experienced since its completion. Vendor, Nogaye Diop, explains that women from eight of the surrounding villages now come to the Mbayenne market to buy and sell products. She describes the sheltered market hall – which replaced outdoor stalls under trees – as an “achievement of quality and beauty”. She says it’s a “good social investment” for local women, boosting the hygiene and safety of their selling space as well as vendors’ sales and incomes. Madame Diop says her community very much welcomes the establishment of the new lively marketplace for the economy of the municipality of Taiba N’Diaye. 26 • Lekela Power B.V. • 2019 Sustainability Report Accessing land responsibly and managing our impact In focus: Seeking to enhance projectWe seek to avoid and, where that is not possible, minimise any affected people’s livelihoods adverse impacts our operations could have on communities and – Abdou Gueye with Abdou Gueye received financial compenproject CLOs stakeholders by using a precautionary approach. sation through Taiba N’Diaye’s Livelihood Restoration Programme that he used to buy a field of mango trees. He also reLand use is one of the most challenging astheir existing standards of living. From the start ceived a plot in the irrigated garden Lekela pects of project development and we work to of construction in 2018 Lekela has assisted has created to boost agricultural producensure that consultations with all stakeholders 415 economically impacted families with the tion for those farmers most impacted by are transparent and exhaustive in ensuring following initiatives: the wind farm’s footprint. equitable outcomes. • Transitional financing Abdou explains there has been “intensive We employ dedicated community liaison officers • Economic tree replacements reforestation by field owners”. Alongside to encourage community participation, increase • Financial management training mangos, affected farmers have used mondissemination and transparency of project details, • Irrigated garden establishment ey they saved through the programme to and respond to community feedback. buy and replant cashew and lemon trees, During construction it was especially challenging Where certain adverse impacts are unavoidable, for our community team, who had to undertook among others. Lekela takes care to consider all stakeholdregular communications on works with many Abdou also attended financial education ers affected, and establishes programmes to impacted individuals. As an example, it was imtraining organised by Lekela, which is “very restore and enhance the livelihoods impacted portant to ensure that none of the 5,000 mango well appreciated by local communities”. by the project. saplings distributed as tree replacements would He says it has impacted him positively by be planted within the construction footprint at teaching him how to better manage his risk of being felled. In the few situations when investments for the future, so “they can Livelihood restoration in Senegal trees were mistakenly cut, our community team bring back some additional resources”. Before the first phase of the Parc Eolien followed up with a timely investigation and proTaiba N’Diaye wind farm was operational, we Abdou believes the programme has envided requisite compensation to those involved. completed the programme to restore and hanced the living conditions and well-being Although the initiatives are now established, of people living in his community – many enhance the livelihoods of people and families Lekela continues to support and engage with of whom have also used their grants to adversely impacted by its footprint. Following the impacted households, alongside running a improve their houses. our standards, and those defined by the IFC, we monitoring and evaluation programme to help set out to help families adjust to any disruption achieve maximum benefits from the initiatives. from the project, and at a minimum maintain www.lekela.com • 27 Community ESG commitments and targets Commitments 2019 targets 2019 performance 2020 targets While classified in severity as minor grievZero serious community grievances and 80% of grievances, Lekela considers the recurring issues Zero serious community grievances and 80% of grievances ances to be resolved within 30 days  related to contractor encroachment as a  to be resolved within 30 days serious community grievance in aggregate Engaging with communities Mobile application deployed to manage Implement a cross-portfolio technology solution that Undertake quarterly community newsletters for projects streamlines grievance management for Lekela staff  grievances on site and remotely while in the field  under construction in Egypt and Senegal Implement a programme to monitor and evaluate Community investment monitoring and Implement an environment-related community investment the developmental impacts of Lekela’s community investments  evaluation programme implemented  initiative in each country of our operations Investing in education, enterprise and the environment Establish apprenticeships at our projects focusing on Youth training programme established at Support at least 100 jobs and sponsor at least 20 educavocational training and encouraging the participation of female candidates where possible  Taiba N’Diaye with 41% participation from female candidates  tional bursaries through Lekela’s community investment programme Complete the second phase of Taiba LRP, including Irrigated gardens established and mango Establish an LRP-specific monitoring and evaluation prothe establishment of irrigated gardens in the project area and a tree replacement programme for farmers  tree replacements distributed to impacted farmers across the project area  gramme, applied by an independent third party, to ensure it leads to sustainable positive impacts adversely impacted by the project Accessing land responsibly Finalise project land acquisition including for the AyiteLand acquisition for Ayitepa project pa transmission-line Right of Way in accordance with international standards  finalised  Improving gender Implement gender-focused community interventions across equality and driving women’s empowerment New commitment for 2020 based on an evolution of Lekela’s material areas  the portfolio, beginning with a gender assessment  Target fulfilled  Target on track  Target unfulfilled LRP livelihood restoration programme 28 • Lekela Power B.V. • 2019 Sustainability Report 4 Protecting the As a market leader in delivering and operating renewable energy projects in Africa, we aim to minimise as far as possible our impact on the environment, while also responding to environenvironment mental issues such as climate change and habitat degradation. Through our fully integrated environmental management approach, we seek to identify any negative impacts our operations could have on local landscapes and biodiversity, and manage these as a priority. At every stage of a project we respond to risks and ensure impacts are mitigated – from project screening, through construction and operations, to final decommissioning. With this approach we are well placed to deliver net environmental benefits to local communities and ecosystems. Our ESG commitments • Mitigating against and adapting to climate change • Managing our lifecycle impacts • Preserving and enhancing biodiversity Highlights Sponsoring 38 trainees to complete ornithology training in Egypt, increasing local capacity to manage wind farm-related biodiversity risks Undertaking a Climate Resiliency Assessment to map the potential climate risks posed to communities near our operational wind farms – Taiba N’Diaye Wind Farm Challenges and learning Falling short of targets to avoid ambitious amounts of emissions and water use through the renewable power we generated in 2019 30 • Lekela Power B.V. • 2019 Sustainability Report Mitigating against and adapting to climate change In focus: Protecting the environment is at the heart of Lekela’s operations as Climate resiliency well as our business model, and we design and run our projects to Climate change forecasts show that vulnerable communities will be impacted across Africa, and in previous minimise adverse impacts and deliver net environmental gains. reports we have recognised that it is important for companies like ours to support climate resilience and Africa is exposed to many negative impacts of climate adaptation strategies where we operate. change. In response, the continent is contributing to the international effort to mitigate it, with African economies This year we explored the links between community making ambitious commitments under the 2015 Paris vulnerability and climate risks, noting that our commuAgreement to help keep global warming below 2ºC. Some key findings across nity development programmes must account for these communities risks and vulnerabilities to be sustainable and conAt Lekela our business model means we can contribute tribute to resilience. The thrust of this was a Climate to this mitigation effort; delivering low-carbon power can Risks Resiliency Assessment with the following objectives: improve the economic and environmental sustainability of countries’ energy mixes. We can also improve resilience so • Longer and more frequent heat • Understand the present-day and near future (within waves/warm spells that communities and countries are equipped to adapt to a 20-year horizon) implications of climate change the forecast impacts of climate change. • Increases in daytime and nightfor Africa time temperature extremes • Identify which socioeconomic vulnerabilities of our • Higher incidence of drought host communities are most exposed to forecast Reducing emissions conditions climate risks Climate change poses huge risks. Social, environmental • Increasing trend of heavy precip• Use this information to better integrate climate and economic costs could be significant if action is not itation change mitigation and adaptation strategies in taken to decarbonise. Yet securing affordable, clean and Vulnerabilities Lekela’s broader Community Investment Strategy reliable energy can help enable sustainable development. • Reliance on agricultural Job creation and enterprise development, local Lekela commits to mitigate climate change by delivering livelihoods sensitive to projected content use and environmental stewardship can help low-emission, renewable technology. In doing so, we can climate change impacts contribute to Africa’s future prosperity. Climate change help African countries achieve low-carbon development puts all these at risk. Lekela seeks to ensure that and fulfil their commitments to the Paris Agreement. mitigating risk, and using opportunities to successfully adapt, are central to our Community Investment Safeguarding the future Strategy and our wider work with our partners, local communities and the environment. From the earliest stages of development, we design our projects with environmental resilience in mind. We identiThis approach safeguards Lekela’s social licence to opfy, assess and mitigate potential hazards so our operaerate and ensures our long-term sustainability and that tions have long-term environmental sustainability. This of our stakeholders, including our host communities, approach safeguards our performance as a business and employees, contractors and wider society. helps increase the integrity of energy supply, which we hope will contribute to the energy security of countries in which we operate. www.lekela.com • 31 Managing our environmental impact Best practice environmental stewardship includes adhering to interWater and construction nationally recognised performance standards, such as those of the IFC, as well as those set out by our own policies and commitments. From the outset of construction, Lekela aims Through our principles of governance and partnership, we strive to to use water in a way that does not negatively maintain these standards across all our operations and hold our direct employees, contractors and suppliers to them. impact people or the environment. To minimise our environmental impact and deliver a net benefit to communities and the environment, we have two main priorities: Many of our assets are based in regions that are arid with limited and poor-quality water supplies, so water scarcity is a major concern for • Ensure effective resource management during construction our local stakeholders. Hence sustainable water management is key, • Create action plans that effectively manage environmental issues especially during the construction period when our demand for water and deliver positive impacts on biodiversity is greatest. We use water assessments and management plans to prevent any adverse impacts on water supplies are mitigated. Our management systems • Wind power’s low demand for water relative to other sources of From the outset, Lekela uses environmental management systems power generation means it is ideally placed to operate in arid envithat seek to limit and mitigate any negative environmental impacts of ronments with the least impact on other users. our projects. Before construction, each project has a full environmental and social impact assessment. These identify environmental risks so appropriate responses can be developed and applied across the project lifecycle. Once construction and operations are underway, we employ a full environmental and social management system. For projects with identified risks to biodiversity, Lekela establishes detailed biodiversity action plans to avoid, reduce and offset any potential negative impacts. Lifecycle impacts and construction The construction phase is the most significant in determining a wind farm’s lifetime environmental impact. The most significant impacts arise from the use of raw materials – especially concrete, steel and aluminium – which are resource intensive to produce. With our construction partners, we seek to reduce our construction footprint. – Kangnas Wind Farm substation 32 • Lekela Power B.V. • 2019 Sustainability Report Preserving and enhancing biodiversity In focus: Lekela seeks to avoid or, where this is not possible, minimise potential Training community members to avoid negative effects on biodiversity brought about by our operations. When risks to migrating birds negative material impacts occur after mitigation strategies have been Eslam Mohamed Ibrahim was a trainee at the implemented, we will pursue offsetting measures to remedy residual impacts. ornithological centre Lekela helped to set up in Egypt’s Gulf of Suez region. He explained that he Evidence shows that bats and birdlife can be vulnerable • Over the next two years of construction, we will finalise heard about the training during a community event during wind farm operations. Bird and bat mortality has an active turbine management programme that will held by Lekela in 2018 and straight away expressed been observed at wind farm sites around the world, leadcombine the use of radar and bird spotters to shut his interest in taking part. ing to recommendations that operators rigorously monitor down specific turbines when migratory birds are in their before, during and after construction. When we identify range. This system will minimise the risks to migratory He said the centre itself was really good – the right risks to bat and birdlife, we employ specialists to monitor birds on-site, while maintaining optimum annual energy size for the number of trainees and equipped with activity and apply appropriate mitigation measures to production from the site. training tools such as a presentation monitor and offset risks. Regular reporting ensures we have a responsound system. sive strategy to keep negative impacts to a minimum and Following the training, Eslam would now love to Hooded vultures in Senegal ensure no net loss to biodiversity during our operations. join a consultant firm responsible for bird monitorHooded vultures are in rapid decline in Africa and listed as ing activities and the active turbine management a critically endangered species. As the Taiba N’Diaye projBiodiversity management at programme in the area. He thinks the training will ect is located within the habitat range of hooded vultures, West Bakr Wind Farm open up job opportunities “as there will be new we are working to mitigate any negative impact on and wind developments in our region in the near fuThe Gulf of Suez is an important migratory bird fly-way deliver a net gain to the species. ture”. He noted the clear advantage of the centre during spring and autumn for several weeks. For four years Pre-construction research comprehensively indicated that being established nearby his community, making we have monitored migration patterns to understand whethhooded vultures in Senegal tend to concentrate near inthe training accessible to local people. er wind energy will adversely impact bird migration and what habited areas where they often visit abattoirs, marketplacmeasures can be taken to mitigate any potential impacts. es and rubbish dumps. The vast majority (96%) of hooded • Lekela has committed to operate in the Gulf of Suez vultures were observed near towns and villages, and none with no net loss to biodiversity. With our first project were seen in the project area. under construction, we are continuing to develop proWe are expanding on this research and have committed to grammes to ensure we achieve this aim. Our first step undertake operational-phase monitoring in the wider projbeyond monitoring was to work with local stakeholdect area to continue to expand the regional understanding ers – the Egyptian Environmental Affairs Agency and of vulture activity. We are aiming to use this research to the Migratory Soaring Birds Project – to help establish guide a programme to manage domestic waste deposits a fit-for-purpose ornithological training centre in the (known to attract scavenging birds and cause vulture region. Established in 2018, this institution is helping deaths through poisoning) and supplementary feeding to build local capacity to manage biodiversity risks at outside the project area. wind energy facilities in Egypt. In 2018 we committed to support trainees through the programme, but greatly exceeded our expectations in 2019 when 38 candidates completed the training at the centre. www.lekela.com • 33 Environmental ESG commitments and targets Commitments 2019 targets 2019 performance 2020 targets 1.17 million tonnes of CO2 emissions Undertake an emissions assessment in order for Lekela to Avoid over 1.25 million tonnes of CO2 emissions  avoided [1]  set a pathway to achieve carbon neutrality as an organisation Helping climate change mitigation and adaptation Climate change resiliency framework Develop a climate change resiliency framework that established through an assessment of Integrate Lekela’s climate resiliency considerations into existwill enable Lekela to assess the resiliency and adaptive community vulnerability in the context of  ing community investment strategies capacity of communities near our assets  predicted climate scenarios Zero serious environmental incidents Zero serious environmental incidents  Zero serious environmental incidents Managing our lifecycle  impacts Avoid over 1.96 billion litres of water use 1.79 billion litres of water use avoided [2]  Avoid over 1.96 billion litres of water use  Full year of avifauna monitoring completed Gather another year of data at operational sites on aviSuccessfully apply recommended mitigation measures if adat all South African sites. Monitoring at fauna mortality and, if necessary, apply independently vised by biodiversity monitoring consultants at South African Preserving and enhancing biodiversity recommended mitigation measures  Taiba N’Diaye Wind Farm commenced in December  operational projects Lekela commits to upholding IFC Performance Standard 6 Additional surveys established that the for all assets. This means we Use the Taiba N’Diaye project research and monitoring to Establish the operational commitments to deliver net Taiba N’Diaye project poses low-risk to must avoid impacts on biodibiodiversity gains for hooded vultures in the region hooded vultures. Diversionary feeding and  implement a supplementary feeding programme for hooded versity, and where avoidance is  research assistance committed for 2020 vultures in Senegal not possible, pursue adequate mitigation measures and/or establish offsetting to deliver Commission new research to understand the relationship 38 ornithologists trained through the Gulf net gains to biodiversity Complete the first round of Lekela-sponsored ornibetween regional climatic conditions and bird migration in thology training of Suez Centre of Excellence in Egypt,  the Gulf of Suez, with the aim to inform avifauna mitigation  sponsored by Lekela programmes  Target fulfilled  Target on track  Target unfulfilled Although wind farm operational availability was excel[1] lent in 2019, wind conditions were lower than average based on an electricity grid emission factor of 0.9 tonnes of CO2 per MWh for South Africa, 0.59 tonnes per MWh for Senegal relative to our respective during the period. Despite this we continue to recoggeneration in those countries in 2019 [2] nise wind energy’s significant contribution to reducing based on South Africa’s electricity system using an average of 1,400 litres per MWh generated hour (Senegal litres per MWh unavailable) and approxiemissions and water consumption. mately 1.28 GWh of energy production in South Africa in 2019 34 • Lekela Power B.V. • 2019 Sustainability Report – Components stored before installation at Taiba N’Diaye Wind Farm www.lekela.com • 35 5 Our commitment to integrity is one of the cornerstones of our ESG StratIntegrity egy. For us, integrity forms the foundation on which we build partnerships, interact with communities and protect the environment. We believe that it goes without saying that compliance with legislation and regulations is crucial for a well-governed business. We view lasting relationships based on trust with our stakeholders as an important element of sustainability. Our stakeholders include the communities in which we operate and the governments and partners we work with. We believe that an ethical approach should be at the centre of sustainable business. We embed ethical standards in our governance framework, internal policies and professional standards; these in turn form the basis on which we engage with our stakeholders. This gives us confidence that we can deliver the most benefits possible while avoiding or minimising any negative impacts to the communities in which we operate. It also ensures consistent adherence to environmental and social standards across our portfolio of operations. Our ESG commitments • Maintaining robust governance of environmental and social issues • Upholding the highest ethical standards when we do business • Treating people fairly Highlights Carrying out enhanced training and risk assessment workshops with regards to anti-bribery and corruption in local offices Implementing externally facilitated whistleblowing hotline – Some of the Perdekraal East construction team Challenges and learning In our first year of producing a statement for the Modern Slavery Act we were unable to complete a comprehensive risk assessment of third-party suppliers which remains an ongoing work stream 36 • Lekela Power B.V. • 2019 Sustainability Report Who is accountable for integrity? A conversation with: Amadou Sow – Senegal E&S Manager Lekela ensures integrity and ethical business What does your role at Lekela cover? practices by choosing to be accountable to the In short, my role is to implement the How does environmental and social highest international standards and by embedding environmental and social management management at the Taiba N’Diaye system for the Taiba N’Diaye Wind Project connect with Lekela’s broadgood processes across our organisation. Farm. This has included implementing er sustainability commitments? the livelihood restoration programme We have the technical support and Lekela is committed to upholding the managed by our senior leadership. (LRP) and the biodiversity conserguidance of the group’s management highest ethical standards wherever we vation programme, and maintaining team. All our procedures at Taiba are The board of directors of Lekela Power stakeholder relations. I also ensure based on the guidelines defined by the do business. We strive to respect human B.V. (the Board) is responsible for ESG that employees and contractors group’s ESG strategy, and all documents rights in all our dealings with our stakematters across the group. The Board are working safely and treated well. produced are reviewed and validated by holders. We hold ourselves accountable has empowered the ESG Committee Finally, Lekela supports community the group before implementation. We by embedding integrity in our goverto provide close oversight and strong investment as a tool to promote local also communicate regularly – monthly nance framework, and by making sure governance in this area. development and I manage the implereports are provided to Lekela manageour ESG initiatives are overseen and mentation of these projects in Taiba. ment, while we hold regular calls with the ESG team and participate in quarterly What are the key challenges that Who is responsible for delivering you have experienced in delivering the project through construction board meetings. Where do you think Lekela can our ESG Strategy? and into operations? The construction phase involved some demonstrate best practice as a power company and deliver greatsocial challenges. We worked with the est positive impact? The ESG Committee is a specialist The ESG Committee meets at least contractors to maximise employment In my opinion, our stakeholder engagecommittee that oversees, guides and quarterly, and more often if significant from the local community and meet ment programme at Taiba N’Diaye governs how we achieve our ESG ESG issues arise or are anticipated. local expectations. The project also has been a success. Lekela can model Strategy. It monitors Lekela’s compliThis ensures our environmental and impacted land users in the area. These future engagement on our experience ance with legislation and best practice social performance is under regular impacts were managed through the while making sure to adapt for different codes and reports to the Board and review and that key ESG risks and LRP. However, keeping regusocio cultural contexts. Lekela has also Lekela’s shareholders on the group’s opportunities are reported and under lar contact with over 400 established a corporate monitoring performance in ESG matters. Our CEO active management. individuals spread over 35 and evaluation framework that is being is a member of the ESG Committee villages during construcrolled out to measure the social impact Lekela also has an ESG team which and senior management actively tion posed a challenge. of its operations. From my experience supports the ESG Committee and the directs and contributes to the group’s Fortunately, open in the ESG and extractive industries Board by implementing and deliverESG initiatives. communications and sector this should be of significant ing the ESG strategy. Our operating an effective grievbenefit to our community development The ESG Committee’s focus areas are: regions have complex and evolving deance mechanism programme. It should reveal what the velopment requirements and this team • Health, safety and the environment draws on the expertise of consultants, ensured transparenchallenges are and also what delivers • Community relations, investment NGOs and others to keep our ESG cy and maintained most success in this community. We’ll and development positive relations be able to apply some of these lessons policies, procedures and programmes – Amadou Sow • Business integrity focused and responsive to the needs of with people impacted across the portfolio. • ESG risk management our stakeholders. by the project. www.lekela.com • 37 How do we practice integrity when we do business? We work to ambitious standards. ComLekela also has its own policies and procepliance with laws and regulations is the dures which set the standard for behaviour minimum standard against which Lekela expected of employees and officers in the measures itself. We are also guided by intergroup. Lekela’s Code of Business Conduct national best practice, as set out in the UN and Ethics (Code of Conduct) makes it clear Guiding Principles on Business and Human that business integrity, social responsibility, Rights, the IFC Performance Standards, health and safety, protecting the environthe ILO Core Conventions and the Univerment and the dignity and respect of emsal Declaration of Human Rights. These ployees are key to the business. The Code standards are the overarching framework in of Conduct forms the backbone of Lekela’s which Lekela operates. internal ethical framework. How do we manage bribery and corruption risks? Lekela’s Anti-Bribery and Corruption (ABAC) recognise and deal with bribery and corruption Policy sets out our approach to ethical busiissues. Lekela continues to implement and ness dealings and our zero-tolerance position further develop our ABAC training proon bribery and any form of corruption. grammes .for all employees. Our associates, including contractors, partners As Lekela grows as a business, our risk and suppliers, are made aware of and held to, management framework necessarily needs our required high standards. At the start of to adapt to suit a more complex operational potential engagements, we conduct riskenvironment. During 2019 and early 2020 based due diligence (which may also include we provided enhanced ABAC training for assessment by external risk consultants) to our employees and held detailed ABAC risk help identify risks to corruption or political assessment workshops in Egypt, Senegal and exposure. We seek strong contractual protecSouth Africa. We will use our findings from tions in our agreements with counterparties. these workshops to monitor and manage risks at both local and group level. Lekela employees, and those working for or with us, are given guidance on how to 38 • Lekela Power B.V. • 2019 Sustainability Report How do we treat people? In focus: For Lekela, respecting human rights translates into fair employment practices for our employees. Our Code of Mitigating risks of slavery and human trafficking Conduct and Staff Handbook emphasise our commitment Lekela condemns any form of modern slavery or human traffickto dignity at work, respect for co-workers and freedom ing. We recognise the risk in our sector and some places where from discrimination on any grounds. we operate, especially when engaging with third-party providers. This is supported across our operations by establishing In 2019 we published our first Transparency Statement detailing project-specific grievance mechanisms that all our staff how we mitigate these risks. and contractors have access to. The aim is to ensure that everyone is treated fairly and with dignity. In summary: We also seek to make positive contributions in the commuSupply chain: Risks are highest in the construction phase. Our nities in which we operate. Lekela works hard to understand first-tier suppliers – the contractors providing the equipment the social challenges faced in the communities that host for our wind farms – must comply with the UK Modern Slavery our operations. Our engagement process helped us to Act 2015; we assess their compliance. identify where our ESG Strategy could address challenges Relevant policies: We are revising our Code of Conduct to in the following areas: ensure it sets a clear message on this topic. We also have a Social • Health, safety and security (p17) Policy, which sets out how we treat our workforce and communities. • Labour practices (p17) Due diligence processes: In 2020 we plan to document how • Community development and investment (p25) our due diligence processes reduce the risk of slavery or traf• Accessing land responsibly (p26) ficking in our supply chain. We aim to bring positive change to our host communities Risk management: We maintain an ESG risk register for each but recognise we may not always get it right at first and asset (which includes the risk of trafficking and slavery). therefore have grievance mechanisms in place at each project site to give community members a way to bring Effective action: Contractors provide labour management any concerns to our attention. By actively supporting the plans explaining how they – and their subcontractors – meet communities and providing access to remedy, we show our labour and working conditions standards. We seek improveour commitment to dignity and integrity. With integrity as ments where we identify non-conformity. the base on which we grow our business and execute our Training: We regularly train staff who manage key suppliers ESG Strategy, we boost our ability to deliver clean, reliable and work with local communities. energy across Africa alongside our partners, while fostering positive change in our host communities and protecting the environment that supports us. www.lekela.com • 39 Integrity ESG commitments and targets Commitments 2019 targets 2019 performance 2020 targets Design enhanced refresher ABAC training programme Refresher ABAC training 100% completed Engage a third party to conduct audit and verification of and roll out training across the group  across the group  Lekela’s internal controls Ensuring robust governance practices Integrate ABAC risk assessment methodology in group Internal first phase risk assessments subComplete internal risk assessment and update of group risk risk management processes  stantially progressed  management processes Upholding the highest Establish an external whistleblower hotline to provide Undertake an exercise to codify and widely promote Lekela’s ethical standards when we do business a safe, secure and confidential escalation route for all  Lekela’s Whistleblower Policy and Hotline implemented, including employee training  employee values, including the value of upholding our ethical standards by acting with integrity employees and contractors First phase undertaken – to assess Undertake workshops with Lekela business units to underUndertake an exercise to map human rights risks across our operations  country-level risks for each of Lekela’s business units  stand the capacity of our controls and policies to mitigate human rights risks Implement training on modern slavery to help Lekela Roll out training including human rights and modern slavery Respecting human rights ESG personnel attended UN Global Comemployees better understand modern slavery risks and mitigation actions  pact Working Group on Modern Slavery  aspects at the project level for all Lekela environmental and social staff Publish our first transparency statement to describe Lekela’s first transparency statement on Ensure modern slavery risk is captured in the quarterly risk the steps we have taken to mitigate the risks of slavery or forced labour in our organisation and supply chain  modern slavery published  registers for each project  Target fulfilled  Target on track  Target unfulfilled 40 • Lekela Power B.V. • 2019 Sustainability Report Applying the Ten Principles Principles Page Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and UN Global Compact Human rights p38-40 Ten Principles Principle 2: Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association Lekela stands in full support of the UN Globand the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; al Compact’s Ten Principles, committing Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory to continuously pursue improvements in labour; Labour p17-20 human rights, labour, the environment and Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and anti-corruption. Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of emThis report describes our actions to continually ployment and occupation. improve the four areas established by the UN Global Compact, and demonstrates how the Ten Principles are fully integrated into our business Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach p32-33 strategy, culture and day-to-day operations. to environmental challenges; We are pleased to present this report as our third communication on progress to our stakeholders. Environment Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmenThe table directs readers to the sections of the p30-34 tal responsibility; and report that apply to each of the Ten Principles. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environp12-14, 31 mentally friendly technologies. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its Anti-corruption p38-40 forms, including extortion and bribery. www.lekela.com • 41 Lekela’s impact on the SDGs in 2019 Commitment Lekela indicator SDG target Linked SDG indicator 8.8 – Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure LTIs during operations  working environments 8.8.1 – Frequency rates of fatal and non-fatal occupational injuries Prioritising Total reportable 8.8 – Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure H&S incident rate  working environments 8.8.1 – Frequency rates of fatal and non-fatal occupational injuries 8.8 – Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure Third-party HSE audits  working environments 8.8.1 – Frequency rates of fatal and non-fatal occupational injuries Lekela employee 8.8 – Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure Ensuring grievances  working environments 8.8.2 – Increase in national compliance of labour rights based on International Labour Organization (ILO) textual sources and national legislation fair labour Partnering practices 8.8 – Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure Site worker committees  working environments 8.8.2 – Increase in national compliance of labour rights based on ILO textual sources and national legislation Defensive driver 8.8 – Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure Achieving training  working environments 8.8.1 – Frequency rates of fatal and non-fatal occupational injuries the highest 8.3 Promote development-oriented policies that support standards productive activities, decent job creation, entrepreneur8.3.1 – Proportion of informal employment in non-agriculture employment with Construction site contractors training  ship, creativity and innovation and partners 8.6 – By 2020, substantially reduce the proportion of 8.6.1 – Proportion of youth (aged 15-24 years) not in education, employment or training youth not in employment, education or training 10.3 – Ensure equal opportunity and reduce inequalities 10.3.1 – Proportion of the population reporting having personally felt discrimiEngaging with Community grievances  of outcome nated against or harassed within the previous 12 months communities Grievance 10.3 – Ensure equal opportunity and reduce inequalities management  of outcome 10.3.1 – Proportion of the population reporting having personally felt discriminated against or harassed within the previous 12 months 1.4 – Ensure that all men and women, in particular the Monitoring and Investing in evaluation  poor and the vulnerable, have equal rights to economic resources, as well as access to basic services 1.4.1 – Proportion of population living in households with access to basic services education, enterprise 4.4 – Ensure equal access for all women and men to afford4.3.1 – Participation rate of youth and adults in formal and non-formal educaEmpowering and the able and quality technical, vocational and tertiary education tion and training in the previous 12 months, by sex Establish environment apprenticeships  8.6 – By 2020, substantially reduce the proportion of 8.6.1 – Proportion of youth (aged 15-24 years) not in education, employment or training youth not in employment, education or training 1.4 – Ensure that all men and women, in particular the 1.4.2 – Proportion of total adult population with secure tenure rights to land, Accessing Complete Taiba LRP  poor and the vulnerable, have equal rights to economic resources, as well as access to basic services with legally recognised documentation and who perceive their rights to land as secure, by sex and by type of tenure land responsibly 1.4 – Ensure that all men and women, in particular the 1.4.2 – Proportion of total adult population with secure tenure rights to land, Finalise Ayitepa land acquisition  poor and the vulnerable, have equal rights to economic resources, as well as access to basic services with legally recognised documentation and who perceive their rights to land as secure, by sex and by type of tenure  Target fulfilled  Target on track  Target unfulfilled Lekela’s impact on SDG 7 (Affordable and Clean Energy) and SDG 13 (Climate Action) is highlighted on pages 14 and 15 Lekela’s impact on the SDGs in 2019 Commitment Lekela indicator SDG target Linked SDG indicator 13.3 – Improve education, awareness-raising and human and 13.3.2 – Number of countries that have communicated the strengthening Helping climate Avoiding CO2  institutional capacity on climate change mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction and early warning of institutional, systemic and individual capacity-building to implement adaptation, mitigation and technology transfer, and development actions change mitigation 13.3.2 – Number of countries that have communicated the 13.3 – Improve education, awareness-raising and human and and Building climate change adaptation resilience  institutional capacity on climate change mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction and early warning strengthening of institutional, systemic and individual capacity-building to implement adaptation, mitigation and technology transfer, and development actions No serious 12.2 – achieve the sustainable management and efficient use of environmental incidents  natural resources 12.2.1 – Material footprint, material footprint per capita, and material footprint per GDP Managing our lifecycle 6.4.1 – Change in water-use efficiency over time 6.4 – substantially increase water-use efficiency across all sectors impacts Avoiding water usage  and ensure sustainable withdrawals and supply of freshwater to address water scarcity 6.4.2 – Level of water stress: freshwater withdrawal as a proportion of Protecting available freshwater resources 15.5 – Take urgent and significant action to reduce the degradaAvifauna data and mitigation in operations  tion of natural habitats, the loss of biodiversity, and prevent the extinction of threatened species 15.5.1 – Red List Index 15.5 – Take urgent and significant action to reduce the degradation of Biodiversity plan for Preserving and hooded vultures  natural habitats, the loss of biodiversity, and prevent the extinction of threatened species 15.5.1 – Red List Index enhancing biodiversity 8.6 – Substantially reduce the proportion of youth not in employ8.6.1 – Proportion of youth (aged 15-24 years) not in education, ment, education or training employment or training Ornithology training  15.5 – Take urgent and significant action to reduce the degradation of natural habitats, the loss of biodiversity, and prevent the extinction of 15.5.1 – Red List Index threatened species 16.5.1 – Proportion of persons who had at least one contact with a Enhanced ABAC Applying training for employees  16.5 – Substantially reduce corruption and bribery in all their forms public official and who paid a bribe to a public official, or were asked robust for a bribe by those public officials, during the previous 12 months governance to 16.5.2 – Proportion of businesses that had at least one contact with E&S issues Integrating ABAC risk assessments  16.5 – Substantially reduce corruption and bribery in all their forms a public official and that paid a bribe to a public official, or were asked for a bribe by those public officials during the previous 12 months Integrity Upholding 16.5.2 – Proportion of businesses that had at least one contact with the highest ethical Whistleblowing hotline  16.5 – Substantially reduce corruption and bribery in all their forms a public official and that paid a bribe to a public official, or were asked for a bribe by those public officials during the previous 12 months standards Respecting Human rights risk 8.7 – Take immediate and effective measures to eradicate forced human rights mapping  labour, end modern slavery and human trafficking 8.7.1 – Proportion and number of children aged 517 years engaged in child labour, by sex and age www.lekela.com • 43 Abbreviations ABAC............................................................................................................................. Anti-bribery and corruption BAP........................................................................................................................................ Biodiversity action plan CO2....................................................................................................................................................... Carbon dioxide ESG........................................................................................................... Environmental, social and governance GWh......................................................................................................................................................... Gigawatt hour H&S....................................................................................................................................................Health and safety IFC......................................................................................................................International Finance Corporation ILO.....................................................................................................................International Labour Organization LRP................................................................................................................... Livelihood restoration programme LTI......................................................................................................................................................Lost time incident MW................................................................................................................................................................... Megawatt MWh...................................................................................................................................................... Megawatt hour NGO..................................................................................................................... Non-governmental organisation SDGs...................... United Nations Sustainable Development Goals, also known as the Global Goals UN...........................................................................................................................................................United Nations We appreciate your feedback. For any comments or enquiries please contact: General enquiries – info@lekela.com | Jennifer Boca, Head of ESG – Jennifer.Boca@lekela.com Data disclaimer: The information in this report, which does not purport to be comprehensive, has not been independently verified. While the report has been prepared in good faith, no representation, warranty, assurance or undertaking (express or implied) is or will be made, and no responsibility or liability is or will be accepted by the Lekela Power B.V. or its subsidiaries or any of their respective officers, employees, agents or other representatives in relation to the adequacy, accuracy, completeness or reasonableness of this report. All and any such responsibility and liability is expressly disclaimed. Photos: All photographs used in this report are supplied by Lekela’s project partners, purchased from stock libraries or taken by Lekela employees on site visits. 44 • Lekela Power B.V. • 2019 Sustainability Report Lekela Power B.V. Registered Office: Amstelveenseweg 760 1081 JK Amsterdam The Netherlands www.lekela.com 46 • Lekela Power B.V. • 2019 Sustainability Report
