Communication on Progress 2019 Letter from our Managing Partner Responsibility Sustainability Development Goals Status Christian Schmidt-Jacobsen, Managing Partner, Axcel. 2 / 25 Letter from our Managing Partner Responsibility Sustainability Development Goals Status Letter from Axcel’s mission is to generate a return for our investors our Managing by acquiring, developing, improving and selling mediumsized Nordic companies. In doing so, we consider not only Partner economic sustainability but also sustainability in environmental, social and corporate governance terms. Axcel thus strives continuously for greater responsibility, both at our portfolio companies and in our own business. SUSTAINABILITY It has become widely recognised among companies that sustainability must become a core part of their business strategy, but this is often easier said than done. At Axcel, we acknowledge the challenges associated with the transition towards complete sustainability, but believe that ever greater sustainability must be a priority – also for future value creation. In recent years, Axcel has prioritised ESG issues in the due diligence process, which now includes a more thorough initial screening of potential investments and a structured process of analysis as they move forward in the investment process. PDF 3 / 25 Letter from our Managing Partner Responsibility Sustainability Development Goals Status This year, we have also taken on board the growing importance of the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) for businesses and investments – more on that later in the report. ANNUAL COP REPORT 2020 is the tenth anniversary of Axcel becoming a signatory of the Global Compact. It continues to be a requirement for all our portfolio companies to sign up and deliver an annual Communication on Progress (COP). Our goal is to improve on sustainability, and we aim to steer potential investments in this direction. By putting in time and effort in the initial phases of the investment, we hope to set a better agenda for the companies and so deal with ESG challenges sooner. Christian Schmidt-Jacobsen, Managing Partner PDF 4 / 25 Letter from our Managing Partner Responsibility Sustainability Development Goals Status Corporate Axcel believes sustainability at both fund and company level to be important for successful investments. Sustain­ social responsi­ ability issues are therefore important for all of Axcel’s bility at Axcel portfolio companies, with the UN’s Sustainable Develop­ ment Goals playing an increasingly prominent role. UN GLOBAL COMPACT Axcel joined the UN Global Compact back in 2010 and has worked strategically with corporate social responsibility (CSR) at both fund and company level ever since. All portfolio companies are also required to join the Global Compact. We are keen for individual boards to be involved in reporting to the Global Compact, and it is a requirement that each annual Communication on Progress (COP) is considered at board level. We submitted our first report under the UN’s Principles of Responsible Investment (PRI) initiative in 2016, and the most recent report was filed in March 2020. PDF 5 / 25 Letter from our Managing Partner Responsibility Sustainability Development Goals Status RESPONSIBLE BEHAVIOUR Axcel aims to invest in companies that behave responsibly, as this will ensure the best possible risk profile. However, we also want to promote socioeconomic development in general and therefore encourage portfolio companies to contribute to their local communities and their development where this makes commercial sense, in line with the UN’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). AXCEL AIMS TO ENSURE • Comply with relevant laws, rules and internationally recognised principles THAT ITS COMPANIES: • Consider risks relating to CSR issues and address them proactively PDF 6 / 25 Letter from our Managing Partner Responsibility Sustainability Development Goals Status • Are in a position to meet the requirements and expectations of customers and business partners concerning supply chain man­agement and codes of conduct • Consider future business opportunities and positioning in relation to CSR • Comply with the DVCA’s guidelines on openness and transparency Axcel continues to monitor portfolio companies through five specifically chosen key performance indicators in order to enhance the portfolio’s move towards greater sustainability and create more transparency: FIVE KEY PERFORMANCE • Human rights: Employees must know and have signed an INDICATORS: adequate data policy • Labour rights: Overall sickness absence • Labour rights: Absence rate due to work-related injuries • Environment: CO₂ intensity • Anti-corruption: Incidents in whistleblowing scheme PDF 7 / 25 Letter from our Managing Partner Responsibility Sustainability Development Goals Status Similarly, ESG due diligence has been conducted for all new investments, giving our portfolio companies an overview of where to begin on the CSR and sustainability process. In addition, Axcel acknowledges the growing importance of the SDGs in the business and investment world. In 2019, Axcel started work on a project to map the aggregate SDG impact of Axcel’s company portfolio. To begin with, a pilot project involving three portfolio companies has been conducted, mapping how each individual company positively and negatively impacts the SDGs. Reporting Investment Axcel’s active GLOBAL COMPACT decision ownership to investors and public Monitoring Global Due diligence of Axcel’s Compact COP companies 12 companies PDF 8 / 25 Letter from our Managing Partner Responsibility Sustainability Development Goals Status Joined Global Compact First COP GLOBAL COMPACT STATUS OF AXCEL-OWNED COMPANIES SuperOffice New investment 2022 AS OF APRIL 2020 SteelSeries 2021 Phase One 2021 European Sperm Bank 2021 Loopia 2021 GUBI 2020 Aidian 2020 IsaDora 2020 Mountain Top Group 2020 Nissens 2019 Danish Ship Finance 2017 Frontmatec 2019 Delete Group 2015 PDF 9 / 25 Letter from our Managing Partner Responsibility Sustainability Development Goals Status SDG mapping of Aidian, The UN’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are becoming ever more relevant to business. Companies can contribute to the SDGs European Sperm Bank regardless of size and industry. In a pilot project produced by Klinkby and Loopia Enge, the SDG impact of three Axcel portfolio com­panies – Aidian, European Sperm Bank and Loopia – has been mapped. AIDIAN Products for medical diagnostics Development and sale of products for medical diagnostics – positive contribution to targets 3.3 (combating communicable diseases) and 3.4 (mortality from non-communicable diseases) through correct diagnostics. CO₂ and energy use In 2019, 100% of Aidian’s electricity consumption came from renewable sources, contributing to target 7.2 (renewable energy). Reducing the company’s carbon footprint by sourcing renewable energy has also contributed to target 9.4 (adopting environmentally sound technologies). PDF 10 / 25 Letter from our Managing Partner Responsibility Sustainability Development Goals Status Material use and waste generation Water use and waste generation have increased in Aidian’s production, contributing negatively to target 6.4 (waste reduction). However, the company has increased waste recycling substantially, contributing positively to target 12.5 (reducing waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse). EUROPEAN Donor sperm and screening SPERM BANK European Sperm Bank provides donor sperm to families, contributing to target 3.7 (reproductive health). All donors are taken through a screening programme. Since 2018, female clients have been offered screenings as well, contributing to targets 3.2 (mortality of newborns and children under 5) and 3.4 (mortality from non-communicable diseases). PDF 11 / 25 Letter from our Managing Partner Responsibility Sustainability Development Goals Status CO₂, energy and material use European Sperm Bank has reduced its carbon intensity by increasing its share of renewable energy consumption, contributing to targets 9.4 (adopting environmentally sound technologies) and 7.2 (renewable energy). The company’s production uses a substantial amount of CE-marked plastic, which cannot be sourced from recycled plastic, contributing negatively to target 12.5 (waste generation). Women in management Most management positions at European Sperm Bank are held by women, contributing to equal opportunities for leadership for men and women, in line with target 5.5 (women in leadership). PDF 12 / 25 Letter from our Managing Partner Responsibility Sustainability Development Goals Status LOOPIA CO₂ and energy use GROUP The largest contributor to Loopia’s environmental footprint is electricity consumption and cooling. One way that Loopia has been able to reduce its CO2 footprint is by sourcing renewable energy, contributing to target 9.4 (adopting environmentally sound technologies). In 2019, 88% of Loopia’s electricity consumption and cooling came from renewable sources, contributing to target 7.2 (renewable energy). Material and waste generation Another contributor to Loopia’s environmental footprint is electronic waste. This primarily comes from scrapped servers from data centres. All electronic waste is sent for recycling, which contributes positively to target 12.5 (waste generation). PDF 13 / 25 Letter from our Managing Partner Responsibility Sustainability Development Goals Status “ Sustainability is more than ever an integrated part of our business model, both in our due diligence and in our value creation plans, and we have now begun working with the UN Sustainable Development Goals to see where we can make the most difference and where we can improve.” – Christian Schmidt-Jakobsen 14 / 25 Letter from our Managing Partner Responsibility Sustainability Development Goals Status The Sustainable The UN’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Development are becoming increasingly important for companies. Axcel encourages its companies to consider the SDGs Goals at Aidian at company level, and Aidian serves as a good example of how to do this. IMPACTS Aidian impacts the SDGs through its primary operations, secondary operations and input use, both positively and negatively. PDF 15 / 25 Letter from our Managing Partner Responsibility Sustainability Development Goals Status CORRECTLY DIAGNOSED The company’s primary activity is to offer a range of products that support evidence-based diagnostics and correct treatment decisions. It is estimated that 90% of patients are diagnosed correctly using an Aidian product, corresponding to more than 46 million people. As a result, Aidian positively impacts Goal 3 (good health and well-being). More specifically, Aidian contributes to targets 3.3 and 3.4 (combating communicable diseases and reducing premature mortality from non-communicable diseases). ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT While Aidian’s secondary activities in the form of research and development contribute positively to Goal 3, the generation of waste from production, in particular water and plastic waste, has a negative impact on targets 6.4 and 12.5 (water efficiency and waste reduction). However, the company has managed to increase waste recycling substantially, which helps to reduce the environmental footprint from production, contributing positively to target 12.5. PDF 16 / 25 Letter from our Managing Partner Responsibility Sustainability Development Goals Status Renewable energy used by Aidian 67% Large amounts of energy are required for Aidian’s production. The company has been able to reduce its carbon footprint by using renewable energy. In 2019, 100% of Aidian’s electricity consumption came from renewable sources, meaning that the total share of renewable energy used by Aidian increased from 16% in 2018 to 67% in 2019. This positively impacts targets 7.2 and 9.4 (increasing the share of 16% renew­able energy and adopting environmentally sound technologies). In addition, Aidian positively impacts Goal 5 (gender equality). 50% of management positions at Aidian were held by women in 2019, helping 2018 2019 to ensure equal opportunities in leadership positions regardless of gender. PDF 17 / 25 Letter from our Managing Partner Responsibility Sustainability Development Goals Status 18 / 25 Letter from our Managing Partner Responsibility Sustainability Development Goals Status Status of Human rights: Risks regarding equality, life Labour: Risks regarding freedom of association Environmental issues: Risks regarding environCorruption issues: Risks regarding corrup­ portfolio and security, personal freedom and economic, and recognition, the right to collective bargaining, mental impact, damage to eco­systems, pollution, tion in all its forms, in­cluding extortion companies social and cultural freedoms. elimination of forced and com­­pulsory labour, abolland degradation, the impacts of che­mi­c­als and bribery. ition of child labour, and use and disposal, waste elimination of discriminaproduction and deple­ tion in respect to em­ploy­ tion of non-renewable ment and occupation. resources. ASSESSMENT Fund Portfolio company Human rights Labour Environment Corruption OF RISK BY Axcel IV Delete Group CATEGORY Frontmatec Danish Ship Finance = Low risk Axcel V Nissens = Medium risk Mountain Top Group = High risk IsaDora Aidian GUBI European Sperm Bank Loopia Phase One SteelSeries PDF 19 / 25 Letter from our Managing Partner Responsibility Sustainability Development Goals Status Key performance indicators Mountain Top Delete Group Danish Ship European Frontmatec Nissens Group IsaDora Aidian Loopia Finance GUBI Sperm Bank Employees must know and have signed an adequate data pro­tection 90 None None1 3.4 None 100 522 None None3 100 policy* (% of workforce) Overall sickness absence 5.43 2.48 2.054 100 n/t <1 3.8 n/t n/t3 1.10 (% of total working days) Absence rate due to work-­related injuries (lost working hours per 15.2 7,209 n/t 5.4 135 0 260 n/t 0 0 million working hours) Carbon intensity** 99 n/t 9 n/t n/t n/t n/t n/t 1.5 138.1 (CO₂ in tonnes per employee) Incidents in the whistleblowing 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 scheme * Adequate data protection policy: Formulate and implement own data policy fulfilling EU’s GDPR as at 24 May 2018. ** Carbon intensity: Measured in tonnes of CO₂ per employee. First year: Report scopes 1 & 2 (standard), collect data, create baseline and set a reduction target. 1 New and adequate data protection policy, but employees do 3 Loopia Group was created during 2019, making a series not sign it as they are otherwise obliged to adhere to the policy. of add-on acquisitions to a platform investment from 2018. 2 Those with access to personal data. 4 Increase since 2018 due to new method of calculation. n/t = not tracked PDF 20 / 25 Letter from our Managing Partner Responsibility Sustainability Development Goals Status Governance structure at Axcel’s portfolio companies = Yes Mountain Top Delete Group Danish Ship European Frontmatac = Partly Nissens Group IsaDora = No Finance Aidian GUBI Loopia Sperm Bank Rules and procedures for the BoD CEO instructions Code of conduct Ethical guidelines Environmental policy Whistleblower protection Evaluation of executive management Evaluation of the BoD Agreements covering executive shareholding Employment contracts for executives Annual planning – ”annual wheel” PDF 21 / 25 Letter from our Managing Partner Responsibility Sustainability Development Goals Status Assessment of portfolio companies' compliance with ESG criteria Mountain Top Delete Group Danish Ship European Frontmatac Finance Nissens Group IsaDora Aidian Loopia Sperm Bank GUBI Is there any written environmental Environ­mental Yes No Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes No No policy in place within the company?1 Has the company obtained any environmental label/certification Yes No No Yes Yes No No No No No practices of the portfolio company (e.g. ISO 14000, Éco-label européen)? If yes, please give name of ISO ISO ISO label/certification 14001 14001 14001 Has the company benefited Yes Yes n/a Yes Yes No Yes No Yes No from energy cost savings? 1 Energy efficicency, waste management, carbon footprint reduction, etc. PDF 22 / 25 Letter from our Managing Partner Responsibility Sustainability Development Goals Status Mountain Top Delete Group Danish Ship European Frontmatac Finance Nissens Group IsaDora Aidian Loopia Sperm Bank GUBI Has the company completed any No Yes No No No No No No Yes No acquisition in 2019? If yes, please indicate the number Social of employees of add-ons prior to 40 160 integration Has the company benefited from a reduction in behaviour of the portfolio company absenteeism rate? Yes n/a No No Yes No No No Yes n/a incident rate? n/a n/a n/a No Yes No No No n/a No Do employees have access to capital Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes No No Yes Yes Yes of the company/stock option plan? If yes, please state proportion of 0-10% 0-10% > 50% 0-10% 0-10% 0-10% 0-10% > 50% employees benefiting from such policy Has the company established a safety Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes n/a Yes and/or health plan for its employees? n/a = not applicable PDF 23 / 25 Letter from our Managing Partner Responsibility Sustainability Development Goals Status Mountain Top Delete Group Danish Ship European Frontmatac Finance Nissens Group IsaDora Aidian Loopia Sperm Bank GUBI Does the GP sit on the portfolio Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes company board? Governance Has the company implemented internal procedures or an ethical code covering: Child labour and forced labour Yes Yes No2 Yes Yes Yes No2 No2 Yes No2 within the portfolio company Has the company been under investi­ gation for any fraud, or subject to any No No No No No No No No No No lawsuit in relation to ESG criteria? If yes, please provide additional information 2 Not perceived as a major risk. PDF 24 / 25 Letter from our Managing Partner Responsibility Sustainability Development Goals Status ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Additional information about Axcel and its companies and the latest financial statements can be found on Axcel’s website: www.axcel.dk. For any further information, please contact: Investor Relations Officer Head of Corporate Affairs Jesper Breitenstein Joachim Sperling Tel.: (+45) 33 36 69 99 Tel.: (+45) 33 36 69 99 E-mail: jbr@axcel.dk E-mail: js@axcel.dk DOWNLOAD AXCEL MANAGEMENT A/S AXCEL MANAGEMENT AB COP REPORT 2019 Sankt Annae Plads 10 Strandvägen 5B, 5 tr. 1250 Copenhagen K 114 51 Stockholm Denmark Sweden PDF Tel.: (+45) 33 36 69 99 Tel.: (+46) 8 44 253 90 E-mail: axcel@axcel.dk E-mail: axcel@axcel.dk www.axcel.dk www.axcel.se 25 / 25
