Contents * A word from the CEO A word from the CEO . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2 Workwear and Personal Protection Strategic direction 14 Vision, business concept and strategy .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 Scalable business model . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6 Financial targets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 Market and sales Market overview . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Sweden . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 Norway . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10 Finland and the Baltics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 Sales through omnichannel . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 Offering, purchasing and logistics Concept brands . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .13 Workwear and personal protection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .14 Responsible purchasing Tools and supplies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 Responsible purchasing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18 Scalable logistics . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . 20 18 Employees Attractive employer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22 Share data and shareholders Swedol shares . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24 Risks and risk management Risk management at Swedol . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26 Meet a Swedol customer Interview with a Swedol customer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29 Attractive employer Corporate governance 22 Corporate governance report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 The board . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36 Group management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 37 Annual report Management report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 38 Financial reports . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43 Sustainability notes About the sustainability report . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74 Sustainability governance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 74 Stakeholder dialog and materiality analysis . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75 Sustainability notes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76 GRI-Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78 Other information Five year summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81 Definitions and glossary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82 Information to shareholders . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84 *Pages 49-73, including the notes, the signing of the board and the audit report have not been translated, and are omitted from this document. We are the partner that best meets the needs and preferences of professional users 103 stores Whereof 75 in Sweden, 18 in Norway, 9 in Finland och 1 in Estonia 2019 in brief • Swedol completed four acquisitions during the year, two in Sweden, one in Norway and one in Finland. Via the acquisitions, five new stores were added. • Four new stores were opened in Sweden and two new stores were opened in Norway. In addition, seven stores were integrated in line with Swedol’s new store concept. • In Norway the implementation of the Groups common IT and business system, pricing system and legal structure was completed. The same structure already exists in Sweden. • On 1 September Swedol implemented changes to the Group's overall structure. In the new organization, the sales organization in each respective country is coordinated under a country manager. Purchasing that was previously divided between the two divisions of Tools and supplies and Workwear and personal protection is now coordinated under a new group wide function Concept and range development. • Preparations for the expansion of the logistics center in Örebro continued according to plan, except an initial delay as a result of an extended building permit process. The planned expansion of the automated warehouse Autostore in Örebro was completed in November. • On 11 November the Momentum Group submitted a tender offer to shareholders in Swedol. For each A and B share in Swedol respectively, a cash payment of SEK 46.50 per share is offered or alternatively a share exchange of 0.40 of a new B share in the Momentum Group for each A and B share in Swedol respectively. More information can be found in the share data and shareholders section on page 25. Swedol Grolls Univern Swedol in 60 seconds Revenues 2019 Operating margin 2019 Number of employees Swedol offers high quality products and services tailored to the needs and preferences of professional users. The Group is a multispecialist that combines breadth with depth within selected specialist areas. 3.62 SEK billion 9.3 Percent 1,090 Converted to full-time jobs Our offer is focused on five prioritized customer groups and includes a range within tools, supplies, workwear and personal protection. Swedol interfaces with customers via an omnichannel concept where stores, website and field sales coordinate to create a seamless and personalized customer experience. The Group is operating in the geographic markets Sweden, Norway, and Finland and the Baltics. The Group offer is collated within our three concept brands; Swedol, Grolls and Univern. The history of Swedol 2009 Acquisition of industry 1984 AB Zelda acquires the and workshop equipment company 2000 Acquisition of supplier Inno Hydraulprodukter Swedol has five car accessories wholeBy the end of the year, Swedol employees and sales of SEK 8 million. saler Tena has 29 stores. 1963 The company is founded by Curt Svedberg 1999 The first exter2006 Swedol is listed on First 2011 First store in Initially, lubrication oils and similar products are sold to nal store is officially North Norway hauliers. One day a haulier complains about hydraulic opened in Sollentuna By the end of the year, Swedol hoses forever failing, and the company decides to start has 15 stores. 2008 the company selling hoses and mail order company Hydraulproduktakes the step across to the Nasdaq ter Swedol is born. Stockholm. 2016 I KORTHET Five year summary 20191 2018 2017 20162 2015 Revenues, MSEK 3,622.1 3,241.3 3,067.1 2,371.2 1,540.0 Operating profit, MSEK 336.0 325.3 280.7 176.2 55.5 Revenue growth, % 11.7 5.7 29.3 54.0 11.3 Gross margin, % 40.4 40.9 39.4 38.9 37.6 Operating margin, % 9.3 10.0 9.2 7.4 3.6 Equity ratio, % 44.3 49.6 46.0 42.2 60.8 Average number of employees 1,098 982 9453 751 504 Gross investments, MSEK 116.5 66.9 46.7 30.0 40.4 Number of stores at the end of 103 99 99 99 48 the year 1 Effective 1 January 2019, the Group applies IFRS 16 Leases. The transition has been made with the aid of the simplified method, which means the comparison figures have not been recalculated. The effects of this on the balance sheet, income statement and key figures for 2019, are presented in note 29. 2 Björnkläder Intressenter AB (Grolls) was consolidated with effect from 8 June 2016. 3 The calculation method for number of employees has been adjusted with effect from the third quarter 2018 inclusive. This has resulted in the comparison figures being recalculated. The change was made to better reflect the number of employees and number of hours worked within the Group. 2019 Clarified organizational structure 2017 Reorganization The sales organization in each resThe Group is structupective country is coordinated under red into two divisions: a country director. Purchasing is 2015 Nordstjernan Workwear and personal now coordinated under a new group 2012 Nima Maskinteknik AB becomes the new protection and Tools and wide function Concept and range is acquired is acquired major shareholder supplies. development. 2013 Strategic restart 2016 Acquisition of Grolls 2018 Increased acquisition New strategies are establisVia this acquisition, Swedol activity and strengthened hed with a clearer orientabecomes one of the leading position in Finland. tion to the professional user companies in workwear and The Group completes five bumarket and adaptations to personal protective equipment siness combinations, including selected customer groups. in the Nordic countries. two in Finland. A WORD FROM THE CEO Focus on growth but slowdown in demand In 2019, Swedol continued to pursue new sales initiatives and drive expansion via store openings and acquisitions. Revenue growth was stable but faced an increased slowdown in demand in the fourth quarter. Continued focus on growth In 2019, Swedol continued to pursue new sales initiatives Swedol is a stable company and drive expansion via store openings and acquisitions. today that is ready and able Revenue growth for the Group amounted to 11.7 percent (5.7), of which organic growth accounted for 4.9 percent to tackle new and greater and 2.8 percent was attributable to comparable units. The growth initiatives we implemented in 2019 had a challenges in the future positive effect on organic growth. However, sales were adversely affected by the unseasonably mild weather in Cashflow and dividend the fourth quarter and an increasing slowdown in demand Cashflow from operating activities amounted to MSEK on the Swedish market. 306.2 (264.5), the effect of IFRS was MSEK 170.4. Growth from acquisitions amounted to 6.5 percent, Cashflow for the year was negatively affected by high of which 0.3 percent consisted of currency effects. We inventory levels as a consequence of store expansion, a completed a major investment in expanding the store higher proportion of own label products, growth initiatives, network and opened a total of six new stores. In addipayment of delayed accounts payable and the payment of tion to opening stores, acquisitions are an important tool a tax liability from earlier years. in strengthening the Group in those areas and markets That we have enjoyed continued growth in own brands where we can see potential. Continued acquisitions are is pleasing, but at the same time means new challenges a necessity if we are to maintain a rate of growth at the within purchasing and logistics where an inventory levels we have had in the last few years. In total, four efficiency drive is a prioritized area. Although we have acquisitions were completed in 2019. measures in place and we are working in areas such as In the third quarter, we implemented a change to the improving purchasing control in the Group, it takes time to organization structure such that each respective sales reduce inventory levels without putting at risk our capacity organization within our three geographic market segments to deliver at a time when we are growing quickly. Sweden, Norway and Finland/Baltic States now has its Our assessment is that long term, the cashflow geneown country manager. The new sales organizations are rated by the Group is strong and resilient enough to designed to facilitate closer cooperation between stores, continue to pay a dividend in line with our target of 30–50 field sales and Key Account Managers. This gives us a percent of net profit. The dividend to shareholders for better drive in our sales work and enables the country 2019 proposed by the board is therefore unchanged at organizations to focus on their core tasks while at the SEK 1.20 (1.20) per share, which corresponds to 42.1 same time gaining the benefits of the Group’s scalable percent of net profits. platform. The new organization structure is an important building block in the development of a modern and comSwedol’s markets petitive company that will tackle new and greater chalThe Group achieved continued profitable growth on all lenges moving forward. its markets in 2019, despite a slowdown in demand and a mild winter having a negative effect on sales within Marginal growth important product groups in the fourth quarter. Many of We encountered several challenges related to margin the targeted initiatives we implemented within selected growth during the year. Gross margin amounted to 40.4 product areas have proved successful, such as the investpercent (40.9) and was adversely affected by changes in ments in fixings and power hand tools. During the year, the product mix, which was an effect of the mild winter in many of our tenders to large customers bore fruit, thanks the fourth quarter. For example, the weather had an effect to our strengthening our KAM system. However, our focus on sales of workwear, footwear and hydraulics. Revenue remains on SME customers, where we enjoyed particularly wise, these losses were counterbalanced by strong sales strong growth within the medium size group. within other product groups to an extent, but with lower The Group’s largest market Sweden showed a certain profitability. Higher commodity prices, increased shipping slowdown in demand in the final quarter of the year. costs and currency effects also had a negative impact, but Despite this, the Group achieved growth of 6.0 percent these were countered to a degree by price adjustments (2.3), which shows that we have once again successfully implemented and an increased proportion of own brands. managed to gain marketshare. Operating margin was 9.3 percent (10.0) and was affecThe market in Norway saw good growth, largely driven ted by lower gross margin, higher items affecting compaby the strong offshore sector. Group growth amounted to rability related to acquisitions and costs for expansion of 14.0 percent (15.1), that was negatively affected in the first the store network. and second quarter in particular, by interruptions related to implementation of our common IT and business system. This implementation was the final step in the integration of 2 SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 A WORD FROM THE CEO our Norwegian business with the Group’s scalable platgood as we would have liked, which we are not satisfied form. The structure is now in place and working well. with. Growth in Finland and the Baltic region remained strong The spread of COVID-19 risks having effects on and growth for the Group amounted to 123.5 percent the economy and demand on all markets. Sales will be (62.5). This high growth was driven by acquisitions and impacted by this, but at this moment in time, it is difficult to we are investing in further strengthening our position on assess the financial impact. Current indications from the what is a strategically important market. Our marketshare supplier chain in Asia do not point to any substantial promay be small but we see continued opportunities for good duction disturbances so far. We are keeping a close eye growth. Integration of operations into the Group’s scalable on developments and taking appropriate actions based platform is expected to be effected in the first half of 2020. in public authority recommendations and the prevailing situation in the best interests of individuals, society and Continuous sustainability work the company. Our sustainability work has long been a prioritized area for Based on the weak economy and general uncertainty us where we are always looking to improve. Sustainability on the market, we have contingency plans in place to take work is an important and integrated part of the Swedol action and we will adapt our costs structure in 2020. strategy and business model. For the Group to remain At the same time, there are opportunities to take advancompetitive, we need to ensure we are a responsible and tage of numerous sales campaigns and growth initiatives sustainable business, and naturally, we continue to supthat have been implemented in recent years. Initiatives port the principles in the UN Global Compact. already implemented can therefore pave the way for conWe are continuing to work from the survey of our busitinued profitable growth. We will continue on our chosen ness operations in relation to the Global Compact goals path and our strategy will continue to focus on profitable for Sustainable Development, that we implemented in growth and expansion. 2018. This survey has provided good support in the way Swedol is a stable company today that is ready and able we are focusing our sustainability work and helps us, in the to tackle new and greater challenges in the future. We most effective way possible, to contribute to sustainable have worked hard over the past few years to build a scaladevelopment for people, the environment and society. ble platform where our different segments have a common A few of the areas we are focusing on include offering IT and business system, price system and legal structure, a high quality range that lasts longer, to ensure good while at the same time we can leverage economies of procedures in the event of a product recall and to offer scale within areas such as concept and range developthe services and all the equipment necessary to be able to ment, purchasing, logistics and finance. The structures deal with oil spills, for example. We are continuing to make we have created have laid the foundations for a signifiour logistics more efficient and reducing air freight in favor cantly larger business than the Group is today, and we are of ship and rail transport. prepared for the changes that can be expected to occur. In 2019, we continued our Group management developWe will hopefully meet these together with the Momentum ment program initiative, and almost all managers have now Group. completed the program that is about managing yourself, I would like to thank all our employees, suppliers, managing others and managing your business. This is partners, customers and shareholders who have made it pleasing as it will make Swedol a better place to work and possible for Swedol to be a successful company. our employees can interface with customers with our big unique advantage, knowledge and commitment. Tyresö, March 2020 Future projections In 2019, we encountered challenges in the form of integration hiccups in Norway, a weaker economy in Sweden and Clein Johansson Ullenvik unseasonably mild weather in the fourth quarter. These all President and CEO contributed to our sales and margin growth not being as SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 3 STRATEGIC DIRECTION Vision, business concept and strategy Vision Business concept We are the partner that best meets the needs and preferences We offer quality products and services in a simple and of professional users professional way. Via our different concepts, professional users are efficiently supplied at attractive prices. Strategic goals We shall We shall develop We shall be generate attractive and We shall have We shall be an attractive profitable differentiating efficient and a genuinely employer with growth via offers for our quality assured sustainable enthusiastic organic growth selected customer processes company and and acquisitions groups knowledgeable employees We shall leverage digitalization opportunities Sustainability – an integral part of our strategy and Swedol’s material sustainability issues business planning • Customer service For Swedol, driving the business forward based on a sustainable business model is both a strategic and • Profitability and growth important choice. We consider this sustainability work • Attractive employer as both a responsibility and an opportunity to boost • Product liability via quality and safety our competitiveness. Alongside Swedol’s strategic • Chemicals goals, these important sustainability issues1 play a key role in our business planning for the Group. These • Logistics optimization issues are directly linked to one or several strategic • Support customers in reducing their own environment impact goals and are a key part of the work we are doing to • Leadership contribute to the Global Compact Goals for Sustainable Development2. These important sustainability • Training and skills issues should be reflected in everything we do as an • Occupational Health & Safety enterprise and Swedol continuously works to ensure • Diversity and equal opportunities everyone in our organization understands them. • Working conditions/human rights in the supplier chain In 2019, work to integrate these important sustainability issues into our business planning intensified via • Anti-corruption clearer processes and divisions of responsibilities. 1 Swedol’s materiality analysis identifies the most important issues within the Group’s sustainability work. This analysis is validated annually via new stakeholder dialogs and risk analyses. For further information on Swedol’s important sustainability issues, please see page 75. 2 The 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development was adopted by the Heads of State and Government at the UN Sustainable Development Summit. It sets out 17 Sustainable Development Goals to end extreme poverty, reduce inequality, resolve the climate crisis and promote peace and justice. Sweden’s Action Plan for Agenda 2030 sets out the importance of a strong enterprise sector and sustainable enterprise. 4 SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 STRATEGIC DIRECTION Swedol’s strategic goals Swedol’s five strategic goals and an overall strategic goal of digitalization provide our organization with guidance as to how we shall work to achieve our vision. The Group's quality and sustainability work is an integrated part of our strategic governance and monitoring. We shall generate profitable growth via organic growth We shall be a genuinely sustainable company and acquisitions We shall minimize the Group's environment impact and We aim to grow organically by such steps as opening support our customers to make sustainable choices. We new stores, broadening our product portfolio and driving shall actively specify requirements on our products and sales digitally. Stores and digital channels complement suppliers and monitor these from a quality and sustaieach other in an omnichannel concept that offers custonability perspective. The working environment shall be mers high accessibility and service to enable them to continuously improved. benefit from our offer in the way that suits them. We have strengthened our sales focus in our organization and aim We shall be an attractive employer with enthusiastic to increase our share of our customer base purchases. To and knowledgeable employees complement this organic growth, we are going to impleWe shall have a strong common culture with clear ment and integrate acquisitions in a structured way. leadership and management by objectives. Our employees shall have regular opportunities for personal developWe shall develop attractive and differentiating offers ment. for our selected customer groups Our focus is on small and medium size enterprises. We We shall leverage digitalization opportunities shall work actively with customer segmentation to deepen An overarching strategic goal is to leverage the opportuniour customer relationships and continuously develop ties digitalization offers across all our five strategic goals our product and service offer. In the categories that are and that it is used as an important tool in all of them. We important for our prioritized customer groups, we shall seek to increase sales by offering our customers high have an innovative offer and excellent know-how – we are accessibility, good service and new added value services the multispecialist for professional users. We shall have while simultaneously working to increase internal effistrong partnerships with external suppliers, while at the ciency and reach out to and engage all our employees. same time developing our own brands to strengthen our We also strive to reduce our environment impact by digitacustomer offer and improve our margins. lizing and simplifying physical flows. We shall have efficient and quality assured processes We shall have an efficient and scalable platform with reliable product flows. Digital tools and flows shall be used for high efficiency both internally and externally. The Global Goals For Sustainable Development Swedol fully supports Agenda 2030. In 2018, Swedol completed a review of our business in relation to the UN's Sustainable Development Goals. Based on the impact the Group has on people, the environment and the social economy, and where our responsibility is especially heavy, and where there are opportunities to contribute, six of these goals have been identified as more relevant to the Group's operations. Good Health and Well-being Decent Work and Economic Growth Ensure healthy lives and promote Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable well-being for all at all ages. economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all. Gender Equality Responsible Consumption and Production Achieve gender equality and empower all Ensure sustainable consumption and production women and girls. patterns. Clean Water and Sanitation Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions Ensure availability and sustainable Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for management of water and sanitation sustainable development, provide access to for all. justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels. SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 5 STRATEGIC DIRECTION Scalable business model Right range tunities of digitalization. Increased digitalization has the The Group offers customers a broad and attractive range potential to create greater competitiveness and make the tailored to the needs and preferences of professional Group more efficient across the board, including our interusers. The range combines breadth with innovation within nal processes. selected categories that are especially important for our customers. The range consists of both our own and exterOmnichannel sales nal brands to provide an attractive and competitive proA clear omnichannel concept is the starting point for all duct mix. Our products are characterized by high quality, interaction with customers regardless of concept brand. value for money and product safety, combined with a good Whether customer contact occurs in store, via field sales level of service and availability. personnel or online, we offer a coherent concept with the same demands on service and quality. Our concept Efficient processes brands, Swedol, Grolls, Univern and Nima complement Swedol pursues continuous improvement work with the each other and create a combined offer with greater aim of making every part of our business more efficient breadth and depth than each individual concept. The and to ensure reliable and efficient goods flows. Efficient Group's omnichannel sales are complemented by a partand responsible processes across the entire value chain ner network of selected retailers. can assure long term sustainable and profitable growth. The Group is organized into two divisions; Workwear Focus on professional users and personal protection and Tools and supplies that Sound knowledge of the everyday needs and challenges leverage the benefits of a common platform with scalable of professional users is at the heart of Swedol's business. advantages in key areas such as purchasing, logistics, With the goal of being a complete one-stop supplier to sales, finance and IT. This division is designed to enable professional users, Swedol targets the professional market increased specialization where sales and range work go with a range tailored to five prioritized customer groups. hand in hand, to strengthen our processes and enhance By working close to customers on an everyday basis, efficiency. Swedol has a good understanding of their needs and can One prioritized area where Swedol sees good opportailor sales and marketing effectively via different concept tunities for greater efficiencies is to leverage the opporbrands. Close to customers Robust business Five prioritized customer segments Customer customized omnichannel sales Haulage and Building and Stores Transport Construction Efficient processes We are Field sales the partner that Efficient logistics best meets Industry and Farming and Right range and good Workshops the needs and preferences of Forestry stock levels E-commerce professional users Public Retailers Services 6 SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 STRATEGIC DIRECTION Financial targets TARGET OUTCOME Revenues, MSEK COMMENTS TO THE 2019 FIGURES MSEK % Revenue growth, Revenues, 4000 Revenues, MSEK % Revenue growth, 60 Revenue growth has been positive since Revenue growth, % 4000 60 the trend reversal in 2015. This is partly a 4000 60 3000 consequence of good underlying market 3000 40 growth, but above all, a result of measures 15 % 3000 40 40 implemented to increase sales. Profits for 2016 2000 and 2017 have been strongly impacted by the 2000 2000 20 acquisition of Grolls that was completed in June 1000 Target 2016. In 2018, growth was adversely affected › 1000 20 20 15 % Target › by lost customer contracts and a temporary 1000 Target Revenue growth 1 15 % stock shortage in the Grolls chain in Sweden. 0 0 15 % 0 (MSEK) 2015 20162 2017 2018 2019 0(%) Our growth of 11.7 % in 2019 was positively 0 2015 201622 2017 2018 2019 0(%) (MSEK) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (%) affected by growth initiatives, store expansion (MSEK) and acquisitions completed. Operating profit 3, MSEK margin Operating profit 3 , % 3 Operating , MSEK 400 margin, 3MSEK Operating profit Operating 12 3 Operating margin 3, % ,% Operating margin has gradually been 400 12 Target 400 12 improved from 3.6 % on 2015 to 10.0 % 11 % Target 300 9 Target 11 % in 2018. This positive development can 300 9 11 % be explained by a growth in sales, better 11 % 300 9 200 6 product mix and ongoing price adjustments. 200 6 Operating margin for 2019 slipped to 200 6 9.3 % as a consequence of lower gross › 100 100 3 3 › margins and growth initiatives implemented Operating margin1 100 3 in the form of store network expansion, 0 0 e-commerce and acquisitions. (MSEK) 0 2015 20162 2017 2018 2019 0(%) 0 (MSEK) 2015 20162 2017 2018 2019 (%) 2 0 (MSEK) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (%) Shareholders' equity3, MSEK Return on average Shareholders' equity shareholders' 3 , MSEK equity3, % Shareholders' Return on average equity 3 , MSEK shareholders' equity3, % Swedol’s return on average shareholders’ 1500 40 1500 Return on average shareholders' equity3, % 40 equity enjoyed positive growth between 1500 1200 40 2015 and 2018 as a consequence of rising 25 % 30 operating profits. In 2019 the return on 1200 1200 30 900 30 Target average shareholders’ equity fell from 21.6 % 900 20 25 % Target to 17.8 %. The variation in the level of return 900 Target 600 20 25 % is primarily due to the growth in operating 25 % › 600 600 20 › margin. 10 Return on average 300 10 shareholders' equity1 300 300 10 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 0 2 (%) (MSEK) 0 (MSEK) 2015 20162 2017 2018 2019 (%) 2 0 (MSEK) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (%) Total assets 3. MSEK Our equity ratio target has been revised down Equity ratio 33, .% Total assets MSEK from 40 % to 30 % from 2019 inclusive, in the 3500 Total assets Equity ratio 3, .% 3 MSEK 90 Equity ratio 3, % lights of the effects of IFRS 16. The equity ratio 3500 90 3000 3500 90 target has been achieved for the entire current 30 % 3000 five-year period. In 2016, the equity ratio fell 2500 3000 following the acquisition of Grolls. However, 60 2500 the equity ratio was restored via a new share 2000 2500 60 2000 60 issue and reached 42.2 % at the end of 2016. 1500 2000 In 2018, equity ratio was further strengthened › 1500 1000 1500 30 Target › and amounted to 49.6 % at the end of the Equity ratio4 30 30 % Target year before slipping to 44.3 % in 2019 as a 1000 30 Target 500 1000 30 % consequence of the implementation of IFRS 16. 30 % 500 0 This strong equity ratio provides a solid financial 500 0 base for continued growth and gives us the 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 0 2 (MSEK) (%) 0 2015 20162 2017 2018 2019 0 (MSEK) (%) means to take advantage of future acquisition (MSEK) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2 (%) opportunities. Net profit 3, MSEK Share Net 3 end of net profit divid profit , MSEK 3 3,5 ,% 30– Net profit Share divid, MSEK 3 end 3 of net profit 3,5, %80 300 Share divid end of net profit , % 3 3,5 300 80 The proposed dividend for the year 300 250 80 comprises 42.1 % of net profit for the Group, 250 60 250 200 60 which lies within the range of our established 200 60 policy. The dividend for 2014–2015 was 50 % 200 Target 150 40 above this established policy. The current 150 40 30–50 Target % capital structure and profitability are › 150 100 40 Target 30–50 30–50 % % › assessed as offering substantial leeway for 100 20 100 50 20 the proposed dividend. 50 20 50 Share dividend of 0 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 0 2 (MSEK) (%) net profit5 0 (MSEK) 2015 20162 2017 2018 2019 (%) 2 0 (MSEK) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (%) 1 Long-term financial targets, viewed over an entire economic cycle. 4 As a consequence of new accounting principles in the switch to IFRS 16 Leases, the 2 Björnkläder Intressenter AB (Grolls) was consolidated with effect from 8 June 2016. Group has revised its financial targets concerning equity ratio from 40 percent to 30 3 Effective 1 January 2019, the Group applies IFRS 16 Leases. The transition has been percent. made with the aid of the simplified method, which means the comparison figures have 5 Proposed dividend. not been recalculated. The effects of this on the balance sheet, income statement and key figures for 2019, are presented in note 29. SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 7 MARKET AND SALES Market overview Swedol is active in three geographic market segments. Overall, growth was stable in 2019, but faced an increased slowdown in demand in the fourth quarter. Swedol segments Tools and supplies grew by 13.0 percent in 2019. The In geographic terms, the Group is established in Sweden, division has a presence on all group markets but sales are Norway, Finland and Estonia. The Group’s markets are mainly in Sweden, and to a lesser extent in Norway and divided into three segments, Sweden, Norway plus Finland Finland. and the Baltic region. Following an organizational change in 2019, sales are Competitors now managed on the three geographic market segments Swedol faces competition internationally, nationally and by separate sales organizations headed by country locally in all its customer groups. Competitors consist of managers. Other functions, such as concept and range industrial and construction oriented chains with a predevelopment, purchasing, finance, logistics and IT, are sence on one or several of our geographic markets, plus managed centrally within the Group’s scalable platform. local independents. Thanks to this new organizational structure, sales are now managed in a clearer, more effective and more targeted Marknadstrender way. Digitalization continues to be a powerful trend with an The Group’s combined offer is oriented to business impact in areas such as sales, logistics, internal efficiency customers in five prioritized customer groups; Building drives and the automation of processes. Digitalization and Construction, Industry and Workshops, Haulage and is a prioritized area for Swedol and an integrated part of Transport, Farming and Forestry plus Public Services. our strategy. Companies that successfully leverage the The construction cycle in each respective country is very benefits of digitalization in a good way across their entire likely to have a major impact on the local market, and by organization can boost their competitiveness. The Group extension, on Swedol’s growth prospects within each views further development within the area as crucial for segment and for the Group as a whole. profitable growth. Swedol customers primarily consist of small and medium E-commerce continues to become more and more size enterprises which as a rule are relatively well able to significant and it is becoming increasingly important to maintain high employment even during periods when there ensure the range is visible online even if customers still are fewer large construction and property development buy the products in store. All significant companies on the projects. Within the Building and Construction customer market are looking to develop their online solutions while group, this has revolved around construction, that is to say, pure e-tailers only make up a limited part of the market to various forms of groundwork. date. A well-developed store network still offers a competitive advantage that can be complemented by alternaSwedol’s development tive logistics arrangements to meet customer needs and The Group enjoyed profitable growth on all markets purchasing patterns. in 2019. Total revenue growth for the Group was 11.7 Consolidation has been a continuing trend for quite percent. Both organic and acquisition-driven growth were some time on most of Swedol’s markets. Larger compagood, despite a slowdown in demand on the market and an nies and chain concepts can leverage economies of scale unseasonably mild winter. The slowdown primarily affected in areas such as purchasing, finance, logistics, sales and Sweden in the fourth quarter. IT. Swedol is following the trend via an active acquisition Workwear and personal protection grew by 10.6 strategy. Although the trend is widespread, the degree of percent in 2019. The division is strong on all markets and consolidation differs between the Group’s different geocompared to Tools and supplies, sales are more proportiographic markets. nally split between the countries. Sales per customer group Sales per segment 8 % Finland and 13 % Others the Baltics 7 % Public 36 % Building and Services Construction 17 % Norway 10 % Farming and Forestry 11 % Haulage and Trans75 % Sweden port 23 % Industry and Workshops 8 SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 MARKET AND SALES Sweden Swedol's sales growth was stable in Sweden in 2019 as a whole, however the market showed signs of an increasing slowdown in demand in the fourth quarter. Description of Market The Swedish market is Swedol’s biggest single market 2,740.8 MSEK and geographic segment. Customers primarily consist Revenues of small and medium size enterprises (SME) within the Group’s five prioritized customer groups. The market has enjoyed good growth for a longer period 75.7% Proportion of group sales but began to slow towards the end of 2018 due to worries in the property and construction sector. Contributory factors to the continuing slowdown included uncertainty 283.8 MSEK within several sectors, such as property, building and Operating profit construction plus industry. Rising costs for freight and raw materials and the weak Swedish krona have also had a negative effect on sales and margins. Market growth as a whole continued to be stable in 2019, but the slowdown in demand accelerated towards the end of the year. Swedol’s position The Group is firmly established with a broad and nationwide store network in Sweden. Swedol has adopted an active acquisition strategy and completed the acquisition of two stores in Sweden in 2019. The stores acquired were De Facto Yrkeskläder, in Arlandastad, and Industriprofil, in Gävle. Both these stores are strong brands locally and they are set to continue under their own brand, as part of multispecialist Swedol. The store network was also expanded with the addition of four new stores. Three Grolls stores were incorporated Swedol into Swedol stores, which means a total net increase of Grolls three stores in Sweden in 2019. At the end of the year, the Group had a total of 75 stores in Sweden, of which 50 were Swedol stores, 23 Grolls stores plus two independent stores. Swedol’s development in 2019 The Group developed well during the year on the Swedish market as a whole, although demand slowed over the year 75 stores and the mild winter had a negative impact on sales in the Whereof 50 Swedol stores, 23 Grolls stores fourth quarter. In total, sales increased by 6.0 percent in and 2 independent stores 2019. Swedol has continued to grow profitably on a slowing market by taking new marketshares and the Group outperformed the average construction and ironmongery index. Key factors in this are successful sales campaigns, on Proportion of group sales both own brands and external brands, that delivered additional cross sales, growth with the medium size enterprise customers and closer ties with partner suppliers. 54.5 % 45.5 % Tools and Workwear Competitors supplies and personal The Swedish market is relatively consolidated and the protection Group face competition within all customer groups. Swedol’s biggest competitors in Sweden are Ahlsell, the Momentum Group, Würth and Jula at national level. Rivals of the Group on a local level include small ironmongers and clothes retailers. SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 9 MARKET AND SALES Norway Swedol is established in Norway but a small name in general. In 2019, the foundations were laid for future expansion by the integration of business activities into the Group’s scalable platform. Description of Market Norway is Swedol’s second largest market after Sweden. Customers primarily consist of small and medium size 609.5 MSEK enterprises (SME) within the Group’s prioritized customer Revenues 16.8% segments. Unique to the Norwegian market is the major importance of oil and gas companies in the offshore industry. The Norwegian market has recovered well in recent Proportion of group sales years, after the earlier depression in the offshore industry. General market growth continued to be good in 2019. The market has a high degree of consolidation, while at 19.0 MSEK the same time there are numerous local generalist comOperating profit panies in small and remote locations. These stores can include everything from fishing products to construction supplies. Swedol’s position The Group is established on the Norwegian market via two store chains, Swedol and Univern. In addition to its own stores, the Group has a broad network of distributors in locations where it is difficult to establish its own concept due to the character of the Norwegian market. Swedol has a relatively small marketshare compared to the market as a whole and there continues to be potential for the Group to strengthen its position. At the end of 2019, the Group had a total of 18 stores in Norway, of which eight were Swedol and 10 Univern stores. Two new stores were opened during the year and one acquisition completed. The Univern store in Arendal Swedol was integrated into an existing Karl S Hanssen store that Univern was expanded to become a Swedol store that offered the entire range of Group products under one single roof. Three other store integrations were also implemented. Since becoming established in Norway in 2011, Swedol has worked hard to increase profitability there. The acquisition of Grolls on 2016 strengthened the Group’s position via the well-established Univern store network. After the challenges of gaining an initial foothold, Swedol has now 18 stores developed into a profitable business with a platform for Whereof 8 Swedol stores and 10 Univern continued growth. stores Swedol’s development in 2019 Revenue growth for the Group in Norway during the year amounted to 14.0 percent. Sales were positively affected by growth in the offshore sector, but negatively by interProportion of group sales ruptions related to the migration to the Group’s common IT and business system that was implemented at the start of the year. Growth was achieved with profitability and operating margin was 3.1 percent. 24,0 % 76,0 % Tools and supplies Workwear and Integration in Norway means that the business has a personal common IT and business system, price system and legal structure. This scalable platform means the Group can manage the business more efficiently and it simplifies future acquisitions and store expansion. Competitors Group competitors in Norway largely consist of big nationwide names such as Würth, Tess, Ahlsell, Wenaas and the Momentum Group. In addition to these, there are numerous strong local companies with broad ranges that to an extent, include products outside Swedol’s offer. 10 SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 MARKET AND SALES Finland and the Baltic region Swedol has continued to strengthen its presence in Finland and the Baltic region in 2019. Although the Group has a low marketshare there are good opportunities for growth. Description of Market The geographic market segment includes two countries, Finland and Estonia. Customers primarily consist of small 271.7 MSEK and medium size enterprises (SME) within the Group’s priRevenues oritized customer groups. Size wise, the market is smaller than in Sweden, but the growth potential is assessed as good. Market growth has been healthy in recent years but 7.5% Proportion of group sales there is uncertainty surrounding the market’s future rate of growth. The market finds itself in the middle of a consolidation phase and rivalry between the biggest competitors 29.3 MSEK is expected to sharpen in the future. Operating profit Swedol’s position The Group has consciously looked to strengthen its position in Finland since entering the market with the acquisition of Grolls in 2016. In 2019 one acquisition was completed, for two new stores, which took the total number of stores to ten at year end. With seven Grolls stores in Finland and one in Tallinn in Estonia, workwear and personal protective equipment make up the largest part of the Group’s market offer. The presence within tools and supplies is limited to two stores under the Metaplan brand that is a separate part of Swedol with a strong local position in Turku. Compared to Sweden and Norway, the Group has a relatively small presence in Finland and the Baltic region. However, Swedol sees good opportunities to further strengthen its position within the segment moving forward, Swedol for both workwear and personal protection and tools and Grolls supplies. The Group’s growth strategy embraces both the opening of new stores and acquisitions, in practice, the Group has expanded via organic growth in existing stores and the acquisition of new stores. Swedol’s development in 2019 The Group enjoyed good sales growth in Finland and the Baltic region in 2019. Revenue growth amounted to 123.5 10 stores percent, strongly driven by acquisitions plus good organic Whereof 8 Grolls stores and 2 independent growth. stores Growth was achieved with profitability and operating margin was 11.0 percent. The Group is pursuing ongoing work to integrate business operations in Finland and the Baltic region in the same way as has already been done in Sweden and Norway. The integration is expected to be Proportion of group sales completed in the first half of 2020 and will give the Group opportunities to leverage the advantages of a scalable platform with central functions and efficient processes, which will simplify continued expansion of the store 41.7 % 58.3 % Tools and Workwear network and profitable growth. supplies and personal protection Competitors The market for tools and supplies is relatively consolidated in Finland and the competition largely consists of nationwide chains such as Würth, Etra and the Momentum Group, plus local independents. A similar consolidation is underway on the market for workwear and personal protection where chains such as Image-Wear, Skydda, VTR and Workwear Center have gained strong market positions. SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 11 MARKET AND SALES Sales through omnichannel Swedol interfaces with its customers via an omnichannel concept that aims to deliver a coherent Swedol feel. All Group sales channels support each other to create a flexible and tailored customer experience. Focus on customer benefits in 2019 via both acquisitions and new store openings to The ability to meet customers on their terms and condistrengthen the Group’s presence in selected locations. tions is vital to ensure a competitive and attractive offer. In parallel with this, roll out of the new store concept has Via close interaction between the Group’s sales channels, continued, which has meant both store integrations and customers can take advantage of Swedol’s offer based on the reprofiling of stores. their own unique needs and preferences. Customers are served with high flexibility and can chose for themselves Field sales how they wish to interact with Swedol. Our sales channels Active, outreaching sales work is an important tool in forcomplement each other to create a coherent and unique ging long-term, strong and sustainable customer relationsSwedol experience on the customer’s own terms and hips. Our knowledgeable and enthusiastic sales personnel conditions. interface with new and existing customers via face-to-face Satisfied customers are the core of Swedol’s business meetings. and the key to profitability and sustainable growth. Swedol Over the past few years, Swedol has worked to puts great weight on customer benefits and audits this via strengthen and develop its sales organization within the annual customer surveys. Thanks to our skilled and enthuentire group. One important investment area has been in siastic employees, Swedol is able to create, maintain and Key Account Managers where the Group has built up a develop strong customer relationships. good structure to manage tendering and negotiations with larger customers. Sales organization at country level The Group implemented a reorganization in 2019 that E-commerce meant sales work would be managed at country level E-commerce is an integrated part of the Group’s instead of division level. Sales via stores, field sales and omnichannel concept and includes both traditional e-comKey Account Managers (KAM) are coordinated under merce and customer unique e-commerce solutions. This country managers in Sweden, Norway, Finland and the offers several advantages, which include greater accessiBaltic region. This new organizational structure means a bility, a broader range and the possibility of finding inforclearer demarcation of responsibilities and enables more mation on our offer very quickly. E-commerce is both an efficient management of sales work. alternative and a complement to other sales channels and supports the sales organization in each respective country. Stores In late 2019, Swedol launched its collect in store soluSwedol reaches out to a large percentage of customers on tion as a step towards linking online and store sales closer the Group’s markets via its comprehensive store network. together. This solution means customers can order online Our stores offer quick and readily accessible service and then collect this at their choice of store. and high product availability. We also offer an ordering service for direct delivery that provides customers with Distributors rapid access to in-demand products, which simplifies the In locations where Swedol does not intend to open one customer purchasing process and reduces unnecessary of its own stores, distributors play an important role by journeys to and from stores. reaching out to customers that would not otherwise have The store network has its own management structure the opportunity to shop in our stores. These distributors which means that the Group can control all aspects of are often smaller companies such as independent trade daily operations and ensure that the concepts are applied stores, car workshops or builders’ merchants. according to plan. The store network has been expanded Measuring customer satisfaction In order to assure customer benefits, the Group measures customer satisfaction in the form of a CSI. The aim is for all concept brands to achieve a CSI of 75 or better. The total scores in 2019 were as follows: Swedol in Sweden 76 (74), Swedol in Norway, 82 (82), Grolls 76 (72) and Univern 85 (80). These general increases in our customer satisfaction surveys mean that the Group achieved a score of at least 75 in each survey. Initiatives implemented in both the current year and earlier, together with good service and delivery dependability have probably contributed to these scores. The Group is continuing to monitor its stores and sales districts and implement locally adapted action plans along with targeted training initiatives to ensure we achieve similar customer satisfaction scores. 12 SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 OFFERING, PURCHASING AND LOGISTICS Concept brands Swedol interfaces with customers via three concept brands. Via a broad store network and e-commerce, Swedol, Grolls and Univern cover the markets in Sweden, Norway, Finland and Estonia. One integrated company Several concept brands In 2019, four new stores were opened in Sweden and two new stores in Norway, which represents one of the largest investments in expansion of the store network to date One integrated company – several concept brands for Swedol. In accordance with the Swedol store concept, The Group offer is collated within our concept brands; each new store in Sweden also has a Grollscenter and Swedol, Grolls and Univern. Alongside these, the Group each new store in Norway has a Univerncenter, which has stores with independent brands. Acquired stores that means customers can take advantage of the Group’s are assessed as having strong brands at local level are combined offer under one roof. In 2019, three store integrated into the Group’s common platform but can, in integrations were effected in Sweden and four in Norway, certain cases, continue to trade under their own brand which is also another way in which the entire Group offer as part of the multispecialist Swedol. Stores and e-comis available in one single store. merce are managed within the concept brands in order to deliver a specialized offer tailored to the needs and Grolls preferences of customers. Six new stores were opened in Grolls is a leading Nordic specialist within workwear 2019 and seven stores were integrated. The total number clothing and personal protection. Under the brand, of stores at the end of the year was 103 (99). 23 Grolls stores and two independent stores trade in The concept brands gain the benefits of economies of Sweden, seven Grolls stores in Finland and one Grolls scale within key areas such as concept and range devestore in Estonia, plus e-commerce in the respective lopment, purchasing, logistics, sales, finance and IT. countries. The store network is currently being updated Creating a scalable platform has been a prioritized in line with a new store concept aimed at enhancing the investment area for Swedol in recent years. This means customer experience. This new store concept is more in that business operations in each respective country line with the other concept brands and will gradually be are integrated into a single legal entity with a common introduced in stores in the next couple of years. business system and price system. The scalable platform Grolls also trades in the form of Grollscenters, our means that the Group can integrate new acquisitions effishop-in-shop concept, which means that the Grolls range ciently while at the same time make doing business easier is available in a separate department in a Swedol store. for customers. The platform is in place in Sweden and There were 13 Grollscenters at the end of the year, as part Norway, and will be implemented in Finland in the first half of the multispecialist Swedol. Grollscenters play an imporof 2020. tant part in sales of this concept brand in addition to the Customers can buy from different concept brands in dedicated stores and will continue to gain importance as each country and pay one single invoice, which simplimore Grollscenters are integrated and new Swedol stores fies cross sales and contributes to a smoother customer open. experience. The different websites also share a common e-commerce platform where customers can toggle Univern between the websites and shop for all concept brands in a The Univern concept brand includes ten stores and common shopping basket. e-commerce in Norway plus a broad partner network with good coverage across the whole of Norway. Univern is a Swedol specialist within workwear and personal protection with a Under the Swedol brand, 50 stores operate in Sweden, strong brand on the Norwegian market. The store network eight stores in Norway, plus two independent stores and e-commerce are the Group’s biggest sales channels in Finland, along with e-commerce in each respective in Norway. country. Swedol is a multispecialist that offers professional In addition to its own stores, Univern also trades in the users a broad core range complemented by innovative form of Univerncenters in Swedol stores. At the end of products within selective product categories. This breadth the year, there were three Univerncenters that are part of covers most of the needs of our prioritized customer the multispecialist Swedol. By bringing together Univern’s groups, while leading products that are especially imporunique range of workwear and Swedol’s range of tools tant are available within selected innovative categories. and supplies, customers are able to concentrate more of The offer is characterized by quality combined with value their purchases to one store. for money plus a broad range of services and closeness to customers. SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 13 OFFERING, PURCHASING AND LOGISTICS Workwear and personal protection Swedol’s Workwear and personal protection division offers professional users a complete range of workwear and personal protective equipment. The Group’s combined offer makes it one of the leading companies in the Nordic countries. A market leader within workwear clothing and personal protection 1,869.3 MSEK 51.6 % Swedol is a Nordic market leader within workwear clothing Revenues Proportion of and personal protection. The focus within our Workwear group sales and personal protection division lies in offering customers marketleading products within the product groups PersoProportion of own label products nal Protective Equipment, Footwear, Gloves, Workwear Clothing and Custom wear. Via a product range with breadth and depth, customers can take advantage of a comprehensive offer. All stores also offer services in the 52 % Own 48 % External brands brands form of clothes printing and the logistics centers offer alteration and embroidery services along with printing. Ensuring the best possible offer and satisfying customer requirements demands a balanced mix of own brands and external brands. The advantages of own brand products include enabling better control over the supply chain, product quality and characteristics, plus potentially higher margins, while external brands complement these with marketleading products within important areas. As more and more Swedol stores include a Grollscenpart of this investment in custom wear, Swedol has launter or Univerncenter, a greater number of customers have ched its own brand 1832. access to the Group’s complete range within workwear and personal protection. The shop-in-shop concept now Choice of materials and quality in all new stores and all integrated stores contributes in A relatively high proportion of own brands entails increa natural way to increased cross sales in both directions ased responsibility and requirements on control in the between Workwear and personal protection and Tools and production chain. To reduce the impact on people and the supplies. environment, systematic work is done to ensure products are of high quality. One key part of clothing product deveFocus on product development and strong brands lopment is specification work where the material compoSystematic range work is pursued within the Group to sition of the apparel is specified in detail, which affords develop and strengthen the offer. Development work is control over content and quality. Control of the material mainly done at division level, within the parameters of the composition assures traceability and scope for continuous groupwide function Concept and range development. improvements. Consolidating workwear and personal protective equipThe right materials are vital for competitiveness and ment into one division, helps ensure range development quality assurance. The Group is therefore investing heavily work is pursued in a focused and targeted way. In operain increasing the proportion of own brand products that tional terms, the division is primarily located in Gothenburg are certified to STANDARD 100 by OEKO-TEX® (OEKOand managed by an organization with extensive know-how TEX certified). The target for 2019 was for 55 percent of and long experience within the sector. all apparel to be OEKO-TEX certified and the actual figure Balance is important in the range and the mix of the achieved was 66 percent (46), an increase of 20 percenvarious product brands should complement each other tage points. The long-term target is for all new materials to to meet the needs of professional users. New products be certified to OEKO-TEX. are continuously being developed and existing products To ensure the range lives up to high demands on quality, updated, improved or discontinued. Product development safety and content, the division works to a target of no is partly done internally and partly via partnerships with product related deviations with regard to quality, safety or suppliers. chemical content. To ensure no undesirable chemicals are In 2019, the focus was on consolidating earlier investfound in our products, we apply a chemicals restriction list ments and optimizing range work. By improving our from RISE IVF. processes, we have been able to make internal work more Our own brands are largely manufactured in Asia, which efficient and bring new products to market more quickly. entails relatively long shipping distances. To minimize the We continued to implement many successful product risk of apparel not living up to the requirements the Group launches under existing brands, which is a necessity specifies being shipped unnecessarily, external quality within the business area due to high demands from custoassurance checks are performed before any products mers for updated products in line with current fashions. leave Asia. By rejecting products that do not meet our speOne important investment area moving forward is cifications before they are shipped, this avoids unnecescustom wear products which are in high demand from sary transport and reduces the number of claims, which many of the Group’s customers. Custom wear comprises makes for greater efficiency, a reduction in unnecessary a small part of division sales but offers good potential. As costs and environment impact. 14 SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 » For further information on product testing and results, please see sustainability note 1 MARKNAD OCH FÖRSÄLJNING MARKNAD OCH FÖRÄLJNING Kläder och skydd Björnkläder Sales per product group Björnkläder is a premium brand within workwear. The brand dates from 1905 making it one of the oldest suppPersonal protective liers of workwear in Sweden. Björnkläder offers a compreequipment hensive range of workwear for all customer groups. The Full range of premium clothes are hardwearing, practical and fashionable, with 12 % brands including ear defenders, hardhats, respiratory quality the number one focus. Sustainability is a priority protective equipment, area and the majority of the range is OEKO-TEX certified. safety harnesses etc. Gesto Footwear Gesto offers a broad range of workwear and safety shoes Broad range of work for professional users. The products are characterized by shoes, safety shoes and 24 % leisure shoes from a quality and functionality together with value for money and combination of leading a sporty design. external brands and own labels. Nytello Nytello is a brand for lightweight workwear primarily marketed to professional groups within the Hotel & Restaurant, Gloves 9% Customer focused range Healthcare and Care and the Cleaning and Service of precisionand power sectors. The majority of garments are OEKO-TEX certified. gloves from own label and external brands. Univern Univern is a Norwegian premium brand that dates from 1977. The offer includes a complete range of professional workwear specially designed for extreme outdoor environments where there are exacting demands on protecting against wind, water and cold. Workwear Broad range of heavy Balance workwear, light workwear, We offer a broad range of work gloves under our Balance safety clothers and multi 55 % standard clothing. Own brand. The products are characterized by quality and funclabels are complemented tionality together with value for money. with premium external brands. 1832 Customers are offered handsome and stylish custom wear products under our newly launched 1832 brand. The range offers value for money and is designed to be customized in line with customer specifications. Own brands SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 15 OFFERING, PURCHASING AND LOGISTICS Tools and supplies Swedol’s Tools and supplies division is a complete supplier for professional users within the product categories; Tools, Supplies, Farming and Forestry. The range combines breadth with depth within selected categories that are especially important for our customers. A multispecialist for professional users Our Tools and supplies division brings together the 1,752.7 MSEK 48.4 % Group's business within product categories, Tools and Revenues Proportion of supplies, Farming and forestry. group sales The Tools and supplies division is an innovative multispecialist within a number of important product categories. A broad base range that combines value for money with quality to cover the fundamental requirements of professional users. The offer is complemented by selected preProportion of own label products mium categories that are important for prioritized customer groups, which very largely consist of small and medium size enterprises. 24 % Own brands 76 % External brands The offer also includes a broad range of services designed for professional users. All normal stores in the Swedol chain offer hose crimping and chain manufacture. Servicing and warranty repair of tools and machinery plus calibration of lasers and torque wrenches are managed centrally by our partner Mekina. One of the key strengths of both the division and the Group is knowledge and commitment. Many of the division’s products put high demands on the specific technical expertise of employees in order for them to be able to assist customers in making the right choice of products sion’s offer to customers within construction and industry, and to provide advice and service. Our employees are and fixings in particular, which is a big market and a contitherefore trained in product application areas and maintenued target area for Swedol. These products are impornance to ensure customers get the best possible service. tant for many of the Group’s prioritized customer groups Being a complete partner to customers, strengthens the and are in high demand with plenty of repeat purchases by division’s competitiveness. companies within construction and industry. Meeting customer expectations calls for a balanced mix of own brands and external brands. The Group’s own label Supplies and vehicle accessories products range from advanced to more basic products The division has a broad offer of necessities within and often afford a higher margin than on external brands. construction and industry. A large proportion consists of In addition to these own brands, externals brands are oils and chemical products where OKQ8 is an important fundamental in offering customers a broad and value for supplier. money core range complemented by the best products One specialist area within Supplies is Lifting and loads from the foremost brands. where Swedol is one of the leading companies in Sweden. The range is divided into three product groups: Tools, As a rule, these products have a high repeat purchase Supplies and vehicle accessories, plus Farming, forestry frequency and including lifting equipment, load restraints and gardens. plus winches and pallet lifters. Lifting and loads comprise a continuing investment area where Swedol is striving to Tools strengthen its role as a specialist. One of the division’s specialist areas is Tools where the The vehicle accessories range has grown fast in recent Group is aiming to gain a leading role on the market. years and within vehicle lighting, we have an own label The product category Tools can be divided into a brand Award, that has built up a complete and marketlenumber of sub categories, such as power hand tools that ading range in a short time. include drills, hammer drills, electric screwdrivers and sanders. Farming, forestry and gardens Other examples of sub categories include Equipment The Farming and forestry range is aimed at professional accessories and Hand tools such as drills, sanders, spanusers within farming, forestry and parks management. The ners, pliers and saws. products include garden equipment, water pumps and A common denominator for these different sub catefelling tools from renowned brands such as Klippo and gories is a high quality range that includes products from Gardena. This product category also includes our own many strong external brands, such as Bosch, Husqvarna, Nima brand with a broad range of high quality products. Hikoki, Milwaukee, Hultafors, Tyrolit, Bahco and Dormer. Swedol has been working on strengthening the divi16 SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 High demands on quality and safety Sales per product group The ability to meet stakeholder expectations when it comes to safety, quality and environment considerations related to the range, is crucial to retain customer confiFarming, forestry and gardens dence. Certain products in the division such as e.g. tools, 7% The range includes garden and forestry machinery, tools, electric chemicals, vehicle accessories and safety equipment are fencing plus hunt and slaughter also subject to particularly exacting demands on safety products. and quality. For this reason, the division takes a systematic approach to quality requirements, product testing and certification to ensure compliance with very high safety requirements with regard to performance, chemical content and documentation. To reduce risks related to human health Tools This range includes hand tools, and the environment, Swedol has adopted the Reach and power tools, welding equipPOP Regulation and the RoHS Directive. Work is actively 47 % ment, compressed air plant, pursued to discover possible inadequacies in quality and workshop fixtures and fittings, safety work in whichever part of the production chain they fastenings and door fittings. may be. Were inadequacies to be discovered internally or by a customer, these are registered electronically and monitored in relation to the respective purchasing category. If a safety failing were to be discovered, all products affected are blocked in the system to ensure they cannot be sold by stores. To monitor and manage work to ensure a range lives up to high demands on quality, safety and content, the division takes a goal oriented approach to prevent deviations in quality, safety or chemical content associated with Supplies and vehicle accessories products Our range includes products within » fluidics, lifting and loading, oil & For further information on product testing and results, please see 46 % chemicals, electrics and plumbing, sustainability note 1 vehicle accessories and workplace equipment. Own brands (OB) Own label products (OLP) Within OB, Swedol owns the relevant brands which Own label products give Swedol exclusive right to ensures control over quality and pricing and total sell unique products on a market under the supplier’s responsibility for the products vis-à-vis customers. own brand. SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 17 OFFERING, PURCHASING AND LOGISTICS Responsible purchasing An attractive range based on solid knowledge and an efficient purchasing process in combination with long-term relationships with the right supplier base. Purchasing operations are key to being able to offer quality assured and sustainable products with good sales margins. New common group purchasing office Group purchasing is pursued within the category organizations by knowledgeable category managers and product managers with long experience. Swedol has had a new organizational structure in place since September 2019 where category work is coordinated under a Concept and range development office instead of within each respective division as before. This new common purchasing office makes for closer control of the processes within all the categories and facilitates further growth. Efficient processes Together with efficient processes, sound knowledge about ranges, certifications and suppliers is crucial in being able to best match purchasing requirements. Purchasing work is done in groups with short decision paths which means changes in sales patterns can be picked up at an early stage and purchasing then modified accordingly. Monthly results analysis at product level enables the role each individual product plays in total sales to be analyzed. The new organization means Swedol is better able to work with sales forecasts at country level, which will reduce risk in purchasing and improve delivery dependability. The aim of the purchasing organization is to obtain the right products at the right price while at the same time gaining reliable suppliers that enable high stock availability combined with a good rate of stock turnover. The purchasing picture differs between the two Group divisions. Within Workwear and personal protection, own brands comprise around half the range and production is primarily outsourced to Asia, which increases the importance of requirements specification and monitoring of suppliers. Within Tools and supplies, there is a higher proportion of external brands, a broader supplier base and production is based to a greater extent in Europe. into a smaller number of agreements with better terms and Right supplier base conditions when it comes to price, quality and deliveries The right supplier base is a must for successful purchasing and range work. When working to develop the Group Responsible trading supplier base, product quality, reliable deliveries, sales Ethical behavior and good business practice are key to margin and sustainability are prime criteria. The balance in Swedol’s development and profitability. Swedol will not the supplier base in terms of number of suppliers and their accept any form of corruption or other irregularities and share of the total purchase volume for instance, is imporadheres to the Swedish Anti-Corruption Institute code on tant in combating risks in the goods flow and ensuring the gifts, rewards and other benefits in the enterprise sector. group's negotiating strength. Quality, responsibility and All trading that risks having a negative impact on confiprofitability go hand in hand in long-term and close coopedence in the company is rejected, corresponding demands ration between Swedol and prioritized suppliers. are specified on both business partners and suppliers. As the Group grows, the way purchasing can be done is To further strengthen such preventative work, Swedol also changing. As a larger enterprise, Swedol is in a better intends to organize training in 2020 that focuses on position to specify tougher demands and gain greater anti-corruption and business ethics for employees within control in relationships with suppliers. In 2019, the Group purchasing, IT, finance and certain sales positions. Via started implementing a new purchase agreement and a close cooperation with agents and business partners, review of all supplier relationships, a process that will conSwedol takes a proactive approach to minimize risks of tinue in 2020. The number of suppliers is being reduced corruption or actions that are not in line with the code of and Group purchasing in all countries will be consolidated conduct. 18 SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 INKÖP organizing its own visits to all significant suppliers at least Responsibility in the supplier chain once a year, which was achieved in 2019. Which suppliers Swedol’s responsibilities extend further than its own are visited, and how often, depends on the scale of their enterprise. Clear demands are therefore specified to production and the risk profile of the country and specific suppliers that manufacture products the Group sells to factory. take their corporate social and environment responsibiliDeviations that were identified during third party audits ties with the utmost gravity. This is a particularly prioritized during the year primarily concerned excessive working area as Swedol imports products from countries where hours without adequate time for rest and recovery, inadethere are elevated risks that such requirements are not quate fire safety procedures and the health and safety of met. The Group is a member of the amfori Business Social workers. If deviations from the Swedol requirements are Compliance Initiative (amfori BSCI), a global business discovered during a supplier visit, in the first instance, a initiative that works to ensure responsible supplier chains. joint plan of action is to be established and then with the Within the parameters of amfori BSCI, a common code of aid of support and training, compliance with the code of conduct and a common system for monitoring the supplier conduct can then be assured. In the event of gross or chain and its continued development are employed. The repeated deviations from the code of conduct, cooperacode of conduct specifies requirements on compliance tion can, however, be terminated. No supplier relationswith internationally acknowledged conventions on human hips were terminated due to deviations from the code of rights and decent working conditions and contains princonduct in 2019. The most notable deviations that have ciples on good business ethics and reduced environment been discovered during Swedol’s own supplier visits have impact. primarily concerned quality issues. For examples, there Before any agreement is signed for new supplier coopewas a lack of dry rooms at suppliers in Bangladesh, now ration, Swedol performs an assessment of the supplier’s one of the largest production countries for the Group. Dry ability to make reliable deliveries of quality and value for rooms are used to eliminate moisture from apparel before money products and its ability to live up to the requirepacking. Swedol has a project manager in place in Bangments set out in the code of conduct. ladesh to support suppliers in efforts to make ongoing improvements. With the help of Swedol’s expertise and Monitoring and cooperation experience of dry rooms, the problems were rectified by Supplier visits provide a good insight into a supplier’s the supplier. business and are an important part of ongoing development work. Regular third party audits are performed under the parameters of amfori BSCI, of which many are » For further information on third party audits completed, the findings and actions, please see sustainability note 2 initiated by Swedol. The Group has also set a target of Code of conduct leads the way The overall goal is for all group suppliers to be compliant with amfori BCSI or a corresponding third party audit. The target for 2019 was for 95 percent of all significant suppliers of Swedol own brand products to have signed the amfori BSCI code of conducts or the Swedol code of conduct for suppliers. This target was exceeded and the actual number was 97 percent. Eventually, all Group suppliers are to have signed up to the amfori BSCI code of conduct and the Swedol code of conduct will be phased out. In 2019, the amfori BCSI code of conduct was included in Group purchasing agreements and all suppliers of own brand products have signed up to this. Efforts to persuade all existing suppliers to subscribe to the code of conduct have been intensified. SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 19 OFFERING, PURCHASING AND LOGISTICS Scalable logistics Logistics is important for the Group’s competitiveness and continuous improvement work is undertaken to coordinate processes and further increase efficiency and delivery quality. The centralization of logistics will increase the degree Efficient and scalable logistics model of automation, concentrate inventory and distribution to Swedol’s logistics department is an important factor in the the demographic center point of Sweden and create a Group’s competitiveness and crucial for delivering in line scalable logistics department that can quickly adapt to with our omnichannel concept. The goal of Group logistics changes both within the Group and externally. The Group is to serve all customers in a reliable and efficient way in all will have greater scope to improve control of the entire sale channels while assuring high availability. The logistics product flow, cut inventory costs, increase stock turnover department includes three logistics centers, located in ratio and optimize purchasing volumes. Customers will be Örebro and Hisings Backa in Sweden and Skedsmokorset offered good lead times for all the Group’s markets, cenin Norway, that between them, supply all stores, mail order tralized printing, embroidering and alteration services, plus customers and distributors with products. combined deliveries of orders from group concept brands. Centralization of logistics in Sweden Logistics optimization During the year, the expansion of the logistics center in Swedol works continuously to optimize logistics flows Örebro proceeded according to plan, apart from iniwith the aim of increasing the level of service to custotial delays that were due to surface runoff surveys that mers, boost company profitability and reduce environment have been performed around Sweden. The expansion is impact. expected to be completed in early 2021, as one step in The increased digitalization of logistics, offers Swedol the decision to concentrate the Group’s Swedish logistics the opportunity to make its internal flows and processes and further processing operations to Örebro. The aim is more efficient, increase the customer benefits and create to make product flows more efficient, reduce costs and more sustainable solutions. A new transport and adminisincrease the level of service to customers. The plantration system was implemented in 2019 that will mean ned expansion of the modern logistics center in Örebro customers can access more information and have greater includes both warehouse and processing space and will freedom of choice in terms of shipping and delivery increase the total area of the logistics center to 28,000 sq options. Towards the end of the year, roll-out began of m, from the current 18,500 sq m. In association with this Swedol’s collect in store solution that offers customers the centralization, logistics operations in Hisings Backa will be choice of collecting orders directly in store. transferred and this center closed. Preparatory work has started ahead of replacing the The planned expansion of the automated Autostore inventory management system at the logistics center in warehouse in Örebro was completed in November. Örebro in 2020. The new system is better suited to the Storage capacity has now been doubled and the number large volumes associated with group growth and will of operator gates where products are read into the system enable better information flow, further improve quality of and picked has increased from 10 to 12. Autostore is delivery and more efficient processes in Örebro, that, in approximately twice as efficient as processing products turn, will result in shorter lead times to stores and external manually, which can be expected to show through once customers. product categories gradually start to be transferred from Examples of other measures that have been impleHisings Backa to Örebro in January 2020. mented during the year include the establishment of a Autostore is an automated warehouse that enables compact inventory systems to be constructed. The boxes that are used as load carriers are stacked on top of each other in a 3D matrix. Wheeled robots work from the top down and lift the boxes that have been ordered by the system and transport them to picking stations. The image depicts two newly constructed goods in ports in Autostore. 20 SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 In 2019, the first shovel was put to the ground in the work of the planned expansion of Swedol's logistics center in Örebro. The modern logistics Logistik center already operates at a high level in terms of internal key performance indicators. The expansion will house both warehousing and refinement and will increase the logistics center's area from 18,500 square meters to 28,000 square meters. The image depicts the construction of ten new gates for delivery at the automated warehouse Autostore. bonded warehouse in Örebro, the introduction of direct weight, for the Group. Rail transport has the potential to flows from Swedish warehouses to stores, distributors and replace air, sea and road transport as a cost effective and end customers in Norway, improved processing of return less environmentally harmful alternative. claims, plus the implementation of the same internal deviThe Group’s total amount of transport-related carbon ation reporting system that was already in use in Sweden, dioxide emissions in 2019 was 2,807 ton CO2e, a total in Skedsmokorset in Norway. Added to which, Swedol increase of 226 ton CO2e. This increase is a consehas implemented efficiency improvements in processing quence of more precise calculations of carbon dioxide operations in Hisings Backa and Örebro that have resulted emissions from goods out shipments by road in relation to in increased capacity for printing orders from external the comparison year at one of the Group’s biggest haulage customers and stores. providers. Swedol pursues continuous improvement work to Inventory efficiency drive increase the fill capacity in outward bound loads. Skills The Group stock turnover ratio was 3.7 (4.3) in 2019, improving activities that operations managers and team which is lower than the target level of 4.5. Stock turnover leaders are responsible for, are an important part of this ratio during the year was negatively affected by growth work. Fill capacity in goods in shipments has not been initiatives in new ranges and own brands. improved at the rate desired and as a consequence, Achieving greater inventory efficiency while maintaining Swedol has launched monthly analyses with the aim of the level of service is a high priority for Swedol. The Group steering suppliers in the desired direction. has implemented a series of measures in 2019 that will pave the way for optimized inventory levels. A groupwide purchasing office with a unified purchasing system, » For further information on product transport-related carbon dioxide emissions and environment related logistics targets and actual together with new country oriented sales organizations will figures, please see sustainability note 3 enable better forecasting and clearer analysis to support purchase planning. The new purchasing agreement that Logistics related environmental considerations has been established during the year imposes tougher In addition to the climate impact of carbon dioxide requirements on suppliers, which is expected to boost emissions, logistics operations also entail other forms of deliver dependability. environment impact via, for example, packaging waste and energy consumption. To reduce such environment impact, Reducing our carbon footprint these areas are audited for the purposes of monitoring and The Group’s negative environment impact is largely a efficiency improvements. result of carbon dioxide emissions arising from product To reduce energy consumption, the Group switched movements, of which the biggest proportion relates to air to LED lighting in 2018 at its logistics centers in Örebro and sea freight. Reducing our carbon footprint caused by and Hisings Backa. In 2019, the logistics center in Örebro product shipments is therefore a prioritized issue. Swedol used 651,383 kWh of energy, a reduction of 222,680 continuously looks to optimize logistics flows for both kWh in relation to the comparison year. This substantial goods in and goods out. Logistics and purchasing repredrop is primarily accounted for by gaining the full effect sentatives hold strategic, tactical and operations meetings, of the switch to LED lighting during the year, although the maintain an ongoing dialog with suppliers and organize at mild winter was another contributory factor. least one feedback meeting per year concerning global During the year, Swedol signed an agreement with a shipping. supplier to collect and repair empty wooden pallets from To reduce carbon dioxide emissions caused by product stores in Sweden and return them to the logistics center movements, Swedol is addressing areas such as improved in Örebro. This has reduced the volume of waste timber purchase planning, reducing the amount of air freight and by around 30 tonnes. The Group is now investigating the increasing fill capacity in containers that are shipped by possibility of a similar arrangement in Norway. sea by coordinating loads from different product suppliers. Environmental and quality are key issues in the expanIn 2019, efforts to improve purchase planning have led sion of the logistics center in Örebro. The general conto delivery delays being detected at an earlier stage and tractor is certified to ISO 9001 and 14001 and a control the need for air freighting has accordingly been reduced. plan has been created with regards to energy usage, A switch to a higher proportion of rail transport has been waste management, materials usage and climate impact, pursued where such opportunities arise, which has resulfor example. ted in a 616 percent increase in rail transport, in terms of SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 21 Att leda mig själv Att leda andra Att leda affär EMPLOYEES ENKELT, PROFFSIGT, HJÄRTA, DRIV Attractive employer Vi ska vara en attraktiv arbetsgivare med engegerade och kunniga medarbetare A strong and management by values corporate culture, clear leadershipAtt leda mig själv Att leda andra Att leda affären and good development opportunities are the key to knowledgeable and ENKELT, PROFFSIGT, HJÄRTA, DRIV committed employees at Swedol. Being an attractive employer with committed and knowledgeable employees is one of Swedol’s strategic goals. To realize this strategy, as a workplace, Swedol should have a We shall be an attractive employer with good working environment, a strong common culture, clear enthusiastic and knowledgeable employees leadership, commitment and development opportunities. Strong common culture Simple, professional, heart and drive are the value words that form the basis of the Swedol corporate culture. These To lead myself To lead others To lead the business values act as the starting point for employees in their work, how they interact with each other and in meetings with customers and other stakeholders. Swedol works systematically to create a values driven EASY, PROFESSIONAL, HEART, DRIVE approach such that employees feel able to take the initiative and make their own intelligent decisions, based on Swedol's leadership framework describes the behavior and values that this common set of values. The Group’s code of conduct leadership within Swedol shall stand for. offers guidance to all employees in how they are expected to act with regard to business ethics, consideration for colleagues, customers, business partners and the environClear leadership ment etc. Good, clear leadership boosts and develops employees and the organization as a whole, and is a key factor in » For further information on Swedol’s sustainability management and information on the Group’s whistleblower function, please see ensuring satisfied and engaged employees. Swedol strives to offer modern leadership based on the sustainability notes on page 74 trust, participation and commitment. The Group completed its management development program “Good Good understanding paves the way for improvement Leadership” in 2019 and broadly speaking, all managers Having a good understanding of employees and how they have completed the three program modules; Managing perceive their workplace and opportunities at Swedol is an Business, Managing Others and Managing Yourself. important starting point in creating an attractive worksBased on experiences from the program, Swedol has pace. The Group organizes an annual employee survey established a management framework that clarifies what containing questions such as leadership, engagement, management means at Swedol and what is expected of a culture, psychosocial work environment, team effectivemanager in the form of desired behavior and focus. This ness and employer attractiveness. The results are taken desired management will be integrated into recruitment, into account in business planning and help shape new induction and employee appraisals for Group managers in initiatives, actions and changes in target figures. 2020. The 2019 employee survey indicates stable scores at a As a result of this investment in management develophigh level within all indices. The response rate was high at ment, the findings for 2019 show that managers now pos94 percent (93). The survey shows that the level of engasess a greater capacity to give feedback, and that certain gement remains high, especially among managers. As in parts of the Group have made significant positive advanprevious years, Swedol is seen as an attractive employer ces when it comes to engagement and effectiveness. and the team and leadership indices remain high, however, with significant variations between different parts of the Training and skills development in focus enterprise. Swedol has made good progress in those During the year, Swedol continued its investments in areas identified as priorities in 2018, stress levels among training and skills development. The comprehensive managers, the work environment, skills and knowledge investment in the Group management program has been development, where all show positive results. completed and managers and Health&Safety Officers in Based on the 2019 results, the focus for 2020 will be, Sweden have done an online H&S training course. A traiin the first instance, on those parts of the organization that ning fair was arranged in the spring together with Group have been below average for the Group as a whole for two suppliers, to help employees within sales in Sweden and consecutive years. These are the areas where Swedol will Norway learn more about products. A corresponding implement targeted actions, and monitor progress through knowledge development day was also held for all personthe year. nel at Head Office and at the logistics centers in Hisings » For further information on the employee survey results, and target levels, please see sustainability note 4 Backa and Örebro. Towards the end of 2019, the Group’s code of conduct was updated and in association with this, Swedol created an online training course in the code and what it contains, 22 SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 EMPLOYEES During the Swedol Knowledge Days, sales employees in Sweden and Norway gathered for a two-day training fair where they met suppliers and learned more about Group products. that will be mandatory for all employees, starting in 2020. Diversity and equal opportunities This updated code of conduct has a greater focus on Diversity and equal opportunities are an important element business ethics and Swedol has created a workshop for in work to strengthen Swedol’s corporate culture. Within employees within those areas where such knowledge is Swedol, everyone should be equally valued, irrespective particularly important, such as purchasing, IT and finance. of gender, age, ethnicity or sexual orientation. Historically In 2019, Swedol increased its focus on development speaking, the sector in which Swedol operates has been and commitment in the annual employee performance appmale-dominated. The aim in 2019 was for at least one in raisals with the aim of helping each respective employee five store managers to be female. This target was achieved be better able to reach agreed targets. The employee appand today, 23 percent of store managers are female. The raisals are also now more clearly linked to the Group’s new aim is to further increase this number in 2020. management framework. In 2019, performance appraisals Swedol actively works to promote and increase diversity were held with 78 percent (76) of all employees who had and equal opportunities. In 2019, our focus lay on increbeen with the company for more than a year. asing awareness of the importance of diversity and equal Thanks to the measures that have been implemented opportunities within the organization. The new H&S course during the year, the employee survey for 2019 shows for managers and H&S Officers clarifies the Group’s aims improvements when it comes to knowledge and expeand trains managers in how they can promote inclusiverience exchanges. Even so, Swedol is looking to make ness, counter violations of integrity and what they should further improvements and will continue to prioritize knowdo in the event of any such violations. In addition, a dialog ledge and skills development in 2020. One such measure on equal opportunities and diversity issues has been incluis to develop our Swedol Academy online training platform. ded in H&S inspections and on H&S committee agendas. This dialog includes discussions on what supports and Systematic health and safety work hinders diversity and equal opportunities respectively and Structured and systematic health and safety work is vital if what can be done locally and centrally to improve this. Swedol is to be able to offer a safe and attractive workplace. Health and Safety training for managers and H&S » For further information on gender balance, please see sustainability note 4 Officers was established during the year that aims to make it easier to ensure a consistent approach to H&S issues in daily operations. Equipped for future challenges The comprehensive integration work over the past few Acquisitions and store openings impose tough demands years following the acquisition of Grolls has resulted in a on both our culture and leadership and require clear high work load for many Group employees, with associaprocesses for integration and knowledge transfer. Investted increased stress levels among Group managers. ments during the year in leadership and a strong common In 2019, Swedol has implemented measures to help preculture have played an important part in the work Swedol vent stress and an imbalance between requirements and is doing to continuously strengthen the structural capital of resources that can arise following organizational changes. our growing organization. This work will continue in 2020 An interdepartmental working group has reviewed risks in with the focus on strengthening core processes such as stores, logistics and in offices and has developed common the recruitment and induction of new employees. new tools for health and safety work within the Group. The pending merger of logistics operations in Sweden The biggest physical occupational health and safety means a big change and brings certain challenges with risks for Swedol employees are linked to the Group’s it. In order to prevent gray areas that can lead to anxiety logistics centers. As part of preventative work, monthly among those employees affected, Swedol is focusing on H&S inspection rounds are performed along with regular clear and transparent communication. The logistics center risk audits. In addition, the logistics centers have incident in Hisings Backa possesses key know-how within the reporting systems that are regularly assessed. A compreGroup’s embroidering and custom wear services. Swedol hensive risk assessment was performed during the year in has therefore taken steps to ensure know-how transfer on association with the expansion of our Autostore automated the relocation. warehouse. » For further information on employees, personnel turnover, sick leave and injuries in the workspace, please see sustainability note 4 SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 23 SHARE DATA AND SHAREHOLDERS Swedol shares Swedol B shares have been listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm since 12 June 2008, having originally been floated on the First North on 12 June 2006. The Swedol share price rose 47.6 percent during the year and finished the year at SEK 46.35. Swedol’s share capital amounts to MSEK 12.5 divided into Dividend 1,820,000 A shares with 10 votes per share and Swedol should have the opportunity of continued growth 81,380,000 B shares with 1 vote per share. All shares while retaining its financial strength. Against this backhave equal rights to dividends. ground, the board has resolved a dividend policy that means a dividend of 30–50 percent of the Group’s net Share price development profit. The board proposes that the Annual General Swedol shares closed at SEK 46.35 per share on 30 Meeting should approve a dividend of SEK 1.20 (1.20) per December 2019, the last trading day of the year. Since the share for 2019. The total dividend would therefore amount flotation in June 2006, Swedol shares have risen 362.5 to MSEK 99.8 (99.8) This proposed dividend amounts to percent. Over the same period, the OMX Stockholm PI42.1 percent of the Group's net profit. Swedol's strategy index has risen by 129.7 percent. Swedol shares traded at aims to create good growth in value via organic growth a highest price of SEK 46.40 (in November) and a lowest and acquisitions. The present capital structure and profiprice of SEK 31.05 (in January) for the year. The share tability are assessed to providing adequate scope for the price rose 47.6 percent in 2019 while the OMX Stockproposed dividend with regard to the requirements and holm PI-index rose by 29.6 percent. If Swedol A shares opportunities that the nature, scale and risks of the busiare assumed to have the same value as the B shares, the ness impose on parent company and group shareholders' company had a market capitalization of MSEK 3,856 at the equity and liquidity. end of 2019. Share capital development Trading and turnover According to the company's articles of association, share Swedol B shares (SWOL B) are listed on the Nasdaq capital should comprise a minimum of MSEK 8.4 and a Stockholm and traded on the Mid Capt list. During the maximum of MSEK 33.6. The number of shares should be year, 38,276,775 B shares were traded, which corresa minimum of 28 million and a maximum 112 million shares. ponds to a share turnover ratio of 47.0 percent, based on Each share has a quotient value of 0.15. In association the total number of B shares outstanding. The number of with the share flotation in 2006, Swedol implemented a settlements for the year was 51,700 with an average daily new issue, which increased the total number of shares to volume amounting to 153,722 shares. Of the total trading 32,000,000 and in 2011, a share split was implemented in the shares, 79.5 percent were done on the Nasdaq (1:2) that increased the total number of shares to Stockholm and the remainder on alternative markets, such 64,000,000. In association with the acquisition of Björnas Cboe BXE and Turquoise. kläder Intressenter AB in June 2016, a preferential share issue was implemented (3:10) in the month of September. 420,000 A shares and 18,780,000 B shares were issued. Effective 30 September 2016, the total number of shares was 83,200,000. Swedol shares 2007–2020 Swedol B OMX Stockholm_PI Average monthly trading 48 14,000 46 44 13,000 42 12,000 40 38 11,000 36 10,000 34 32 9,000 30 8,000 28 26 7,000 24 6,000 22 20 5,000 18 16 4,000 14 3,000 12 10 2,000 8 1,000 6 4 0 price 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 volume '000s Source: WebfinacialGroup 24 SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Källa: SHARE DATA AND SHAREHOLDERS Swedol B (SWOL B) at 2019-12-31 Shareholders At year end, There were 4,546 Swedol shareholders, Beta value 0.55 which is a reduction of 16.4 percent compared to one Volatility, % 33.45 year earlier. The ten largest shareholders at the same time, Dividend yield, % 2.591 accounted for 84.9 percent (88.3) of the capital and 87.4 (90.3) percent of the voting rights. Total return, % 50.201 P/E 16.26 Tender offer from Momentum EV/Sales 1.342 On 11 November 2019, the Momentum Group submitted P/B 2.74 a tender offer to shareholders in Swedol to transfer their shares in Swedol to the Momentum Group (“The Offer”). Earnings per share, SEK 2.85 The Momentum Group has offered shareholders in 1 Proposed dividend. Swedol the choice of cash payment or payment in shares. 2 From 2019 inclusive lease liabilities are included in net debt because due to the transition to IFRS 16. For each A and B share in Swedol respectively, a cash payment of SEK 46.50 per share is offered, or alternatively a share exchange of 0.40 of a new B share in the Momentum Group for each A and B share in Swedol respectively. Swedol's ownership categories at 2019-12-31 The independent tender committee unanimously 5.9 % Swedish private recommends that Swedol shareholders accept the cash individuals payment alternative of SEK 46.50 per share, which is also 70.6 % Swedish supported by a so-called fairness opinion from Pareto 7.4 % Institutional owners legal entities Securities AB. The largest shareholder, Nordstjernan AB, that represents approximately 67.0 percent of the shares 16.0 % Nonand approximately 72.4 percent of the voting rights, has resident owners undertaken to accept the offer and is choosing a share exchange. The acceptance period for the tender opened on 17 December and closed after an extension on 20 March 2020, with a reservation for possible further extensions. The 10 largest sharholders in Swedol at 2019-12-31 A shares B shares Share of capital Share of votes Nordstjernan AB 1,820,000 53,925,800 67.0 % 72.4 % RBC Investor Services Bank S.A 2,291,714 2.8 % 2.3 % BNY Mellon SA/NV 2,229,856 2.7 % 2.2 % FW Förvaltning (Zelda AB) 2,200,000 2.6 % 2.2 % Handelsbanken fonder* 1,885,860 2.3 % 1.9 % HSBC Bank PLC 1,847,991 2.2 % 1.9 % SEB Investment Management 1,426,328 1.7 % 1.4 % Merrill Lynch Professional Clearing Group 1,270,370 1.5 % 1.3 % Danica Pension 874,522 1.1 % 0.9 % Försäkringsaktiebolaget Avanza Pension 863,230 1.0 % 0.9 % Total 10 largest shareholders 1,820,000 68,815,671 84.9 % 87.4 % Other shareholders 12,564,329 15.1 % 12.6 % Total 1,820,000 81,380,000 100.0 % 100.0 % * Includes Handelsbanken Sverige Index Criteria. Swedol's ownership structure at 2019-12-31 Shareholding Number of shareholders A shares B shares Share of capital Number of votes Share of votes 1–500 3,198 386,466 0.6 % 386,466 0.5 % 501–1,000 537 406,238 0.7 % 406,238 0.6 % 1,001–5,000 586 1,256,797 2.2 % 1,256,797 1.8 % 5,001–10,000 91 633,334 1.1 % 633,334 0.9 % 10,001–15,000 26 328,861 0.6 % 328,861 0.5 % 15,001–20,000 18 322,338 0.5 % 322,338 0.4 % 20,001– 89 1,820,000 78,046,560 94.4 % 96,246,560 95.3 % Total 4 ,461 1,820,000 81,380,0002 100.0 % 99,580,594 100.0 % 1 Includes difference regarding exceeded reporting of 1 by trustee. 2 Includes difference regarding exceeded reporting of -594 by trustee. SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 25 RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT Risk management at Swedol Swedol's business activities are associated with risks in different ways. Well considered risk management can lead to new opportunities, and ultimately create value for Swedol and its stakeholders, while at the same time, risks that are not managed correctly, can lead to damage and losses. Meeting the goals set out in the Swedol business plan, can adversely affected. There is also a risk that integration be affected in both the short and long term by strategic, processes can come to take longer or become more operational and financial risks. To minimize risks and the costly than estimated, and the anticipated synergies fail negative impact of such, Swedol works in line with an estato materialize wholly or in part. Unsuccessful integration blished process in accordance with the COSO framework of acquired businesses can come to affect the Swedol where risks are continuously identified, analyzed, managed brand and earnings negatively. Store integrations within and reported within the Group. the existing store network can also entail risks for both brands and results. A larger number of smaller acquisitions Strategic risks increase the probability of unsuccessful integrations but Strategic risks can mainly be traced to factors outside reduce their impact, compared to a small number of major Swedol's own business and concern risks in the form of acquisitions. changes in strategic circumstances. Risk management A Economic cycle risks and external risks Swedol performs careful analyses before implementing Demand for Swedol products is dependent on growth in any acquisition. In the case of businesses that are integrathe economy and lower growth or external events that affect ted into Swedol, both integration costs and synergy global trade or other circumstances can impact revenues effects are closely monitored. and profitability negatively. The spread of COVID-19 is an example of a risk for the global economy that can adversely D Risks in sales and operating margin impact demand. Swedol’s sales-related risks can concern products in the range not matching demand, having low margins or that the Risk management sales channels do not live up to expectations with lower Swedol counters these risks by adapting its business sales and margins as a consequence. operations to the prevailing demand, pursuing business on several geographic markets and by maintaining good Risk management financial stability. Swedol has a broad customer base and is not dependent on a small number of branches or a handful of large B Structural risks customers. Swedol also has a broad product portfolio Swedol is exposed to significant competition. Competitors and a balanced proportion of own label products, which consist of both local companies within tools and personal strengthens the offer and enables higher margins. The protection plus national and international chains oriented Group’s sales channels are continuously monitored and to companies or consumers. Added to which, the risk of developed. negative pressure on margins is greater on the large customer market that is characterized by price pressure and E Risks in the organization customer specific solutions. SMEs generally exhibit greater Qualified key personnel along with knowledgeable and flexibility in employment during economic upturns and enthusiastic employees are an important contributory downturns. Technology developments can also change the factor in Swedol's ability to realize strategies and achieve structure on the market in the form of, for example, competargets. If Swedol were unsuccessful in ensuring an tition from companies with new delivery models, changing attractive place to work, this would have a direct negative customer preferences and changed product requirements. impact on the company's ability to attract, engage and retain suitably qualified employees. Risk management Swedol’s risk sensitivity is limited by the Group's sales Risk management focus on SME customers. Via an omnichannel concept, Swedol works to create a safe, fair and diversified worksSwedol interfaces with its customers based on their needs pace with high job satisfaction and pride amongst employand preferences. ees on an ongoing basis. Plus, important processes for further developing working methods and reducing personOperational risks nel dependency are documented. Operational risks are mainly risks that lie within the control of Swedol. Supply and range problems plus failings in F Risks in the goods flow financial, social and environment related responsibilities are Swedol is dependent on goods flows working in a reliable examples of risks in day to day operations. and cost efficient way. The goods flow process starts as early as the purchasing planning stage and failings in C Acquisition and integration risk the purchasing department can create interruptions in Acquisitions entail risk both in the actual acquisition the goods flow even before the logistics department can transaction and the subsequent integration. In addition to distribute the products. An increased share of products company specific risks, the acquired company's relationsfrom Asia also imposes greater demands on an efficient hips with key personnel, customers and suppliers can be purchasing process. Were the logistics centers then to 26 SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT be knocked out, the Group's imported products would be cyber attacks and outages in checkout, e-commerce and noticeably affected for a time, but the business would be logistics and stock management systems, would have a able to continue in stores by having products delivered direct impact on operations as it is difficult to switch back to directly manual processing with the same capacity. by suppliers. The expansion of the logistics center in Örebro entails an increased risk of interruptions in the goods Risk management flow. At a time when demands on logistics and inventory Swedol continuously works with activities to limit the capacity are increasing, awareness is also growing with number of disturbances in systems and the consequences regard to the importance given to environment consideraof such. Via proactive work to identify and reduce possible tions by businesses in the eyes of customers and other threats, the risk of, for example, unauthorized access, stakeholders. cyber attacks and loss of information is reduced. Risk management J Product risks To meeting increased demands on goods flows and The ability to meet stakeholder expectations when it inventory capacity, logistics are regularly evaluated and comes to quality, transparency, legislative compliance and made more efficient. Purchasing work is carefully planned requirements related to the range is crucial to customer and monitored systematically to reduce the risk of posconfidence. Group products also need to meet customer sible interruptions. By combining goods flows, maintaining expectations in terms of function, quality, safety and price to a high fill rate and prioritizing alternatives to air freight, avoid the risk of becoming unprofitable. Swedol strives to reduce the negative climate impact that transport contributes to. Risk management Swedol works continuously to optimize the offer to custoG Risks in inventory mers from a quality, price and environment viewpoint. One risk for trading companies that hold large volumes of Swedol has adopted the Reach and POP Regulation and stock is that inventory can become outdated and have a low the RoHS Directive that stipulates requirements on comstock turnover ratio. With a higher proportion of products panies taking responsibility for products and their impact from Asia that entail longer shipping times, the greater the on society in general. The Group also applies the precaurisk of a build-up of stock levels that leads to lower turnover tionary principle when designing products and performs ratios. regular product testing to ensure exacting demands are met on function, quality, safety and chemical content. Risk management This means that products and substances can be graSwedol works systematically to develop the range and dually replaced if necessary. Comprehensive product make purchasing and logistics processes more efficient develo ment and ongoing work on the range ensure that with the aim of increasing the stock turnover ratio and the Group has a range that delivers high product quality, reducing the risk of outdated stock. Careful checks, on site safety and customer satisfaction. before the products are shipped, to reduce the risk of outdated products, helps with imports from Asia. The Group K Responsibility in the supplier chain has developed a core range, to ensure acceptable levels of If Swedol’s suppliers were to prove to be in breach of stock turnover ratios. international rules or deviate from accepted standards, the Group risks negative publicity and legal consequences. H Waste Swedol risks exposure to waste of different kinds, from deliRisk management berate waste such as shoplifting, theft and fraud to adminisWith the help of amfori BSCI and the Swedol code of trative waste and a sub optimal use of company resources. conduct for suppliers, the Group specifies demands on Growing e-commerce also leads to the risk of new forms of and evaluates suppliers to ensure that they operate in waste with the risk of orders of fraudulent intent placed by a responsible way and that risks linked to environment other people or in the name of companies. impact, human rights, corruption and social conditions are minimized. Risk management The Group works continuously to improve security in stores L Ethical risks to prevent waste in the form of products, money and time. In its guise as a large organization and listed company, Good internal controls reduce the risk of fraud. Swedol has a responsibility to act in an ethical and exemplary way. Unethical behavior could lead to legal consequI IT-risk ences and damage the company's reputation and trust Swedol's business is dependent on a functioning systems in it. environment and appropriate procedures that are developed in line with the business. Operating interruptions, potential Risk management The Group works to a high ethical standard and has a USD and EUR against SEK Materiality analysis 1 EUR 1 USD We list below the theoretical effect on our results of several important factors. 12 Effect on profit 11 Factor Change before tax, MSEK 10 Sales volume* +/5 percent 69.0 9 Currency 8 -USD +/5 percent 27.5 7 -EUR +/5 percent 6.5 6 Personnel costs +/5 percent 36.4 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec * Assuming a change in volym and cost of goods sold, everything else equal. SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 27 RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT zero tolerance approach to corruption. Swedol requires Risk management all employees, business partners and suppliers to act in Swedol’s liquidity reserve should cover 100 percent of accordance with its code of conduct. All employees take a estimated net investments for the coming six months and course in what the code of conduct contains and entails. 100 percent of operating capital requirements for the coming three months. Credit facilities ought to have a Finance-related risks remaining agreement period of at least 12 months. Finance-related risks can mainly be traced to factors outside Swedol's own business and concern risks in the form P Interest rate risk of changes in financial circumstances. At the end of 2019 interest bearing net liabilities amounted to MSEK 1,006.6. Based on the size of these interest M Wage inflation in manufacturing countries bearing net liabilities at the end of the year, a change in the Swedol is affected by changes in wage levels in those interest rate level of e.g. 0.5 percentage points would affect countries where group products are manufactured. This can profit after tax for the year by +/MSEK 3.5, including vary between different products depending on what proporeffects from IFRS 16. tion of the manufacturing process is labor related. Risk management Risk management Swedol aims to use surplus liquidity for the repayment of Swedol actively works to find solutions that improve the loans, in the first instance. Historically, Swedol has had a gross margin of the product range. This can, for example, relatively low proportion of interest bearing liabilities. mean that production of the Group's own label products is moved to other countries if the pay situation in a manuQ Currency risk facturing country leads to poorer margins on the range. Swedol is exposed to currency fluctuations via sales in NOK and EUR and a more extensive exposure via purchasN Commodity prices ing made in Asia and Europe. Swedol's main net currency Purchase prices of group products are affected by factors exposure is to the USD and EUR. such as the world market price for individual commodities. This applies especially to electrical materials (copper), Risk management batteries (zinc), lighting (aluminum), plastic products (oil) To manage currency exposure when purchasing in USD and clothing (cotton). The Group does not hedge the price and EUR, forward hedging or similar derivatives are used risk of underlying commodities. This entails a risk as the to partly reduce the impact of possible currency fluctuapurchase price of the products concerned is affected by tions on a rolling 12-month basis in accordance with our commodity price changes while the sales price is dictated finance policy. by the market for the respective product. R Write down of intangible assets Risk management Acquisition related goodwill forms a significant part of the Swedol strives to neutralize the negative impact of costs group balance sheet. Write down costs related to goodwill from the commodities market, including by price adjusting and other intangible assets. can have a negative impact on changes in commodity prices. the Group's financial position and earnings. O Liquidity risk Risk management Liquidity risk means that the Group finds itself in a situation Swedol monitors relevant circumstances related to the where it lacks liquid assets to cover the payment of underbusiness and the general state of the economy, and the takings. possible impact such circumstances can have for the valuation of the Group's goodwill and other intangible assets. Probability Impact Type of risk Risk (1–5) (1–5) Strategic risks  conomic cycle risks and external risks A E 5 5 3 3 B Structural risks Swedol's risks Operational risks C Acquisition and integration risk 3 4 Very high  isks in sales and operating margin D R 4 2 A E Risks in the organization 3 3 I I F Risks in the goods flow 3 4 C G Risks in inventory 3 2 High A H Waste 4 2 R F I IT risk 2 5 Medium B IMPACT J Product risks 2 3 E E N M K Responsibility in the supplier chain 3 3 L K Q L Ethical risks 2 3 Finance-related G J D M Wage inflation in manufacturing countries 5 3 Low risks O N Commodity prices 4 3 H O Liquidity risk 2 2 Insignificant P Interest rate risk 3 1 P Q Currency risk 5 3  rite down of intangible assets R W 2 4 Improbable Not likely Possible Likely Probable PROBABILITY 28 SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 MEET A SWEDOL CUSTOMER Claes Samsgard – Keller Grundläggning Claes is workshop manager at Keller Grundläggning and In the case of something not in the standard range, I his responsibilities include purchasing for the workshop get in touch with Albin at Swedol, and he is always able to that is done centrally. Keller Grundläggning has its head arrange this. Certain purchases are easiest to do by the office in Lindome and is the Swedish branch of the Keller guys out on site going to a store themselves and collecting Group, the world’s largest geotechnical contractor with a the products that are needed immediately. presence in over 40 countries. The company also has an office in Stockholm and a Norwegian branch with an office Do you use any services? in Oslo, that report to the head office in Lindome. The We always use the clothes printing service and we also business has around 75 employees and plant and machisometimes crimp hoses and calibrate torque wrenches. nery at worksites across the entire Nordic region and in We have also used the chain workshop. The range of countries such as England and Poland. services is good to be able to use but they are mostly a complement to our main purchases. What do you buy from Swedol? We buy all sorts of products from Swedol, everything from What is the most important factor when you choose prohand tools and cold saws to shelves and cabinets. But our ducts? biggest purchases are oils and different kinds of tools. Our I would say a combination of several factors. Operating employees operate machinery at construction sites around reliability is fundamental, if the tools don’t work and our the country and we need things to keep this machinery machinery is out of service, this can cause us big losses. in operation. We buy clothing, footwear and protective The products must also meet health and safety requireequipment at Grolls. ments for the sake of our employees on site as well. These are the most important factors. Service is also incredibly How do you make your purchases? important, that we are able to resolve possible problems That depends on the type of purchase it is. Most are in a simple way, and that we avoid spending time on things regular repeat purchases that are ordered via our custothat are not part of our core business. Obviously, price is mized online store. Swedol has helped us develop a range also important, but if the service and quality are not good that is ideal for us. I can order products centrally via the enough, this will prove expensive for us in the end. system or individual employees can go in and place an order themselves. All employees have an account at the What would you say is the best thing about Swedol? online store and can log in and order what they need. The service and that we can always find what we need. Being able to order products for delivery straight to them We always have a good, easy and smooth dialog. Mostly makes life so much easier than having to do this via us at with Albin at Swedol, and if there are any glitches, he the workshop. And at a central level, it enables us to keep helps fix them. And sometimes it can be with Andreas at better track of exactly what has been ordered by each Grolls for certain types of clothing and protective equipindividual employee. ment. They help us in a good and professional way so we at Keller can focus on our own work. SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 29 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate governance report Swedol AB (publ) is a Swedish limited company that is the parent company of the Swedol Group. Swedol B shares have been listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm since June 2008. Principles for corporate governance 2019 AGM Swedol’s corporate governance is about ensuring the The 2019 Swedol Annual General Meeting was held on company is managed in a sustainable, responsible and 25 April in Stockholm. The most important meeting resolumost efficient way possible. This covers the establishment tions are presented below: of an efficient organizational structure, systems for internal control and risk management plus transparent internal and • Adoption of the income statement and balance sheet external reporting. Governance of Swedol is based on the and the consolidated income statement and consolidaSwedish Companies Act, the Nasdaq Stockholm Reguted balance sheet lations for issuers and the Swedish Code for Corporate • Discharge of board members and CEO from liability for Governance (The Code). 2018 Central internal governance documents for corporate governance include the board rules of procedure, instruc• Dividend of SEK 1.20 (0.90) per share, in accordance tions to the Group CEO and President, plus policies, with the board proposal plans and rules for the Group’s business activities. • Re-election of board members Lars Lindgren, Peter Please see the Swedol website www.swedol.com for Hofvenstam, Christina Åqvist, Leif Reinholdsson, Sofie more information on Swedol’s corporate governance, such Löwenhielm and Staffan Andersson as the articles of association, documents from AGMs and the Group code of conduct • Election of Lars Lindgren as chair of the board Shareholders’ voice at annual general meetings • Re-election of KPMG AB as audit company for one year with Helena Arvidsson Älgne as audit manager Shareholders can exercise their rights to resolve on decisions concerning Swedol’s business at the AGM. There • Board fees totaling SEK 1,575,000 to be distributed as are no restrictions on shareholder rights in the articles of follows: association nor, to the best of the company’s knowledge, • SEK 450,000 to the chair of the board in shareholder agreements. There is no mandate to the • SEK 225,000 each to the other board members board from the AGM to resolve on the issuing of new shares or the buyback of shares. • Guidelines for remuneration to senior executives, in Resolutions at the AGM are normally determined by accordance with the board proposal, see page 41 simple majority vote. However, in the case of certain issues, the Swedish Companies Act prescribes that proposals are to be approved by a larger majority than the shareholdings represented at the meeting and votes cast. Corporate governance INFORMATION SHAREHOLDERS ELECTION NOMINATION COMMITTEE ELECTION CONSTITUTE THE AGM PROPOSAL ELECTION INTERNAL GOVERNANCE EXTERNAL GOVERNANCE AUDITOR INFORMATION BOARD INSTRUMENTS: INSTRUMENTS: Business concept, The Companies GOAL strategies, corporate Act, The Annual STRATEGIES REPORTS INTERNAL CONTROL AND governance, Accounts Act, other GOVERNANCE CONTROL RISK MANAGEMENT the board rule relevant laws, the INSTRUMENT of procedures, Nasdaq Stockholm instructions to the Regulations for PRESIDENT AND CEO President and CEO, issuers and the the group code of Swedish Code conduct and core for Corporate COMPANY COMPANY COMPANY values. Governance (The Code). 30 SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE • Guidelines for the appointment of the nomination comNomination committee ahead of the 2020 AGM mittee ahead of the 2020 AGM with the following main content: Appointed by Shareholder voting Members shareholder rights, % 2019-09-30 • The nomination committee is to comprise repreCarl Engström Nordstjernan AB 72.4 % sentatives of the three largest shareholders by voting Lilian Fossum Biner Handelsbanken Fonder 6.3 % rights according to the Euroclear Sweden register per the last banking day of September 2019 Rolf Zetterberg FW Förvaltning AB 2.2 % • The chair of the board may not be a member of the Total 80.9 % nomination committee but should be summoned to the first meeting The role of the board • The nomination committee is to appoint its own The most important tasks of the board include acting in chair the best interests of the company and its shareholders, setting out strategic guidelines, appointing, evaluating The nomination committee and if necessary, removing the CEO and having ultimate The nomination committee ahead of the 2020 Annual responsibility for the Group’s risk management and interGeneral Meeting has, in accordance with the guidelines nal governance and control and ensure the company comfor the nomination committee, resolved by the 2019 AGM, plies with applicable legislation, the articles of association consisted of the following representatives of the three and the Swedish Code for Corporate Governance. largest shareholders by voting rights in the company as of the last banking day of September 2019: Carl Engström Chair of the board responsibilities (Nordstjernan AB), Lilian Fossum Binerg (Handelsbanken The chair of the board leads board work and monitors Fonder), and Rolf Zetterberg (FW Förvaltning AB). At the business activities in consultation with the CEO. The nomination committee constitutive meeting of 2 December chair represents the company on issues of particular 2019, it was resolved to appoint Lilian Fossum Biner as importance. The role entails responsibility to ensure board chair of the nomination committee. work is well organized, efficient, that the board fulfills its obligations, and that the board receives satisfactory Nomination committee duties ahead of the 2020 AGM information and decision-making support data. The chair The nomination committee has been tasked with deveis also responsible for new board members receiving the loping proposals to the 2019 AGM for the election of the necessary induction training and that the board regularly chair of the AGM, election of board members, chair of the updates and expands its knowledge about the Group. board and auditors, resolutions on fees for board members and auditors and guidelines for the nomination committee Evaluation of the board and CEO ahead of the 2020 AGM. The board is to allocate time at board meetings for a regular evaluation of its work. Once a year, the board is to perDiversity on the board form an exhaustive evaluation of its performance, areas of The board of Swedol should have appropriate combiimprovement, structures for its work and its composition. ned expertise and experience about the business that is This is done by the board discussing a number of issues pursued and to be able to identify and understand the raised for this purpose concerning the work of the board. opportunities and risks that the business entails. The aim The board is also evaluated within the parameters of the is for the board to be composed of members of various work of the nomination committee. The board evaluates ages and different genders and with a varied education the work of the CEO at least once a year and at least once and career background that together contribute to an a year, the board should meet the company’s auditors independent and critically questioning board. The nomiwithout the presence of company management. nation committee assesses that the proposed board, in overall terms, has appropriate expertise and experience for the business that is pursued and to be able to identify and understand the opportunities and risks that the business entails. In 2019, female representation on the board was 20 percent (33). Board composition and attendance Independent Independent in relation in relation to AGM elected board Elected to the company and larger share22 14 20 25 25 14 23 23 24 18 members year company management holders Jan Feb Mar Apr1 Apr Jun Jul Sep Oct Dec 2015 Lars Lindgren Chair 2017 Yes Yes ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ Peter Hofvenstam 2015 Yes No ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ Christina Åqvist 2015 Yes Yes ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ Leif Reinholdsson 2015 Yes Yes ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ Sofie Löwenhielm2 2017 Yes Yes ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ Staffan Andersson 2018 Yes Yes ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ ✔ 1 Constituent board meeting 2 Sofie Löwenhielm resigned from the Board at her own request on July 24, 2019. SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 31 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Work done by the board during the year CEO and Group management The board appoints the CEO. The division of responsibiThe CEO heads day to day operations in accordance with lities and powers of the board and CEO are set out in the internal and external governance instruments. In consulrules of procedure of the board plus instructions to the tation with the chair of the board, the CEO produces CEO that are established annually. In addition, the board supporting data to enable the board to make well-founrules of procedure regulate financial reporting to the board ded decisions. The CEO is also responsible for regularly and the board’s responsibilities for formalized procedures reporting to the board on the Group’s development and that ensure that principles laid down for financial reporting that the market is given a fair picture of the Group. Effecand internal control are complied with and that the comtive 1 January 2019, group management consists of the pany’s financial reporting is prepared in accordance with CEO, two country managers plus six managers for busilegislation, applicable accounting standards and other ness and staff office processes. Management coordinates rules for listed companies. strategies, business activities and resource allocation and The board has resolved that the board shall not have sets out the directives, procedures and structures required an audit committee or remuneration committee as the for effective governance. Management holds regular board, with reference to its size, expertise and experience, meetings with the focus on strategy and operational devehas found it more appropriate to fulfill in their entirety, the lopment and monitors financial performance. duties that in accordance with the Companies Act and The Code, are incumbent on an audit and remuneration Auditors committee respectively. The AGM appoints auditors each year. KPMG was reelected as auditors to the end of the 2020 AGM. KPMG is Work done by the board during the year represented by audit manager certified accountant Helena Immediately after the AGM in April 2019, a constitutive Arvidsson Älgne. For information on fees to auditors, see board meeting was held where the board’s rules of pronote 5. cedure and instructions to the CEO were established. In addition to this meeting, the board has held eight ordinary Shareholders board meetings and one extraordinary board meeting. The For information on the shares and shareholders, please CEO and CFO, who also acts as secretary of the board, see pages 24–25. participate in board meetings. Other company officials participate as necessary to report on specific matters. Please see illustration below for further information on this work. The board's work 2019 DECEMBER FEBRUARY • Budget • Year-end report 2018 • Accounting technical issues • Proposal for disposal of profit • Employee survey • Debriefing final audit • Code of conduct DEC JAN • Evaluation of CEO and senior executives • Public procurements • Employee and customer survey • Readiness receding market NOV FEB • Learnings aqcuisition process • Store establishments • CEO's terms OCTOBER • Interim report quarter 3 OCT MAR MARCH • Debriefing management audit and • Delivery of annual report general review of quarter 3 • Risk evaluation • Internal control • Acquisition opportunities • Acquisition opportunities SEP APR • Business plan Farming and Forestry • Budget • Remuneration to senior executives • Tender offer APRIL AUG MAY • Constituent board meeting SEPTEMBER • The board rules of procedure and • Expansion of logistics, Örebro JUL JUN instructions to the President and CEO • Sustainability work • Interim report quarter 1 • Brand strategy • New organization • E-commerce • E-commerce • Status Norway JULY JUNE • Expansion of logistics, Örebro • Store follow-up • Interim report quarter 2 • Strategy • Refinement project • Internal control • Business strategic planning • Operating segments • Expansion of logistics, Örebro • Purchasing controlling • Acquisition opportunities • New organization • KPMG audit plan 32 SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Swedol's organization PRESIDENT AND CEO FINLAND CONCEPT AND SWEDEN NORWAY RANGE DEVELOPMENT RANGE AND RETAIL RETAIL RETAIL PURCHASING: TOOLS AND SALES SALES SALES SUPPLIES RANGE AND KAM KAM KAM PURCHASING: WORKWEAR AND E-COMMERCE E-COMMERCE E-COMMERCE PERSONAL PROTECTION ECONOMY HR BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT LOGISTICS/SUSTAINABILITY IT Swedol has a clear growth strategy and development. The groupwide offices supsince 1 September 2019, is organized by port the country organizations and assure country with a clear commercial focus. a common structure and common procesThe various sales channels, through which ses that create synergies and economies Swedol interfaces in different ways with of scale. Group management consists of customers physically or digitally, are coorthe CEO, heads of the groupwide support dinated within each respective country. offices, the head of Concept and range Ranges and purchasing are combined in development, plus the country managers for a groupwide office for concept and range Sweden and Norway. SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 33 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Report on internal governance and control and risks related to financial reporting The work Swedol does with risk management plus internal governance and control is based on the COSO Internal Control – Integrated Framework that was launched in 2013. The description also follows the guidelines stated in the Annual Accounts Act, The Code and FAR. The COSO framework advocates internal governance management is delegated to the CEO. and control in accordance with the following components: The CFO has overall responsibility for coordinating, control environment, risk assessment, control activities, managing and monitoring internal control work related information and communication plus monitoring. The to financial reporting to ensure this is done in the way Swedol process for internal control has been structured resolved by the board. The CFO is also responsible for to provide reasonable assurance that the Group’s targets ensuring each respective main process has a process can be achieved with regard to appropriate and efficient owner with responsibility for this. Responsibility for a business activities, reliable reporting and compliance with process includes ensuring both good efficiency and good applicable laws and regulations. internal control. The process owner is to identify and resolve any inadequacies in their process and ensure any Control Environment such inadequacies identified and resolved are reported The control environment covers the culture and values that to the CFO. The CFO is also responsible for ensuring the board and group management base their communicathat accounting and reporting within the Group are done tions and actions. The control environment primarily covers in accordance with applicable legislation and norms, integrity and ethical values, commitment to competence, and that new standards and interpretation comments are management philosophy, organizational structure, responimplemented in a correct way. sibilities and powers. The values are reflected in internal The CFO actively seeks to ensure that the company governance documents such as policies, plans and manuhas personnel with the right expertise in all (financial) key als that provide structure for good internal control. positions and that there are procedures to ensure that Internal governance instruments for financial reporting, such persons in (financial) key positions have the knowtogether with legislation and regulations, primarily consist ledge and experience required. Where necessary, external of the board’s rules of procedure, Swedol’s finance policy, expertise is commissioned to illuminate issues such as policy for stock market information, attestation and delegawithin accounting, tax and legal matters. tion rules, plus an accounts manual that defines accounting and reporting rules and procedures and minimum Risk Assessment requirements for good internal control concerning financial Risk assessment is a dynamic process to identify, evaluate reporting. and prioritize risks that can affect the Group’s opportuThe board’s rules of procedure and associated instrucnities to achieve its targets. Swedol works continuously tions to the CEO, assure a clear demarcation of roles and and actively to survey, assess and manage those risks the responsibilities to enable efficient management of these Group is exposed to. The assessment of each respective internal controls and risks to the business. Responsibility risk is based on probability and impact on a five-point for maintaining an effective control environment and overscale. seeing daily operations related to internal control and risk The risk assessment includes identifying risks that Internal control within processes Risk assesment ment Purchasing process nviron e trol Con Con tr Logistics process s ivitie act ol Sales process SWEDOL'S TARGETS PROCESSES IT security process Bookkeepingand reporting process M on nd it ori n g r m a t ion ation HRand payroll process Info unica c om m 34 SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE can arise if the basic requirements on financial reporting Activities 2019 (completeness, accuracy, valuations and reporting) in the Swedol’s main activities within internal governance and Group are not satisfied. The risk assessment also covers control and risk management in 2019 are summarized the risk of loss or embezzlement of assets. below: The risk assessment is updated on an ongoing basis under the leadership of the CFO who presents the results • Coordination of the Group’s business systems regularly. In the event of substantial changes in risk to in Norway the Group, the respective main process owner presents • Integrated transaction based reporting for Norway in measures to address this. The internal control environment Sweden and established a Nordic shared service center is structured to reduce the risks that have been identified (SSC) to a level acceptable to group management. The assessed risks at year end are reported on pages 26–28. • Continued implementation of the updated COSO framework from 2013 including review of Group Control Activities governance documents The most significant risks concerning financial reporting • Integration of acquired companies into Swedol’s are managed via control activities for each respective main processes concerning work on internal governance and process. Control activities aim to ensure both efficiency in control plus risk management the Group's processes and good internal governance and control. Swedol makes regular investments in the develop• Further development of the Group’s group consolidation ment of IT systems for the purpose of automating manual tools controls. Processes and control activities are continuously • Updating and reviewing policies and manuals developed to meet changing demands on the business. An income statement and balance sheet item based analysis is performed at group level in combination with business Focus 2020 emphasized risk analysis at group and main process level. In 2020, work on internal governance and control plus risk Based on risk analyses, control activities are established management are to be further developed within the Group. for the risks that are considered to be the most likely and that would have the greatest impact on the respective The focus areas are: main process. • Coordination of the Group’s business systems in Finland Information and Communication Swedol’s overall internal governance documents in terms • Integrated transaction based reporting for Finland in of policies, guidelines and manuals are kept updated and established Nordic shared service center (SSC) are available on common media. Swedol strives to ensure • Complete risk analysis of IT and update control activities that information and communication paths between the for IT security processes and assure continuity different parts of the Group are clear and readily accesmanagement in the event of a possible cyber incident sible. External communication including financial reporting is regulated by the Swedol policy for stock market informa• Updating and reviewing policies and manuals tion, which provides guidelines for what is to be communicated, by whom and how. The CEO is responsible for distInternal Audit ributing board guidelines across the organization. Internal The board has made the assessment that Swedol, in communication is largely effected via group management addition to existing processes and functions for internal and departmental meetings where important information governance and control, does not have a need for a formais processed and via the intranet or mailouts. The CEO is lized internal audit. Monitoring is performed by the board also responsible for reporting to the board in line with the and group management and at present, the level of control board rules of procedure and CEO instructions. is assessed as meeting the company’s needs. An annual Monitoring assessment is done as to whether or not an internal audit function is considered necessary to maintain good control The board regularly receives updates on Swedol’s finanwithin Swedol. cial reporting to monitor goal fulfillment and action plans implemented. Each interim report is analyzed by the board Tyresö 19 March 2020 for correctness and the production of financial information. The board The board further ensures that recommendations from the external audit are implemented. For comments by the auditor on the corporate governance Each respective main process owner monitors their report, see page 73. main process on an ongoing basis and is responsible for identified failings being rectified and improvement proposals implemented. Main process owners report identified failings and opportunities for improvement in internal control to the CFO, who thereafter reports to the CEO and board. The board checks that control activities are in place for selected risk areas and communicates significant issues to group management and the auditors. SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 35 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The board Lars Lindgren Born: 1975. Elected: Board member since 2015. Chair since 2017. Education: LLB and MBA at University of Gothenburg. Other posts: Investor, owner of a number of industrial, trading and service companies. Background: Senior Investment Manager at Nordstjernan 2012–2018, CEO of Nordstjernan Industriutveckling AB 2004–2012, previously held several positions within MTG and Mannheimer Swartling Advokatbyrå. Shareholding: No shares. Independent in relation to the company and company management: Yes. Independent in relation to larger shareholders: Yes. Peter Hofvenstam Born: 1965. Elected: Board member since 2015. Education: MBA at Stockholm School of Economics. Other posts: CEO of Nordstjernan since 2019, Deputy CEO 2000–2019. Board member of Rosti Group AB. Chair of Nordstjernan Kredit AB. Background: Chair of Swedol AB, Ramirent Oyj, Exel Composites Oyj, Partner at E. Öhman J:or Fondkommission AB, CFO at AB Aritmos and analyst at Proventus AB. Shareholding: No shares. Independent in relation to the company and company management: Yes. Independent in relation to larger shareholders: No. Christina Åqvist Born: 1978. Elected: Board member since 2015. Education: LLB from Uppsala University and economics studies. Other posts: Partner at Indequity with the focus on investments and operational development of traditional branches, Chair of Svenska Skrotaktiebolaget. Background: CEO and President of Distrelec Group AG, Head of Retail and Greenfield Expansion at B&B Tools, consultant with the Boston Consulting Group, corporate lawyer with focus on company acquisitions at Advokatfirman Vinge. Shareholding: 6,760 B shares. Independent in relation to the company and company management: Yes. Independent in relation to larger shareholders: Yes. Leif Reinholdsson Born: 1953. Elected: Board member since 2015. Education: Certified market economist with additional studies in company management and board work. Other posts: Board member of Sandryds Group AB and ACG Gruppen and their subsidiary companies. Background: Chair of the board of Canvac AB, CEO and President 1997–2011 of Skydda Protecting People Europe AB, a company within the Bergman & Beving Group specializing in personal protective equipment, Chair of the boards of all Skydda subsidiary companies. Previous to that executive positions within Järnia AB/Ferro AB. Shareholding: 13,000 B shares. Independent in relation to the company and company management: Yes. Independent in relation to larger shareholders: Yes. Staffan Andersson Born: 1976. Elected: Board member since 2018. Education: Civil engineering degree from Chalmers University of Technology and MBA from Harvard Business School. Other posts: Chief Commercial Officer of Sector Alarm Group AS. Background: CEO Beijer Tech AB, Senior Vice President Bain Capital, CEO Skydda PPE AB, Vice President and COO B&B Tools Markets AB, Manager Bain & Company. Shareholding: 2,222 B share. Independent in relation to the company and company management: Yes. Independent in relation to larger shareholders: Yes. 36 SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Group management Clein Johansson Ullenvik Irene Wisenborn Bellander Håkan Wanselius President and CEO CFO Head of Concept and range development Born: 1966. Born: 1973. Born: 1962. Employed since: 2013. Employed since: 2017. Employed since: 2014. Education: MBA from Växjö University. Education: Master's degree in Business and EconoEducation: Marketing at post-secondary level. Background: CEO Monier Roofing AB, executive mics from Karlstad University, Executive Management Background: Country Manager Monier Roofing AB positions at ABB and Ahlsell. Program at Stockholm School of Economics. 2014, Sales Director Monier Roofing AB 2005–2014, Other posts: Chair Swedol Förvaltning AB, Swedol AS, Background: CFO Bring Norden Logistics 2015–2017, Country Manager Snickers Original AB 2003–2005, Metaplan Oy, Grolls Oy, De facto Yrkeskläder AB, Promera CFO Bring Parcels & Express Group 2010–2015, Chief Sales Manager Beckers Färg 1998–2003, Sales Yrkeskläder AB, IP Hjelte AB and Arne Blom Marknads AB. Controller Mekonomen 2007–2010, Business Area Manager Black & Decker AB 1992–1998. Shareholding: 165,400 B shares and 76,805 B share Controller Lantmännen 2006–2007, Certified AccounOther posts: Chair Swedol Förvaltning AB. options. tant PwC Deals 2000–2007, Manager Grant Thornton Shareholding: 33,776 B shares and 12,801 B share 1996–2000. options. Other posts: Board member Swedol Förvaltning AB, Swedol AS, Metaplan Oy, Grolls Oy, IP Hjelte AB and Arne Blom Marknads AB. Shareholding: 4,500 B shares. Pontus Glasberg Ann Gårdmark Peter Söderberg Head of Logistics, Quality and Sustainability Head of HR Head of Business Development Born: 1978. Born: 1966. Born: 1973. Employed since: 2013. Employed since: 2019. Employed since: 2016. Education: Technology and economics at Örebro Education: Master's degree in Business and EconoEducation: MSc in Industrial Economics at University. mics from Växjö University, MBA from Henley Business Royal Institute of Technology. Background: QES/VPS Manager Volvo ConstrucSchool. Background: Management consultant and partner tion Equipment AB 2010-2013, Logistics/Materials Background: Leading HR positions at Electrolux, Occam Associates AB 2002–2016, Management Handling Manager Volvo Construction Equipment Finansinspektionen and SAS, consultant in Talent consultant The Boston Consulting Group AB AB 2006–2010, Team Leader & Operations Manager management, positions in finance and marketing at 1999–2002. Spendrups Bryggeri AB 2005–2006. Electrolux. Other posts: Board member Univern Solutions AS. Shareholding: 15,000 B shares. Shareholding: No shares. Shareholding: 20,000 B shares. Magnus Landgård Lyckman Gunstein Lauvrak Ulf Eriksson Country director of Sweden Country director of Norway Chief Information Officer Born: 1976. Born: 1970. Born: 1964. Employed since: 2011. Employed since: 2018. Employed since: 2017. Education: High school economist with supplementaEducation: War school and business economist at BI Education: Biochemistry at Uppsala University. ry sales, leadership and financial education. Norwegian Business School. Background: CIO Postnord Logistics TPL AB Background: Head of division Workwear and personal Background: Administrative director ASSA ABLOY 2014–2016, CEO and Business Development Manager protection 2018–2019, Retail Manager Swedol AB Entrance Systems AS, Retail sales director Ramirent Olivetree Solutions AB 2009–2014, CIO Alcro-Beckers 2014-2018, Sales Manager Swedol 2011–2014, Sales AS and commercial leadership roles i Wittusen & AB 1999–2009. Manager Ejendals AB 2008–2011, Sales Manager Jensen. Officer in the Norwegian army. Shareholding: No shares. 2006–2008, Regional Manager and Key Account Other posts: Board member Univern Solutions AS. Manager Fristads 2002–2006. Shareholding: 3,200 B shares. Shareholding: 7,000 B shares. SWEDOL ÅRSREDOVISNING 2019 37 ANNUAL REPORT Management report The board and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Swedol AB (publ), company number 556127-6188 with registered address in Stockholm, hereby submit annual accounts and group annual accounts for the financial year 1-Jan-19 to 31-Dec-19. Where not otherwise stated, the information concerns the Group. Information in brackets refers to the previous year. All amounts are stated in millions of Swedish kronor (MSEK) unless otherwise stated. Offer and Market center in Örebro proceeded according to plan, other than Swedol is a retailing company that offers high quality an initial delay caused by a drawn out planning permission products and services tailored to the needs and preferenprocess. The planned expansion of the automated Autoces of professional users. The Group trades via its store store warehouse in Örebro was completed in November. and e-commerce concepts Swedol, Grolls and Univern. The aim of this initiative, that entails an investment of Swedol interfaces with its customers via an omnichanaround MSEK 150 over two years, is to increase Swedol’s nel concept where stores, e-commerce and field sales total capacity and to make product flow more efficient. interact and enable customers to access group offers based on their own personal needs and preferences. This Scalable platform omnichannel concept is complemented by a network of In Norway, the implementation of a common IT and busidistributors. ness system, price system and a simplified legal structure The Swedol offer contains an attractive range within was completed The same structure is already in place in tools, supplies, workwear clothing and personal protection Sweden. with the focus on five customer segments: Haulage and Transport, Industry and Workshops, Farming and Forestry, Organizational structure Building and Construction plus Public Services. The On 1 September, Swedol implemented changes to range combines breadth with specialization and contains the Group’s overall organizational structure. The sales both own label and external brands. There is also a broad organization in each respective country is now coordiproduct offer for private customers who want high quality. nated under a country manager. The two divisions, Tools The majority of sales come from Swedol and Grolls and supplies, and Workwear and personal protection are stores in Sweden that are geographically spread througnow coordinated under a new office, Concept and range hout the country. In 2019, 11 (5) new stores were added, development. In association with this, Swedol amended including five via acquisition. Seven store integrations its financial reporting in line with the new organizational were also completed during this time. At the end of the structure and switched to reporting operating segments in year, there were 103 (99) stores, 75 (72) in Sweden, 18 accordance with the new country organizations; Sweden, (19) in Norway, 9 (7) in Finland and 1 (1) in Estonia. Norway plus Finland and the Baltic region. Swedol faces competition on a local, national and international level in all its customer groups. Group competitors Tender Offer consist of industry and construction oriented chains with a On 11 November the Momentum Group submitted a presence on one or several of its geographic markets, plus tender offer to shareholders in Swedol. For each A local independents. Swedol’s competitors are primarily and B share in Swedol respectively, a cash payment of oriented to business customers. SEK 46.50 per share is offered or alternatively a share Growth continued to be good within all customer exchange of 0.40 of a new B share in the Momentum groups and geographic markets in 2019, despite an increGroup for each A and B share in Swedol respectively. asing slowdown in demand on the market and an unusually mild winter. The slowdown primarily affected Sweden in Sales and results the fourth quarter. The market in Norway was boosted by Sales amounted to MSEK 3,622.1 compared to MSEK increased activity in the Offshore Sector and the markets 3,241.3 during the corresponding period last year, an in Finland and Estonia grew strongly. increase of 11.7 %. Organic growth amounted to 4.9 percent, of which 2.8 percent is attributable to comparable Significant events units. Net sales per division were MSEK 1,869.3 (1,689.8) for Workwear and personal protection and MSEK 1,752.7 Acquisitions and store establishments (1,551.5) for Tools and supplies respectively. Swedol completed four acquisitions via business combinations during the year, two in Sweden, one in Norway and one in Finland. Five new stores were added via acquisiSales by sales area¹: tions. Four new stores were opened in Sweden and two new MSEK 2019 2018 Change stores in Norway. Added to which, seven stores were Sweden 2,740.8 2,584.9 6.0 % integrated in line with the Group’s new store concept. Norway 609.5 534.8 14.0 % Finland 242.6 94.7 156.1 % Coordination of logistics Estonia 29.2 26.9 8.6 % Preparatory work ahead of concentrating all logistics Total 3,622.1 3,241.3 11.7 % operations in Sweden via the expansion of the logistics 1 For information on sales by operating segment, see note 2. 38 SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT The sales growth of 11.7 percent was as follows: were completed in the month of January, assets and liabilities transfer of two stores from Wizard Marketing Systems MSEK Change local currency Oy in June and the acquisition of IP Hjelte AB in October. Comparable units* 2.8 % Together, they affected cashflow from investment activities in the comparison period by MSEK -63.4 (-111.9). For Other units in local currency 8.6 % details of the acquisitions, see note 11. Foreign exchange gain/loss 0.3 % A dividend of MSEK 99.8 (74.9) was paid in the second Total 11.7 % quarter. * Comparable units are units that were open during the year for the whole of the period Inventory increased compared to the same period in the referred to, i.e. during both the current and previous year. Integrated stores are previous year to MSEK 1,012.7 (820.8), driven by acquiviewed as comparable units. Other units relate to all other sales that are not comparable. sitions, new store openings, growth investments in new ranges and own brands, currency and an increased level of service. The 12-month rolling average inventory turnover Gross profit amounted to MSEK 1,462.4 (1,324.2) with a ratio was 3.7 (4.3) at the end of the period. Improving gross margin of 40.4 percent (40.9). Higher commodity inventory efficiency while retaining the level of service is a prices, shipping, currency effects and the proportion of high priority. The merger of the Group’s logistics services sales outside Sweden also had an adverse impact on in Sweden to Örebro will contribute to this. gross margin, but were offset by price adjustments impleCash and cash equivalents amounted to MSEK 40.3 mented and an increased share of own brands. (234.1). At the end of the reporting period, available The proportion of operating costs, excluding items affeccash and cash equivalents including an unutilized credit ting comparability, of revenues increased by 0.3 percenfacility amounted to MSEK 309.0 (534.1). Interest-beatage points, mainly as a consequence of growth initiatives ring liabilities totaled MSEK 1,046.9 (545.6). The Group implemented. thus had an interest-bearing net liability of MSEK 1,006.6 Depreciation and disposals for the period amounted to (311.1). Liquidity in the current period has been affected MSEK 250.2 (62.1) of which MSEK 177.1 is attributable to by the dividend payment of MSEK 99.8 (74,9), and the depreciation of right of use assets and the implementation paying down of bank debt by MSEK 80.1. At the end of the of IFRS 16. reporting period, equity ratio amounted to 44.3 percent Operating profit amounted to MSEK 336.0 (325.3) and (49.6), which is in line with the Group target of at least 30 operating margin was 9.3 percent (10.0), which includes percent. items affecting comparability related to acquisitions, costs During the period January to December 2019, investassociated with the Momentum Group tender offer for ments in non-current assets excluding acquisitions and Swedol, integration work and management changes of right of use assets, amounted to MSEK 116.5 (66.9). Of MSEK 16.6 (11.6). Excluding items affecting comparability, these, around MSEK 32 is attributable to IT investments operating margin was 9.7 (10.4) percent. The improved including e-commerce. Other investments were primarily profit can primarily be attributed to volume growth but was attributable to store related investments, the refurbishment impacted by costs related to expanding our store network, of stores in line with the new store concept and the start of e-commerce and acquisition activities. the expansion of the central warehouse in Örebro. MSEK 283.8 (271.7) of operating profit was attributable to segment Sweden, MSEK 19.0 (37.9) to segment The shares and share capital Norway and MSEK 29.3 (15,7) to segment Finland and the Swedol B shares are listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm and Baltic region, respectively. When broken down by division, since 2 January 2018, have once again been on the Mid MSEK 172.2 (168.2) was attributable to our Workwear Cap list. Share capital amounts to MSEK 12.5 divided and personal protection division and MSEK 159.8 (157.1) into 1,820,000 A shares and 81,380,000 B shares each to our Tools and supplies division. The remaining MSEK with a quotient value of 0.15. Each class A share carries 4.0 making up the operating profit of MSEK 336.0 relates ten votes and each class B share one vote. There are no to implementation of IFRS 16. Operating profit in Norway limitations on the number of votes each shareholder may has been negatively affected by an unfavorable customer exercise at a general meeting of shareholders. All shares and product mix and higher costs in association with the have equal rights to dividends. Holders of class A shares implementation of a groupwide IT system. can request conversion of their A shares to B shares. Spot prices for the most important currencies were on On 31 December 2019, the number of shareholders was average 9.46 for USD, 10.59 for EUR and 1.07 for NOK 4,546 compared to 5,440 one year previously. The ten compared to 8.69, 10.26 and 1.07 for the same period largest shareholders at that same time, accounted for 84.9 the previous year. Currency hedging was done in USD percent (88.3) of the capital and 87.4 (90.3) percent of and EUR. The company’s policy is to hedge 50 percent of the voting rights. See page 25 for a summary. Nordstjerthe expected flow in 7–12 months and 75 percent of the nan AB is the only shareholder with a holding whose total expected flow in 0–6 months. voting rights exceed one tenth of the votes for all shares in the company. Nordstjernan’s holding corresponds to 67.0 Financing and Liquidity percent of the outstanding shares and 72.4 percent of the Cashflow from operating activities for the period January votes in Swedol. December 2019, amounted to MSEK 306.2 (264.5). The On 11 November 2019, the Momentum Group submitimplementation of IFRS 16 affected cashflow from operated a tender offer to shareholders in Swedol to transfer ting activities positively by MSEK 170.4. The implementatheir shares in Swedol to the Momentum Group. The tion of IFRS 16 affected cashflow from financing activities Momentum Group has offered shareholders in Swedol the negatively by MSEK -170.4. Cashflow from investment choice of cash payment or payment in shares. For each activities amounted to MSEK -179.9 (-178.8). The acquisiA and B share in Swedol respectively, a cash payment of tions of De Facto Yrkeskläder AB and Karl S Hanssen AS SEK 46.50 per share is offered, or alternatively a share SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 39 ANNUAL REPORT exchange of 0.40 of a new B share in the Momentum ongoing work is pursued in a coordinated and systematic Group for each A and B share in Swedol respectively. way to quickly clarify new risks, limit risk exposure and The cash payment corresponds to a premium of 34.7 any possible impact in the event a risk were to crystallize. percent compared to the volume weighted average price These risks can be divided into strategic, operational and paid for Swedol B shares in the 30 trading days before finance-related risks. Strategic risks can mainly be traced the bid and a premium of 39.0 percent on the closing to factors outside Swedol’s own business and concern price of Swedol B shares on 8 November 2019. The share risks in the form of changes in strategic circumstances. payment corresponds to a premium of 21.2 percent based Operational risks concern risks that primarily lie within on the volume weighted average price paid for Swedol Swedol’s control and are related to daily operations such B shares in the 30 trading days before the bid and the as delivery and range problems and failings in financial, closing price of Momentum Group B shares on 8 Novemsocial and environment related responsibilities. Finanber 2019, and a premium of 25.1 percent on the closing ce-related risks can mainly be traced to factors outside price of Swedol B shares and Momentum Group B shares Swedol’s own business and concern risks in the form of respectively on 8 November 2019. changes in financial circumstances. For more on Swedol’s The independent tender committee that has been risk, see pages 26–28. For a description and quantificaestablished, has unanimously recommended that Swedol tion of financial risks, see pages 27–28 and note 15. shareholders should accept the cash payment alternative of SEK 46.50 per share, which is also supported by a Future prospects and long-term financial targets so-called fairness opinion from Pareto Securities AB. Swedol offers a broad and attractive range tailored to the Nordstjernan AB has undertaken to accept the tender needs and preferences of professional users. As a trade and to choose payment in shares. professional, choosing Swedol as your innovative partner, The articles of association do not contain any Right of means you can source attractively priced products very First Refusal Clause or other restrictions on the transfeefficiently. We focus on small and medium sized enterprirability of shares. There is no mandate to the board from ses. the AGM to resolve on the issuing of new shares or the Swedol is a multispecialist, which means the Group has buyback of shares. There are no circumstances of the kind a broad range spanning the majority of product categothat the board is liable to disclose in accordance with the ries with specific specialization within selected product regulations in Annual Accounts Act 6 chap 2a § p 4–11. groups. Swedol assesses that there continues to be significant Employees growth potential for the Group’s omnichannel concept on The average number of employees expressed as full-time existing markets and good potential on new markets as equivalents, for the period January to December 2019, well. Sales via e-commerce are relatively limited at present was 1,098 (982), of which 395 (352) were women. The but are expected to become an increasingly important number of employees, expressed as full-time equivalents, sales channel in the future. at the end of the year was 1,091 (1,041). For more informaSwedol has a policy of not disclosing forecasts. Longtion on employees, see pages 22–23 and notes 4 and 6. term financial targets should be viewed over an economic cycle; 15 percent revenue growth, 11 percent operating Parent company margin, 25 percent return on shareholders’ equity and 30 The legal structure has been simplified via fusions in percent equity ratio. The Swedol dividend should amount Sweden, Norway and Finland in the period 2017 to 2019. to 30–50 percent of the Group’s profit after tax. The equThe Group consists of the Parent Company Swedol AB ity ratio target has been revised down from 40 percent in and its wholly owned subsidiaries, Swedol Förvaltning AB 2019 in the light of the introduction of IFRS 16. (556711-0068), Grolls Oy (1085452-8), Swedol AS (991 446 567), Metaplan Oy (0141269-9), Promera Yrkeskläder Board work and corporate governance AB (556725-6671) and IP Hjelte AB (557264-9656). The The Swedol board has five members, elected at the 2019 Group consists of nine Swedish and international subsidiAGM. The CEO is not a member of the board. The board ary companies in total. 80 percent (84) of the Group’s net has a strategic governance role and is responsible for exesales were generated by Swedol AB in the period January cutive management implementing decisions made by the –December 2019. During the period, the Parent Company board. The board has a control function and an information sold goods and services to Group companies for a combiresponsibility to ensure a correct picture of the company is ned total of MSEK 148.1 (109.1). conveyed to the market. The board has established written rules of procedure and instructions for the division of Seasonal variations duties between the board and CEO. Board meetings and Sales have historically exhibited certain seasonal variawork in association with these follow an agenda in order tions. In the 2019 calendar year, 48 percent (48) of invoito assure the board’s need for information and control of cing was generated in the first half and 52 percent (52) in the business and the company’s organization. The board the second half of the year, with a heaviest weighting in has not appointed any internal committees. The corporate the final quarter which accounted for 29 percent (30) of governance report has been produced separately to the total revenues for the year. Management reports, see pages 30–35. Risks and uncertainties in the business Product development Swedol’s business entails risks that to a varying degree Swedol does not pursue research and development in the short and long-term, can affect opportunities to inhouse, but maintains a continuous dialog with suppliers achieve business plan related targets. The development to provide feedback from customers on requested product of Swedol’s risk management is continuously reviewed development. by regularly auditing the Group’s risk exposure. This 40 SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT Environment impact and future prospects of the company. Swedol does not pursue environmentally harmful activities but is anxious to minimize any damaging effects on Different forms of remuneration the environment. The companies have a duty to report Remuneration to senior executives shall be competitive and business activities related to electronics waste. In the case market related and is to be based on the position, comof electrical and electronics waste, the companies work petence and performance of the individual executive. The closely with local organizations on their respective marremuneration that is offered consists of fixed salary, variable kets. Swedol is also a member of the Swedish recycling cash bonus, pension benefits and other benefits. organization FTI, a packaging and newsprint collection Payment of the variable cash bonus requires meeting service. In the case of chemicals imports, the companies criteria that should be able to be measured over a period of report such to the equivalent of the Swedish Chemicals 12 months. The variable cash bonus is based on quantitative Agency on each respective market. The companies do and qualitative targets and can amount to a maximum 60 not otherwise pursue any business activities that must be percent of fixed salary in the period, including pension contriregistered or licensed according to the Environment Code. butions and holiday pay, but excluding social insurance costs. Areas where Swedol assesses opportunities to impact Pension contributions paid by the company for defined the environment in a positive direction include choice of contribution pension plans for senior executives are in line chemicals, logistics optimization and helping customers with the ITP plan except for the CEO who has an individual reduce their own environment impact. Swedol is certified pension plan that amounts for 25.1 percent of fixed monthly to ISO 14001:2015. salary. Other benefits offered are of a normal non-monetary kind Sustainability reporting such as a company car and company healthcare. Swedol is subject to the Annual Accounts Act requirement on sustainability reporting. The Group has elected Termination of employment to present its sustainability report in line with the Global Notice to terminate employment from the company’s Reporting Initiatives GRI Standards (Core application side may be no longer than three to six months. The fixed level). To identify material sustainability issues, Swedol has monetary salary during the notice period may not exceed performed a materiality analysis. Long-term sustainability a combined total corresponding to six months fixed salary is an integral part of the Swedol business model and strafor the CEO and six months for other members of group tegy. To reflect this, our sustainability reporting is separamanagement. The notice period may not exceed three ted from the management report, and integrated into the months, in exceptional cases six months, when notice is annual report activity report on pages 3–6, 12, 14–23 and given by the executive. Severance pay ought not arise 26–28 and in sustainability notes and the GRI index on whether notice is given by the company or the executive. pages 74–79. The risk analysis concerning sustainability issues is included in the combined risk section on pages Salary and employment terms and conditions 26–28 for employees Salary and employment terms and conditions for company Board proposal for guidelines on remuneration to senior employees have been taken into account when preparing executives these compensation guidelines by data on total employee The board proposes that the 2020 AGM resolve that the compensation, components of compensation and increafollowing guidelines on remuneration to senior executives ses in compensation and the rate of such increases over should apply until the 2021 AGM unless circumstances time providing part of the decision-making support data arise that mean a review must be done earlier. for the board when evaluating how reasonable the guideliThe guidelines cover the CEO and other executives who nes are and any limitations that follow from them. The comare members of the company’s management group. Remupensation report that is produced with regard to payments neration included in the guidelines should cover salary and made and compensation outstanding that are covered by other emoluments to senior executives. Remuneration is the guidelines, will report the gap between executive pay equated with the transfer of securities and granting of the and that of other employees. right to acquire securities from the company in the future. Remuneration resolved by the AGM is not covered by Decision-making process for establishing, reviewing these guidelines. and implementing guidelines The board is to appoint a remuneration committee whose How the guidelines affect business strategy, long-term principal duties are to help inform the board and offer interests and sustainability recommendations on issues such as remuneration principFor information on Swedol’s business strategy, please see les, renumeration and other employment terms and conpages 4–5 of the 2019 Annual Report. ditions for senior executives. The remuneration committee The board proposal for guidelines on remuneration to should also monitor and evaluate current and completed senior executives is structured to protect the best interests programs for variable payments to company management. of the company and shareholders. Remuneration to senior They should also monitor and evaluate the application of executives aims to attract, motivate and retain talented and the guidelines for remuneration to senior executives that highly qualified personnel in key positions in Group manathe AGM is legally required to resolve on together with the gement. The right incentives mean the company will be applicable remuneration structures and salary levels in the better able to achieve its business strategy and long-term company. interests in the form of growth, profitability and sustainabiThe Swedol board has resolved that the board shall not lity. appoint a remuneration committee, as the board, with refeAssessments should be based on position, competence rence to its size, competence and experience, has found and performance. The results should relate to both the it more appropriate to fulfill in their entirety, the duties that performance of the individual and the general performance in accordance with the Companies Act and the Swedish SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 41 ANNUAL REPORT Code for Corporate Governance, are incumbent on a to MSEK 99.8 (99.8) This proposed dividend amounts remuneration committee. to 42.1 percent of the company’s net profit. The present The board is to produce proposals for new guidelines at capital structure and profitability are assessed as proleast every four years and present proposals to the AGM viding adequate scope for the proposed dividend with for resolution. When the board discusses, and resolves regard to the requirements and opportunities that the on, remuneration related issues, the CEO or other persons nature, scale and risks of the business impose on parent in company management, are not to be present in the company and group shareholders’ equity and liquidity. event such issues concern them. Total funds available for dividends in the parent company amount to MSEK 1,002.3 (947.0) and the Group has an Departure from the guidelines for remuneration equity ratio of 44.3 percent (49.6). At the end of the year, Questions on remuneration to senior executives are to be available cash and cash equivalents including an unutilized addressed, prepared and resolved on by the board. The credit facility amounted to MSEK 309.0 (534.1). board shall have the right to deviate from the guidelines in individual cases if there are specific reasons for this, Proposal for disposal of profit and that such a departure is necessary in the long-term The following funds are at the disposal of the AGM: interests and sustainability of the company or to secure SEK the financial viability of the company. Retained earnings 848,037,654 Description of significant changes to the guidelines Profit for the year 154,262,687 A review of the guidelines has been performed in the light Total 1,002,300,341 of the new content requirements in the Swedish Companies Act (ABL) 8 chap 51–53 §§ and 7 chap 61 §. The aim of these changes to the ABL is to ensure shareholders The board and CEO propose that the available funds of have the opportunity to influence the parameters for remuSEK 1,002,300,341 be disposed as follows: neration to senior executives in order to create a healthy SEK remuneration culture in the best long-term interests of the company. The guidelines provide a framework within which Dividend to shareholders remuneration to senior executives is to be kept, the intenSEK 1.20 per share 99,840,000 tion is such that the decision-making rights of the board Carried forward to new account 902,460,341 on remuneration issues should not be changed towards Total 1,002,300,341 earlier guidelines. The revised guidelines more clearly explain how they contribute to the company’s business strategy, long-term interests and sustainability plus how With reference to the above and what has otherwise come remuneration and employment terms and conditions for to the attention of the board, the board is of the following company employees have been taken into account when view: A comprehensive assessment of the financial developing the guidelines. position of the parent company and group indicates the With the exception of the revisions stated above, the dividend is justified with reference to requirements that guidelines are in line, to all intents and purposes, with the the nature of the business, scale and risks place on parent guidelines that were approved at the 2019 AGM. company and group shareholders’ equity and liquidity. Swedol’s strategy aims to create good growth in value via Dividend organic growth and acquisitions. Financially, Swedol should have scope to continue to In 2019, the parent company has made Group contrigrow its business and have the means to take advantage butions of MSEK 1.5 (0.0). With regard to the Group’s of business opportunities. Expansion is to be made while equity ratio, this amounts to 44.3 percent (49.6) before the maintaining financial strength for freedom of action. Agadividend and 42.5 percent (47.5) after the dividend. This inst this background, the board has found that dividends is assessed as being an adequate equity ratio even when ought normally amount to 30–50 percent of Group profits taking into account future development. With regard to the after tax. company’s profit and position in general, please see the The board proposes that the Annual General Meeting income statements and balance sheets with associated should approve a dividend of SEK 1.20 (1.20) per share comments further below. for the year. The total dividend would therefore amount 42 SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT Financial reports Group statement of total comprehensive income MSEK Note 20191 2018 Revenues 2, 7 3,622.1 3,241.3 Cost of goods sold 4, 7, 8 -2,159.6 -1,917.1 Gross profit 1,462.4 1,324.2 Other revenues 3 29.0 20.9 Sales costs 4, 6, 8 -1,027.5 -902.9 Administration costs 4, 5, 6, 8 -127.9 -116.9 Operating profit 336.0 325.3 Financial income 9 5.3 4.0 Financial costs 9 -32.8 -12.0 Profit/loss from financial items -27.4 -8.0 Profit/loss before tax 308.6 317.3 Income tax 10 -71.6 -65.0 Profit/loss for the year 237.0 252.3 Other comprehensive income for the year: Posts that can come to be reclassified onto the income statement: Translation differences on foreign business 16.0 -1.2 Cash flow hedges 15 -0.0 -1.5 Deferred tax related to cash flow hedges 0.0 0.3 Items that will not be reclassified to income statement: Other comprehensive income for the year, net after tax 16.0 -2.4 Total comprehensive income for the period 252.9 249.9 Earnings per share, before and after dilution (SEK) 2.85 3.03 Number of shares at the end of the year 20 83,200,000 83,200,000 Average number of shares at the end of the year, before and after dilution 20 83,200,000 83,200,000 1 Effective 1 January 2019, the Group applies IFRS 16 Leases. The transition has been made with the aid of the simplified method, which means the comparison figures have not been recalculated. The effects of this on the balance sheet, income statement and key figures for 2019, are presented in note 29. SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 43 ANNUAL REPORT Group statement of financial position MSEK Note 2019-12-311 2018-12-31 ASSETS Non-current assets Intangible assets Goodwill 11, 12 401.7 363.8 Brands 11, 12 246.7 246.7 Customer relations 11, 12 94.7 91.7 Other 11, 12 52.8 42.4 Total intangible asets 795.9 744.6 Tangible non-current assets Right of use assets 8 581.1 Property, plant & equipment 13 119.2 118.9 Inventories 13 173.4 135.7 Total tangible non-current assets 873.8 254.6 Financial non-current assets Deferred tax receivables 10 9.3 4.3 Total financial non-current assets 9.3 4.3 Total non-current assets 1,678.9 1,003.5 Current assets Inventory 18 1,012.7 820.8 Current receivables 16, 17 316.6 331.4 Current tax receivables 10 2.4 0.1 Derivative instruments 15, 16 1.0 1.6 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 19 130.2 141.5 Cash and cash equivalents 15, 16, 24 40.3 234.1 Total current assets 1,503.3 1,529.5 TOTAL ASSETS 3,182.2 2,533.0 SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Shareholders' equity (attributable to parent company shareholders) Share capital 20 12.5 12.5 Other contributed capital 340.6 340.6 Reserves -2.3 -18.2 Retained earnings 1,057.7 920.6 Total shareholders' equity 1,408.6 1,255.5 Non-current liabilities Non-current lease liabilitiesr 8 381.6 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 16, 21 377.2 465.5 Deferred tax liabilities 10 161.1 145.8 Total non-current liabilities 920.0 611.4 Current liabilites Accounts payable 15, 16, 22 340.1 311.4 Current lease liabilities 8 176.4 Current interest-bearing liabilities 15, 16, 21 111.6 80.0 Other current non-interest bearing liabilities 16, 22 73.8 71.6 Derivative instruments 15, 16 3.6 3.5 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 23 142.2 151.7 Current tax liabilities 5.9 48.0 Total non-current liabilities 853.6 666.2 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 3,182.2 2,533.0 1 Effective 1 January 2019, the Group applies IFRS 16 Leases. The transition has been made with the aid of the simplified method, which means the comparison figures have not been recalculated. The effects of this on the balance sheet, income statement and key figures for 2019, are presented in note 29. 44 SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT Group statement of changes in shareholders’ equity Retained earnings including Other contriprofit/loss for Shareholders’ MSEK Note Share capital buted capital the year Reserves equity Shareholders' equity 1 January 2018 12.5 340.6 743.2 -16.3 1,080.0 Comprehensive income Total profit for the year 252.3 252.3 Other comprehensive income Translation differences on foreign business -0.7 -0.7 Cash flow hedges after tax -1.1 -1.1 Transactions with owners Dividend -74.9 -74.9 Shareholders' equity 31 December 2018 20 12.5 340.6 920.6 -18.2 1,255.5 Shareholders' equity 1 January 2019 12.5 340.6 920.6 -18.2 1,255.5 Comprehensive income Total profit for the year 237.0 237.0 Other comprehensive income Translation differences on foreign business 16.0 16.0 Cash flow hedges after tax -0.0 -0.0 Transactions with owners Dividend -99.8 -99.8 Shareholders' equity 31 December 2019 20 12.5 340.6 1,057.7 -2.3 1,408.6 Group statement of cash flow MSEK Note 20191 2018 OPERATING ACTIVITIES Profit before tax 308.6 317.3 Adjustment for items not included in cash flow 24 296.0 59.9 Change in operating capital Change in inventory -174.2 -101.2 Change in receivables 17 1.7 -20.2 Change in liabilities 1.0 66.1 Cash flow from operations 433.1 321.9 Net interest -17.3 -9.8 Tax paid -109.5 -47.6 Cash flow from operating activities 306.2 264.5 INVESTMENT ACTIVITES Investments in intangible assets 12 -34.0 -30.2 Acquisition of subsidiaries 11 -63.4 -111.9 Acquisition of other non current assets 12, 13, 24 -82.4 -36.7 Cash flow from investment activities -179.9 -178.8 FINANCING ACTIVITIES Received loans 21 31.4 -0.3 Repayment of loans -80.1 -80.0 Repayment of lease liabilities -172.2 Dividend paid -99.8 -74.9 Cash flow from financing activities -320.8 -155.2 Cash flow for the year -194.4 -69.5 Cash and cash equivalents at start of the year 24 234.1 303.6 Exchange rate difference in cash and cash equivalents 0.6 Cash and cash equivalents at start of the year 24 40.3 234.1 1 Effective 1 January 2019, the Group applies IFRS 16 Leases. The transition has been made with the aid of the simplified method, which means the comparison figures have not been recalculated. The effects of this on the balance sheet, income statement and key figures for 2019, are presented in note 29. SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 45 ANNUAL REPORT Parent company income statement MSEK Note 2019 2018 Net sales 2, 7 2,896.2 2,717.3 Cost of goods sold 4, 7, 8 -1,758.6 -1,626.4 Gross profit 1,137.5 1,090.9 Sales costs 4, 6, 8 -823.8 -776.2 Administration costs 4, 5, 6, 8 -94.9 -92.5 Other operating income 3 31.1 20.5 Other operating costs Operating profit 250.0 242.7 Other interest income and similar income 7, 9 19.3 14.3 Interest expenses and similar costs 9 -18.5 -19.6 Profit/loss after financial items 250.7 237.3 Appropriations 10 -48.5 -56.4 Profit before tax 202.2 180.9 Tax on profit for the year 10 -47.9 -41.7 Profit/loss for the year 154.3 139.2 Statement of comprehensive income parent company MSEK Note 2019 2018 Profit/loss for the year 154.3 139.2 Posts that can come to be reclassified onto the income statement: Translation differences 0.3 Cash flow hedges 15 0.8 -1.5 Deferred tax related to cash flow hedges -0.2 0.3 Items that will not be reclassified to income statement Other comprehensive income for the period, net after tax 0.9 -1.1 Total comprehensive income for the period 155.1 138.1 46 SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 ANNUAL REPORT Parent company balance sheet MSEK Note 2019-12-31 2018-12-31 ASSETS Non-current assets Intangible non-current assets Goodwill 11, 12 159.0 168,5 Brands 11, 12 129.3 145.7 Customer relations 11, 12 37.5 39.9 Other 11, 12 44.7 42.0 Total intangible non-current assets 370.5 396.1 Tangible non-current assets Propert, plant & equipment 13 26.4 27.2 Inventories 13 146.4 114.7 Total tangible non-current assets 172.8 141.9 Financial non-current assets Shares in group companies 14 465.0 436.5 Receivables in group companies 7 194.7 144.0 Deferred tax receivables 10 2.8 2.4 Total financial non-current assets 662.4 582.8 Total non-current assets 1,205.7 1,120.8 Current assets Inventory Finished goods and merchandise 18 781.8 635.3 Prepayments to suppliers 18 34.5 36.1 Total inventories 816.4 671.4 Current receivables Account receivables 7, 16, 17 251.0 285.7 Current tax receivables 2.0 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 19 110.1 98.6 Derivative instruments 15, 16 1.0 0.9 Total current receivables 364.1 385.2 Cash and bank 15, 16, 24 8.8 210.9 Total current assets 1,189.3 1,267.5 TOTAL ASSETS 2,395.0 2,388.3 SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Shareholders' equity Restricted shareholders’ equity Share capital 12.5 12.5 Reserve fund 3.2 3.2 Total restricted shareholders’ equity 15.7 15.7 Unrestricted equity Share premium 303.0 303.0 Fair value fund 0.2 -0.7 Balanced profits 544.9 505.5 Profit for the year 154.3 139.2 Total unrestricted equity 1,002.3 947.0 Total shareholders' equity 1,018.0 962.7 Untaxed reserves 10 398.5 351.4 Non-current liabilites Debt to credit institutions 21 382.7 465.5 Deferred tax liabilities 10 35.1 39.4 Total non-current liabilities 417.8 504.9 Current liabilities Debt to credit institutions 15. 16. 21 111.4 80.0 Accounts payable 7. 15. 16 301.5 277.3 Current tax liabilities 40.4 Derivative instruments 15. 16 2.8 3.5 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 23 108.9 117.6 Other liabilities 22 36.1 50.5 Total current liabilities 560.7 569.3 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 2,395.0 2,388.3 SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 47 ANNUAL REPORT Parent company statement of changes in shareholders’ equity Unrestricted shareholders' Restricted shareholders' equity equity Balanced Profit for Shareholders' MSEK Note Share capital Reserve fund Premium fund Fair value fund result the year equity Shareholders' equity 1 January 12.5 3.2 303.0 -0.2 427.1 153.3 898.9 2018 Dividend -74.9 -74.9 Transferred on new account 153.3 -153.3 0.0 Translation difference on foreign operations 0.7 0.7 Cash flow hedges after tax -1.2 -1.2 Profit for the year 139.2 139.2 Shareholders' equity 31 December 20 12.5 3.2 303.0 -0.7 505.5 139.2 962.7 2018 Shareholders' equity 1 Januari 12.5 3.2 303.0 -0.7 505.5 139.2 962.7 2019 Dividend -99.8 -99.8 Transferred on new account 139.2 -139.2 Translation difference on foreign 0.3 0.3 operations Cash flow hedges after tax 0.6 0.6 Profit for the year 154.3 154.3 Shareholders' equity 31 December 20 12.5 3.2 303.0 0.2 544.9 154.3 1,018.0 2019 Parent company statement of cash flow MSEK Note 2019 2018 OPERATING ACTIVITIES Profit before tax 250.7 237.4 Adjustment for items not included in cash flow 24 103.9 82.4 Change in operating capital Change in inventory -141.7 -90.0 Change in receivables 23.1 -15.1 Change in liabilities -8.3 81.5 Cash flow from operations 227.7 296.2 Interest received 0.6 3.7 Interest paid -7.6 -9.8 Tax paid -95.9 -39.1 Cash flow from operating activities 124.8 251.0 INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES Investments in subsidiaries 11 -44.2 -102.6 Lending to subsidiaries -49.7 -22.9 Investments in intangible assets 12 -26.3 -25.5 Acquisition of other non-current assets 11, 12, 24 -59.2 -31.6 Cash flow from investment activities -179.4 -182.6 FINANCING ACTIVITIES Acquired liquid funds for merger 4.1 Change in credit facility 31.4 Repayment of loans -81.7 -80.2 Group contribution made -1.5 Dividend paid -99.8 -74.9 Cash flow from financing activities -147.6 -155.1 Cash flow for the year -202.2 -86.7 Cash and cash equivalents at start of the year 24 210.9 297.6 Exchange rate difference in cash and cash equivalents 0.1 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 24 8.8 210.9 48 SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES Sustainability notes ABOUT THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT such as human rights, working conditions, the environment and business ethics. For Swedol, driving the business forward based on a sustainable business Each business unit, support function and subsidiary company is responsible for model is both a strategic and important choice. Sustainability is therefore an implementing the code of conduct in their business operations. All managers integral part of the Swedol business model and strategy. To reflect this, Swedol are responsible for ensuring their employees are aware of the code of conduct, publishes an annual activity report with an integrated sustainability report. This understand it and work in accordance with it. report, together with the following sustainability notes comprises the Group’s In late 2019, the Group code of conduct was updated with the aim of further sustainability report. developing the content and include the Group’s progress towards the global In addition to an introductory description of the Group’s sustainability goals for sustainable development that have been identified as particularly relegovernance, stakeholder dialog and materiality analysis, the sustainability notes vant for the Group. In association with this, Swedol created an online training contain further information concerning product evaluation based on health course in the code of conduct and what it contains that is mandatory for all and safety, product movement related carbon dioxide emissions, monitoring of employees, starting in 2020. suppliers, employees and work on sustainable choices for customers. In the event of knowledge or suspicions of serious breaches of the code The sustainability report covers Swedol AB (publ), co. no. 556127-6188 and of conduct or illegal or unethical behavior committed by persons in executive all subsidiary companies in the Group and has been produced in accordance positions, the Swedol whistleblower service can be used. Serious breaches with the regulations in the Annual Accounts Act (6 chap. 10 §) and the Global can concern irregularities that have occurred or are planned, and that can Reporting Initiatives Standards at Core application level. A complete GRI index damage Swedol’s business or employees. Reporting can be done anonymously can be found on pages 78–79 and on the Swedol website. The GRI index proto a third party and any person reporting such incidents will not be subject to vides general information and specific information that Swedol has identified as any reprisals or other negative consequences. The code of conduct includes material to report, and references where in the report such information can be directions for how employees, customers, suppliers, business partners and found. Swedol is continuously working to further develop its sustainability work other stakeholders should contact the whistleblower service. No cases were and the report itself. In order to be able to present a full report, data collection reported to the Group whistleblower service in 2019. from some areas is still required along with certain other work. Swedol is still a member of the global amfori Business Social Compliance The previous year’s sustainability report was published on 20 March 2019. Initiative (amfori BSCI) that works to ensure responsible supplier chains. Via No material changes have occurred in the organization or supplier chain in 2019 membership, Swedol has access to a multi industry network with companies that have affected the reporting of metrics. Work on gathering sustainability that work together to simplify monitoring and the development of social and data from the organization has been made more efficient during the year via the environment issues in the supplier chain, in accordance with the common introduction of a common reporting tool. The changes that have been impleamorfi BSCI code of conduct. In practice, this means, for example, that Swedol mented in the reporting of subject specific information in the GRI Index are due can access evaluations made by other companies on supplier visits, which to the replacement of certain disclosures in order to better reflect information makes for greater control and transparency in the supplier chain. on Swedol products, services and business. The report has not been audited Swedol AB is certified to the management systems ISO 9001:2015 for quality by an external party. and ISO 14001:2015 for the environment. These management systems ensure As signatories to the 10 UN Global Compact Principles within human rights, that business activities are pursued in accordance with specific procedures labor, environment and anti-corruption, the sustainability report also comprises and provide support for employees in daily operations. The systems also contriSwedol’s report on Communication on Progress (COP). bute to additional customer and stakeholder benefits and to reduce the Group’s environment impact. SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE Swedol supports Agenda 2030 in its entirety. In order to identify business The Swedol board has ultimate responsibility for the Group’s sustainability related synergies between our business strategies and the realization of the work. The management group sets out the Group’s positions in policies conGlobal Compact goals, Swedol audited its operations in relation to these global cerning quality and environment work, health & safety and purchasing. Group goals in 2018. In 2019, work to integrate these important sustainability issues management regularly monitors groupwide sustainability work but strategic and into Swedol’s business planning intensified via clearer processes and divisions operational responsibility for sustainability issues resides with each respective of responsibilities. These issues are directly linked to one or several of Swedol’s operations manager and the Quality and Sustainability Department that also strategic goals and are a key part of the work we are doing to contribute to the coordinates this work. Agenda 2030 goals. » The Group code of conduct established by the board is key to the management of sustainability work. The code of conduct, which is based on the 10 Swedol policy documents and code of conduct are available at www. UN Global Compact Principles, guides employees, members of the board and swedol.com/hallbarhet/certifikat-policys-och-redovisningar/ contracted personnel in how they are expected to conduct themselves in areas 50 SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES STAKEHOLDER DIALOG AND MATERIALITY ANALYSIS dialogs and risk analyses. In addition to the regular dialog with the Group’s staSwedol maintains an open dialog with its stakeholders. Being attentive to the keholders, interviews with suppliers were also performed in 2019. Customers expectations of the outside world and stakeholders is a key part of efforts to were also asked questions about Swedol’s sustainability work in association continue to develop and improve sustainability work. Swedol’s most important with the annual customer survey. Altogether, the stakeholder dialog further stakeholders are those groups that are affected by and/or affect the Group’s supported the conclusion that structured work with chemicals, anti-corruption business activities to the greatest extent and have been identified as custoissues and helping customers reduce their own environment impact are key issmers, employees, shareholders, unions, society and suppliers. Together with ues in Group sustainability work. Together with an analysis of external factors, Swedol’s own assessment of important sustainability aspects based on the risks and opportunities, the stakeholder dialog has meant that the materiality impact our activities have on the economy, social conditions and the environanalysis performed previously has been able to be validated. These important ment, this stakeholder dialog forms the basis for the materiality analysis that sustainability issues have been duly noted by the board and form the basis for has been performed to identify the most important material issues within the the content of the sustainability report. » Group’s sustainability work. Swedol’s materiality analysis is validated annually via new stakeholder Swedol’s material sustainability issues are presented on page 4 Swedol’s stakeholders and channels for dialog Channels for dialog Most important sustainability issues for stakeholders CUSTOMERS • Daily contact in stores, via field salespersons and • Customer Service orders department • Attractive employer • Procurement • Product liability • Annual CSI surveys • Diversity and equal opportunities • Working conditions/human rights in the supplier chain • Chemicals EMPLOYEES • Appraisal talks and personal meetings • Customer Service • Employee survey • Product liability • Training • Logistics optimization • Support customers in reducing their own environment impact • Leadership • Training and skills • Occupational Health & Safety • Diversity and equal opportunities • Anti-corruption SHAREHOLDERS/INVESTORS • Shareholder policy and articles of association • Profitability and growth • Regular reporting and board meetings • Attractive employer • Regular contact with analysts and investors • Product liability via quality and safety • Chemicals • Logistics optimization • Diversity and equal opportunities • Working conditions/human rights in the supplier chain • Anti-corruption UNIONS • Regular meetings with the two unions • Attractive employer (Swedol in Sweden) • Leadership • Regular meetings with the Workplace Environment • Training and skills Committee (Swedol in Norway) • Occupational Health & Safety • Site visits by local representatives • Diversity and equal opportunities SOCIETY • Membership of sector organizations • Product liability • Contact with public authorities • Chemicals • Business intelligence • Logistics optimization • Support customers in reducing their own environment impact • Diversity and equal opportunities • Working conditions/human rights in the supplier chain • Anti-corruption SUPPLIERS • Supplier meetings • Product liability via quality and safety • Daily contact via purchasers • Logistics optimization • Trade fairs and business travel • Working conditions/human rights in the supplier chain • Product training • Anti-corruption • Chemicals • Support customers in reducing their own environment impact SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 51 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES EVAULATION OF PRODUCTS BASED ON HEALTH AND SAFETY Transports AND CHEMICAL CONTENT (ton CO 2e) (ton CO 2e/MSEK) Swedol’s general goal is to avoid any deviations with regard 3,000 2.50 to quality and safety or chemical content linked to the Group’s products. A number of products have been identified for additional checks with 2,500 2.25 the aid of a preparatory analysis method. A total of 44 random sample checks for chemicals in products were perfor2,000 2.00 med in 2019. In addition to which, seven chemical tests were also performed on the random samples for further analysis where the need arose. Three of the 1,500 1.75 products tested contained more than 0.1 percent by weight of substances on the candidate chemicals list in the Reach Regulation. 1,000 1.50 Two products were removed on account of their chemical content but have 500 1.25 Target from 2019 since been included in the range again, one after further testing was performed and the other after the content was adjusted. 0 1.00 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 SUPPLIER MONITORING Incoming freight Outgoing freight Emissions per cost of goods sold Third party audits Regular third party audits are performed at factories where Swedol own brand EMPLOYEES products are manufactured to check compliance with the code of conduct. Which suppliers are audited, and how often, depends on the scale of their Number of employees and employee turnover production and the risk profile of the country and specific factory. The number of employees expressed as full time equivalents at In 2019, ethical audits were performed at supplier factories in China, the end of 2019 amounted to a combined total of 1,090 (1,041) in the Group, of Bangladesh, Pakistan, India, Tunisia and Laos. Altogether, 53 of the factories which 832 (800) in Sweden, 182 (177) in Norway, 63 (55) in Finland and 13 (9) belonging to Group suppliers of Swedol own label products and own brands in Estonia. had valid third party audits. Of these, 31 were at suppliers of workwear and Employee turnover in 2019 was 14.6 percent in the Group, 17.0 percent personal protection and 22 at supplies of tools and supplies. (19.8) in Sweden, 4.6 percent in Norway, 1.6 percent in Finland and 0.0 percent If deviations from the Swedol requirements are discovered during a supplier in Estonia. Employee turnover for men in the Group was 14.9 percent and 13.7 visit, in the first instance, a joint plan of action is to be established and then with percent for women. the aid of support and training, compliance with the code of conduct can then The number of new employees in 2019 was 237 for the Group in total, of be assured. which 160 (150) in Sweden, 67 in Norway, six in Finland and four in Estonia. Deviations that were identified during third party audits during the year Comparison figures for new employees and employee turnover can only be primarily concerned excessive working hours without adequate time for rest reported for Sweden. and recovery, inadequate chemicals handling and fire safety procedures, plus inadequate use of appropriate personal protective equipment. Deviations are Number of employees and employee turnover addressed sharply and clear follow-up plans including actions have been esta(Number2) (%) 1,200 20 Employees blished and are checked. Sweden CARBON DIOXIDE EMISSIONS FROM TRANSPORTS 1,000 Employees 15 Norway Reducing carbon dioxide emissions caused by product shipme800 nts is a prioritized issue for Swedol. Employees Other countries In 2019, Swedol set a target that tons CO2e/MSEK cost of 600 10 goods sold should not exceed 1.3, which was higher than in 2018, when the target was 1.5. The actual figure was 1.3 CO2e/MSEK (1.4), which meant the Employee turnover of 400 permanent employtarget was achieved. The total amount of carbon dioxide emissions caused by 5 ees and probatiotransport in 2019 was 2,582 tons CO2e which was a total increase of 226 tons 200 nary employees in CO2e compared to 2018. The Group’s carbon dioxide emissions from goods Sweden in fell during the year due to less air freighting and more rail transport. This 0 0 20171 2018 2019 increase in total carbon dioxide emissions was due to an increase in carbon 1 The calculation method for number of employees has been adjusted with effect from dioxide emissions reported from goods out shipments by road. The reason for the third quarter 2018 inclusive. This has resulted in the comparison figures being this was that one of the Group’s biggest haulage contractors has produced recalculated. The change was made to better reflect the number of employees and more precise calculations compared to the previous year. number of hours worked within the Group. Swedol’s transport suppliers register and report carbon dioxide emissions 2 The statistics refer to the number of employees expressed as full-time equivalents. for all transport. For goods inward by sea, rail and road, the calculations are based on the European standard EN 16258:2012 and include the entire Employee gender balance transport chain. Goods inward and outward by road include several transport The gender and age balance for employees is shown in the pie chart below, suppliers, which is why some emissions are calculated in accordance with EN with comparison figures for 2018 in brackets. 16258:2012 and others are estimated based on the transport route and fuel type. Employee gender balance Carbon dioxide emissions from transports Age 50– years Age –29 years Ton CO2 equivalents, transports 2019 2018* 2017 7 % Women (6) 15 % Men (14) Goods inward sea, air and rail freight 1,020 1,333 1,259 of which goods inward by sea 875 715 735 17 % Men (18) 10 % Women (10) of which goods inward by air 113 615 516 UPPDATERAS 24 % 25 % of which goods inward by rail 32 3 8 (24) (24) Goods inward by road 260 132 242 Goods outward by road 1,526 1,116 1,224 50 % (51) Transports total 2,807 2,581 2,725 31 % Men (32) 19 % Women (19) * During 2018 one transport supplier was not able to disclose their emission factors, which is why 118.7 tons of outward goods only refers to carbon dioxide CO2. Age 30–49 years 52 SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES Accidents and injuries in the workplace Employee Net Promoter Score, eNPS The aim in 2019 was to increase the number of incidents reported and reduce Swedol measures employer attractiveness, via an Employee Net Promoter the number of accidents Score (eNPS), which is a measure of how willing employees are to recommend their workspace to a friend or acquaintance. eNPS is measured on a scale from Accidents -100 to +100. Registered accidents include both accidents that result in sick leave and others Swedol’s goal is to be in line with the benchmark for the total retailing sector. that do not. The benchmark for retailing has been at a lower level than previously in recent The biggest physical occupational health and safety risks for Swedol years. This is assessed to be a consequence of the changes within technology employees are linked to the Group’s logistics centers. In 2019, 37 (52) acciand skills sets that have led to skills migrations. The number of full time employdents were reported at the center in Örebro, of which nine (four) resulted in ees and monthly salaried employees has been reduced at certain companies, sick leave. The accidents mainly occurred in association with the use of forklift which can lead to uncertainty among employees about their job security and trucks and lifting work. The injuries caused by these accidents were primarily therefore not as willing to recommend their employer. In 2019 the benchmark cuts, muscular injuries and sprains. for retailing was +14 (+14). The Group has set a target of at least 3,500 person hours between each Swedol’s 2019 eNPS score was +13 (+13). This continuing low score can registered accident at the center in Örebro. The actual total figure for 2019 was probably be explained by concerns about the consolidation of logistics anno3,501 hours between each accident, compared to 2,343 hours in 2018. unced, high workloads in association with the continuing implementation of the In the case of stores and offices in Sweden, 12 (12) accidents were reported Group’s scalable platform plus numerous growth initiatives. in 2019, none of which resulted in sick leave. All 12 accidents were reported by stores and the injuries arising were mainly sprains and muscular injuries from incorrect lifting or injuries following someone tripping or hurting themselves on Employee Net Promotor Score (eNPS) objects sticking out. eNPS 2019 2018 2017 Four injuries were reported in the business in Norway, of which three resulted in sick leave. The accidents concerned a finger burn injury at the logistics Outcome +13 +13 +19 center in Skedsmokorset, a traffic accident, a fall in store and one case of Target (benchmark retail) +14 +14 +22 violent conduct in a store. Two injuries were reported in stores in Finland, none of which resulted in Leadership Index sick leave. The accidents concerned employees who got something in their eye, Swedol uses a Leadership Index (LSI) to evaluate how leadership within the which caused injuries of a less serious nature. organization is perceived, its strengths and opportunities. Based on the results, the Group can then plan what measures ought to be taken to further strengthen Reported incidents its leadership. Something that could have resulted in an injury or accident, but was finally clasSwedol has implemented investments in leadership in recent years and has sed as a near accident. A near accident is a signal that something serious could set a target level of 80. The LSI for 2019 was 74, a slight drop from 75 in the happen next time and actions therefore need to be taken. In addition to physical previous year. The results point to big variations within the Group and the fall factors, near accidents can also include psychosocial factors. from the previous year was primarily due to a lower score in Norway and within It is important that near accidents are reported as this is a very good way logistics. of discovering any risks that can lead to accidents and injuries. Swedol has put special emphasis on improving the reporting of risk observations and near LSI 2019 2018 2017 accidents, (so-called incident reporting) at the Group’s logistics centers where Outcome 74 75 75 the biggest health and safety risks are found. The number of Group incident reports and level of detail have been sharpened in 2019. A total of 125 incidents were reported at Swedol, compared to 64 Engagement Index in 2018. 115 of the incidents were reported by the logistics center in Örebro Swedol uses an Engagement Index (EI) as a barometer for individual and orgaand primarily concerned incidents with trucks and products falling from shelves. nizational engagement, to show the driving forces behind engagement and how Ten of the incidents were reported by stores and concerned employees that best this can be maintained and strengthened. EI is measured in the form of had tripped, products falling from shelves and hot premises due to inadequate energy (employee motivation, inspiration and pride) and clarity (clarity of goals ventilation in the summer. at individual and Group level plus connection to general goals). For 2019, Swedol’s EI remained at a stable high level at 80 (80). EI fell in Sick leave Norway compared to previous years while EI rose in the support functions. Swedol continuously monitors employee sick leave. for the Group and by country. Sick leave at Group level fell in 2019, and amounted to 3.59 percent compared to 4.63 percent in 2018. Sick leave for women fell from 6.05 percent EI 2019 2018 2017 to 4.0 percent and for men from 3.92 percent to 3.2 percent. The statistics for 2018 only relate to Sweden and Norway, all countries have been included from Outcome 80 80 80 2019 inclusive. Sick leave 2011–2019* Team Effectiveness Index (%) Swedol uses the Team Effectiveness Index (TEI) to evaluate cooperation and 10 effectiveness in different work groups and in the Group as a whole. For 2019, Swedol’s TEI remained high at 73 (73). The results show a lower TEI in Norway and Finland and that work planning/division and conflicts conti8 nue to be areas for improvement. Women 6 Total TEI 2019 2018 2017 4 Outcome 73 73 73 Men 2 SUPPORTING CUSTOMERS TO MAKE SUSTAINABLE CHOICES 0 Within the framework of the responsibility and opportunities 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Swedol’s sustainability work offers, the Group has identified * The statistics refers to Sweden until 2017, but includes Norway from 2018. From the importance of supporting customers to make sustainable 2019 inclusive all countries where the group conducts business are included: choices. The issue was included in the significant sustainability issue “Helping Sweden, Norway, Finland and Estonia. customers to reduce their own environment impact”. Increasing the proportion of own label products that are OEKO-TEX certified and increasing the number of quality deviations reported and to clearly state the environment impact of products on the e-commerce platform and offering customers several delivery options are all key elements of this work. The goal for 2019 of establishing a structured way of driving and monitoring work on sustainable choices was not achieved in full, but continues to be a prioritized issue. SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 53 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES GRI-index 2019 The 2019 Annual Report has been produced in line with the Global Reporting Initiatives Standards for Sustainability Reporting at applicability level Core. Read more about GRI at www.globalreporting.org. General disclosures GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE REFERENCE COMMENTS ORGANIZATION PROFILE 102-1 Name of the organization Front cover 102-2 Business model, most important brands, products and/or services p. 6, 12–17, cover See ”Swedol in 60 seconds”. 102-3 Location of headquarters Back cover 102-4 Location of operation(s) p. 8 102-5 Ownership and legal form p. 24–25 102-6 Markets served p. 8–11 102-7 Scale of the organization p. 1, cover See ”Swedol in 60 seconds”. 102-8 Information on employees and other workers, by employment contract, employment H4 The number of employees, expressed as terms, regions and gender full-time equivalents, at the end of the year was 1,090. 102-9 Description of the organization's supplier chain p. 18–21 102-10 Material changes for the organization and its supplier chain during the reporting No material changes. period 102-11 Description of whether and how the organization follows the precautionary principle p. 14, 16–17, 27, H1 102-12 Externally developed economic, environmental and social declarations, principles p. 14, 74 or other initiatives that the organization has signed up to or supports 102-13 Significant membership of organizations and/or national/international lobby p. 74 Swedol is a member of Svensk Handel, the organizations Svenska HR network and Hovedorganisationen virke in Norway. STRATEGY 102-14 Statement from the CEO p. 2–3 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Description of the organization's values, ethical principles and rules for conducte p. 22–23, 74 GOVERNANCE 102-18 Presentation of the organization's corporate governance p. 30–37, 74 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 Stakeholder groups the organization has contact with p. 75 102-41 Proportion of workforce that is covered by collective agreements All employees in Sweden are covered by collective agreements. 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders p. 75 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement p. 75 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised in stakeholder dialogs p. 75 REPORTING PRACTICE 102-45 Entities included in the organization’s financial statements All entities included. 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries p. 4, 74 102-47 A list of the material topic areas identified in the process for defining report content p. 4, 75 102-48 The effect of any restatements of information given in previous reports, and the p. 74 reasons for such restatements 102-49 Material changes made in the report since the previous reporting period p. 74 GRI 416-2 has been added to the reporting for 2019. 102-50 Reporting period 1 January–31 December 2019. 102-51 Date of publication of the latest report 20 March 2019. 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual. Contact point for questions concerning the report and its content Elisabeth Lindén, Quality and Environment Manager, elisabeth.linden@swedol.se. 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards reporting levels p. 74 102-55 GRI Index p. 78–79 Swedol website, www.swedol.com/hallbarhet/certifikat-policys-och-redovisningar/ 102-56 External assurance p. 74 The report has not be audited externally. 54 SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABILITY NOTES Topic specific disclosures GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE REFERENCE COMMENTS ECONOMIC IMPACT 201 (2016) ECONOMIC RESULTS 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed p. 1, 7–8 103-1 Governance p. 4–6 103-2 103-3 205 (2016) ANTI-CORRUPTION Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and 205-2 p. 18–19, 22, 74 procedures 103-1 Governance p. 18–19, 22, 74 103-2 103-3 OWN DISCLOSURE – ECONOMIC IMPACT Own Customer Satisfaction, CSI p. 12 103-1 Governance p. 12 103-2 103-3 ENVIRONMENT IMPACT 305 (2016) EMISSIONS 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions p. 21, H3 103-1 Governance p. 21, H3 103-2 103-3 308 (2016) ENVIRONMENT ASSESSMENT OF SUPPLIERS 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria p. 14, 16–21, H1 103-1 Governance p. 14, 16–21, 103-2 74, H1 103-3 OWN DISCLOSURE – ENVIRONMENT Concerns “Support customers in reducing their own environment Own Support customers to make sustainable choices H5 impact”. 103-1 Governance H5 Concerns “Support customers in reducing their own environment 103-2 impact”. 103-3 SOCIAL IMPACT 401 (2016) EMPLOYMENT Deviation: disclosure on number of new employees divided on age 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover p. 74, H4 and gender, and employee turnover divided on age is not available. 103-1 Governance p. 23, H4 103-2 103-3 403 (2016) OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Type and number of occupational injuries and number of days of 403-2 p. 23, H4 sick leave 103-1 Governance p. 23, H4 103-2 103-3 404 (2016) TRAINING AND EDUCATION 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee p. 22–23 Not reported from 2017 inclusive. Information concerns Swedol's leadership program and Training and skills development in focus . 103-1 Governance p. 22–23 Not reported from 2017 inclusive. Information concerns Swedol's 103-2 leadership program and Training and skills development in focus . 103-3 405 (2016) DIVERSITY AND EQUL OPPORTUNITIES 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees p. 36–37, H4 103-1 Governance p. 22–23, H4 103-2 103-3 414 (2016) HUMAN RIGHTS 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria p. 18–19, 74, H2 103-1 Governance p. 18–19, 74, H2 103-2 103-3 416 (2016) CUSTOMER SAFETY AND HEALTH 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service p. 14, 16–17, H1 Proportion of significant product and service categories evaluated categories in accordance with 416-1 is not possible to disclose. Swedol works systematically with quality assurance, product testing and certifications. 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety p. 14, 16–17, H1 impacts of products and services 103-1 Governance p. 14, 16–17, H1 103-2 103-3 OWN DISCLOSURE – SOCIAL IMPACT Own Employee Net Promoter Score, eNPS H4 103-1 Governance p. 22, H4 103-2 103-3 OWN DISCLOSURE – SOCIAL IMPACT Own Leadership Index H4 103-1 Governance p. 22, H4 103-2 103-3 SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 55 OTHER INFORMATION Five year summary Income statements Key figures Group, MSEK 20198 2018 2017 2016 2015 Group 20198 2018 2017 2016 2015 Revenues 3,622.1 3,241.3 3,067.1 2,371.2 1,540.0 Margin measurements Cost of goods sold -2,159.6 -1,917.1 -1,858.5 -1,448.3 -960.5 Gross margin, % 40.4 40.9 39.4 38.9 37.6 Gross profit 1,462.4 1,324.2 1,208.6 922.9 579.5 Operating margin, % 9.3 10.0 9.2 7.4 3.6 Profit margin, % 8.5 9.8 8.8 6.9 3.5 Operating costs -1,126.4 -998.9 -927.9 -746.7 -524.0 Operating profit 336.0 325.3 280.7 176.2 55.5 Financial metrics Return on average capital 15.9 18.8 17.1 16.0 9.2 Profit/loss from financial -27.4 -8.0 -10.6 -11.8 -1.3 employed, % items Leverage ratio, times 0.74 0.43 0.58 0.76 0.17 Profit before tax 308.6 317.3 270.1 164.4 54.2 Equity ratio, % 44.3 49.6 46.0 42.2 60.8 Interest coverage ratio, times 10.4 27.4 18.5 12.4 26.8 Income tax -71.6 -65.0 -62.9 -37.4 -11.9 Return on average total capital, % 11.8 13.5 12.5 11.7 6.7 Profit for the year 237.0 252.3 207.2 127.0 42.3 Return on average shareholders' 17.8 21.6 20.6 17.6 8.3 equity, % Balance sheets Net debt to EBITDA, times 1.7 0.8 1.0 1.9 0.9 20192018201720162015Group, MSEK 12-318 12-31 12-31 12-31 12-31 Activities related key Intangible assets 795.9 744.6 636.5 632.2 29.3 Number of stores at the end of 103 99 99 99 48 Tangible non-current assets 873.8 254.6 253.3 261.7 245.5 the year Financial non-current assets 9.3 4.3 9.0 10.8 4.0 Number of employees at the end 1,090 1,041 9474 914 499 of the year Total non-current assets 1,678.9 1,003.5 898.8 904.7 278.8 Average number of employees 1,098 982 9454 751 504 Inventory 1,012.7 820.8 690.7 2 693.9 364.1 Revenue growth, % 11.7 5.7 29.3 54.0 11.3 Current receivables 450.3 474.6 456.92 374.9 196.2 Gross investments, MSEK 116.5 66.9 46.7 30.0 40.4 Cash and cash equivalents 40.3 234.1 303.6 230.0 3.3 Total depreciation and disposals, 250.2 62.1 51.0 43.8 31.9 MSEK Total current assets 1,503.3 1,529.5 1,451.2 1,298.8 563.6 Average inventories, MSEK 972.9 761.0 726.0 557.6 361.9 Total assets 3,182.2 2,533.0 2,350.0 2,203.5 842.4 Data per share Total shareholders' equity 1,408.6 1,255.5 1,080.0 930.2 512.5 Earnings, SEK5 2.85 3.03 2.49 1.536 0.516 Total non-current liabilites 920.0 611.4 679.8 752.8 47.6 Dividend, SEK 1.20 7 1.20 0.90 0.506 0.356 Shareholders’ equity, SEK 16.93 15.09 12.98 11.18 6 6.166 Accounts payables 340.1 311.4 255.5 262.9 118.1 Cash flow from operating activities, 3.68 3.18 2.87 1.496 0.946 Other liabilities 513.6 354.7 334.6 257.6 164.2 SEK Total current liabilities 853.6 666.1 590.2 520.5 282.3 P/E -ratio 16.24 10.35 11.68 16.97 28.44 Total shareholders' equity and 3,182.2 2,533.0 2,350.0 2,203.5 842.4 Dividend yield, % 2.597 3.82 3.09 1.93 2.39 liabilities Share price at end of the year 46.25 31.40 29.10 25.90 14.46 Cash flow Number of shares, thousands 83,200 83,200 83,200 83,2006 83,2006 Group, MSEK 2019 8 2018 2017 20161 2015 1 Björnkläder Intressenter AB (Grolls) was consolidated with effect from 8 June 2016. Profit before tax 308.6 317.3 270.1 164.4 54.2 2 The Group has adjusted the calculation for inventories via a transfer between other receivables and inventories such that inventory value no longer includes advance payCash flow from changes in working -171.6 -55.3 -25.8 -63.9 12.2 ments. This has resulted in the comparison figures being recalculated. capital Items included are, Adjustment for items not included in cash flow, Interest, Paid tax. 3 4 The calculation method for number of employees has been adjusted with effect from the Other cash flow from operating 169.2 2.5 -5.6 23.5 11.4 third quarter 2018 inclusive. This has resulted in the comparison figures being recalcuactivities 3 lated. The change was made to better reflect the number of employees and number of Cash flow from operating activities 306.2 264.5 238.7 124.0 77.8 hours worked within the Group. 5 Earnings per share are the same before and after dilution, as there are no outstanding warrants or convertibles that can entail dilution. Cash flow from investment activities -179.9 -178.8 -46.7 -362.6 -34.1 6 Restated in respect of the preferential share issue in 2016. 7 Proposed dividend. Cash flow from financing activities -320.8 -155.2 -118.4 465.3 -43.2 8 Effective 1 January 2019, the Group applies IFRS 16 Leases. The transition has been Cash flow for the year -194.4 -69.5 73.6 226.7 0.5 made with the aid of the simplified method, which means the comparison figures have not been recalculated. The effects of this on the balance sheet, income statement and key figures for 2019, are presented in note 29. Cash and cash equivalents at start of 234.1 303.6 230.0 3.3 2.8 the year Exchange rate difference in cash and 0.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents at end of 40.3 234.1 303.6 230.0 3.3 the year 56 SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 OTHER INFORMATION Definitions and glossary Swedol reports key ratios to describe the underlying profitability of its business and to improve comparability between reporting periods and sectors. Definitions – key figures Swedol uses the four financial key figures of growth, Shareholders' equity per share operating margin, return on shareholders' equity and Shareholders' equity, divided by no. of shares, adjusted for equity ratio when setting long term targets. In addition to new issues and splits. these key figures, a number of other complementary key figures are used that Swedol considers relevant for users The Group considers that shareholders' equity per share is a of our financial reports to assess the possibility of dividend relevant key ratio as it shows the proportion of shareholders' payments, make strategic investments, evaluate profitabiequity lity that belongs to shareholders in the parent company. and assess the Group’s ability to live up to its financial undertakings. The Group applies the European Securities Inventory turnover ratio and Markets Authority (ESMA) guidelines for reporting Revenues divided by average stock value. alternative key figures. Net debt to EBITDA Return on average total capital Net debt is defined as interest bearing liabilities (incluProfit before tax increased by financial costs as a percending lease liabilities as an effect of IFRS 16) minus cash tage of average total capital (balance sheet total at the and cash equivalents. The definition of EBITDA (earnings start and end of the year respectively, divided by two). before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization) is operating profit excluding depreciation and write downs of Return on average shareholders' equity tangible and intangible assets. Profit for the year as a percentage of average shareholders’ equity, (shareholders' equity i.e. the sum of equity at Net debt in relation to EBITDA is a ratio that the Group considers the beginning and the end of the year divided by two). relevant for credit providers wishing to understand the Group's total debt position in relation to its profit generating capacity. Return on average shareholders' equity is a ratio that the Group considers to be important for investors who wish to compare P/E their investment with alternative investments. The share price on balance sheet day divided by earnings per share. Return on average capital employed P/E is used for the valuation of shares and is the ratio of the Profit before tax increased by financial costs as a percentage of average capital employed at the start and end of company's earnings to the share market price. the year respectively, divided by two. EV/Sales Return on average capital employed is a ratio that the Group The total of the market capitalization plus net liabilities considers important for investors who want to understand profit divided by its sales. generation in relation to capital employed. Enterprise value/sales is a financial ratio that compares the total Beta value value of the company to its sales. The key figure is closely related to P/S but takes the whole business into account. Statistical measure of how an asset has historically performed in relation to the market. Earnings per share Gross margin Profit for the year attributable to parent company shareRevenues minus costs of goods sold, divided by revenues. holders divided by an average of the number of shares outstanding during the year, adjusted for new issues and Gross margin is a ratio that the Group considers important for splits. investors that wish to understand how profitable products are. Interest coverage ratio Dividend yield The ratio is calculated by dividing a company's earnings The proposed dividend for the year divided by the share before interest and taxes by the company's interest expenprice at the end of the year. ses for the same period. Interest coverage is a key ratio that shows how much earnings can go down before interest payments are at risk. The Group considers this key ratio as relevant for investors who wish to assess the Group's financial resilience. SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 57 OTHER INFORMATION Operating margin Definitions – glossary Operating profit as a percentage of revenues. CO2e The Group views operating margin as a relevant key ratio for Carbon dioxide equivalents. investors wishing to understand what proportion of revenues remains to cover interest, tax and earnings. Comparable units Comparable units are units that were open during Debt to equity ratio the entire year referred to, i.e. during both the current and Interest-bearing liabilities divided by shareholders' equity. previous year. The debt to equity ratio shows the relationship between borOther units rowed capital and shareholders’ equity and therefore debt leverOther units relate to all other sales that are not comparaage. The Group considers this key ratio as relevant for investors ble. who wish to assess the Group's financial strength. Organic growth Equity ratio Organic growth means growth excluding acquisitions, but Shareholders’ equity as a percentage of total assets. including new stores. Equity ratio is a ratio the Group considers important for credit Omnichannel providers who wish to understand the company's long-term A marketing model where sales and marketing channels ability to repay. are integrated to provide a personalized and unified experience in every customer interaction. Capital employed Total capital (total assets) less non-interest bearing CSI liabilities and other appropriations, including deferred tax Customer Satisfaction Index. liability. eNPS Capital employed is a ratio that the Group considers of practical Employer Net Promoter Score is a measure of how willing application for investors as it shows what proportion of group an employee would be to recommend their workplace to assets is financed by interest attracting capital. friends and acquaintances. Revenue growth Swedol's own products Revenues current year divided by revenues comparative Covers Swedol's own brands and own label products. year, minus 1. STANDARD 100 by OEKO-TEX® Total return Independent product certification for all types of textiles The sum of dividend yield and share price appreciation. that have been tested for substances harmful to health from wool and fabrics to finished products. Total capital Shareholders' equity in the consolidated/parent company balance sheet plus net liabilities. Profit margin Profit after financial items as a percentage of revenue. The Group considers profit margin to be relevant for investors as it shows what proportion of revenue remains when all costs, excluding tax, are covered and accordingly puts profit in relation to the scale of the enterprise. Volatility A statistic measure that indicates how large the movements have been in a share. Based on annualized standard deviation of the return on the share. 58 SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 OTHER INFORMATION Information to shareholders Financial calendar Contact Reports Clein Johansson Ullenvik, CEO Tel: +46 8 742 47 20 Interim report Jan–Mar 2020 22 Apr 2020 Email: clein.ullenvik@swedol.se Interim report Jan–Jun 2020 23 Jul 2020 Interim report Jan–Sep 2020 22 Oct 2020 Annual General Meeting Annual General Meeting 2020 11 May 2020 Irene Wisenborn Bellander, CFO Tel: +46 8 742 47 32 Email: irene.bellander@swedol.se Annual Genral Meeting Swedol's Annual General Meeting 2020 will take place on May 11, 2020 at Näringslivets hus, Storgatan 19 in Stockholm at 09.30. Registration for the AGM begins at 08.30. Documents to be presented at the AGM are available on the company's website for at least three weeks immediately prior to the AGM. Swedol financial reports, press releases, share information and other relevant company information are available at www.swedol.com. The website also offers a subscription service to receive press releases and financial reports and other current information. WWW.SWEDOL.COM 60 SWEDOL ANNUAL REPORT 2019 Distribution The annual report 2019 is distributed to the shareholders that have requested it three weeks before the Annual General Meeting. The annual report is also provided as a PDF at www.swedol.com. Production facts Ecolabelling: Svanen och FSC Production: Swedol and Kanton Photo: Swedol, Jann Lipka, Viktor Fremling, Cicci Jonson/Bilduppdraget Cover photo: Viktor Fremling Print: Åtta.45 Tryckeri SWEDOL AB Box 631, 135 26 Tyresö Visiting adress: Vindkraftsvägen 2 135 70 Stockholm Tel: 08-712 00 00 swedol.com
