2019 Universal Registration Document Contents Transformation in Action 2 Messages from the Chairman of the Board and the CEO 5 2019 performance: financial & extra-financial 10 Transformation Strategy 12 An organization to drive performance 22 A shared culture for sustainable development 30 Strong governance & risk management 38 1. Financial statements 47 1.1. The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements 48 1.2. Faurecia parent company – business review and financial statements 125 2. Internal Controls & Risk Management 153 2.1. Participants and systems 154 2.2. Description of the main risks 160 2.3. Insurance and coverage of risks 181 3. Corporate governance 183 3.1. Board of Directors 184 3.2. Operational management of the Group 223 3.3. Compensation of corporate officers 224 3.4. Summary of compliance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code 253 3.5. Shareholding by corporate officers and transactions in the Company’s securities 254 3.6. Declaration of the members of the Board of Directors and Executive Management 256 3.7. Authorizations relating to sureties, endorsements and guarantees 257 3.8. Agreements 257 3.9. Other information 260 4. CSR 261 4.1. Faurecia’s social and environmental responsibility strategy 262 4.2. Social performance 273 4.3. Environmental performance 298 4.4. Societal performance 313 4.5. Report by the independent third party on the consolidated non-financial statement presented in the management report 321 5. Capital stock and shareholding structure 325 5.1. Shareholding 326 5.2. Capital stock 328 5.3. Transactions carried out by the Company in its own shares 334 5.4. Share price 336 6. Other information 339 6.1. Legal information 340 6.2. Organizational structure as of December 31, 2019 344 6.3. Background 346 6.4. Additional information on audits of financial statements 351 6.5. Declaration by the person responsible for the Universal Registration Document and the information officer 352 6.6. Cross-reference tables 353 / Universal Registration Document 2019 2019 Universal Registration Document including the annual ﬁnancial report PROFILE Faurecia is a leading automotive technology company developing solutions for Sustainable Mobility and the Cockpit of the Future. This Universal Registration Document has been filed on April 30th 2020 with the AMF, as competent authority under Regulation (EU) 2017/1129, without prior approval pursuant to Article 9 of the said regulation. The Universal Registration Document may be used for the purposes of an offer to the public of securities or admission of securities to trading on a regulated market if completed by a securities note and, if applicable, a summary and any amendments to the Universal Registration Document. The whole is approved by the AMF in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2017/1129. The English language version of this Universal Registration Document is a free translation from the original, which was prepared in French. All possible care has been taken to ensure that the translation is an accurate representation of the original. However, in all matters of interpretation of information, views or opinions expressed therein the original language version of the document in French takes precedence over this translation. / Universal Registration Document 2019 1 TRANSFORMATION IN ACTION Contents Transformation in Action 2 / Universal Registration Document 2019 TRANSFORMATION IN ACTION MESSAGES FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD 05 2019 PERFORMANCE: FINANCIAL & EXTRA-FINANCIAL 08 AND THE CEO TRANSFORMATION STRATEGY AN ORGANIZATION TO DRIVE PERFORMANCE  Mobility industry at the heart of major transformations 12  Four Business Groups to drive profitable growth 22  Faurecia strategy aligned with automotive megatrends 15  A global approach to Total Customer Satisfaction 26  Sustainable Mobility: accelerating transition to clean mobility solutions 16  Driving operational performance towards excellence 27  Cockpit of the Future enabled by Faurecia Clarion Electronics 18  An innovation ecosystem to accelerate Faurecia’s transformation 20 A SHARED CULTURE STRONG GOVERNANCE FOR SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT & RISK MANAGEMENT  Strong Values and Convictions 30  The Board of Directors 38  Faurecia and its stakeholders 34  The Executive Committee 40  Business model for value creation 36  An efficient risk management system 42  Strong values for ethics and strict respect for compliance 44 / Universal Registration Document 2019 3 TRANSFORMATION IN ACTION Introduction The automotive industry is undergoing a major technology revolution to adapt to the key megatrends of connectivity, autonomous driving, new mobility solutions and electrification. Faurecia is deploying a strategy aligned with these megatrends and focused on developing solutions for Sustainable Mobility and the Cockpit of the Future. To this end, it has undertaken a number of acquisitions and partnerships to expand its ecosystem and accelerate its transformation. The company is organized in four Business Groups which are accountable for operational performance and Total Customer Satisfaction. The Group’s key initiatives for sustainable development, and in particular its ambition to become CO2 neutral by 2030, are based on its strong Convictions and Values. Its transformation is embedded in a robust, ethical and efficient corporate governance structure. This Universal Registration Document enables all stakeholders to better understand the company's vision and strategy for profitable growth. Faurecia's business model is focused on creating value for all its stakeholders, both in terms of financial and non-financial performance, over the short and long term. For further information please consult the Group’s website www.faurecia.com. A TOP TEN GLOBAL AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY SUPPLIER €17.8 BN OF SALES* 4 115,500 activities employees of 102 nationalities  Clean Mobility in 37 countries  Seating  Interiors  Clarion Electronics 248 plants 1 IN 3 vehicles in the world equipped with 37 Faurecia technology R&D centers A TRUSTED CONVICTIONS PARTNER & VALUES for sustainable for all automakers, development commercial vehicles and high horsepower *All figures at Dec. 31 2019 4 / Universal Registration Document 2019 TRANSFORMATION IN ACTION Message from Michel de Rosen Message from Michel de Rosen A s the COVID-19 pandemic continues to spread around the world, I would like, on behalf of the board of directors, to express my support to management and employees who are demonstrating a remarkable solidarity and an extraordinary resilience in this very difficult context. The management teams have reacted quickly to put in place all the necessary measures to protect the health and safety of their employees, obtain At the 2019 annual shareholders’ meeting we thanked additional liquidity and prepare for a safe restart of the three members of the board (Eric Bourdais de production in the coming weeks. The Board of Directors Charbonnière, Hans-Georg Härter and Bernadette has been involved during all the stages of this crisis and Spinoy) who did not run for re-election after serving the we are confident in the leadership team’s ability to get company in a most professional way and welcomed three through this period. new board members (Yan Mei, Peter Mertens and Denis Mercier); we have thus continued to increase the diversity 2019 was another strong year for Faurecia, and the and international experience of the board. This will help us management teams once again demonstrated their to continue to accompany the transformation strategy of ability to react quickly and effectively to changes in the Group and to prepare for the potential consequences the automotive environment whilst at the same time of the proposed merger of PSA and FCA, including deploying the midand long-term strategy discussed possible changes in governance. We have improved the and defined by the board of directors. We were functioning of the board through the reorganization of the particularly involved in the acquisition of Clarion, committees and reallocation of the work amongst them its implications for the company strategy and the and the average attendance rate for the board and its roadmap for the newly created Business Group. We also committee meetings has been over 95%. examined the acquisition of SAS and the creation of the fuel cell joint venture with Michelin and participated in The Board of Directors is united in its support of the Chief the development of Faurecia’s new CSR strategy and in Executive Officer, its Executive Committee and all of the particular the initiative to become CO2 neutral by 2030. Faurecia teams both in this difficult period of pandemic and as we move towards a new era for the automotive The board also worked on its other missions, in particular: industry and potentially a more independent governance reviewing and approving the accounts and financial for Faurecia. I thank the members of the board, our results; analyzing the risks and policies; proposing the shareholders, the management teams and the employees dividend to the shareholders; reviewing the financial of Faurecia for their commitment. guidance and communication; reviewing the executive succession plans; discussing and deciding the executive compensation strategy, policy and execution and adjusting the governance to the evolution of legal Michel de Rosen requirements. Chairman of the Board of Directors / Universal Registration Document 2019 5 TRANSFORMATION IN ACTION Message from Patrick Koller I n 2019, despite challenging competences and technologies i and During 2019, we have also put a market conditions, Faurecia ensure rapid time-to-market. major focus across the Group on continued to deploy its Total Customer Satisfaction. This Last year saw an acceleration in this transformation strategy for approach goes beyond the traditional the Cockpit of the Future and deployment through the creation performance measures of quality and Sustainable Mobility, whilst of our new Business Group, Faurecia delivery and encompasses measures maintaining a strong focus Clarion Electronics, for which we of perception of our customers on on resilience and Total Customer presented a robust roadmap for all dimensions of our relationship. Satisfaction. This good balance profitable growth at our Capital Our customers rely on suppliers who between transformation and Markets Day in November 2019. not only support them in developing execution allowed us to achieve an This activity is a strong enabler technologies for future mobility, but outstanding financial performance, for the Cockpit of the Future and who also provide cost competitiveness as well as a record order intake of €68 contributes to Sustainable Mobility and excellence across the product through its ADAS product line. life cycle. Our Total Customer billion for the three years 2017 to 2019. We also announced the acquisition Satisfaction program is a key factor Faurecia’s transformation strategy is of the remaining 50% of SAS, a in commercial differentiation, all the fully aligned with the four major trends leading player in complex interior more critical during this challenging disrupting the automotive industry: module assembly and just-in-time period for our industry. In 2019, we Connectivity, Autonomy, Ride-sharing delivery. For Sustainable Mobility, received 48 recognition awards from and Electrification. Affordability has we continued our investment in Fuel our customers as testimony to our increasingly become a key driver for Cell Electric Vehicles, in particular operational excellence and customer the adoption of new technologies in through the creation of a joint venture satisfaction. each of these areas. The deployment with Michelin, to accelerate our The Group’s sustainable development of our strategy is based on acquisitions Zero Emissions strategy and allow strategy is based on Values and and partnerships to accelerate us to benefit from rapid powertrain Convictions, which create a clear the integration of the necessary electrification. e ec ca o . and strong culture, guide our 6 / Universal Registration Document 2019 TRANSFORMATION IN ACTION Message from Patrick Koller actions and make us attractive to future employees. Aligned with our six Convictions about how we can make a positive contribution to society, the Group is deploying transversal initiatives with defined and measurable improvement indicators. As demographic and societal trends indicate that environmental challenges will drive the next disruption, Faurecia has launched a program to become CO2 neutral by 2030 for scopes 1 and 2 and part of scope 3. At the time of writing, the world is going through an unprecedented health crisis and Faurecia is taking all the necessary measures to get through an extremely disrupted period. We have three priorities: the health and safety of our employees and their families, managing our liquidity and preparing the safe restart of production as soon as that becomes possible. To this end, our restart guidelines “Safer Together” are based partly on our experience in China, where we now have restarted production in all our sites and put in place strong measures to protect our employees. “Faurecia has Due to the crisis and the subsequent lack of visibility for the automotive industry, the Group will present its new significantly improved financial objectives for 2020 as soon as the macro-economic outlook for the rest of the year is sufficiently clear. Faurecia its operational and has significantly improved its operational and financial performance in recent years and will be absolutely ready to financial performance accompany the recovery in automotive production when it comes and continue with its transformation strategy. in recent years and will The proposed merger between FCA and PSA would create our largest customer be absolutely ready bringing new business opportunities as well as an enhanced market profile based on a larger free float, increased to accompany the liquidity and higher visibility. I would like to take this opportunity recovery in automotive to thank our shareholders and the Board of Directors for their confidence, and in particular all of the Group’s production when it comes employees for their contribution to our performance in 2019 and for their support during the management of and continue with its the crisis. transformation strategy.” Patrick Koller Chief Executive Officer / Universal Registration Document 2019 7 TRANSFORMATION IN ACTION 2019 Financial performance In 2019, Faurecia once again demonstrated its resilience in a very challenging environment whilst continuing to deploy its transformation strategy. The Group achieved all its financial targets thanks to its agility in adapting to market conditions that worsened during the year. SALES SALES BY CUSTOMER 17,525 17,768 Other Chinese OEMs Commercial Vehicles 18% 5% €17.8bn 15% 7% 13% 14% 2018 2019 (in millions of euros) outperformance of 280bps vs. worldwide automotive production growth. Source IHS Markit February 2020 SALES BY REGION EUROPE €4,483m €8,641m 25% of Group sales 49% of Group sales ASIA €3,766m 21% of Group sales SOUTH AMERICA & REST OF WORLD €877m 5% of Group sales 8 / Universal Registration Document 2019 TRANSFORMATION IN ACTION 2019 Financial performance OPERATING INCOME NET INCOME, GROUP SHARE EBITDA (in millions of euros & % of sales) (in millions of euros) (in millions of euros) 701 2,404 1,274 1,283 2,141 590 7.3 % 7.2 % 2018 2019* 2018 2019 2018 2019 *Excluding Clarion, operating margin stood at 7.4% NET CASH FLOW NET DEBT AT YEAR-END (in millions of euros) (in billions of euros) 587 2.5 528 0.5 2018 2019 2018 2019* * Including acquisitions for €1.4 billion & a negative impact of €0.9 billion from IFRS16 adoption Record order intake €68 BILLION OF SALES ORDER INTAKE (3-YEAR ROLLING) (In billion of euros) . . 62 63 68 2015-2017 2016-2018 2017-2019 For more information See chapter 1 Financial Statements of the 2019 Universal Registration Document, / Universal Registration Document 2019 9 TRANSFORMATION IN ACTION 2019 Extra-ﬁnancial indicators Based on its six Convictions for sustainable development, specific action plans have been developed for the planet, business and people, with initial quantifiable results expected by 2022. All 2022 targets are progress targets versus 2019. Ambition to become by 2030 (scopes 1&2 and part of scope 3) GHG EMISSIONS* ENERGY CONSUMPTION* 2022 TARGET: 42 117 2022 TARGET: reduction of reduction of CO2 tons equivalent/€m sales (scopes 1& 2 ) 20% MWh/€m sales of which 15% renewable energy 10% WASTE TREATMENT* 15 tons waste/€m sales of which more than 74% are recycled 2022 TARGET: reduction of €10.7m invested in environmental protection or valorized 5% of which 80% for energy efficiency 77% of sites certified ISO 14001 PLANET €584m Invested in innovation 610 over the last three years New patents filed in 2019, including of which €235m in 2019 134 for Faurecia Clarion Electronics, up from 403 in 2018 80% Of tier 1 suppliers BUSINESS CSR screened by Ecovadis Customer satisfaction 4 stars out of 5 48 Customer recognition awards * Intensity data 10 / Universal Registration Document 2019 TRANSFORMATION IN ACTION 2019 Extra-ﬁnancial indicators PEOPLE DIVERSITY & INCLUSION 2022 TARGET: 34% 2022 TARGET: 24.4% Female Managers & Professionals 31% of Managers 39% in 2019, up from 23.8% in 2018 & Professionals non-European EMPLOYEE SAFETY AT WORK SATISFACTION 2022 TARGET: 2.05 FR1t accidents (number of accidents 2022 TARGET: reduction of 64 points 67 points per million hours worked without day lost) in 2019 down by 13% over previous year 30% engagement index in 2019 77,000 EMPLOYABILITY hours training per employees connected to e-learning portal, including 32,000 operators connected in 2019 21.6 employee per year up from 21.1 in 2018. 2022 target: 24 hours LOCAL COMMUNITIES Creation of Faurecia Foundation to support projects proposed by employees for 1,100 Projects to support education, mobility local communities and the environment led by sites For more information See chapter 4 CSR of the 2019 Universal Registration Document. / Universal Registration Document 2019 11 TRANSFORMATION IN ACTION Transformation strategy Mobility industry at the heart of major transformations Today society and business have entered a new age of unprecedented disruption. Major megatrends are shaping the world and its future: climate change, resource scarcity, growing and aging populations, economic power shifting towards Asia, and urbanization are just a few examples. At the same time, the technological revolution keeps accelerating, significantly transforming everyday life and generating new business models. Companies must adapt rapidly and anticipate new demands. Technology disruptions, the evolving structure of society and global development challenges mean that the mobility industry is at a turning point. The consequence of these trends on the automotive industry is a radical shift in mobility which is becoming connected, autonomous, shared and electrified. Faurecia has anticipated these trends and developed a strategy to benefit from them. Asia is becoming the economic center of gravity and is the consumer market with the highest growth perspective. GY DISRUPTI N OLO ON CH S TE DIGITALIZATION CONNECTED & DATA OBJECTS NEW SCIENCE HUMAN ENERGY & BIO-INSPIRED ELOPMENT CHAL SOURCES SCIENCE EV VIN DEV ENVIRONMENTAL WOMEN'S OL LEN EMPOWERMENT UCTURE OF ISSUES G STR L A INCOME AGING MOBILITY GE DISPARITIES POPULATION B INDUSTRY S GROWING AT A TURNING MILLENNIALS' O URBANIZATION ASPIRATIONS S POINT L RISING ASIA INDIVIDUALISM G & FREEDOM OC I ET Y CONNECTED AUTONOMOUS RIDE-SHARING ELECTRIFIED AUTOMOTIVE MEGATRENDS DRIVEN BY AFFORDABILITY AND CO2 NEUTRALITY 12 / Universal Registration Document 2019 TRANSFORMATION IN ACTION Transformation strategy FUTURE MOBILITY WILL BE CONNECTED By 2025 Connected cars are already a safety and on-board user experiences there will be an estimated reality. The trend for connected for comfort, well-being, productivity cars is driven both by legislation for safety (emergency calls), customer and entertainment. The vehicle will become an integrated device in users’ 700 million actively connected cars expectations for infotainment and “connected lifes” and consumers will technology developments for demand the same level of service in the world representing autonomous cars. Connectivity will and convenience from their cars as half of all vehicles. allow continuous monitoring and from their smartphones or tablets. The 1 in 2 of all new cars sold upgrading of the vehicle and will move to 5G from 2021 will enhance will be connected. provide access to a wide range of connectivity through better quality, Source: Accenture services for car occupants, including for coverage and bandwidth. FUTURE MOBILITY WILL BE AUTONOMOUS Autonomous driving will progressively programs, while private cars are likely to allow the car driver to be hands-off remain focused on ADAS levels 1 and 2 the steering wheel, then eyes-off and systems for the foreseeable future. ultimately mind-off the road in more By 2030 Car occupants are increasingly and more situations. Autonomous technology for level three and level four classes already exists today but wanting to engage in non-driving occupations such as relaxing, working 6 -14% of cars level 4 autonomy and and socializing. This means that the is unlikely to see rapid deployment automotive industry will have to extend due to high cost and an undefined regulatory framework. Robotaxis are likely to be the first mass application of the value-proposition, delivering new user experiences. In this context, the car 15 25% level 2+ autonomy interior will be completely reinvented, autonomous vehicles with thousands and the Cockpit of the Future will be Source: Accenture of vehicles already on the road in pilot connected, versatile and predictive. / Universal Registration Document 2019 13 TRANSFORMATION IN ACTION Transformation strategy FUTURE MOBILITY WILL BE SHARED Connectivity is also impacting the For MaaS operators to differentiate way users see mobility as they begin themselves, the quality of the user to use new solutions, particularly experience will be key. Users of shared in urban settings. Ride-sharing and mobility will demand personalization car-sharing services are experiencing significant growth driven in particular of the interior and digital continuity. Mobility operators will have to work 10 – 15% share of mobility fleet production by city strategies for improved on offering the best and smoothest mobility. The introduction of customer journey integrating services by 2030 autonomous vehicles as robotaxis and multimodal mobility. MaaS Source: Accenture (Mobility as a Service or MaaS) operators will therefore become strong should accelerate the shift by vehicle, cockpit and interior specifiers, significantly reducing costs per requesting specific capabilities and kilometer. functionalities to support their services. Over 55% of all new car sales could be FUTURE MOBILITY WILL BE ELECTRIFIED electrified by 2030 Source: Faurecia The powertrain mix is rapidly evolving Battery Electric Vehicles and Fuel Cell towards electrification, due to Electric vehicles will co-exist as zero environmental concerns and pressure emissions alternatives, depending from regulators and society. Whilst on use cases with fuel cell being different regions are moving at different speeds towards zero emissions, we particularly adapted to commercial vehicles with its longer range and faster 2 million fuel cell electric vehicles are already seeing an acceleration re-fueling time. This trend towards zero by 2030 in the production of hybrid vehicles. emissions depends on a co-ordinated As technologies mature there will be ecosystem that includes infrastructure Source: Faurecia a rapid increase in electric vehicles. and power supply providers. POWERTRAIN CO2 EMISSIONS REGULATION (g/km) ELECTRIFICATION Commercial vehicle following similar trend in Europe: 2% -15% CO2 in 2025 and -30% in 2030 vs. 2019 13% 180 Proposed Enacted 160 Europe 41% China USA 130 116 108 95 95 36% 90 75 80 59 8% Note: Data converted to NEDC equivalent 2015 2020 2025 2030 2020 2025 2030 ICE diesel ICE gasoline ICE Hybrid Battery EV Fuel Cell EV Strong CO2 challenges for Europe & China Still unclear for North America Faurecia assumptions 14 / Universal Registration Document 2019 TRANSFORMATION IN ACTION Transformation strategy Faurecia strategy aligned with automotive megatrends Faurecia’s strategy is to provide Faurecia Clarion Electronics. From As the trends for electrification, intelligent solutions for Sustainable energy efficient and zero emissions connectivity, autonomous driving Mobility and the Cockpit of the Future. technologies to connected and and ride sharing accelerate, there The Group is uniquely positioned to predictive cockpits, Faurecia are increasing business development do this through its leading position in is creating long-term value by opportunities for Faurecia. its three historical activities Seating, providing solutions for Sustainable Interiors and Clean Mobility and the Mobility and the Cockpit of the creation of its fourth Business Group Future. NEW PRODUCTS NEW CUSTOMERS NEW BUSINESS MODELS  Accelerating innovation for  Rising Asian OEMs developing  Increased role of personalized powertrain electrification and vehicles adapted to Asian user experiences investing in zero emissions consumers  Upgradability, retrofit solutions  Pure Electric Vehicle players and connected services  Focusing on short time-to-market  Mobility operators, fleets  Cybersecurity of connected technology bricks for the Cockpit and cities products of the Future adaptable to autonomous driving  High Horsepower engine manufacturers  Offering new functionalities through integrated electronics Sustainable Mobility Cockpit of the Future Solutions for fuel efficiency, Solutions for a connected, air quality and zero emissions versatile and predictive cockpit Addressable market Addressable market €46bn €73bn in 2030 in 2030 / Universal Registration Document 2019 15 TRANSFORMATION IN ACTION Transformation strategy Sustainable Mobility: accelerating transition to clean mobility solutions Societal and political pressure on the automotive industry to reduce emissions has never been higher. As stringent new regulations come into force around the world, and with demand for electrified vehicles constantly increasing, Faurecia has made sustainable mobility a strategic priority. Faurecia is addressing all the major segments for Internal Combustion Engines (ICE) and electric vehicles with solutions for light vehicles, commercial vehicles and high horsepower. EV SOLUTIONS FOR LIGHT AND COMMERCIAL VEHICLES Faurecia’s strategy for zero emissions heavy and long-range vehicles in terms Group has 350 and 700 bar EC79 vehicles covers both Battery Electric of autonomy and charging time. Fuel cell homologated tanks and already has Vehicles (BEV) and Fuel Cell Electric and battery electric vehicles will coexist two business awards. Vehicles (FCEV). for different applications with fuel cell being particularly appropriate for light Faurecia’s ambition in BEV is to develop commercial vehicles and commercial solutions for battery housing including vehicles due to their superior Total Cost of thermal management, in particular for Ownership and increased convenience. dual power BEV and FCEV vehicles. The Content per vehicle for Fuel Cell Group has four program awards in all A complete H2 fuel cell system Vehicles in 2025 is up to regions and can capture up to €15/kWh. comprises the hydrogen storage system Whilst they have not yet reached and the fuel cell stacks system. Faurecia is developing hydrogen storage systems €40k in Commercial €8k for light large scale production, FCEV offer which have increased autonomy, vehicles vehicles advantages over BEV, in particular for reduced cost and high g reliability.y The Faurecia’s high content per electric vehicle means that an aggressive electrification scenario of 30% electric vehicles in 2030 accelerates Faurecia’s growth. CO-EXISTENCE OF FUEL CELL & BATTERY ELECTRIC VEHICLES JOINT VENTURE Maximum Range (Average) WITH MICHELIN 1400 km Through its joint venture FCEV* with Michelin, concluded in 2019, Faurecia can offer Heavy-duty truck a full cell stack system and vehicle integration. Symbio’s stacks have best in class power density >500 km Medium-duty truck and compactness. Symbio was created in 2010 and has already installed fuel cell systems in hundreds Large / SUV cars of light commercial vehicles. >300 km Bus Medium cars Light commercial vehicles 100 km Small cars BEV* Gross Vehicle Weight (tons) 1T 2T 6T 12T >12T *FCEV: véhicule électrique à pile à combustible *BEV: véhicule électrique à batterie 16 / Universal Registration Document 2019 TRANSFORMATION IN ACTION Transformation strategy ICE SOLUTIONS FOR LIGHT VEHICLES The requirement for increasing content 2025 are the Electric Heated Catalyst in the powertrain to meet emissions (EHC) solutions including a pre-heating control regulations, as well as the function that can give a near zero PACE AWARD need for significant reduction in CO2 emissions vehicle, and a combined emissions, drive the need for several Exhaust Gas Recirculation (EGR)/ The Group’s Resonance Free Pipe key Faurecia technologies which Exhaust Heat Recovery Systems (EHRS) (RFP) technology won a prestigious will increase the overall value of the which can give over 3% CO2 savings. PACE award in 2019 for its ability exhaust line by 20% by 2030. to reduce weight and packaging In terms of ultra-quiet vehicles, Faurecia The key technologies for fuel economy offers an advanced exhaust line complexity. Two General Motor and emissions reduction that are architecture, electric valves and models, the Chevrolet Silverado already in production or will be by resonance free pipes. and the GMC Sierra, are currently equipped with this RFP technology. The PACE Awards, in their 25th year, are given to suppliers for ICE will continue Content per vehicle game-changing product and >€ 1.5bn to represent to increase by process innovations that have succeeded in reaching the market. order book for ICE innovation 85% of the market in 2030 20% by 2030 An independent panel of judges determines winners. ICE SOLUTIONS FOR COMMERCIAL VEHICLES AND HIGH HORSEPOWER Faurecia is anticipating the ongoing operating efficiently even at lower complete exhaust gas purification emissionization of all commercial temperatures and is compatible with systems for high horsepower engines vehicles (CV), particularly in growth current and future aftertreatment (HHP). Post-2020, stringent regulations markets like China and India, where architectures. Faurecia’s technologies are being implemented in all regions regulations are converging towards give an increased content per vehicle both for stationary and marine European and North American of 30% for commercial vehicles. applications and the market is shifting standards. Technologies such as towards more OEM solutions from In 2018 Faurecia acquired Hug Faurecia’s heated doser contributes project-based manufacturing. Engineering, the European leader in to ultra-low NOx emissions by Global HHP emissionization rate increasing from 10% to >60% in 2019 in 2030 Order book for CV/HHP €2.4bn / Universal Registration Document 2019 17 TRANSFORMATION IN ACTION Transformation strategy Cockpit of the Future enabled by Faurecia Clarion Electronics TOWARDS A PERSONALIZED JOURNEY FOR VEHICLE OCCUPANTS Faurecia’s vision for the Cockpit of the From its leading position in Seating and and Creo Dynamics, as well as an Future is to provide a more versatile, Interiors, Faurecia has undertaken a ecosystem of start-ups and partners, predictive and connected environment series of acquisitions and partnerships provides Faurecia with the electronics, to enable occupants to make the most which gives it a unique position in interior software, computer vision and artificial of their time on board. The Cockpit modules and systems architecture. The intelligence competences to enable its of the Future will allow personalized creation of Faurecia Clarion Electronics, vision of the Cockpit of the Future. consumer experiences combining regrouping the complementary functionalities such as infotainment, technologies of Clarion, Parrot ambient lighting, postural and thermal Automotive and Coagent Electronics, comfort and immersive sound. technology companies Covatech CLARION ELECTRONICS TECHNOLOGIES ENABLING COCKPIT OF THE FUTURE ACQUISITION OF SAS Faurecia completed the acquisition of the remaining 50% of its SAS joint venture with Continental on 30 January 2020, a project that was announced on October 14, 2019. SAS is a key player in complex interior module assembly and logistics with sales of around €740 million (IFRS15) in 2019 and employing around 4,490 people. This acquisition reinforces Faurecia’s Cockpit of the Future strategy and its systems integration offer which now covers all interior modules as well as functionalities such as lighting and thermal management. Its also strengthen Faurecia’s Just in Time plant network with 20 facilities in Europe, North and South America and China. 18 / Universal Registration Document 2019 TRANSFORMATION IN ACTION Transformation strategy ADVANCED SAFETY, COMFORT & WELLNESS, IMMERSIVE EXPERIENCES Autonomous driving will lead to the position, whether they are driving, and leverage artificial intelligence to emergence of new use cases for the working or relaxing. make adjustments so that people feel vehicle interior. As occupant positions better at the end of their journey. The Group’s teams are also may no longer need to be fixed developing solutions that provide In terms of personalized sound facing forward and upright, users an optimal onboard experience experiences, Faurecia is combining will have more freedom to do other and enhance wellness. Through activated sound surfaces, smart tasks during their journey. Faurecia, close monitoring of the thermal and headrests integrating local ANC, with its partner ZF, is developing postural comfort of the occupants, IP and telephony, and high-end safety systems so that passengers can the cockpit will learn each premium sound such as that provided continue to travel safely in any seated occupant’s preferences over time through the partnership with Devialet. CONNECTED SERVICES APTOIDE APP STORE JOINT VENTURE Increased connectivity in vehicles will drive Aptoide, one of the largest independent Android app stores, and Faurecia new business models for upgradability, have created a 50/50 joint venture to develop and operate Android app retrofit and services across the vehicle store solutions for the global automotive market. This joint venture offers lifetime. Faurecia has developed a number OEMs an affordable and secured automotive apps market, available of partnerships for connected services: worldwide with adaptable content per region. The Aptoide app store offers with Microsoft for cloud connectivity, with one million Android apps covering a variety of use cases such as gaming, Accenture for digital services and with navigation, content streaming services, point of interest recommendations Aptoide for an automotive app store. Faurecia or parking. Aptoide also offers an integrated secure payment mechanism presented at the latest CES some of its supporting OEM strategies for service monetization, whilst securing connected services including digital continuity the vehicle and occupants’ data privacy. for working and gaming, multimedia video and music streaming, upgradeable sound systems and the Aptoide app store. / Universal Registration Document 2019 19 TRANSFORMATION IN ACTION Transformation strategy An innovation ecosystem to accelerate Faurecia’s transformation Faurecia has developed a strong innovation ecosystem to accelerate the integration of new competences and time to market. This innovative and collaborative ecosystem incorporates non-rival alliances with global industry leaders, investment in startups, collaboration with academic institutions and active participation in associations with the mission to drive sustainable mobility. This ecosystem covers different types of collaboration:  Strategic and technology  Investment in start-ups and  Academic partnerships with partnerships with key players technology platforms to universities and scientific institutes in different industrial and collaborate with local start-up  Active participation in key technology sectors ecosystems associations/think tanks for sustainable mobility SUSTAINED INVESTMENT IN INNOVATION & DEVELOPMENT OF A BROAD ECOSYSTEM Sustainable Mobility Cockpit of the Future Acquisitions Group Partnerships Start-ups 20 / Universal Registration Document 2019 TRANSFORMATION IN ACTION Transformation strategy STRATEGIC AND TECHNOLOGY PARTNERSHIPS To rapidly accelerate its development The main partnerships in 2019 were in key areas, Faurecia has developed with Michelin for fuel cell systems and partnerships with other industrial or with Microsoft, Aptoide, Devialet and technology companies. Allwinner for the Cockpit of the Future. INVESTMENT IN START-UPS AND TECHNOLOGY PLATFORMS Faurecia Ventures, the Group's In 2019, Faurecia made initial strong connections in major investment fund, advances Faurecia’s investments in two start-ups: Outsight innovation clusters, and to closely innovation strategy by identifying, for sensors and GuardKnox for follow emerging trends and new incubating and investing in startcybersecurity. technologies. The Group’s platforms ups with relevant technologies for are located in the Silicon Valley, Faurecia also collaborates with local Sustainable Mobility and the Cockpit Toronto, Shenzhen and Tel Aviv. This start-up ecosystems via technology of the Future. latter platform was inaugurated platforms. They allow the Group in 2019 and is concentrated on to scout startups, establishing cybersecurity. ACADEMIC PARTNERSHIPS AND COLLABORATIVE INNOVATION Faurecia works with over 25 academic their research for the Group. Important Institute of Science in Bangalore as well organizations in open innovation partnerships include those with Stanford as collaboration between Dortmund networks, to test, assess and prototype University, the Collège de France, the and Supelec. with them in order to provide the French Commission for Atomic Energy relevant information they need to orient and Alternative Energies and the Indian COLLABORATIVE APPROACH TO PROMOTING SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY SOLUTIONS Faurecia is a member of the interest Movin’On develops a common The Hydrogen Council is a global Corporate Advisory Board of vision on specific topics and promotes initiative of leading energy, transport Movin’On, an innovative and collaborative intelligence and industry companies with a united collaborative Think Tank aimed at to experiment new mobility solutions. vision and long-term ambition for defining mobility trends and setting up hydrogen to foster the energy transition. Faurecia is also part of the Executive pre-competitive studies between the Group of the Hydrogen Council. partners. Through its communities of / Universal Registration Document 2019 21 TRANSFORMATION IN ACTION An organization to drive performance Four Business Groups to drive profitable growth Faurecia is organized into four Business Groups: Clean Mobility, Seating, Interiors and the recently created Clarion Electronics. Faurecia is a global leader in its three historical Business Groups and aims to become a leader in cockpit electronics. CLEAN MOBILITY PASSENGER COMMERCIAL VEHICLE FUEL CELL ELECTRIC DUAL POWER ELECTRIC VEHICLE & HIGH HORSEPOWER VEHICLE VEHICLE Faurecia Clean Mobility develops and produces innovative solutions to drive mobility and industry toward zero emissions. Its solutions for Internal Combustion Engines for passenger vehicles, commercial vehicles and high horsepower as well as technologies for both battery electric and fuel cell electric vehicles make it a global leader in clean mobility solutions. €4,654msales in 2019 26% of Group sales 23,210 employees 86 plants 7 R&D centers “Clean Mobility accelerated its transformation through significant investment in Fuel Cell technologies including launching a center of expertise for Hydrogen Storage Systems and the creation of the joint venture with Michelin for fuel cell stack systems. The Business Group continued its expansion into the Commercial Vehicles and High Horsepower market with strong order intake. ICE engines will continue to represent around 85% of Mathias Miedreich the market in 2030 and Faurecia technologies will enable these to be ultraEVP Clean Mobility clean and quiet, driving increased content per vehicle.” / Universal Registration Document 2019 TRANSFORMATION IN ACTION An organization to drive performance SEATING COMPLETE SEAT STRUCTURE COVERS & FOAM COMFORT & WELLNESS SEATS SYSTEMS SOLUTIONS SOLUTIONS quality to its customers. It develops innovative solutions for thermal and postural comfort, health and wellness and advanced safety for the use cases of today and the Cockpit of the Future. €6,973msales in 2019 39% of Group sales 44,770 employees 76 plants 13 R&D centers “In 2019, Seating continued its transformation to achieve benchmark performance through operational excellence and digital manufacturing, customer intimacy and innovation. Our New Value Spaces for comfort and wellness technologies and light and versatile seat structures showed a very promising start and a high level of customer interest. Our strong order book will allow us to renew with significant growth from 2021.” Eelco Spoelder EVP Seating / Universal Registration Document 2019 23 TRANSFORMATION IN ACTION An organization to drive performance INTERIORS INSTRUMENT DOOR PANELS & ACOUSTIC DECORATION & PANELS CENTER CONSOLES SYSTEMS INTERIOR LIGHTING Faurecia Interiors develops and produces full interior systems including instrument panels, door panels, center consoles and acoustic and soft trim, as well as decoration, interior lighting and smart surfaces. It has strong expertise in seamless integration of interior modules and incorporating functionalities such as haptic surfaces and ambient lighting. €5,370msales in 2019 37,370 employees 30% of Group sales 78 plants 14 R&D centers “ In 2019, Interiors confirmed its leadership by renewing contracts with our major customers for some of their flagship vehicles in the US, in Europe and in China. We accelerated cooperation with Clarion Electronics to develop and promote the integration of displays into the cockpit, taking into account weight, safety and thermal constraints and ensuring optimal perceived quality, and we continued our partnership with Hella for interior lighting. We are now leading a Patrick Popp EVP Interiors cross Business Group initiative for smart materials with advanced functionalities, eco-design, bio-content and improved life cycle characteristics. ” / Universal Registration Document 2019 TRANSFORMATION IN ACTION An organization to drive performance CLARION ELECTRONICS Faurecia Clarion Electronics is the most recently created Business Group. Launched in April 2019 and headquartered in Japan, it brings together the software and electronics expertise of Clarion, Parrot Automotive and Coagent Electronics as well as other acquisitions such as CovaTech and Creo Dynamics. ADAS COCKPIT DOMAIN IMMERSIVE DISPLAY CONTROLLER EXPERIENCES TECHNOLOGIES With its key competences in electronics & software, sensors and computer vision, Artificial Intelligence and connected solutions as well as display and systems integration, Clarion Electronics strengthens the Group’s position as a leading partner for the Cockpit of the Future and Advanced Driving Assistance Systems (ADAS). €771m* sales in 2019 5% of Group sales 7,330 employees 8 plants 3 R&D centers * Sales included the first consolidation of Clarion (since April 1) and of Parrot Automotive “ Clarion Electronics was launched on 1 April 2019 regrouping principally the three acquired companies of Clarion, Parrot Automotive and Coagent. We have immediately put in place a comprehensive strategy for strong growth based on our four product lines, in parallel with a significant cost reduction plan. CES 2020 showed Clarion Electronics’ capabilities as an enabler for the Cockpit of the Future and as a leader in ADAS with all of our technologies receiving Jean-Paul Michel EVP Clarion Electronics strong customer interest beyond our traditional Japanese market. ” ROBUST ROADMAP FOR PROFITABLE GROWTH FOR CLARION ELECTRONICS At its Capital Markets Day held on 26 November 2019, Faurecia outlined the robust roadmap of Clarion Electronics to achieve profitable growth. This combines both accelerating growth in its four product lines and an aggressive roadmap for cost competitiveness. Strong sales growth will be generated with selective management of order intake, the expansion of the customer portfolio beyond primarily Japanese OEMs, and increased content per vehicle. The cost competitiveness program includes headcount reduction and engineering offshoring, Bill of Material savings, an optimized footprint for operations and effective shared services and IT systems. This plan should generate at least €80 million annual savings by the end of 2020. These two priorities should enable Clarion Electronics to reach €2.5 billion of sales and 8% profitability in 2025. / Universal Registration Document 2019 25 TRANSFORMATION IN ACTION An organization to drive performance A global approach to Total Customer Satisfaction Faurecia’s global approach to Total Customer Satisfaction is an enabler of the Group’s transformation and a key driver for operational excellence Faurecia’s Total Customer Satisfaction and its clients as well as an integral and transparently via a dedicated approach aims at capturing a holistic part of Faurecia’s culture, as was Customer Satisfaction digital picture of customer feedback, demonstrated by the participation of application. Based on this, Faurecia including both performance and all sites in Customer Champion week systematically implements action perception across the whole value and the recognition of five Customer plans to improve customer chain from innovation to after sales. Champions out of 550 candidates. satisfaction through the robustness In 2019, this program was intensified of its launch performance and Beyond the traditional quality and became a solid element in operational excellence to give metrics, customer feedback is the relationship between Faurecia sustained customer loyalty. now being collected immediately PERFORMANCE PERCEPTION TECHNOLOGY FLAWLESS ZERO 100% COMMERCIAL EDGE LAUNCHES DEFECTS ON-TIME & AFTER SALES The confidence of Faurecia’s By the end of 2019 the Group’s threeNorth America had a strong year of customers in its strategy is expressed year rolling order intake represented order intake with awards for Clean both through the numerous awards €68 billion of sales: a new record for Mobility and Interiors for GM and that its customers give to the Group the Group. In 2019, New Value Spaces the next generation Ford 250/350 and its record order intake over the represented 17% of order intake complete seats. past few years. compared with 12% the previous year. Faurecia also performed particularly As a confirmed strategic partner Some examples of business awards well with new entrants and won of many of its major customers, won in 2019 demonstrate Faurecia’s Interiors and Seating business with Faurecia received 48 customer commercial momentum, such as a first Tesla. In the field of zero emissions, two recognition awards in 2019 for seat frame platform for Volvo and the awards for fuel cell tanks and systems global performance, manufacturing complete seat for the Volkswagen ID have been booked. excellence, cost savings and Buzz and the Audi PPE. For premium The newly created Business Group innovation. In particular, and for the interiors, Faurecia was awarded the Clarion Electronics achieved an order second consecutive year, the Group door panel businesses for BMW 7 series intake of around €1.9 billion in 2019. was honored with a supplier award and Mercedes S-class. at the 2019 Groupe Renault Supplier event for its operational performance. 26 / Universal Registration Document 2019 TRANSFORMATION IN ACTION An organization to drive performance 221 PROGRAMS LAUNCHED IN 2019 in 23 countries Vinfast Lux Porsche Cayenne Coupé in 133 plants Peugeot 208 and 2008 Ford Explorer representing €15bn of lifetime sales Driving operational performance towards excellence FAURECIA EXCELLENCE SYSTEM The Faurecia Excellence System (FES) In 2019, a redesigned Faurecia documents (FES X.0 Handbook) and governs the organization of Faurecia’s Excellence System was deployed a global knowledge-embedding tool production and operations. Designed across the Group. Renamed FES X.0, for our managers. 2020 will see the to continuously improve quality, it offers a clearer, more pragmatic focus moving upstream to evolve our cost, delivery and safety, it makes it and comprehensive system approach program management system (PMS). possible to secure strong operational ensuring all employees understand This agility and capacity to performance of Faurecia’s production their expected role. The focus on continuously improve our excellence sites all around the world, thanks fundamentals and updated system system is already starting to contribute to common working methods and content has also allowed the launch to the success of the Total Customer language. This approach by Faurecia is of a major global communication Satisfaction program and impacting fundamental to ensure the same level and education effort. This consisted bottom-line performance. of quality and service throughout the of management workshops, multiple world. new digital learnings and reference / Universal Registration Document 2019 27 TRANSFORMATION IN ACTION An organization to drive performance SAFETY AT WORK The former “13 HSE Mandatory Rules” Among the 7 Safety Fundamentals, Beyond the new framework of launched ten years ago to optimize STOP Work is the very first step of guidelines created by the 7 Safety safety in operations were replaced in the whole system. Inspired by the Fundamentals, the idea is to inspire a 2019 by the “7 Safety Fundamentals”. successful global HSE STOP Work reflex new safety mindset and to engage The ambition remains the same: make for machines, the aim of STOP Work everyone in their daily behaviors. The sure that the work environment is safe for is to empower all Faurecians with the philosophy behind these simple to everyone, at all times. These safety rules duty and right to stop all work until understand and to apply fundamentals have been clarified and simplified so a perceived risky situation has been is that safety is no longer a technical that they are easier to understand and contained and resolved. The STOP Work matter for HSE experts, but one that to apply. The objective is also to boost process ensures that employees can act everyone can and must contribute to the CARE mindset, to make everyone without fear of being blamed. through their daily behaviors. feel responsible for their own safety and that of all people working around them. FAURECIA PLANT RANKING INITIATIVE Every year, Faurecia recognizes its In 2019, the criteria used for Plant Ranking best plants. Launched in early 2018, evolved slightly with greater weight given the Plant Ranking initiative involves to Total Customer Satisfaction KPIs. a monthly assessment designed to Faurecia had a total of 18 best plants promote comparative analysis between in 2019: production sites. Thanks to a specific tool, plant managers can compare their plant  FAS: Guangzhou Frames, Yancheng, performance with any other Faurecia Changchun Frames, Nelas, Tianjin Frames, plant. The plant ranking initiative helps Anting Frames promote a healthy spirit of competition  FIS: Langfang, Tarazona, Almussafes, Puebla between the different sites, encouraging Injection, ROF Changchun them to share best practices and reduce performance gaps.  FCM: Anting, Yantai, Nanjing, Changchun, Beijing, Togliatti 28 / Universal Registration Document 2019 TRANSFORMATION IN ACTION An organization to drive performance DIGITAL MANUFACTURING Initiated in 2015 using the Industry 4.0 installed at Faurecia production sites. or “Internet of Things” approach, the Tools such as Digital Management digital transformation of operations at Faurecia entered a mass deployment Control (DMC) are making our shop floors paperless in 115 of our plants 920AGVs phase in 2017. Throughout our and allow an easier collection and production processes and supply assessment of production data than chain, the emergence of new solutions, before. Thus, the reaction of operational such as smart robots (including collaborative robots, visual guided teams is immediate in case of quality drift or production line stoppage. 680 Collaborative Robots robots, etc.) or self-guided handling Digitalization of the manufacturing devices (AGVs or “Automated Guided system is moving a step further with Vehicles”), has led to a breakthrough the launch of pull system digitalization in the automation of assembly and (automatic production launch signal) handling of our products. At the end that will strengthen monitoring of plant of 2019, 680 cobots (collaborative operational performance. robots) and 920 AGVs had been 115 Sites using digital 113 Lines connected on sites 10 Sites using artificial intelligence management control using digital management control for non-quality inspection The implementation of these digital analysis of many parameters thus These new systems require new job management tools, combined with preventing breakdowns and avoiding profiles and create opportunities “big data” for an ever-greater control the production of non-compliant for employees to be trained in of manufacturing processes, opens parts. The introduction of artificial additional skills. For this reason, a up new prospects for optimizing the intelligence for visual inspection of series of training modules are being use of industrial assets. In addition, parts improves quality and reduces developed to train hundreds of the connection of programmable process variability. people on machine connectivity, controllers in production machinery to robot programming, industrial computer databases allows real-time software usage and data analysis. / Universal Registration Document 2019 29 TRANSFORMATION IN ACTION A shared culture for sustainable development A shared culture for sustainable development Strong Values and Convictions Faurecia has a responsibility as a company to make a positive contribution to society and to all its stakeholders. Faurecia’s commitment to sustainable development is an integral part of its corporate culture, Being Faurecia. Within this cultural framework the Group has defined six Convictions and six Values that guide its actions and behaviors. Together, these Convictions and Values are the backbone of Faurecia’s transformation, empowering teams to make the Group more agile and efficient, and allowing it to balance short-term execution and sustainable long-term ambition. These robust principles also guide ethics, management and operational excellence. The six Values are broken down into managerial values (Entrepreneurship, Autonomy and Accountability) and behavioral values (Respect, Exemplarity and Energy). Combined, they mobilize employees to achieve ambitious goals, deliver excellent performance and develop innovative solutions for future mobility. Faurecia’s six Convictions describe the Group’s commitment for sustainability ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES POSE A COMPANIES MUST HAVE SHORT TERM THINKING JEOPARDIZES SERIOUS CHALLENGE FOR HUMANITY A POSITIVE IMPACT ON SOCIETY FUTURE GENERATIONS Faurecia wants to help cap the Faurecia is a member of the In an ever-changing world, rise in temperature by reducing community in each region Faurecia must invest in its future the carbon footprint of its where it operates worldwide. The and in particular in technology, activities and offering solutions Group contributes to economic new business models and for sustainable mobility. The development and the creation learning. The Group must preserve Group supports national and of social value by hiring locally, natural resources and meet international organizations in providing career training and environmental challenges for the reducing global warming and advancement for employees and well-being of future generations. by respecting their principles. through a commitment to ethics At the same time, in order to Air quality poses an increasing and social responsibility. Above maintain the confidence of its threat to health in cities. Through and beyond its legal obligations, customers and shareholders, it its solutions and partnerships Faurecia has a responsibility to must deliver short term financial Faurecia works to reduce maintain a frank and ongoing and operational performance. pollutant emissions and improve dialogue with the communities Faurecia must be able to balance air quality. that surround its sites, to ensure that both long-term and short-term its operations are harmoniously objectives and not jeopardize integrated into each region. As one at the expense of another. appropriate, the Group initiates Its culture enables it to combine or contributes to projects and rigor and discipline in short-term programs that address local execution with a long-term vision. needs, by offering its expertise and resources in support. 30 / Universal Registration Document 2019 TRANSFORMATION IN ACTION A shared culture for sustainable development Six key transversal initiatives with defined and measured improvement indicators for the deployment of its Convictions Environmental Companies must The world is Short-term issues pose a have a positive in a state of Power thinking serious challenge impact on permanent must have a Diversity is jeopardizes future for humanity society disruption counterbalance a strength generations CO2 Neutrality by 2030 Faurecia Foundation for mobility, education & environment Strategic innovation for Sustainable Mobility & Cockpit of the Future Inclusive Culture to attract, develop & retain diverse talents Total Customer Satisfaction for long term partnerships Learning Organization to anticipate future disruption and long-term value creation in the face of the main global and social challenges POWER MUST HAVE THE WORLD IS IN A STATE DIVERSITY IS A STRENGTH A COUNTERBALANCE OF PERMANENT DISRUPTION Faurecia believes in a system of Diversity in the workforce with Technology is rapidly changing transparency and dialogue. Each regard to gender, place of Faurecia’s business models and employee and stakeholder can origin, cultural or educational working methods. The Group must voice an opinion, criticism, or background, experience or any anticipate the next trends, remain alternative suggestion or report a other difference is a source of agile and invest in innovation and violation without fear of personal strength. Thanks to Faurecia’s education. It strives to ensure the consequences and in complete diversity, the Group has a better employability of its employees transparency. The Group believes understanding of customer throughout their working life in open, responsible and balanced expectations and takes better through lifelong learning, dialogue, based on mutual decisions. It encourages the professional mobility and on the job recognition and an acceptance of broadest possible diversity training. This is the best guarantee the legitimacy of each viewpoint. through recruitment and career for ensuring that everyone can Faurecia’s relationship with its management and by fostering reap the benefits of technological suppliers is guided by the principles workplace conditions and a advances and changing work of respect and partnership to flexible organization that are practices. For younger generations create long term value for both adapted to individual needs. Faurecia has extensive programs parties. The Group views and of apprenticeships, work/study, respects collective representation volunteers for international of employees and social dialogue experience (VIE) and internships in the same proactive and that both provide the Group with constructive spirit. a talent pool and enable extensive on the job training and cultural integration. / Universal Registration Document 2019 31 TRANSFORMATION IN ACTION A shared culture for sustainable development These Convictions have been broken down into various action plans, which focus on three areas Planet, Business, and People – with initial quantifiable results expected in around 2022. PLANET CO2 NEUTRAL 2030  Our actions consist of starting to reduce the carbon footprint of Towards the end of 2019 Faurecia launched its CO2 Neutral our sites and activities through energy and transport purchases. 2030 initiative covering scopes 1, 2 and 3 excluding use of sold We are also addressing the carbon footprint of our products by products. This represented in 2019 around 7.5 million tonnes using more environmentally-friendly materials and processes. CO2 equiv. Deployment will start in 2020 focusing on three main Our goal is to become CO2 neutral by 2030. trajectories through operations, design and compensation. BUSINESS  Our actions consist of innovating and developing solutions With organizations being challenged to be increasingly agile and for increasingly clean mobility. We owe these solutions to our faster, we are more vigilant than ever and stay compliant with customers whose total satisfaction drives our work every day as the highest ethical business standards. Our goal is to become the well as to our suppliers whom we consider as long-term partners. preferred referent partner of sustainable mobility on the market. PEOPLE  Our actions consist of introducing uncompromising workplace we favor a more inclusive culture. And in addition, the Faurecia safety and risk prevention policies. To prepare the teams for Foundation lets us act in a way that benefits local communities. future changes, we provide many different types of training to As a global company, our goal is to increase our role towards as many employees as possible. To attract and develop talent, society by contributing to solving social issues. INCLUSIVE CULTURE FAURECIA A LEARNING FOR DIVERSE TALENTS FOUNDATION ORGANIZATION After progress made in previous The Group is creating a Foundation Faurecia University, present on all years to increase the percentage which will be focused on supporting continents, continues to expand its of women M&Ps to 24.4% in 2019, projects proposed by the Group's training offer and drive employee Faurecia strengthened its initiative employees for education, mobility engagement in the transformation both through in-class and digital for diversity. From January 2020 and the environment. A first call for learning. In 2019 Faurecia University the Group will deploy a training projects was made in the second launched a series of workshops program for senior managers on half of 2019 in all of Faurecia’s to identify the next disruption and conscious inclusion and put an operating countries. initiated a series of CEO conferences increased emphasis on female with eminent outside speakers. The career development. first series of talks covered the new globalization paradigm. STRENGTHENED CSR GOVERNANCE The 2019-2022 roadmap for CSR is reviewed biannually in the Executive Committee and presented to the Board of Directors annually. CSR is also fully integrated into the risk management of the Group and the remuneration of the CEO and the longterm incentives of the top management group are related to the Group’s diversity objective. 32 / Universal Registration Document 2019 TRANSFORMATION IN ACTION A shared culture for sustainable development ALIGNED WITH INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS In line with its Convictions, Faurecia strategy. Faurecia is also a signatory adheres to international initiatives for of the French Business Climate pledge sustainable development. The Group is a signatory of Global Compact and has committed to following the recommendations of the Task Force 80% of Tier 1 suppliers evaluated and respects the ambitions of the 17 on Climate Financial Disclosure. by Ecovadis Sustainable Development Goals of The Group has a partnership the United Nations. Amongst these with Ecovadis to evaluate the the Group has identified those that performance of our suppliers. are particularly relevant to its CSR For more information See chapter 4 CSR of the 2019 Universal Registration Document. / Universal Registration Document 2019 33 TRANSFORMATION IN ACTION A shared culture for sustainable development Faurecia and its Stakeholders Faurecia’s commitment to maintaining an open and constructive relationship with all its stakeholders is embedded in its Values and Convictions. Faurecia’s sustainable development approach will contribute to the creation of value, both financial and non-financial, for all of Faurecia’s stakeholders with whom the Group creates mutually beneficial relationships. STUDENTS In order to attract recent graduates, Faurecia participates in many events in universities and higher education establishments and is a partner of several events such as the Shell eco-marathon and Student Formula Germany and Japan. It is also a member of Elles Bougent in France to INNOVATION PARTNERS attract females into engineering vocations. Faurecia continued to expand its innovation ecosystem working with industrial partners, academic and research establishments, and starts-ups in order to accelerate time to market for innovations for the Cockpit of the Future and Sustainable Mobility. SUPPLIERS Faurecia is committed to building a mutually beneficial relationship with its suppliers. On October 1st, Faurecia hosted a special Suppliers’ Day, inviting over 100 suppliers to exchange and initiate ideas for future strategic alignment and accelerate new ways of working together for innovation, Total Customer Satisfaction and zero emissions. CUSTOMERS The permanent development of customer intimacy is a priority for all the teams at Faurecia. This is achieved through regular contacts and strategy meetings, at all levels of the Group’s organization, INDUSTRY from the top management to site teams, as well as ASSOCIATIONS through technology reviews and co-development projects. The Group’s recently launched Total Faurecia participates in all Customer Satisfaction initiative, including its digital major trade associations and feedback application allows constant interaction consultative bodies in the with customers and has over 500 distinct users automotive industry in France, and has received over 750 comments. Europe and internationally. 34 / Universal Registration Document 2019 TRANSFORMATION IN ACTION A shared culture for sustainable development FAURECIA, A “TOP EMPLOYER” Faurecia received its second “Top Employer Europe” certification, EMPLOYEES a label based on certification in six countries: France, Germany, Spain, UK, the Czech Faurecia maintains strong dialog with all its employees Republic and Poland. and is actively pursuing measures to enhance The Group is also certified Top Employer communications and learning. In 2019 Faurecia in the USA, Mexico, China and India. undertook its bi-annual management survey as well as an operator survey at all sites and established action The Top Employer label is awarded plans for improvement. The Group also opened its onto companies that meet relevant standards line learning lab to all non-connected employees and with regard to HR management practices launched its “All Faurecians on Board” program to help in talent attraction and development, managers understand and explain the transformation. compensation and social benefits, as well as training and skills development. LOCAL COMMUNITIES Faurecia is an important economic actor in its local communities and strives to maintain good relationships with local authorities and contribute to local development. Through its FUELS program, all sites are encouraged to participate in organizing charitable contributions for their partner of choice in their community. FINANCIAL COMMUNITY Faurecia is committed to the highest standards of transparency in its communications with analysts, investors and individual shareholders. In 2019 the Group held a Capital Markets Day on November 26, organized roadshows and meetings in all the main financial centers as well as in its Headquarters and participated in all major conferences. Altogether over 200 meetings were held with management. For more information See Chapter 2 Risks of the 2019 Universal Registration Document, / Universal Registration Document 2019 35 TRANSFORMATION IN ACTION A shared culture for sustainable development Business model for value creation INVESTMENT OUR STRATEGY AND BUSINESS MODEL AND RESOURCES Au ed to ct n People Co om nn e ou 115,500 employees: Inspiring mobility s 102 nationalities Our vision is aligned with in 37 countries today’s environmental, 4 Faurecia University social, consumer campuses and automotive trends. 77,000 employees eifie Rid sh r d ct connected to e-learning ar portal, including ing Ele 32,000 operators A STRATEGY DRIVEN BY 2 PRIORITIES Business €235m invested in innovation 4 technology platforms Global innovation ecosystem Cockpit of the Future Sustainable Mobility 221 programs launched in 23 countries and 133 plants Innovation ecosystem 4 Business Groups for profitable growth Planet Seating Interiors Clarion Clean Electronics Mobility €10.7m invested in environmental protection 77% ISO 14001 certified sites Total Customer Operational 45,000 hours Satisfaction excellence of environmental training CONVICTIONS & VALUES FOR SUSTAINABLE PERFORMANCE 36 / Universal Registration Document 2019 TRANSFORMATION IN ACTION A shared culture for sustainable development VALUE CREATED FOR STAKEHOLDERS IN 2019 2019 REVENUES People 24.4% female M&Ps, up from 23.8% in 2018 €17,768m 21.6 hours training per employee up from 21.1 in 2018 EMPLOYEES FR1t 2.05 accidents down salaries & social charges by 13% vs 2018 €3,862m 21.7% SUPPLIERS Business Purchases & other external costs 610 new patents filed in 2019 €12,193m 80% of tier 1 suppliers CSR 68.6% screened by Ecovadis Customer satisfaction STATES / COMMUNITIES 4 stars out of 5 Taxes 48 customer recognition awards €212m 1.2% BANKS finance costs Planet Energy consumption €179m 1.0% -2% vs 2018 Water consumption -12% vs 2018 SHAREHOLDERS dividends GHG emissions 740,000 tonnes (scopes 1&2): stable vs 2018 €212m 1.2% ABILITY TO FINANCE FUTURE GROWTH €685m 3.9% €1,330m €1,260m 7.5% 7.1% INVESTMENTS IN FIXED ASSETS GROSS R&D EXPENDITURE INVESTMENTS IN ACQUISITIONS / Universal Registration Document 2019 37 TRANSFORMATION IN ACTION Strong Governance & Risk Management Faurecia has two governance bodies, the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee, responsible for deciding and implementing the Group’s strategy. The Board of Directors The Board of Directors oversees Faurecia’s business, financial and economic strategies. This 15-member body, including 8 independent Board members and 2 Board members representing the employees, meets at least four times a year. Three permanent Committees are tasked with the preparation of discussions on specific topics: the Audit Committee, the Governance and Nominations Committee and the Compensation Committee. They make proposals and recommendations and give advice in their fields of expertise. 1. Michel DE ROSEN 2. Patrick KOLLER Chairman of the Board End of mandate 2020 GM 15. Emmanuel PIOCHE Chief Executive Officer End of mandate 2021 GM End of mandate 31 Oct. 2021 3. Odile DESFORGES 14. Daniel BERNARDINO End of mandate 2020 GM End of mandate 31 Oct. 2021 4. Linda HASENFRATZ 13. Philippe DE ROVIRA End of mandate 2020 GM End of mandate 2021 GM 5. Penelope HERSCHER 12. Robert PEUGEOT End of mandate 2021 GM End of mandate 2021 GM 6. Valérie LANDON 11. Grégoire OLIVIER End of mandate 2021 GM End of mandate 2023 GM 7. Yan MEI 10. Olivia LARMARAUD End of mandate 2023 GM End of mandate 2020 GM 8. Denis MERCIER 9. Peter MERTENS End of mandate 2023 GM End of mandate 2023 GM Board members affiliated with the shareholder PSA Independent Board members representing employees Compensation Committee Governance & Nominations Committee Audit Committee Chairwoman / Chairman of the Committee 38 / Universal Registration Document 2019 TRANSFORMATION IN ACTION Strong Governance & Risk Management 15 Board members 61.5% Independent Board members(*) 46% Female Board members(*) 2 Board members 6 Nationalities 3.6 years Average tenure 59years Average age representing employees 6 BOARD MEETINGS 96.55% +1 Meeting dedicated +1 Meeting with independent Attendance rate at Board to Faurecia spin-off meetings (without members affiliated with PSA) members only 15 95% Committee meetings Attendance rate at Committee meetings (*) Excluding board members representing employees 13 1 8 2 6 5 10 7 11 4 14 3 15 12 9 Members of the Board of Directors EXPERTISE AT THE SERVICE OF STRATEGY With their diverse backgrounds, experience and skills, Faurecia’s Board members offer the Group their expertise, support it in defining its strategy and tackling the challenges that it faces, within the context of the Group’s transformation and ten new strategic orientations. Experience International Industry Governance/ Specific in Faurecia’s core experience Management knowledge of a businesses CSR of large companies geographic market Banking/ Automotive Finance/Risk Artificial Leadership technologies management intelligence/Digital & crisis management / Universal Registration Document 2019 39 TRANSFORMATION IN ACTION Strong Governance & Risk Management The Executive Committee Faurecia’s executive functions are performed by an Executive Committee that meets monthly to review the Group’s results and oversees the Group’s operations and deployment of its strategy. It discusses and prepares guidelines on important operational subjects, and its decisions are then deployed throughout the Group. Under the responsibility of the Chief Executive Officer, the Faurecia Executive Committee is comprised of the CEO and the 13 Executive Vice-Presidents of the Group’s international Business Groups and support functions. 1. Patrick Koller 6. Mathias Miedreich 11. Jean-Pierre Sounillac Chief Executive Officer Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, Faurecia Clean Mobility Group Human Resources 2. Yann Brillat-Savarin Executive Vice President, 7. Thorsten Muschal 12. Eelco Spoelder Group Strategy Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, Sales and Program Management Faurecia Seating 3. Nolwenn Delaunay 8. Kate Philipps 13. François Tardif Executive Vice President, Group General Counsel Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, and Board Secretary Group Communications Faurecia China 4. Michel Favre 9. Patrick Popp 14. Hagen Wiesner Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, Group Chief Financial Officer Faurecia Interiors** Cockpit Modules and SAS 5. Jean-Paul Michel 10. Christophe Schmitt Executive Vice President, * as of 1 January 2020 Executive Vice President, Faurecia Clarion Electronics* Group Operations **as of 2 January 2020 THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S COMPENSATION Short-term variable Fixed compensation Long-term compensation Ranging from 0 to 180% variable compensation of the fixed compensation Quantifiable objectives Performance shares From 0 to 150% of the fixed compensation Fulfillment of an external Operating income Net cash flow performance condition (40%) (60%) EPS Results / performance (30%) & transformation of the Group Qualitative objectives (for 2019) Fulfillment of two internal Multiplying effect performance conditions from 0.70 to 1.20 Net income + Gender diversity Clarion Strategy (60%) (10%) integration execution (50%) (50%) Short-term Long-term 40 / Universal Registration Document 2019 TRANSFORMATION IN ACTION Strong Governance & Risk Management 7 2 12 14 1 8 4 13 10 5 11 3 6 9 For more information See Chapter 3 Governance of the 2019 Universal Registration Document. / Universal Registration Document 2019 41 TRANSFORMATION IN ACTION Strong Governance & Risk Management An efficient risk management system The Group has developed a comprehensive risk management system. This allows Faurecia to optimize the operations of its Business Groups through identification and mitigation of major risks. A SHARED GROUP-WIDE APPROACH TO RISK MANAGEMENT Most Faurecia functions and governance the Executive Management of each risks. In this regard, the Group launched structures are involved in the support Business Group work together to avoid the Faurecia Enterprise Risk Management of Faurecia’s evolving business model and contain all potential threats to Program (ERM) in 2017, to define and through risk management. The Executive Faurecia’s success, from risk mapping to oversee risk management actively and Committee, Group Risk Committee and the monitoring of specific operational consistently, for all types of risk. RISK Identify, access, mitigate, monitor all risks Financial & Ethics & Extra-Financial Environmental Operational risks Compliance risks Risks & safety risks INTERNAL COMPLIANCE CSR ENVIRONMENT CONTROL & SAFETY Control compliance Deﬁne and control Assess and manage Deﬁne with all business ethics extra ﬁnancial and control internal rules internal rules topics HSE rules CSR Pilot extra-financial performance and review The Board of Directors and its Audit Committee conduct continuous oversight of the process. The Group’s internal control and audit organization, as well as external contributors, provide their specific expertise, from operational processes to auditing. BOARD OF DIRECTORS MANAGEMENT Board of Directors Executive Committee Yearly review of Monthly Committee with punctual review on speciﬁc risks Risk Management process and top risks Risk Committee Audit Committee Quarterly Committee with review of Tier-1 and Tier-2 risks Yearly presentation of Risk Management process Other Committees and Tier-1 risks (CSR, Internal Control, Compliance) Quarterly review of a speciﬁc Tier-1 risk On a regular basis to review relevant risks 42 / Universal Registration Document 2019 TRANSFORMATION IN ACTION Strong Governance & Risk Management This table presents the main risks identified by Faurecia, broken down according to the Group’s different categories. Faurecia has implemented a variety of counter-measures to prevent and contain those risks. They are detailed in Chapter 2 of the Registration Document (“Risks”). CATEGORY RISKS COVID-19 Pandemic Continuity and security of information systems Risk associated with the automotive supplier business External growth Program management Product safety and Quality CSR Operational and industrial risks Fire and explosion Supplier failure Safety at work CSR Sites’ environmental impact and climate change CSR Talent acquisition and retention CSR Interest rate risk Currency risk Financial and market risks Liquidity risk Risk related to raw materials Customer credit risk Regulatory development Litigation Legal, regulatory and reputational risks Duty of care and responsible purchasing CSR Intellectual property Business ethics CSR CSR For more information See Chapter 2 Risks and 4 CSR of the 2019 Universal Registration Document. / Universal Registration Document 2019 43 TRANSFORMATION IN ACTION Strong Governance & Risk Management Strong values for ethics and strict respect for compliance BUILDING A HIGH COMPLIANCE STANDARD WITHIN OUR GROUP AND IN RELATIONSHIPS WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS IS A TOP PRIORITY Faurecia’s ethical culture is embodied aims to develop accountability and of interest; the “golden rules” in its Code of Ethics allowing the Group employee empowerment. of competition law. to create value for all its stakeholders. The Group has an anti-corruption Faurecia communicates regularly on The Code of Ethics is structured around Code of Conduct and a best its ethics culture and related rules and four topics: respect of fundamental practices guide concerning antiwill continue to do so to make sure all rights, development of economic and competitive practices. These rules its business partners know the rules and social dialogue, skills development, cover the following subjects: policy help Faurecia to continue to adhere to ethics and rules of conduct. It is part on gifts and hospitality; donations high standards of ethics & compliance. of the Faurecia Core Procedures and and sponsorships; managing conflicts GOVERNANCE At Group level, the Chief Executive function are presented and discussed Faurecia will continue to make sure Officer chairs a quarterly committee, in the quarterly Risk Committee. that all its business partners understand which is steered by the compliance and commit respecting rules and Regional Compliance officers and function. The primary activities and principles of its Code of Ethics with a BG Compliance leaders facilitate strategic decisions of the ethics and view to supporting the Group to carry quarterly Compliance Committees compliance program are discussed out its business activities across its to deploy and facilitate compliance and approved within this body. The value chain, in accordance with high programs at each level of the Group’s primary compliance risks identified standards of ethics and compliance. activities aligned with Group priorities. and monitored by the compliance 44 / Universal Registration Document 2019 TRANSFORMATION IN ACTION Strong Governance & Risk Management SPEAK UP If someone feels that these rules are the responsibility to speak up either Convictions, “power must have a not respected, if someone sees a through a usual contact (HR, Manager, counter-balance”. Faurecia has zero behavior which is not in compliance Compliance Officer) or through tolerance for non-compliance and with Faurecia’s ethical standards or Faurecia’s whistle-blowing line. encourages everyone, every time, a situation at risk regarding certain Developing the culture of Speak Up everywhere to feel free to report issues regulations, then this person has is a key element of one of Faurecia’s without fear of retaliation. CULTURE SPEAK UP No compromise with Ethics & Compliance, even in a more challenging market context Speak Up link www.faurecia.ethicspoint.com  Fundamentals for Total Customer Satisfaction  Consistent with Faurecia's Convictions Everyone Everywhere Everyday DISCIPLINE WORKING IN & FOR A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Set of rules to protect the business Duty FCPA OEMs of care Authorities Suppliers Sapin 2 UK Bribery VALUE  Code of Conduct regulation Act CREATION to prevent corruption Investors Talent  Managing conflicts  Anti-trust prevention of interests  Corruption prevention  Intellectual property  Conflict of interest  Gifts & hospitality protection management  Donations & sponsorship  Export controls  Fraud prevention  Conflict minerals  Human rights protection  Accounting rules protection  Suppliers selection / Universal Registration Document 2019 45 46 / Universal Registration Document 2019 1 Financial statements 1.1. The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements 48 1.1.1. Business review 48 1.1.2. Consolidated financial statements 59 1.1.3. Statutory auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements 118 1.2. Faurecia parent company – business review and financial statements 125 1.2.1. Management report of the parent company 125 1.2.2. Parent company financial statements 130 1.2.3. Subsidiaries and affiliates 148 1.2.4. Statutory auditors’ report on the financial statements 150 / Universal Registration Document 2019 47 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements This chapter provides a description of Faurecia’s activities and results in 2019. All information concerning market positions is based on estimates made by Faurecia on the basis of information contained in the annual reports of the various actors of the market, industry publications and other market research. 1.1. The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements 1.1.1. Business review 1.1.1.1. Events of the year MARCH 2019 ■ Michelin, world leader in tyres and sustainable mobility, and 1.1.1.1.1. NOTABLE FACTS Faurecia announced the signature of a Memorandum of ■ On April 2019, Clarion entered the Group perimeter. It is now Understanding to create a joint venture bringing together consolidated into the fourth Business Group newly created all of Michelin’s fuel cell related activities –including its “Faurecia Clarion Electronics”. subsidiary Symbio– with those of Faurecia. ■ This Business Group mainly regroups the operations of This French joint venture, built around a unique ecosystem, Coagent Electronics (consolidated as from January 1, will develop, produce and market hydrogen fuel cell 2018 and previously classified within “Faurecia Interiors”), systems for light vehicles, utility vehicles, trucks and other Parrot Automotive (consolidated as from December 31, applications. 2018) and Clarion (consolidated as from April 1, 2019). Faurecia and Michelin are convinced of the importance of ■ The results of the Coagent Electronics activities, which hydrogen technology in tomorrow’s world of zero emissions had been included in the Interiors Business in 2018 have mobility and of the need to create a strong French and been reallocated on a retroactive basis for 2018 to the European hydrogen industrial sector. The two companies Faurecia Clarion Electronics business. aim to create a world leader in hydrogen fuel cell systems through combining existing and complementary assets from ■ Due to time constraints related to the first consolidation of both partners in the joint-venture. This will enable the joint Clarion, it was accounted for only two months (April and venture to immediately offer a unique range of hydrogen May) in the first semester 2019 consolidated statements. The fuel cell systems for all use cases. This agreement was seven months from June til December 2019 have been officialized in November 2019. taken into account in the second semester. ■ Faurecia announced it has successfully issued €500 million of ■ First application of IFRS 16 on January 1, 2019. Faurecia is senior notes due 2026 at 3.125% to complete financing of using the modified retrospective method, according to Clarion acquisition. The issuance of these Notes was which there are no pro-forma for 2018. All lease contracts intended to refinance the bridge loan of €500 million, which are accounted for in the balance sheet with a “Right to use was drawn to finance the acquisition of Clarion Co., Ltd, the asset” as an asset and a corresponding debt and related expenses and transaction costs. The strategic representing the obligation to pay the future leases. acquisition of Clarion, complementary in terms of Impacts on main indicators are detailed in Financial technology offer, geographic presence and customer Statements. portfolio with Faurecia’s current business, will allow the Group to become a leading player in cockpit electronics 1.1.1.1.2. CHRONOLOGY OF EVENTS and systems integration. JANUARY/FEBRUARY 2019 APRIL 2019 ■ Faurecia signed a partnership with Japan Display Inc. to ■ Faurecia announced the official launch of its fourth Business enhance user experience inside the cockpit. Group “Faurecia Clarion Electronics”, based in Saitama, Faurecia and JDI will cooperate on the development and Japan. This activity has the ambition to become a global integration of large displays into automotive interiors. The two leader in cockpit electronics and low-speed ADAS. companies will leverage their know-how and expertise so that the functionalities and design of large displays will be a key element of cockpit attractiveness. During CES 2019, Faurecia and JDI revealed a first illustration of their capabilities by showcasing a world premiere 32.1 inches 6K display integrated into an instrument panel. 48 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements The new Business Group, Faurecia Clarion Electronics, The center, scheduled to start operations in the combines Clarion with Faurecia’s previous acquisitions of second-quarter 2020, represents a total investment of Parrot Automotive and Coagent Electronics. approximatively €25 million, including €4.9 million in subsidies from the Bourgogne-Franche-Comté region. In the long ■ Faurecia announced it has acquired a majority stake in the term, Faurecia plans to create 50 highly qualified jobs at the Swedish company Creo Dynamics, which provides Bavans site, which already has nearly 750 employees innovative acoustics and Active Noise Control (ANC) dedicated to Faurecia’s Clean Mobility activity. solutions. Creo Dynamics technologies are fully complementary to JULY 2019 the audio competences of Faurecia Clarion Electronics ■ Faurecia announced a collaboration with Microsoft to which include smart headrests, active surfaces, tuning create disruptive, connected and personalized services algorithms and digital sound enabling an immersive sound inside the Cockpit of the Future. experience and personalized sound bubble. Combining expertise in edge-computing, artificial Founded in 2010 and based in Linköping, Sweden, Creo intelligence, cloud-based services, cockpit systems Dynamics provides innovative solutions in acoustics, fluid integration and consumer insights, Faurecia targets to dynamics and smart structures to customers in various collaborate with Microsoft to develop digital services based industries, primarily automotive and aerospace. Through its on Microsoft Connected Vehicle Platform to reinvent the unique expertise in automotive acoustics and control on-board experience for all occupants. Faurecia has also algorithms, the company develops state-of-the-art active chosen Microsoft Cloud Azure as its preferred cloud noise control for vehicle interiors. platform. ■ Faurecia announced the establishment of its first Clean Mobility manufacturing plant in Japan, located in Koriyama OCTOBER 2019 City, Fukushima Prefecture. ■ Faurecia signed a Memorandum of Understanding to acquire the remaining 50% of its SAS joint venture from This new facility will be built on a 9,000 square meter Continental. This joint venture was established in 1996 and industrial site owned by Faurecia Clarion Electronics. has become a key player in complex interior module Faurecia will employ 50 people to start its operations in assembly and logistics. The Company employs 4,490 people August 2020 and will produce exhaust systems for passenger in 19 facilities in Europe, North America and South America. cars and commercial vehicles. Sales showed strong growth in 2019 and reached €739 million (IFRS 15). MAY 2019 ■ Faurecia announced an investment in GuardKnox, an Israeli This project would expand Faurecia’s systems integration automotive cybersecurity provider, to reinforce passenger offer to cover all interior modules as well as Faurecia’s new safety and data security in the connected car and for new product lines such as displays, electronics, sensors and user experiences. thermal management. The addition of SAS core competences in systems integration and complexity GuardKnox provides comprehensive cyber defense management would also strengthen Faurecia’s Just in Time (hardware and software) for connected and autonomous plant network. vehicles. GuardKnox technology will enable Faurecia to propose complete end-to-end solutions integrated into the This project would be immediately accretive to Faurecia in car vehicle, securing the software, data and cloud operating margin, net income and ROCE. The financial connectivity. performance would be consolidated into the Interiors Business Group. Synergies could be obtained in This investment in GuardKnox is made by Faurecia Ventures, manufacturing engineering, logistics and footprint which advances Faurecia’s innovation strategy by optimization as well as in purchasing and SG&A. With an identifying, incubating and investing in start-ups with order book showing strong growth potential, sales should relevant technologies for Sustainable Mobility and the exceed €1 billion by 2024 (representing a CAGR of around Cockpit of the Future. 9%). Growth would be accelerated through regional and customer diversification particularly in China. JUNE 2019 This project was finalized in January 2020. ■ Faurecia announced the creation of a global center of expertise for hydrogen storage systems at its R&D center in NOVEMBER 2019 Bavans, France. ■ Faurecia and Aptoide, one of the largest independent Faurecia aims to invest in research and development in Android app stores, announced the creation of a 50/50 joint new-generation high-pressure tanks that are more efficient venture to develop and operate Android app Store and lighter, as well as in a test center to characterize these solutions for the global automotive market. tanks. / Universal Registration Document 2019 49 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements This joint venture offers OEMs an affordable and secured COVID-19 automotive apps market, available worldwide with ■ The global Covid-19 crisis has impacted the Group starting adaptable content per region. The Aptoide app store offers with China in the first quarter 2020 and then the rest of the one million Android apps covering a variety of use cases world from March. As of April 17, 2020, all plants in China such as gaming, navigation, content streaming services, have restarted their production. point of interest recommendations or parking. Aptoide also offers an integrated secure payment mechanism supporting To face this crisis, Faurecia has immediately put in place all OEM strategies for service monetization, whilst securing the necessary action plans, the top priority remaining the vehicle and occupants’ data privacy. protection of the employees and preparing a safe restart of the activity. Within the joint venture, Aptoide brings a unique ecosystem offering a wide range of android apps and distribution At the same time, the liquidity has been secured and expertise. Faurecia brings a broad customer portfolio, measures to cut costs and protect cash have been systems integration capabilities in In-Vehicle Infotainment implemented. In particular, €600 million from the syndicated (IVI) and cybersecurity expertise. credit line out of its total amount of €1.2 billion (maturity June 2024) have been drawn in March 2020 in order to ■ Faurecia announced the success of the above transaction, anticipate a drop of factoring of receivables and a €800 launched today. Faurecia priced €700 million of senior notes million club deal loan has been signed on April 10, 2020 with due 2027 at 2.375%. The quality of the investor base and the an 18 months' maturity and 100% drawn upon signature. very favourable conditions achieved demonstrate Faurecia’s credit quality. Faurecia will use the proceeds of It remains currently difficult to estimate production levels in the issuance of the Notes, and cash on hand, to redeem all coming months as they depend on many external its €700 million 3.625% senior notes due June 2023 (the “2023 parameters, such as government regulations and the pace Notes”), plus accrued and unpaid interest. of resolution of the pandemic in the various geographies, but also on the customers’ effective restart of production as ■ During its Capital Market Day held on November 26, 2019, well as consumer demand, and therefore the global impact Faurecia announced the acceleration of transformation of this crisis cannot be evaluated at this stage. strategy for the Cockpit of the Future and Sustainable Mobility boosted by recent acquisitions and partnerships. At Q1 2020 SALES that date, Faurecia had announced record performance ■ On April 20, 2020, Faurecia announced its first quarter 2020 targeted for 2022, combining growth and resilience, with sales. sales above €20.5 billion, profitability at 8% of sales and cash generation at 4% of sales. These financial targets were Sales amounted to €3,739 million, down 13.5% on a reported based on an assumptionnof global automotive production basis and 19.7% at constant scope and currencies. volumes estimated at 87 million vehicles in 2022. ■ Currencies had a limited negative impact of €3 million, DECEMBER 2019 ■ Scope had a positive effect of €268 million (+6.2%), of ■ Faurecia and Devialet, the French company behind a host which €101 million from 2 months of consolidation of SAS of acclaimed innovations in sound technology, announced and €167 million from 3 months of consolidation of a partnership to develop high-quality sound solutions for Clarion, automakers. ■ Sales at constant scope and currencies outperformed Devialet brings best-in-class technologies and worldwide automotive production by 390bps (-23.6%, industry-leading expertise across acoustic architecture, source: IHS Markit dated April 2020). loudspeakers and signal processing, over 160 patents, and Sales were strongly impacted by the Covid-19 disruption, a premium consumer brand. Faurecia brings its overall which impacted China throughout the quarter, with a peak electronic design and system integration capabilities as well in February, and then the rest of the world, as from March. as its sound domain controller technology. In the same announcement, Faurecia also highlighted its three main priorities during the crisis: 1.1.1.1.3. RECENT EVENTS ■ Priority No.1: protect health and safety of all employees, JANUARY 2020 ■ During the CES Las Vegas 2020, Faurecia, signed a ■ Priority No.2: secure liquidity, recently enhanced through cooperation framework agreement with Beijing Horizon a €800m club deal loan signed on April 10, Robotics, a pioneer in edge computing and Artificial Intelligence. This strategic partnership focuses on co-developing multi-modal perception AI solutions, and accelerating the commercialization of intelligent cockpit systems and Advanced Driver Assistance Systems (ADAS) for the Chinese market. 50 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements ■ Priority No.3: be ready for a safe restart of production 1.1.1.2. Automotive production through a program named “SAFER TOGETHER”. Worldwide automotive production decreased by 5.8% Lastly, Faurecia made public its Board of Directors’ decision from 2018 to 2019. It decreased in all regions. Production to postpone the Annual General Meeting, initially planned decreased in Europe (including Russia) by 4.0%, in North for Friday, May 29, to Friday, June 26. America by 3.9%, in South America by 4.5% and in Asia by 6.6% All press releases published by the Group are available on the (of which a decrease of 9.3% in China). site www.faurecia.com. All the data related to automotive production and volume evolution is based on IHS Markit Automotive report dated February 2020. 1.1.1.3. Sales Faurecia’s year-on-year sales evolution is made of three As scope effect, Faurecia presents all components: acquisitions/divestments, whose sales on an annual basis amount to more than €250 million. Other acquisitions below ■ “Currencies effect”, calculated by applying average this threshold are considered as “bolt-on acquisitions” and are currency rates for the period to the sales of the prior year; included in “Growth at constant currencies”. ■ “Scope effect” (acquisition/divestment); ■ and “Growth at constant currencies”. Clarion Acquisition At constant (in € millions) H2 2018 Currencies Effect currencies* H2 2019 Product Sales 7,914.2 91.7 426.5 (292.3) 8,140.1 Var. in % 1.2% -3.7% 2.9% Tooling, Prototypes and Other Services 619.3 12.6 9.4 14.9 656.2 Var. in % 2.0% 2.4% 6.0% Sales 8,533.5 104.3 435.9 (277.4) 8,796.3 Var. in % 1.2% -3.3% 3.1% * Including Bolt-Ons representing €26.1 million or 0.3%. Excluding Clarion acquisition effect. Clarion Acquisition At constant (in € millions) FY 2018 Currencies Effect currencies* FY 2019 Product Sales 16,330.4 172.4 563.0 (553.1) 16,512.7 Var. in % 1.1% -3.4% 1.1% Tooling, Prototypes and Other Services 1,194.3 14.2 23.3 23.8 1,255.6 Var. in % 1.2% 2.0% 5.1% Sales 17,524.7 186.6 586.3 (529.3) 17,768.3 Var. in % 1.1% -3.0% 1.4% * Including Bolt-Ons representing €189.8 million or 1.1%. Excluding Clarion acquisition effect. Sales of products (parts, components and R&D sold to represents an increase of 5.1% on a reported basis and a manufacturers) reached €16,512.7 million in 2019 compared to growth of 2.0% at constant currencies and excluding Clarion €16,330.4 million in 2018. The product sales increased by 1.1% acquisition effect. on a reported basis and decreased by 3.4% at constant Sales totaled €17,768.3 million in 2019 compared to currencies and excluding Clarion acquisition effect. €17,524.7 million in 2018, showing an increase of 1.4% on a Sales of tooling, prototypes and other services totaled reported basis and a decrease of 3.0% at constant currencies €1,255.6 million in 2019 versus €1,194.3 million in 2018. This and excluding Clarion acquisition effect. / Universal Registration Document 2019 51 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements 1.1.1.3.1. BY REGION Including Clarion Acquisition At constant Automotive (in € millions) H2 2019 effect H2 2018 Reported currencies* Production Sales Europe 4,110.6 36.2 4,128.1 -0.4% -1.7% -2.3% North America 2,194.5 99.4 2,242.2 -2.1% -10.0% -4.8% Asia 2,049.8 296.1 1,714.4 19.6% 0.8% -4.3% o/w China 1,386.6 40.2 1,325.6 4.6% 0.3% -2.1% South America 351.6 4.2 350.8 0.3% 3.1% -6.0% Rest of the World 89.8 98.0 -8.4% -9.0% -14.5% TOTAL 8,796.3 435.9 8,533.5 3.1% -3.3% -4.3% * Including Bolt-Ons representing €26.1 million or 0.3%: Parrot Automotive with €21.8 million in Europe and €4.3 million in Asia. Excluding Clarion acquisition effect. Including Clarion Acquisition At constant Automotive (in € millions) FY 2019 effect FY 2018 Reported currencies* Production Sales Europe 8,641.4 49.2 8,858.2 -2.4% -2.8% -4.0% North America 4,483.4 146.0 4,474.2 0.2% -8.1% -3.9% Asia 3,766.0 386.1 3,257.2 15.6% 2.5% -6.6% o/w China 2,594.6 56.4 2,494.6 4.0% 0.8% -9.3% South America 696.4 5.0 714.1 -2.5% 5.2% -4.5% Rest of the World 181.1 221.0 -18.1% -15.1% -21.6% TOTAL 17,768.3 586.3 17,524.7 1.4% -3.0% -5.8% * Including Bolt-Ons representing €189.8 million or 1.1%: €39.3 million for Parrot Automotive and €13.6 million for Hug in Europe, €106.1 million for BYD, €20.9 million for Wuling and €9.9 million for Parrot Automotive in Asia. Excluding Clarion acquisition effect. 52 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements 1.1.1.3.2. BY CUSTOMER 1% Rest of the World 2% 21% JLR Asia 3% CVE 3% 4% Daimler South 49% 3% America Europe HKMC 4% 18% BMW 25% VW 5% North GM America 5% 15% Chinese Ford OEMs 7% Sales by region in 2019 were as follows: FCA 14% ■ in Europe, sales totaled €8,641.4 million (49% of total sales), 8% Renaultcompared to €8,858.2 million in 2018. Sales decreased by Autres Nissan2.4% on a reported basis and down 2.8% at constant Mitsubishi 13% currencies and excluding Clarion acquisition effect. This is to PSA be compared to a 4.0% downturn in production market in Europe; In 2019, sales to Faurecia four main customers (VW, Ford, PSA, ■ in North America, sales reached €4,483.4 million (25% of Renault-Nissan-Mitsubishi) amounted to €10,662.5 million or total sales), versus €4,474.2 million in 2018. Sales increased by 60.0% of sales. It represented 61.3% in 2018. They were as 0.2% on a reported basis whereas they decreased by 8.1% follows: at constant currencies and excluding Clarion acquisition ■ sales to the VW group totaled €3,286.6 million. They effect. This is to be compared to a 3.9% downturn in accounted for 18.5% of Faurecia’s total sales. Compared production market in North America; to 2018, they increased by 1.0% on a reported basis and by ■ in Asia, sales reached €3,766.0 million (21% of total sales) 0.6% at constant currencies and excluding Clarion and to be compared to €3,257.2 million in 2018. This acquisition effect; represents a growth of 15.6% on a reported basis and 2.5% ■ sales to the Ford group totaled €2,599.6 million, accounting at constant currencies and excluding Clarion acquisition for 14.6% of Faurecia’s total sales. Compared to 2018, sales effect. Sales in China went up 4.0% on a reported basis, and to Ford group decreased by 8.6% on a reported basis and up 0.8% at constant currencies. Over the same period, the by 11.8% at constant currencies and excluding Clarion automotive production decreased by 6.6% in Asia and by acquisition effect; 9.3% in China; ■ sales to the Renault-Nissan-Mistubishi group represented ■ in South America, sales totaled €696.4 million (4% of the total €2,446.7 million or 13.8% of Faurecia’s total sales. They were sales), compared to €714.1 million in 2018. Sales decreased up 10.6% on a reported basis and down 0.9% at constant by 2.5% on a reported basis. However, they were up 5.2% at currencies and excluding Clarion acquisition effect constant currencies and excluding Clarion acquisition compared to 2018; effect. In 2019, the automotive production in the region decreased by 4.5%; ■ sales to the PSA Group totaled €2,329.6 million. They accounted for 13.1% of Faurecia’s total sales. They were ■ in the rest of the world (mainly South Africa), sales down 4.1% on a reported basis and down 4.5% at constant amounted to €181.1 million, a 18.1% decrease on a currencies and excluding Clarion acquisition effect reported basis and a 15.1% decrease at constant currencies compared to 2018; and excluding Clarion acquisition effect. ■ sales to the FCA group reached €1,186.0 million or 6.7% of total sales. This represented a growth of 5.7% on a reported basis and of 2.2% at constant currencies and excluding Clarion acquisition effect compared to 2018; ■ sales to the General Motors group totaled €943.3 million or 5.3% of total sales. They were up 3.9% on a reported basis and down 1.1% at constant currencies and excluding Clarion acquisition effect; / Universal Registration Document 2019 53 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements ■ sales to Chinese OEMs reached €831.4 million or 4.7% of ■ sales to BMW represented €700.5 million or 3.9% of total total sales. ThIs represented a growth of 21.3% on a reported sales. They decreased by 21.2% on a reported basis and by basis and of 17.2% at constant currencies and excluding 21.6% at constant currencies and excluding Clarion Clarion acquisition effect compared to 2018; acquisition effect compared to 2018. 1.1.1.3.3. BY BUSINESS GROUP Clarion Acquisition At constant (in € millions) H2 2019 Effect H2 2018 Reported currencies* Sales Seating 3,333.3 3,656.5 -8.8% -9.5% Interiors 2,624.2 2,567.1 2.2% 0.5% Clean Mobility 2,302.4 2,254.8 2.1% 0.5% Clarion Electronics 536.4 435.9 55.1 80.5% TOTAL 8,796.3 435.9 8,533.5 3.1% -3.3% * Including Bolt-Ons representing €26.1 million or 0.3%: exclusively for Parrot Automotive on Clarion Electronics. Excluding Clarion acquisition effect. Clarion Acquisition At constant (in € millions) FY 2019 Effect FY 2018 Reported currencies* Sales Seating 6,973.2 7,438.0 -6.2% -6.9% Interiors 5,370.2 5,362.6 0.1% -0.9% Clean Mobility 4,653.5 4,615.0 0.8% -0.8% Clarion Electronics 771.4 586.3 109.1 68.2% TOTAL 17,768.3 586.3 17,524.7 1.4% -3.0% * Including Bolt-Ons representing €189.8 million or 1.1%: €106.1 million for BYD on Seating, €20.9 million for Wuling on Interiors, €13.6 million for Hug on Clean Mobility and €49.2 million for Parrot Automotive on Clarion Electronics. Excluding Clarion acquisition effect. 5% In 2019: Clarion Electronics ■ Seating reached €6,973.2 million sales, down 6.2% on a 30% reported basis and down 6.9% at constant currencies Interiors compared to 2018; ■ Interiors totaled €5,370.2 million sales. This represented a 39% Seating 0.1% increase on a reported basis and a 0.9% decrease at constant currencies compared to 2018; ■ Clean Mobility generated €4,653.5 million sales, up 0.8% on a reported basis and down 0.8% at constant currencies compared to 2018; ■ Clarion Electronics totaled €771.4 million sales, up 68.2% 26% compared to 2018 at constant currencies excluding Clarion Clean Mobility acquisition effect. 54 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements 1.1.1.4. Operating Income ■ the net R&D expenses reached €420.0 million (2.4% of sales) compared to €298.8 million in 2018. These €420.0 million In 2019: in 2019 include €63.7 million for Clarion Electronics; ■ operating income before amortization of acquired ■ selling and administrative expenses reached to intangible assets reached €1,283.3 million (7.2% of sales), €778.5 million (4.4% of sales), compared to €703.2 million compared to €1,273.9 million (7.3% of sales) in 2018; (4.0% of sales) in 2018. These €778.5 million in 2019 include ■ gross expenditures for R&D totaled €1,329.7 million, or 7.5% €115.2 million for Clarion Electronics; of sales, compared to €1,093.2 million, or 6.2% of sales ■ EBITDA –which represents operating income before in 2018. The portion of R&D expenditure capitalised depreciation, amortisation and provisions for impairment of amounted to €909.7 million, compared to €794.3 million property, plant and equip!ment and capitalised R&D in 2018. The R&D capitalization ratio represented 68.4% of expenditures– rose to €2,404.3 million (13.5% of sales), to be total R&D expenditure, whereas it represented 72.7% over compared to €2,140.6 million (12.2% of sales) in 2018. the same period in 2018; 1.1.1.4.1. BY REGION H2 2019 H2 2018 Operating Operating (in € millions) Sales Income % Sales Income % Europe 4,110.6 266.2 6.5% 4,128.1 260.7 6.3% North America 2,194.5 129.7 5.9% 2,242.2 154.3 6.9% Asia 2,049.8 202.5 9.9% 1,714.4 187.3 10.9% South America 351.6 29.3 8.3% 350.8 12.7 3.6% Rest of the World 89.8 10.7 11.9% 98.0 11.7 12.0% TOTAL 8,796.3 638.4 7.3% 8,533.5 626.7 7.3% FY 2019 FY 2018 Operating Operating (in € millions) Sales Income % Sales Income % Europe 8,641.4 558.0 6.5% 8,858.2 565.9 6.4% North America 4,483.4 282.6 6.3% 4,474.2 289.7 6.5% Asia 3,766.0 373.6 9.9% 3,257.2 367.0 11.3% South America 696.4 47.9 6.9% 714.1 24.6 3.4% Rest of the World 181.1 21.2 11.7% 221.0 26.7 12.1% TOTAL 17,768.3 1,283.3 7.2% 17,524.7 1,273.9 7.3% The operating income in 2019 compared to 2018 increased by ■ in Asia, the operating income increased by €6.6 million to €9.4 million: reach €373.6 million or 9.9% of sales. The operating income represented 9.9% of sales, in decrease compared to 2018 ■ in Europe, the operating income was down by €7.9 million, which was 11.3%; to reach €558.0 million or 6.5% of sales. This is to be compared to €565.9 million or 6.4% in 2018; ■ in South America, the operating income increased by €23.3 million to reach €47.9 million. The operating margin in ■ in North America, the operating income dropped by the region represented 6.9% of sales compared to 3.4% of €7.1 million to €282.6 million. The operating income reached sales in 2018; 6.3% of sales, compared to 6.5% in 2018; ■ in the rest of the world (South Africa), the operating margin decreased by €5.5 million to €21.2 million. The operating income represented 11.7% of sales, compared to 12.1% in 2018. / Universal Registration Document 2019 55 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements 1.1.1.4.2. BUSINESS GROUP H2 2019 H2 2018 Operating Operating (in € millions) Sales Income % Sales Income % Seating 3,333.3 234.1 7.0% 3,656.5 227.0 6.2% Interiors 2,624.2 122.6 4.7% 2,567.1 157.5 6.1% Clean Mobility 2,302.4 270.0 11.7% 2,254.8 244.6 10.8% Clarion Electronics 536.4 11.7 2.2% 55.1 (2.4) -4.4% TOTAL 8,796.3 638.4 7.3% 8,533.5 626.7 7.3% FY 2019 FY 2018 Operating Operating (in € millions) Sales Income % Sales Income % Seating 6,973.2 453.1 6.5% 7,438.0 448.5 6.0% Interiors 5,370.2 293.7 5.5% 5,362.6 325.3 6.1% Clean Mobility 4,653.5 524.6 11.3% 4,615.0 499.8 10.8% Clarion Electronics 771.4 11.9 1.5% 109.1 0.3 0.3% TOTAL 17,768.3 1,283.3 7.2% 17,524.7 1,273.9 7.3% In 2019: ■ the “other non-recurring operating income and expenses” represented an expense of €213.8 million, compared to an ■ Seating operating income amounted to €453.1 million (6.5% expense of €147.3 million in 2018. This item included of sales) compared to €448.5 million in 2018 (6.0% of sales); €193.9 million in restructuring charges compared to an ■ Interiors operating income reached €293.7 million (5.5% of expense of €100.8 million in 2018; sales), affected by operational issues, compared to ■ financial income amounted to €18.7 million, compared to €325.3 million in 2018 (6.1% of sales); €9.6 million in 2018. Financial costs totaled €197.7 million, ■ Clean Mobility operating income reached €524.6 million versus €117.7 million in 2018. These €197.7 million include (11.3% of sales) compared to €499.8 million in 2018 (10.8% of €32.1 million for Clarion Electronics financing and sales); €45.4 million for financial charges related to IFRS 16; ■ Clarion Electronics operating income reached €11.9 million ■ other financial income and expense represented an (1.5% of sales) compared to €0.3 million in 2018 (0.3% of expense of €40.4 million compared to €55.7 million in 2018. sales). This expense included €8.3 million from discounting pension benefit liabilities; ■ the tax expense reached €166.8 million, compared to 1.1.1.5. Net income €190.0 million in 2018. This represented an average tax rate The net income group share reached €589.7 million, or 3.3% of of 21.0% compared to an average rate of 20.0% over the sales in 2019. This is to be compared to €700.8 million or 4.0% of same period in 2018; sales over the same period in 2018. It represented a decrease ■ the share of net income of associates totaled €37.8 million, of €111.1 million, mainly reflecting an increase of restructuring compared to €31.4 million in 2018; costs to bring costs in line with new market realities and adapt the cost structure of Clarion Electronics. ■ net income attributable to minority interests totaled €75.0 million. It consists of net income accruing to investors In 2019: in companies in which Faurecia is not the sole shareholder, ■ the amortization of intangible assets acquired in business mainly in China, compared to €92.5 million in 2018. combinations related mainly to Clarion and Coagent Basic earnings per share on continued operations amounted businesses represented an expense of €56.4 million to €4.31 (diluted net earnings per share on continued compared to an expense of €10.9 million in 2018; operations at €4.29) compared to €5.11 in 2018 (diluted on continued operations at €5.09). 56 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements 1.1.1.6. Financial structure and net debt 1.1.1.6.1. RECONCILIATION BETWEEN NET CASH FLOW AND CASH PROVIDED BY OPERATING AND INVESTING ACTIVITIES (in € millions) Notes 2019 2018 Recurring net cash flow 587.0 528.1 Other changes 0.0 0.0 Net cash flow 587.0 528.1 Acquisitions/Sales of investments and business (net of cash and cash equivalents) from continued activities 2.3 (1,130.3) (174.6) Proceed from disposal of financial assets from continued activities 2.3 0.0 0.0 Other changes from continued activities 2.3 53.5 (67.0) Surplus (used) from operating and financing activities 2.3 (489.8) 286.5 1.1.1.6.2. NET CASH FLOW in 2018. This change consisted in part of a increase in inventories of €27.0 million, a net increase in trade The net cash inflow was €587.0 million in 2019 compared to a receivables of €397.5 million, an increase in trade payables net cash inflow of €528.1 million over the same period in 2018. of €538.8 million and a negative variation of other trade It can be explained as follows: receivables and payables for €5.0 million. The evolution of ■ the operating margin before depreciations and these balance sheet positions was impacted by exchange amortizations of non-current assets or EBITDA reached rate changes; €2,404.3 million compared to €2,140.6 million in 2018, due to ■ capital expenditures on property, plant and equipment and the increase in operating income for €9.4 million and the on intangible assets represented cash outflows of increase in depreciation and amortization by €254.3 million; €685.2 million, versus €673.3 million in 2018; ■ restructuring represented cash outflows of €166.3 million ■ capitalized research and development costs represented compared to €93.4 million in 2018; cash outflows of €681.2 million, versus €592.7 million in 2018; ■ net financial costs represented cash outflows of ■ income taxes represented cash outflows of €295.8 million, €197.1 million, versus €107.8 million in 2018; compared to €260.9 million in 2018; ■ the change in working capital requirement, including ■ finally, other cash flow items represented €98.9 million in receivables factoring, represented a positive impact of inflows, compared to €96.7 million in inflows in 2018. €109.3 million compared to a positive impact €18.9 million 1.1.1.6.3. NET DEBT (in € millions) Dec. 31, 2019 Dec. 31, 2018 Net debt 2,524.0 477.7 At December 31, 2018, the Group’s net financial debt stood at At December 31, 2019, the Group’s net financial debt stood at €477.7 million. €2,524.0 million. Most of the increase during the period is related to the acquisition of Clarion. After a negative impact of €725.8 million related to the first implementation of IFRS 16, the opening net debt at January 1, 2019 was €1,203.5 million. (in € millions) Dec. 31, 2019 Dec. 31, 2018 Shareholders’ equity 4,461.8 4,071.3 / Universal Registration Document 2019 57 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements The Group’s shareholders’ equity rose from €4,071.3 million at In the same press release, Faurecia indicated that new year-end 2018 to €4,461.8 million at the end of 2019, an financial targets for 2020 would be presented as soon as the increase of €390.5 million. macro-economic prospects for the rest of the year provided sufficient visibility. The main elements of long-term financial resources are: As at the date of publication of this document, given the ■ the syndicated credit facility for €1,200 million, renegotiated uncertainties concerning the changing situation, the Group in June 2018, maturing in June 2024 and which was not has not yet reformulated new financial targets for 2020. drawn in December 31, 2019; In addition, on November 26, 2019, during its Capital Markets ■ a total amount of €2,150 million including €700 million of Day in Paris, Faurecia indicated the following medium-term bonds maturing in June 2025, €750 million of bonds maturing financial targets: in June 2026 and €700 million of bonds maturing in June 2027; ■ Average annual growth in sales which should exceed 5% between 2019 and 2022 to reach over €20.5 billion in 2022; ■ €700 million of Schuldscheindarlehen (private placement under German law), made of several tranches maturing in ■ Operating income that should reach 8% of sales in 2022; December 2022, December 2023 and December 2024. ■ Net cash flow that should reach 4% of sales by 2022. These financial targets were based on an assumption of global 1.1.1.7. Outlook automotive production volumes estimated at 87 million vehicles in 2022. In its press release published on March 27, 2020, Faurecia indicated that its 2020 annual financial targets as announced on February 17, 2020 were no longer valid, due to the global crisis related to the Covid-19 pandemic, and the resulting absence of visibility for the automotive industry. 58 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements 1.1.2. Consolidated financial statements 1.1.2.1. Consolidated statement of comprehensive income (in € millions) Notes 2019 2018 SALES 4 17,768.3 17,524.7 Cost of sales 5 (15,286.5) (15,248.8) Research and development costs 5 (420.0) (298.8) Selling and administrative expenses 5 (778.5) (703.2) OPERATING INCOME (BEFORE AMORTIZATION OF ACQUIRED INTANGIBLE ASSETS) 4 1,283.3 1,273.9 Amortization of intangible assets acquired in business combinations 11 (56.4) (10.9) OPERATING INCOME (AFTER AMORTIZATION OF ACQUIRED INTANGIBLE ASSETS) 1,226.9 1,263.0 Other non-recurring operating income 6 2.5 2.9 Other non-recurring operating expense 6 (216.3) (150.2) Income from loans, cash investments and marketable securities 18.7 9.6 Finance costs 7 (197.7) (117.7) Other financial income and expense 7 (40.4) (55.7) INCOME BEFORE TAX OF FULLY CONSOLIDATED COMPANIES 793.7 951.9 Taxes 8 (166.8) (190.0) of which deferred taxes 8 76.5 112.7 NET INCOME (LOSS) OF FULLY CONSOLIDATED COMPANIES 626.9 761.9 Share of net income of associates 13 37.8 31.4 CONSOLIDATED NET INCOME (LOSS) 664.7 793.3 Attributable to owners of the parent 589.7 700.8 Attributable to minority interests 23 75.0 92.5 Basic earnings (loss) per share (in €) 9 4.31 5.11 Diluted earnings (loss) per share (in €) 9 4.29 5.09 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (in € millions) Notes 2019 2018 CONSOLIDATED NET INCOME (LOSS) 664.7 793.3 Amounts to be potentially reclassified to profit or loss 23.9 (18.4) Gains (losses) arising on fair value adjustments to cash flow hedges (22.4) 20.5 of which recognized in equity (22.3) 16.1 of which transferred to net income (loss) for the period (0.1) 4.4 Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 38.5 (30.6) Tax impact 7.8 (8.3) Amounts not to be reclassified to profit or loss (10.8) 15.7 Actuarial gain/(loss) on post-employment benefit obligations 25 (26.7) 18.0 Tax impact 15.9 (2.3) TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (EXPENSE) FOR THE PERIOD 677.8 790.6 Attributable to owners of the parent 599.5 701.4 Attributable to minority interests 78.3 89.2 / Universal Registration Document 2019 59 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements 1.1.2.2. Consolidated balance sheet Assets (in € millions) Notes 2019 2018 Goodwill 10 2,146.4 1,492.1 Intangible assets 11 2,550.9 1,959.4 Property, plant and equipment 12 2,997.4 2,784.6 Right-of-use assets 1B & 12B 877.0 Investments in associates 13 240.3 144.2 Other equity interests 14 60.4 60.7 Other non-current financial assets 15 71.4 91.2 Other non-current assets 16 70.1 46.2 Deferred tax assets 8 468.4 355.5 TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 9,482.3 6,933.9 Inventories, net 17 1,552.8 1,431.7 Trade accounts receivables 18 2,608.9 1,947.5 Other operating receivables 19 360.4 313.8 Other receivables 20 839.2 661.5 Other current financial assets 30 1.8 1.0 Cash and cash equivalents 21 2,319.4 2,105.3 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 7,682.5 6,460.8 TOTAL ASSETS 17,164.8 13,394.7 Liabilities (in € millions) Notes 2019 2018 EQUITY Capital 22 966.3 966.3 Additional paid-in capital 632.8 632.8 Treasury stock (44.7) (51.0) Retained earnings 1,936.7 1,443.0 Translation adjustments 54.2 17.8 Net income (loss) 589.7 700.8 EQUITY ATTRIBUTABLE TO OWNERS OF THE PARENTS 4,135.0 3,709.7 Minority interests 23 326.8 361.6 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 4,461.8 4,071.3 Non-current provisions 25 461.6 393.3 Non-current financial liabilities 26 3,093.1 1,870.0 Non-current lease liabilities 1B 732.3 Other non-current liabilities 1.8 1.7 Deferred tax liabilities 8 38.7 27.3 TOTAL NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 4,327.5 2,292.3 Current provisions 24 260.4 191.4 Current financial liabilities 26 846.1 714.0 Current portion of lease liabilities 1B 173.7 Prepayments on customers contracts 665.4 605.0 Trade payables 5,316.2 4,562.6 Accrued taxes and payroll costs 27 752.8 618.0 Sundry payables 28 360.9 340.1 TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES 8,375.5 7,031.1 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 17,164.8 13,394.7 60 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements 1.1.2.3. Consolidated cash flow statement (in € millions) Notes 2019 2018 IOPERATING ACTIVITIES Operating income (before amortization of acquired intangible assets) 1,283.3 1,273.9 Depreciations and amortizations of assets 5.5 1,121.0 866.7 o/w depreciations and amortizations of R&D assets 5.4 441.9 394.8 o/w other depreciations 679.2 471.9 EBITDA 2,404.3 2,140.6 Operating current and non-current provisions (66.1) (10.7) Capital (gains) losses on disposals of operating assets 2.2 (36.0) Paid restructuring (166.3) (93.4) Paid finance costs net of income (197.1) (107.8) Other non-recurring operating income and expenses paid (35.6) (35.4) Paid taxes (295.8) (260.9) Dividends from associates 27.8 27.3 Change in working capital requirement 109.3 18.9 Change in inventories (27.0) (29.0) o/w R&D inventories increase 5.4 (228.5) (201.6) o/w R&D inventories decrease 216.3 224.7 Change in trade accounts receivables (397.5) (56.6) Change in trade payables 538.8 293.1 Change in other operating receivables and payables 73.9 28.6 Change in other receivables and payables (excl. Tax) (78.9) (217.2) CASH FLOWS PROVIDED BY (USED IN) OPERATING ACTIVITIES 1,782.8 1,642.6 IIINVESTING ACTIVITIES Additional property, plant and equipment 12 (681.8) (672.7) Additional intangible assets 11 (3.4) (0.6) Capitalized development costs 5.4 & 11 (681.2) (592.7) Acquisitions/Sales of investments and business (net of cash and cash equivalents) (1,130.3) (174.5) Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 205.8 124.8 Proceed from disposal of financial assets 0.0 0.0 Change in investment-related receivables and payables (35.2) 26.6 Other changes 53.5 (67.0) CASH FLOWS PROVIDED BY INVESTING ACTIVITIES (2,272.6) (1,356.1) CASH PROVIDED (USED) BY OPERATING AND INVESTING ACTIVITIES (I)+(II) (489.8) 286.5 IIIFINANCING ACTIVITIES Shares issued by Faurecia and fully consolidated companies (net of costs) 2.7 15.5 Dividends paid to owners of the parent company (170.2) (150.9) Dividends paid to minority interests in consolidated subsidiaries (41.6) (59.7) Acquisitions of treasury stocks (29.4) (47.8) Debt securities issued and increase in other financial liabilities 1,213.6 682.4 Repayment of debt and other financial liabilities (135.9) (163.3) Repayments on lease debts (140.1) NET CASH PROVIDED BY (USED IN) FINANCING ACTIVITIES 699.2 276.2 IVOTHER CHANGES IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 4.6 (20.5) NET INCREASE (DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 214.1 542.2 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE BEGINNING OF PERIOD 2,105.3 1,563.0 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF PERIOD 2,319.4 2,105.3 The net cash flow amounts to €587 million as of December 31, 2019. / Universal Registration Document 2019 61 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements 1.1.2.4. Consolidated statement of changes in equity Valuation adjustments Retained Actuarial earnings gain/(loss) Equity and net on post attribuAddiincome employtable to Number tional (loss) for Translation Cash ment owners of Capital paid-in Treasury the adjustflow benefit of the Minority (in € millions) shares (1) stock capital Stock period ments hedges obligations parent interests Total Shareholders’ equity as of December 31, 2017 before appropriation of net income (loss) 138,035,801 966.3 632.8 (34.2) 1,671.5 44.4 3.2 (105.4) 3,178.6 275.3 3,453.9 Net income (loss) restated 700.8 700.8 92.5 793.3 Other comprehensive income (27.3) 12.2 15.7 0.6 (3.3) (2.7) Comprehensive income 700.8 (27.3) 12.2 15.7 701.4 89.2 790.6 Capital increase 0.0 24.7 24.7 2017 dividends (150.9) (150.9) (67.6) (218.5) Measurement of stock options and shares grant (11.0) (11.0) (11.0) Purchases and sales of treasury stock (16.8) (16.8) (16.8) Changes in scope of consolidation and other 7.7 0.7 8.4 40.0 48.4 Shareholders’ equity as of December 31, 2018 before appropriation of net income (loss) 138,035,801 966.3 632.8 (51.0) 2,218.1 17.8 15.4 (89.7) 3,709.7 361.6 4,071.3 IFRS 16 First application 0.0 0.0 Shareholders’ equity as of January 1, 2019 before appropriation of net income (loss) 138,035,801 966.3 632.8 (51.0) 2,218.1 17.8 15.4 (89.7) 3,709.7 361.6 4,071.3 Net income (loss) 589.7 589.7 75.0 664.7 Other comprehensive income 35.2 (14.6) (10.8) 9.8 3.3 13.1 Comprehensive income 589.7 35.2 (14.6) (10.8) 599.5 78.3 677.8 Capital increase 0.0 0.0 2018 dividends (170.2) (170.2) (40.6) (210.8) Measurement of stock options and shares grant (16.7) (16.7) (16.7) Purchases and sales of treasury stock 6.3 6.3 6.3 Changes in scope of consolidation and other 17.0 1.2 (11.8) 6.4 (72.5) (66.1) Shareholders’ equity as of 2019 before appropriation of net income (loss) 138,035,801 966.3 632.8 (44.7) 2,637.9 54.2 0.8 (112.3) 4,135.0 326.8 4,461.8 (1) Of which 1,149,994 as of 12/31/2019 and 917,160 treasury stock as of 12/31/2018 – See Note 9. 62 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements 1.1.2.5. Notes to the consolidated financial statements NOTE 1 Summary of significant accounting NOTE 18 Trade accounts receivables 85 policies 64 NOTE 19 Other operating receivables 86 NOTE 2 Change in scope of consolidation NOTE 20 Other receivables 86 and recent events 66 NOTE 21 Cash and cash equivalents 87 NOTE 3 Post-balance sheet events 67 NOTE 22 Shareholders’ equity 87 NOTE 4 Information by operating segment 67 NOTE 23 Minority interests 89 NOTE 5 Analysis of operating expenses 71 NOTE 24 Current provisions and contingent NOTE 6 Other non recurring operating income liabilities 89 and expenses 73 NOTE 25 Non-current provisions and provisions NOTE 7 Finance costs and Other financial for pensions and other income and expenses 73 post-employment benefits 90 NOTE 8 Corporate income tax 74 NOTE 26 Net debt 95 NOTE 9 Earnings per share 76 NOTE 27 Accrued taxes and payroll costs 100 NOTE 10A Business Combination – Clarion 77 NOTE 28 Sundry payables 100 NOTE 10B Goodwill 78 NOTE 29 Financial instruments 101 NOTE 11 Intangible assets 80 NOTE 30 Hedging of currency and interest rate NOTE 12A Property, plant and equipment 81 risks 104 NOTE 12B Right-of-use assets 82 NOTE 31 Commitments given and contingent liabilities 108 NOTE 13 Investments in associates 83 NOTE 32 Related party transactions 109 NOTE 14 Other equity interests 84 NOTE 33 Fees paid to the Statutory Auditors 110 NOTE 15 Other non-current financial assets 84 NOTE 34 Information on the consolidating NOTE 16 Other non-current assets 85 company 110 NOTE 17 Inventories and work-in-progress 85 NOTE 35 Dividends 110 Faurecia S.E. and its subsidiaries (“Faurecia”) form one of the world’s leading automotive equipment suppliers in four key businesses: Seating, Interiors, Clean Mobility and Clarion Electronics. Faurecia’s registered office is located in Nanterre, in the Hauts-de-Seine department of France. The Company is listed on Euronext Paris. The consolidated financial statements were approved by Faurecia’s Board of Directors on February 14, 2020. The accounts were prepared on a going concern basis. / Universal Registration Document 2019 63 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements Note 1 Summary of significant accounting policies 1.A Accounting principles 1.B First application of IFRS 16 The consolidated financial statements of the Faurecia group Faurecia has applied the new standard IFRS 16 as of have been prepared in accordance with International January 1, 2019 relating to leases. This standard replaces IAS 17 Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) published by the IASB, as and the linked interpretations IFRIC 4, SIC 15 et SIC 27. adopted by the European Union and available on the For the lessees, the accounting is based on a single model, European Commission website. resulting from the cancellation of the distinction between These standards include International Financial Reporting operating lease and finance lease contracts. Applying IFRS 16 Standards and International Accounting Standards (IAS), as implies to account for all lease contracts in the lessee balance well as the related International Financial Reporting sheet, through an asset (representing the right to use the Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) interpretations. leased asset along the contract duration) and a liability (representing the lease future payments obligation). The standards used to prepare the 2019 consolidated financial statements and comparative data for 2018 are those Lease contracts for Faurecia are mainly for buildings and published in the Official Journal of the European Union (OJEU) which leases vary in most of the cases only based on yearly as of December 31, 2019, whose application was mandatory local revaluation index depending on the country where the at that date. contract is located. The cases in which Faurecia is a lessor directly or by sub lease are minimal and not significant. The principal accounting policies applied in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements have been consistently The main principles considered are: applied to all the years presented. ■ transition measures: Faurecia has more specifically applied the new standard ■ using the modified retrospective method (no restatement IFRS 16 on lease contracts from January 1, 2019 (see Note 1B). of 2018 comparative period), All other new standards, amendments and revisions to the existing standards, including IFRIC 23, whose application is ■ as of January 1, 2019, exemption of revaluation of mandatory from January 1, 2019, have no significant impact qualification of existing contracts; as identified under on the Group annual consolidated financial statements. IAS 17 and IFRIC 4, Moreover, Faurecia has not undertaken any early application ■ exemption of contracts with a remaining duration less of the new standards, amendments or interpretations whose than 12 months as of January 1, 2019 or which value is application is mandatory after December 31, 2019, below €5,000, irrespective of whether or not they are adopted by the ■ the lease liablility is valued at the discounted value of European Union. lease payments due as of January 1, 2019, The accounting principles applied are given in each note ■ the asset (right of use asset) at transition date is equal to hereafter. the lease liability of the lease contract, adjusted with The preparation of financial statements in accordance with leases paid in advance or due, IFRS requires the use of estimates and assumptions when ■ the discount rate used in the absence of a contract measuring certain assets, liabilities, income, expenses implicit rate is the marginal borrowing rate corresponding accounted for in the financial statements as well as for the to the duration of the lease contract, following the IFRS IC evaluation of commitments given and contingent liabilities. September 2019 decision; These estimates and assumptions are primarily used when calculating the impairment of property, plant and equipment, ■ general principles: right of use, intangible assets and goodwill, for measuring ■ exemption of contracts with a duration less than pension and other employee benefit obligations as well as for 12 months or which value is below €5,000, (corresponding lease liabilities. They are based on historical experience and lease payments are still expensed along the contract other factors that are believed to be reasonable under the lifetime), circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates and assumptions. These estimations are revised on a regular ■ the duration of a contract is equal to its non cancellable basis. duration, except if the Group is reasonably certain to exercise the renewal or cancellation options The results of the sensitivity tests carried out on the carrying contractually agreed. The IFRIS IC has published in amounts of goodwill and provisions for pensions and other December 2019 a decision on the determination of the employee benefits are provided in Notes 10 and 25.2, term of the lease and the useful life of leasehold respectively. In addition, Note 11 “Intangible Assets” describes improvements. The analysis of the impact of this decision the main assumptions used for measuring intangible assets. on current assumptions considered on commercial leases in France (3/6/9 years) is on going in order to implement this decision as soon as possible, 64 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements ■ as long as the contract implicit rate can’t be easily The lease liability amounts to €725.8 million as of January 1, determined, the discount rate used is the marginal 2019; this amount has been re valued in comparison to the borrowing rate corresponding to the duration of the lease amount published in the 2019 half year financial statements to contract, determined based on the lessee and duration comply with the IFRS IC September 2019 decision on interest concerned, following the IFRS IC September 2019 rates; the average discount rate of the lease liability as of decision, January 1, 2019 is at 5.9%; the variance with the off balance sheet commitments for leases as of December 31, 2018 of ■ as of the effective date (date at which the leased asset is €870.4 million can be analyzed as follows: made available by the lessor), lease contracts as defined per IFRS 16 are accounted for: (in € millions) ■ as fixed assets (right of use) for the amount of the lease Off balance sheet commitments liability, increased by advanced payments made to for leases as of December 31, 2018 870.4 lessor, initial costs incurred, as well as estimated dismantling or refurbishment costs that would be paid Finance lease liabilities 11.0 by Faurecia based on contractual terms if needed, Exempted contracts (duration below and 12 months and low value) (32.6) ■ as lease liability for the amount of discounted lease Duration and additional contracts 62.0 payment over the contract duration as defined above, Discount impact (185.0) using the discount rate defined above, LEASE LIABILITY AS OF 01/01/2019 725.8 ■ these right of use are depreciated on a linear basis, on the contract duration or by exception on the utility duration, if this one is shorter or if the contract transfers to the lessee the asset property or if a purchase option 1.C Consolidation principles exists which is reasonably certain to be exercised by Faurecia, Companies over which the Group exercises significant influence and which are at least 20%-owned are consolidated ■ cash flows related to the sale and lease back when one or more of the following criteria are met: annual operations are included in the cash flows provided by sales of over €20 million, total assets of over €20 million, and investing activities. debt of over €5 million. Non-consolidated companies are not material, either IMPACT OF THE FIRST APPLICATION OF IFRS 16 individually or in the aggregate. The main impacts on the consolidated financial statements of Subsidiaries controlled by the Group are fully consolidated. the period are the following: Control is presumed to exist when the Group holds more than 50% of a company’s voting rights, and may also arise as a ■ consolidated statement of comprehensive income: result of shareholders’ agreements. ■ operating income (before depreciation of acquired Subsidiaries are fully consolidated as of the date on which intangible assets): €28.5 million, control is transferred to the Group. They are no longer ■ finance costs (finance costs on lease liabilities): consolidated as of the date that control ceases. €-45.4 million; Companies over which the Group exercises significant ■ consolidated balance sheet: influence but not control, generally through a shareholding representing between 20% and 50% of the voting rights, are ■ assets: right of use for €877.0 million, accounted for by the equity method. There is no joint ■ liabilities: operation in the sense of IFRS 11 within the companies consolidated by equity method. ■ non current lease liability for €732.3 million, The Faurecia group’s financial statements are presented in ■ current lease liability for €173.7 million; euros. Except if specifically specified, amounts are in millions of ■ consolidated cash flow statement: euros; generally, amounts presented are rounded to the closest unit; consequently, the sum of rounded amounts can ■ cash flow on operating activities for €+140.1 million, present non significant differences to the reported total. ■ cash flow on financing activities (flow of lease liabilities Moreover, ratios and variances reported are computed with repayment) for €-140.1 million. the detailed amounts and not with the rounded amounts. / Universal Registration Document 2019 65 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements The functional currency of foreign subsidiaries is generally their IAS 21. This is applied in 2018 and 2019 to Group affiliates in local currency. The assets and liabilities of these companies Argentina. are translated into euros at the year-end exchange rate and However certain companies located outside the euro or the income statement items are translated at the average US-dollar zone and which carry out the majority of their exchange rate for the year. The resulting foreign exchange transactions in euros or US dollars may, however, use euros or gains and losses are recorded in equity. US dollars as their functional currency. Balance sheets and net income of Group entities active in All material inter-company transactions are eliminated in hyperinflation economies are restated to take into account consolidation, including inter-company gains. the changes in purchasing power of the local currencies using the official indexes at closing date. They are then translated in The accounting policies of subsidiaries and companies euros using the exchange rate of the closing date; without accounted for by the equity method are not significantly restatement of comparative periods in accordance with different from those applied by the Group. Note 2 Change in scope of consolidation and recent events 2.1 Change in scope of consolidation 2.2 Reminder of change in scope of in 2019 consolidation introduced in 2018 Clarion has been acquired in March 2019 and integrated in Within the Seating consolidation scope in China, the company the new Clarion electronics perimeter (see Note 10A). In the Shenzen Faurecia Automotive Parts Co., Ltd has been same perimeter, the remaining shares of Coagent (49%) has acquired at 70% and is fully consolidated since March 2018. been acquired in June 2019. Following the United States decision of May 8, 2018 and related restrictions imposed on business with Iran, the 51% Within the Seating consolidation scope, in the United States, interest held by Faurecia in Faurecia Azin Pars have been sold the company Total Network Manufacturing has been and all related assets have been impaired in 2018 (see acquired at 49% and is consolidated by equity method since Note 6). January 2019. In Mexico, the company Steva Mexico SLP S.A. de CV has been acquired at 49% and is consolidated by Within Interiors, in China, Faurecia consolidates since equity method since February 2019. In China, the company January 1, 2018, using the full consolidation method, Coagent Chengdu Faurecia Xuyang Automotive Seat Co., Ltd has of which the main company is Faurecia Coagent Electronics been created in September 2019, it is held at 60% and fully S&T Co., Ltd, held at 50.1%. Moreover, in China, the consolidated. companies Faurecia (Liuzhou) Automotive Interior Systems Co., Ltd and Faurecia (Hangzhou) Automotive Systems For Interiors, In China, the company Faurecia (Chongqing) Co., Ltd have been created in February 2018, and are held Automotive Parts Company Ltd has been sold fully in July 2019 respectively at 50% and 100%. These companies are fully and following the acquisition of the remaining shares of consolidated. The company Chongqing Zhuotong Automotive Zheijiang Faurecia Interior and Exterior Systems Company Ltd, Interior Systems has been also created in August 2018, and it is this company, previously consolidated by equity method is held at 50%. This company is fully consolidated. In the United now fully consolidated since October 2019 as in the same time States, Faurecia share in DMS companies, consolidated by the shares of Xiangtan Faurecia Limin Interior and Exterior equity method, is now at 49%. Finally, Faurecia acquired, in Systems Company Ltd and of Lanzhou Faurecia Limin Interior & September 2018, the remaining part (80%) of Parrot Faurecia Exterior Systems Company Ltd, consolidated by equity Automotive, previously held at 20% and consolidated by method, have been sold in October 2019. equity method. Parrot Faurecia Automotive is now fully Within the Clean Mobility perimeter, the company Faurecia consolidated with its two chinese subsidiaries. (Liuzhou) Emissions Control Technologies Co., Ltd has been Within the Clean Mobility perimeter, Faurecia has acquired created in March 2019, it is held at 50% and consolidated by 100% of the company Hug Engineering AG, based in equity method. The company Amminex, held at 91.5%, is fully Switzerland, and its commercial subsidiaries. This company is consolidated since January 2019. The company Symbio, in fully consolidated since March 1, 2018. Moreover, Faurecia has France, is held at 50% and consolidated by equity method created the company Hongtai Faurecia Composite (Wuhan) since December 2019. Co., Ltd, held at 50% and consolidated by equity method The companies Covatech Automotive Technologies, based in since April 1, 2018. Taiwan, acquired at 82% and fully consolidated since March 2019 and Creo acquired in Sweden at 72% and fully consolidated since April 2019, initially allocated to Interiors, are now integrated into the Clarion Electronics perimeter. 66 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements 2.3 Recent events Following approval from the appropriate regulatory bodies in Uncertainly remains in China over the current health concerns. January 2020, Faurecia has completed on January 30, 2020 At this stage, the impact on the activity is difficult to assess, the the acquisition of the remaining 50% of SAS from Continental, progressive start up of production is done in link with the a project that was announced on October 14, 2019. SAS is a customers and the Chinese authorities; the Group is taking the key player in complex interior module assembly and logistics appropriate measures for its employees and to cover with sales of around €740 million in 2019 and employing customers’ requirements. around 4,490 people. Note 3 Post-balance sheet events No significant post-balance sheet events have occurred apart from the events described in 2.3. Note 4 Information by operating segment Following the acquisition of Clarion in March 2019, (see 2.1), serial production starts. Development costs are generally the Group is now structured into four business units based on recognized as set up costs for the serial parts production and the nature of the products and services offered: capitalized, they are then not considered as a revenue distinct from product sales, except specific cases depending ■ Seating (design and manufacture of complete vehicle on the contract with the customer. seats, seating frames and adjustment mechanisms); Faurecia operates as an agent for monoliths sales, these sales ■ Interiors (design and manufacture of instrument panels, are then recorded at net value in the income. complete cockpits, door panels and modules, and acoustic systems); Operating margin (before amortization of acquired intangible assets) is the Faurecia group’s principal performance ■ Clean Mobility (design and manufacture of exhaust indicator. It corresponds to net income of the fully systems); consolidated companies before: ■ Clarion Electronics (Smart cockpit electronics & software ■ the amortization of intangible assets acquired in business integration), integrating Clarion, Parrot and Coagent combinations (customer relationship…); activities (the lasts being part of Interiors in 2018). 2018 figures have been restated accordingly. ■ other non-recurring operating income and expenses, corresponding to material, unusual and non-recurring items These business units are managed by the Group on an including reorganization costs and early retirement costs, independent basis in terms of reviewing their individual the impact of exceptional events such as the performance and allocating resources. The tables below show discontinuation of a business, the closure of an industrial site, reconciliation between the indicators used to measure the disposals of non-operating buildings, impairment losses and performance of each segment –notably operating income reversals recorded for property, plant and equipment or (before amortization of acquired intangible assets)– and the intangible assets, as well as other material and unusual consolidated financial statements. Borrowings, other operating losses; income and expense, financial income and expenses, and taxes are monitored at the Group level and are not allocated ■ income on loans, cash investments and marketable to the various segments. securities; ■ finance costs, including finance costs on lease liabilities; 4.1 Accounting principles ■ other financial income and expenses, which include the impact of discounting the pension benefit obligation and Revenue on parts is recognized when the control is transferred the return on related plan assets, the ineffective portion of to the customer, incidental to ownership of the modules or interest rate and currency hedges, changes in value of parts produced. This generally corresponds to when the goods interest rate and currency instruments for which the hedging are shipped. relationship does not satisfy the criteria set forth in IFRS 9, Revenue on tooling is generally recognized at the transfer of and gains and losses on sales of shares in subsidiaries; control of these toolings to the customer, usually shortly before ■ taxes. / Universal Registration Document 2019 67 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements 4.2 Key figures by operating segment 2019 Clean Clarion (in € millions) Seating Interiors Mobility Electronics Other Total TOTAL SALES 7,029.1 5,389.1 4,655.0 774.8 148.4 17,996.3 Inter-segment eliminations (55.9) (18.9) (1.5) (3.4) (148.4) (228.0) Consolidated sales 6,973.3 5,370.2 4,653.5 771.4 0.0 17,768.3 Operating income (before amortization of acquired intangible assets) 453.1 293.6 524.6 11.9 0.0 1,283.3 Amortization of intangible assets acquired in business combinations (56.4) Operating income (after amortization of acquired intangible assets) 1,226.9 Other non recurring operating income 2.5 Other non recurring operating expenses (216.3) Finance costs, net (179.0) Other financial income and expenses (40.4) Corporate income tax (166.8) Share of net income of associates 37.8 NET INCOME (LOSS) 664.7 Segment assets 4,041.9 3,449.3 4,374.5 1,647.0 243.3 13,755.9 Net property, plant and equipment 824.5 953.6 997.3 168.5 53.6 2,997.4 Right-of-use assets 210.5 314.8 224.4 37.6 89.6 877.0 Other segment assets 3,006.9 2,180.9 3,152.7 1,440.9 100.1 9,881.5 Investments in associates 240.3 Other equity interests 60.4 Short and long-term financial assets 2,441.1 Tax assets (current and deferred) 667.1 TOTAL ASSETS 17,164.8 Segment liabilities 2,142.3 2,047.7 2,900.5 549.6 155.5 7,795.5 Borrowings 3,939.2 Lease liabilities 906.0 Tax liabilities (current and deferred) 62.3 Equity and minority interests 4,461.8 TOTAL LIABILITIES 17,164.8 Capital expenditure 195.1 222.8 206.1 29.1 27.5 680.6 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (138.2) (165.7) (153.7) (28.9) (5.2) (491.7) Depreciation of Right-of-use assets (47.6) (39.4) (54.6) (3.8) (11.7) (157.0) Impairment of property, plant and equipment (1.8) (5.8) (5.1) (3.1) (0.0) (15.8) Headcounts 44,742 37,367 23,211 7,325 2,851 115,496 68 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements 2018 Clean Clarion (in € millions) Seating Interiors Mobility Electronics Other Total TOTAL SALES 7,491.5 5,380.1 4,617.3 109.2 128.4 17,726.5 Inter-segment eliminations (53.6) (17.5) (2.2) (0.1) (128.4) (201.8) Consolidated sales 7,437.9 5,362.6 4,615.1 109.1 0.0 17,524.7 Operating income (before amortization of acquired intangible assets) 448.5 325.3 499.8 0.3 0.0 1,273.9 Amortization of intangible assets acquired in business combinations (10.9) Operating income (after amortization of acquired intangible assets) 1,263.0 Other non recurring operating income 2.9 Other non recurring operating expenses (150.2) Finance costs, net (108.1) Other financial income and expenses (55.7) Corporate income tax (190.0) Share of net income of associates 31.4 NET INCOME (LOSS) 793.3 Segment assets 3,730.6 2,699.4 3,390.9 420.8 172.9 10,414.7 Net property, plant and equipment 791.6 950.2 951.7 32.2 58.9 2,784.6 Other segment assets 2,939.0 1,749.2 2,439.2 388.7 114.0 7,630.1 Investments in associates 144.2 Other equity interests 60.7 Short and long-term financial assets 2,255.9 Tax assets (current and deferred) 519.2 TOTAL ASSETS 13,394.7 Segment liabilities 2,143.2 1,770.6 2,419.3 90.5 228.5 6,652.1 Borrowings 2,584.0 Tax liabilities (current and deferred) 87.3 Equity and minority interests 4,071.3 TOTAL LIABILITIES 13,394.7 Capital expenditure 218.5 218.1 204.2 6.6 25.4 672.8 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (132.4) (160.4) (139.5) (2.7) (6.2) (441.2) Impairment of property, plant and equipment (0.1) (2.6) (0.4) 0.0 0.0 (3.1) Headcounts 47,279 38,864 24,278 1,572 2,700 114,693 / Universal Registration Document 2019 69 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements 4.3 Sales by operating segment by operating segment break down as follows: 2019 2018 Consolidated Consolidated (in € millions) Sales % Sales % Seating 6,973.3 39 7,437.9 42 Interiors 5,370.2 30 5,362.6 31 Clean Mobility 4,653.5 26 4,615.1 26 Clarion Electronics 771.4 4 109.1 1 TOTAL 17,768.3 100 17,524.7 100 4.4 Sales by major customer Sales* by major customer break down as follows: 2019 2018 Consolidated Consolidated (in € millions) Sales % Sales % VW Group 2,452.0 14 2,531.7 14 Ford Group 2,289.4 13 2,494.8 14 PSA Peugeot Citroën 2,075.8 12 2,182.6 12 Renault-Nissan 1,862.1 10 1,681.6 10 GM 878.8 5 826.8 5 BMW 563.4 3 730.0 4 Daimler 526.8 3 816.3 5 Others 7,120.1 40 6,261.0 36 TOTAL 17,768.3 100 17,524.7 100 * The presentation of sales invoiced may differ from that of sales by end customer when products are transferred to intermediary assembly companies. 4.5 Key figures by geographic area Sales are broken down by destination region. Other items are presented by the region where the companies involved operate: 2019 Other European North South Other (in € millions) France Germany countries America America Asia countries Total Consolidated Sales 2,883.2 1,212.1 4,546.1 4,483.4 696.3 3,766.0 181.1 17,768.3 Net property, plant and equipment 372.1 111.1 895.7 734.7 117.4 742.2 24.3 2,997.4 Right-of-us assets 153.5 39.0 257.5 266.7 6.7 145.3 8.3 877.0 Capital expenditure 140.9 19.5 186.1 179.7 15.5 133.2 5.8 680.6 Headcounts as of December 31 13,306 5,787 41,419 20,574 5,187 27,842 1,381 115,496 70 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements 2018 Other European North South Other (in € millions) France Germany countries America America Asia countries Total Consolidated Sales 2,181.3 2,049.8 4,569.7 4,482.2 738.2 3,240.0 263.5 17,524.7 Net property, plant and equipment 341.3 129.0 845.1 653.4 122.2 671.2 22.4 2,784.6 Capital expenditure 99.7 22.5 211.3 166.8 14.9 154.8 2.8 672.8 Headcounts as of December 31 13,831 6,474 40,489 20,996 5,729 25,753 1,421 114,693 Note 5 Analysis of operating expenses 5.1 Analysis of operating expenses by function (in € millions) 2019 2018 (1) Cost of sales (15,286.5) (15,248.8) Research and development costs (2) (420.0) (298.8) Selling and administrative expenses (778.5) (703.2) TOTAL (16,485.0) (16,250.8) (1) Includes in 2019 the gain on sales and lease backs on operational assets for €6.8 million and in 2018 the gain on sales and lease backs on operational assets for €24 million and expenses linked to an industrial reorganization following the sale of Automotive Exterior business and a new organization for painting lines for €28 million. (2) Includes in 2018 the gain on sales and lease backs on operational assets for €18 million. 5.2 Analysis of operating expenses by nature (in € millions) 2019 2018 Purchases consumed (10,277.1) (10,389.5) External costs (1,915.7) (2,010.0) Personnel costs (3,861.6) (3,705.7) Taxes other than on income (53.9) (48.7) Other income and expenses 708.9 756.7 Depreciation, amortization and provisions for impairment in value of non-current assets (1,121.0) (866.7) Charges to and reversals of provisions 35.4 13.1 TOTAL (16,485.0) (16,250.8) The CICE (Crédit d’Impôt pour la Compétitivité et l’Emploi) has been replaced in 2019 by social charges reductions; it was allocated to personnel costs for €12.6 million for the full year 2018. / Universal Registration Document 2019 71 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements 5.3 Personnel costs (in € millions) 2019 2018 Wages and salaries* (3,077.5) (2,942.8) Payroll taxes (784.1) (762.9) TOTAL (3,861.6) (3,705.7) * Of which temporary employee costs. (325.7) (334.4) Details of expenses relating to the Group’s free shares plans and pension costs are provided in Notes 22.2 and 25, respectively. 5.4 Research and development costs (in € millions) 2019 2018 Research and development costs, gross (1,329.7) (1,093.1) Capitalized development costs 909.7 794.3 of which in inventory 228.5 201.6 of which in intangible assets 681.2 592.7 TOTAL (420.0) (298.8) Development costs are usually capitalized in intangible assets progress and are capitalized in inventory. These inventories are as they are considered as set up costs for the serial parts then expensed (cost of sales) when the corresponding production, and then amortized to match the quantities of revenue is recognized. parts delivered to the customer, over a period not exceeding The development costs recognized in the cost of sales (stock five years except under exceptional circumstances. For some decrease and R&D assets depreciation) amount to specific contracts where the developments works are a €658.2 million as of December 31, 2019, vs €619.6 million as of separate performance obligation under IFRS 15 the December 31, 2018. corresponding costs comply with the definition of work in 5.5 Depreciation, amortization and provisions for impairment in value of non-current assets (in € millions) 2019 2018 Amortization of capitalized development costs (437.8) (398.6) Provisions for impairment of capitalized development costs (4.1) 3.8 Amortization of other intangible assets (35.9) (31.5) Depreciation of specific tooling (11.0) (12.8) Depreciation and impairment of other property, plant and equipment (475.2) (427.6) Depreciation of right-of-use assets (157.0) TOTAL (1,121.0) (866.7) This table does not include allowances and reversals of provision for non-recurring items. 72 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements Note 6 Other non recurring operating income and expenses Other non recurring operating income and expenses are analyzed as follows: OTHER NON RECURRING OPERATING INCOME (in € millions) 2019 2018 Release of provision for impairment of assets 0.7 0.0 Gain on disposals of assets 0.7 1.8 Others 1.1 1.1 TOTAL 2.5 2.9 OTHER NON RECURRING OPERATING EXPENSES (in € millions) 2019 2018 Other provisions for impairment of assets 0.0 (3.4) (1) Reorganization expenses (193.9) (100.8) Losses on disposal of assets 0.0 0.0 (2) (3) Others (22.4) (46.0) TOTAL (216.3) (150.2) (1) As of December 31, 2019, this item includes restructuring costs in the amount of €170.4 million and provisions for impairment in value of non-current assets in the amount of €23.5 million and versus respectively, €97.8 million and €3 million as of December 31, 2018. (2) Of which €16.9 million relating to the end of business with Iran as of December 31, 2018 (see Note 2.2). (3) Of which €16.2 million relating to the acquisition of Clarion for the first half 2019 (see Note 10A). RESTRUCTURING Reorganization costs (€193.9 million) include redundancy and site relocation payments for 5,713 people. Note 7 Finance costs and Other financial income and expenses 7.1 Finance costs (in € millions) 2019 2018 Finance costs (152.2) (117.7) Finance costs on leases (45.5) N/A TOTAL (197.7) (117.7) / Universal Registration Document 2019 73 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements 7.2 Other financial income and expenses (in € millions) 2019 2018 Impact of discounting pension benefit obligations (8.3) (6.6) Changes in the ineffective portion of currency hedges (3.4) (1.9) Changes in fair value of currency hedged relating to debt 0.6 (5.6) Foreign exchange gains and losses on borrowings (1.3) (6.0) Hyperinflation impact (Argentina) 0.3 (5.7) Others* (28.3) (29.9) TOTAL (40.4) (55.7) * As of December 31, 2019, this item includes amortization of costs related to bonds and other long-term debts, commissions for non-use of the credit facility and depreciation of loans to non consolidated entities. Note 8 Corporate income tax Deferred taxes are recognized using the liability method for differences or the loss carry forward can be used based on temporary differences arising between the tax bases for assets the Group’s strategic plan. and liabilities and their carrying amounts on the consolidated Deferred tax liabilities are accounted for every taxable financial statements. Temporary differences mainly arise from temporary differences in relation with investment in tax loss carryforwards and consolidation adjustments to subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates unless the Group has subsidiaries’ accounts. the capacity to control the timing of the reversal of temporary Deferred taxes are measured using tax rates (and laws) that differences and if it is probable that they will not be reversed in have been enacted or substantially enacted at the balance a predictable future. sheet date. In compliance with IFRIC 23, accruals for risk on income tax Deferred income tax assets are recognized only to the extent are part of the income tax within the statement of that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available in comprehensive income and of income tax payables within the short or medium term against which the temporary the balance sheet (Note 28). Corporate income tax can be analyzed as follows: (in € millions) 2019 2018 Current taxes ■ Current corporate income tax (243.3) (302.7) Deferred taxes ■ Deferred taxes for the period 76.5 112.7 TOTAL (166.8) (190.0) 8.1 Analysis of the tax charge The effective corporate income tax charge can be reconciled with the theoretical tax charge as follows: (in € millions) 2019 2018 Pre-tax income of consolidated companies 793.7 951.9 Theoretical Tax (34.43%) (273.3) (327.7) Effect of rate changes on deferred taxes recognized on the balance sheet 15.6 (2.8) Effect of local rate differences* 68.7 80.0 Tax credits 6.7 0.5 Change in unrecognized deferred tax 23.4 93.8 Permanent differences & others** (7.9) (33.8) Corporate tax recognized (166.8) (190.0) * The impact of local rate differences mainly relates to Chinese entities. ** Mainly due to withholding tax in 2019 and in 2018. 74 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements The 2019 tax expense includes the recognition of a €34.2 million deferred tax assets in Germany, made possible by the continuous improvement of the Group taxable income in this country and based on the Group strategic plan 2020-2022. 8.2 Analysis of tax assets and liabilities (in € millions) 2019 2018 Current taxes ■ Assets 198.7 163.7 ■ Liabilities (73.0) (60.0) 125.7 103.7 Deferred taxes ■ Assets* 468.4 355.5 ■ Liabilities (38.7) (27.3) 429.7 328.2 * Of which tax assets on tax losses. 155.9 138.6 The assessment of the ability to recover net deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2019 (€429.7 million) is based on the Group’s 2020-2022 strategic plan for the long-term recovery of tax losses. Changes in deferred taxes recorded on the balance sheet break down as follows: (in € millions) 2019 2018 Amount as at the beginning of the year 328.2 228.3 ■ Deferred taxes carried to net income for the period 76.5 112.7 ■ Deferred taxes recognized directly in equity* 15.9 (2.3) ■ Effect of currency fluctuations and other movements 9.1 (10.5) Amount at the end of the year 429.7 328.2 * Mainly related to actuarial gains and losses directly recognized in equity. 8.3 Deferred tax assets and liabilities by nature (in € millions) 2019 2018 Tax asset carryforwards 155.9 138.6 Intangible assets (463.8) (367.0) Other tangible assets and long term assets 338.3 234.3 Pensions 89.6 66.0 Other reserves 29.3 11.5 Stocks 129.3 97.6 Other working capital 151.1 147.2 TOTAL 429.7 328.2 of which deferred tax assets 468.4 355.5 of which deferred tax liabilities (38.7) (27.3) / Universal Registration Document 2019 75 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements 8.4 Impairment of tax asset carryforwards The ageing of impaired tax asset carryforward is detailed as follows: (in € millions) 2019 2018 N+1 10.3 11.7 N+2 12.1 11.4 N+3 10.8 15.5 N+4 11.3 5.1 N+5 and above 51.6 21.4 Unlimited 481.8 499.6 TOTAL 577.9 564.7 These impaired deferred income tax assets on loss carry forwards are mainly located in France. Note 9 Earnings per share Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing net attributable to owners of the parent and the weighted income attributable to owners of the parent by the weighted average number of shares outstanding for the effects of all average number of shares outstanding during the year, dilutive potential ordinary shares (including stock options, free excluding treasury stock. For the purpose of calculating shares and convertible bonds). diluted earnings per share, the Group adjusts net income 2019 2018 Number of shares outstanding at year-end (1) 138,035,801 138,035,801 Adjustments: ■ treasury stock (1,149,994) (917,160) ■ weighted impact of share issue prorated 0 0 Weighted average number of shares before dilution 136,885,807 137,118,641 Weighted impact of dilutive instruments: ■ stock options (2) 0 0 ■ free shares attributed 642,747 610,752 ■ bonds with conversion option 0 0 Weighted average number of shares after dilution 137,528,554 137,729,393 (1) Changes in the number of shares outstanding as of December 31, 2019, are analyzed as follows: As of December 31, 2018: Number of Faurecia shares outstanding 138,035,801 Exercise of stock options 0 As of December 31, 2019: Number of Faurecia shares outstanding 138,035,801 (2) As of December 31, 2019, no stock options were still outstanding. 76 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements The dilutive impact of the bonds was calculated using the The potentially dilutive impact of free shares is taken into treasury stock method. account considering the number of shares to be distributed for the plans of which the realization of the performance In relation to stock options, this method consists of comparing conditions has already been stated by the Board. the number of shares that would have been issued if all outstanding stock options had been exercised to the number of shares that could have been acquired at fair value. Earnings per share Earnings per share break down as follows: 2019 2018 Net Income (loss) (in € millions) 589.7 700.8 Basic earnings (loss) per share 4.31 5.11 After dilution 4.29 5.09 Note 10A Business Combination – Clarion Faurecia, through its subsidiary Hennape Six SAS, has reached and image treatment, which are at the heart of its strategy for on October 26, 2018 binding agreements with Clarion and Sustainable Mobility and Cockpit of the Future. Hitachi, the controlling shareholder owning 63.8% of Clarion, This business combination was accounted for provisionally at for a tender offer to acquire 100% of the shares of Clarion, December 31, 2019 as the fair values assigned to the listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, for a price of ¥2,500 per identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed and the Clarion share. The tender offer has been authorized by related goodwill may be amended within the one-year period antitrust authorities. Clarion shareholders have tendered 95.2% following the March 2019 acquisition date. The purchase price of their shares to the offer launched on January 30, 2019. The allocation is being finalized; as of December 31, 2019, out of tender offer, closed on February 28, 2019, has been followed the initial purchase price of €1,099.4 million; €495.6 million has by a squeeze out at the end of which Hennape Six SAS has been allocated to the net assets acquired, specifically to acquired on March 28, 2019 the remaining Clarion shares customer relationships for €185 million and to technologies for (excluding treasury shares) which have been paid in July 2019. €125 million and €603.9 million to the goodwill. A portion of this This acquisition has been financed through the issuance by goodwill has been reallocated for €75 million to the other Faurecia S.E. in December 2018 of a €700 million activities of the Group as synergies linked to this acquisition. Schuldscheindarlehen and a €500 million bridge loan. Clarion’s accounts have been included in the consolidated Faurecia S.E. has successfully issued on March 27, financial statements since April 1, 2019. Clarion’s total 2019 €500 million of senior notes due 2026 at 3.125% to contribution to Faurecia’s consolidated revenue and refinance the bridge loan. operating income (before depreciation of acquired intangible Faurecia thus acquires key competencies in electronics, assets) was respectively €586.3 million and €17.6 million for the software, full digital audio systems, human-machine interface year 2019. / Universal Registration Document 2019 77 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements The table below shows a breakdown of Clarion’s net assets acquired by Faurecia: (in € millions) Fair Values Intangible assets 393.0 Property, plant and equipment 245.8 Right-of-use assets 6.8 Other non current assets 18.4 TOTAL NON CURRENT ASSETS 664.0 Inventories, net 84.1 Trade accounts receivable 241.8 Other Current assets 164.9 Cash & cash equivalent 134.4 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 625.2 TOTAL ASSETS 1,289.2 Non controlling interests 0.2 Long term provisions and non current liabilities 51.6 Non current financial liabilities 119.0 Non current lease liabilities 7.0 TOTAL NON CURRENT LIABILITIES 177.8 Trade payables 202.0 Current provisions 103.2 Current liabilities 196.4 Current financial liabilities 113.9 Current portion of lease liabilities 0.3 TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES 615.8 TOTAL LIABILITIES 793.6 Net acquired assets 495.6 Goodwill 603.9 Acquisition cost 1,099.4 Note 10B Goodwill In case of a business combination, the aggregate value of the The CGU to which goodwill is allocated represents the level acquisition is allocated to the identifiable assets acquired and within the operating segment at which goodwill is monitored liabilities assumed based on their fair value determined at their for internal management purposes. The Group has identified acquisition date. the following CGUs: A goodwill is recognized when the aggregate of the ■ Seating; consideration transferred and the amount of any ■ Interiors; non-controlling interest in the acquiree exceed the net of the acquisition-date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired ■ Clean Mobility; and the liabilities assumed. In accordance with IAS 36, ■ Clarion Electronics. goodwill is not amortized but is tested for impairment at least once a year and more often if there is an indication that it The carrying amount of assets and liabilities thus grouped is may be impaired. For the purpose of impairment testing, compared to the higher of its market value and value in use, goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units (CGUs). A CGU which is equal to the present value of the net future cash flows is defined as the smallest identifiable group of assets that expected, and their net market value including costs of generates cash inflows that are largely independent of the disposal. cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets. 78 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements (in € millions) Gross Impairment Net Amount as of January 1, 2018 1,726.9 (510.8) 1,216.1 Acquisitions 269.5 0.0 269.5 Translation adjustments and other movements 6.4 0.1 6.5 Amount as of December 31, 2018 2,002.8 (510.7) 1,492.1 Acquisitions 651.8 0.0 651.8 Translation adjustments and other movements 2.5 0.0 2.5 Amount as of December 31, 2019 2,657.1 (510.7) 2,146.4 Breakdown of the net amount of goodwill by operating segment: (in € millions) 2019 2018 Seating 850.4 842.9 Interiors 295.2 271.8 Clean Mobility 464.9 377.4 Clarion Electronics* 535.9 TOTAL 2,146.4 1,492.1 * See Note 10.A. Cash-generating units and impairment Within the frame of the impairment tests of goodwill and group of CGUs as defined in Note 10B, the cash flow forecasts used tests to calculate value in use were based on the Group’s Impairment tests are carried out whenever there is an 2020-2022 strategic plan which was drafted in mid-2019. The indication that an asset may be impaired. Impairment testing volume assumptions used in the strategic plan are based on consists of comparing the carrying amount of an asset, or external information sources. In order to take into account the group of assets, with the higher of its market value and value development plan for Clarion Electronics following the in use. Value in use is defined as the present value of the net acquisition of Clarion in 2019, having as priorities to accelerate future cash flows expected to be derived from an asset or the growth on four product lines and an agressive roadmap group of assets. for cost competitiveness, the cash flow forecasts used for this activity are based on forecasts for the period 2020-2025. The assets are grouped at the lowest levels for which there are separately identifiable cash flows (cash-generating units, or The main assumption affecting value in use is the level of CGUs). operating income used to calculate future cash flows and particularly the terminal value. The operating margin Impairment tests are performed on each group of intangible assumption for 2022 is the range of 8% of sales for the Group as assets (development costs) and property, plant and a whole. equipment attributable to a customer contract. This is done by comparing the aggregate carrying amount of the group of Projected cash flows for the last year of the Strategic Business assets concerned with the present value of the expected net Plan (2022) have been projected to infinity by applying a future cash flows to be derived from the contract. growth rate determined based on analysts’ trend forecasts for the automotive market. The growth rate applied for the An impairment loss is recorded when the assets’ carrying year-end 2019 test was 1.4% (1.4% applied for 2018), except for amount is higher than the present value of the expected net Clarion Electronics for which 2% has been considered. future cash flows. A provision is then ecorded for losses to completion on loss-making contracts in compliance with Faurecia called on an independent expert to calculate the IAS 37. weighted average cost of capital used to discount future cash flows. The market parameters used in the expert’s calculation In case of a triggering event, impairment testing is also carried were based on a sample of 18 companies operating in the out on general and corporate assets grouped primarily by automotive supplier sector. Taking into account these type of product and geographic area. parameters and a market risk premium of 7.3% on average, The cash inflows generated by the assets allocated to these the weighted cost of capital used to discount future cash CGUs are largely interdependent due to the high overlap flows was set at 9% (on the basis of a range of values provided among various manufacturing flows, optimization of capacity by the independent expert) in 2019 (9% in 2018). This rate was utilization, and centralization of research and development applied for the impairment tests carried out on all of the activities. groups of CGUs. They all bear the same specific risks relating to the automotive supplier sector and the CGUs multinational Manufacturing assets whose closure is planned are tested operation does not justify using geographically different independently for impairment. discount rates except for Clarion Electronics, for which a / Universal Registration Document 2019 79 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements discount rate of 8% has been considered to take into account The table below shows the sensitivity of the impairment test a slightly different country exposure. results to changes in the assumptions used at year-end 2019 to determine the value in use of the CGUs groups to which the The tests performed at year-end 2019 did not show any Group’s goodwill is allocated: indication of further impairment in goodwill. Test income Operating (value in use Cash flow margin rate for net carrying discount rate Growth rate to terminal value Combination of Sensitivity (in € millions) value) +0.5 pt infinity -0.5 pt -0.5 pt the 3 factors Seating 3,174 (348) (312) (318) (898) Interiors 1,522 (225) (202) (218) (591) Clean Mobility 3,250 (345) (312) (201) (793) Clarion Electronics 109 (144) (117) (103) (324) Note 11 Intangible assets A. Research and development ■ its ability to reliably measure the expenditure attributable to the contracts concerned (costs to completion). expenditure These capitalized costs are amortized to match the quantities The Faurecia group incurs certain development costs in of parts delivered to the customer, over a period not connection with producing and delivering modules for exceeding five years except under exceptional specific customer orders which are considered as set up costs circumstances. for the serial parts production and capitalized. Research costs, and development costs that do not meet the In accordance with IAS 38, these development costs are above criteria, are expensed as incurred. recorded as an intangible asset where the Company concerned can demonstrate: ■ its intention to complete the project as well as the B. Other intangible assets availability of adequate technical and financial resources Other intangible assets include development and purchase to do so; costs relating to software used within the Group –which are ■ how the customer contract will generate probable future amortized on a straight-line basis over a period of between economic benefits and the Company’s ability to measure one and three years– as well as patents and licenses, and the these reliably; intangible assets acquired in business combinations (customer relationship…); these assets are amortized on the corresponding contracts duration. Intangible assets break down as follows: Development Software Intangible (in € millions) costs and other assets acquired Total AMOUNT AS OF JANUARY 1, 2018 1,567.8 63.9 3.0 1,634.7 Additions 596.0 0.6 0.0 596.6 Depreciation and amortization (398.6) (31.5) (10.9) (441.0) Funding of provisions 3.8 0.0 0.0 3.8 Translation adjustments and other 14.4 26.0 124.9 165.3 AMOUNT AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018 1,783.4 59.0 117.0 1,959.4 Additions 683.6 3.4 0.1 687.0 Depreciation and amortization (437.8) (35.9) (56.4) (530.1) Funding of provisions (4.0) 0.0 0.0 (4.0) Translation adjustments and other 28.4 48.9 361.3 438.6 AMOUNT AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 2,053.7 75.3 422.0 2,550.9 80 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements The book value of development costs allocated to a customer possible estimate of future sales. The volumes taken into contract as well as the associated specific tooling is account in Faurecia’s Business Plans are the best estimates by compared to the present value of the expected net future the Group’s Marketing department based on automakers’ cash flows to be derived from the contract based on the best forecasts when available. Note 12A Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment are stated at acquisition cost, Property, plant and equipment are depreciated by the or production cost in the case of assets produced by the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the Group for its own use, less accumulated depreciation. assets, as follows: Maintenance and repair costs are expensed as incurred, Buildings 20 to 30 years except when they increase productivity or prolong the useful life of an asset, in which case they are capitalized. Leasehold improvements, fixtures and fittings 10 to 20 years In accordance with the amended version of IAS 23, borrowing Machinery, tooling and costs on qualifying assets arising subsequent to January 1, 2009 furniture 3 to 10 years are included in the cost of the assets concerned. The amount is not significant for the period. Investment grants are recorded as a deduction from the assets that they were used to finance. Other property, plant and equipment and Plant, tooling property, plant and Specific and equipment in (in € millions) Land Buildings equipment tooling progress Total AMOUNT AS OF JANUARY 1, 2018 80.4 403.0 1,527.1 37.8 541.1 2,589.4 Additions (including own work capital) (1) 0.0 3.2 20.7 14.1 634.8 672.8 Disposals (10.5) (61.5) (170.6) (3.5) (19.8) (265.9) Funding of depreciation, amortization and impairment provisions (0.4) (49.2) (341.0) (12.8) (37.8) (441.2) Non-recurring impairment losses 0.0 (1.7) (0.3) (0.0) (1.1) (3.1) Depreciation written off on disposals 3.1 45.2 112.0 2.0 19.8 182.1 Currency translation adjustments (0.1) (6.1) (0.3) (0.1) (0.3) (6.9) Entry into scope of consolidation & other movements 17.4 84.9 551.9 (10.0) (586.8) 57.4 AMOUNT AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018 89.9 417.8 1,699.5 27.5 549.9 2,784.6 Additions (including own work capital) (1) 0.0 1.6 66.0 15.4 597.6 680.6 Disposals (71.8) (130.4) (186.6) (8.3) (57.2) (454.3) Funding of depreciation, amortization and impairment provisions (0.5) (52.5) (379.3) (11.0) (48.4) (491.7) Non-recurring impairment losses 0.0 (4.9) (9.5) (0.2) (1.3) (15.8) Depreciation written off on disposals 2.5 58.4 147.0 8.6 55.8 272.4 Currency translation adjustments 3.2 4.9 12.9 0.1 3.3 24.3 Entry into scope of consolidation & other movements 87.5 137.4 473.1 (0.6) (500.1) 197.3 AMOUNT AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 110.8 432.3 1,823.1 31.4 599.9 2,997.4 (1) Including assets held under finance leases: c in 2018 0.2; c in 2019 N/A. / Universal Registration Document 2019 81 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements 2019 2018 (in € millions) Gross Depreciation Net Gross Net Land 120.2 (9.5) 110.8 100.5 89.9 Buildings 1,153.2 (720.9) 432.3 1,110.3 417.8 Plant, tooling and technical equipment 4,794.6 (2,971.6) 1,823.1 4,337.5 1,699.5 Specific tooling 156.9 (125.5) 31.4 150.3 27.5 Other property, plant and equipment & property, plant and equipment in progress 936.2 (336.3) 599.9 817.6 549.9 TOTAL 7,161.1 (4,163.7) 2,997.4 6,516.2 2,784.6 Including assets subject to lease financing N/A N/A N/A 65.2 3.8 Property, plant and equipment are often dedicated to client programs. Note 12B Right-of-use assets Right of use assets are valued initially up to the discounted incurred, as well as estimated dismantling or refurbishment lease liability for lease contracts as defined per IFRS 16, costs based on contractual terms if needed (see Note 1B). increased by advanced payments made to lessor, initial costs Plant and (in € millions) Land Buildings equipment Others Total Amount as of January 1, 2019 0.0 608.4 51.5 65.9 725.8 New contracts 0.2 214.6 39.4 43.9 298.1 Depreciation 0.0 (110.2) (14.5) (32.3) (157.0) Funding of impairment provisions 0.0 (4.1) 0.0 0.0 (4.1) Other movements 0.0 2.5 0.5 11.1 14.1 Amount as of December 31, 2019 0.2 711.3 77.0 88.5 877.0 82 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements Note 13 in associates Investment in associates for continued operations: Group Dividends share Group share of received by Group share of of total (in € millions) % interest* equity** the Group sales assets Teknik Malzeme 50% 3.9 (2.7) 25.6 12.0 Symbio 50% 79.6 0.0 0.6 104.8 Changchun Xuyang Faurecia Acoustics & Soft Trim Co., Ltd 40% 4.7 0.0 24.7 20.4 Faurecia (Liuzhou) Emissions Control Technologies Co. Ltd 50% 6.7 0.0 27.5 25.8 Detroit Manufacturing Systems LLC 49% 15.5 (3.9) 375.9 87.7 Total Network Manufacturing LLC 49% 0.2 0.0 85.6 42.5 Faurecia Japon NHK Co., Ltd 50% 0.0 0.0 185.8 43.8 Others 57.5 (6.3) 369.6 129.9 SUB-TOTAL 168.1 (12.8) 1,095.3 466.9 SAS Group 50% 72.1 (15.0) 369.3 372.8 TOTAL 240.3 (27.8) 1,464.7 839.7 * Percent of interest held by the Company that owns the shares. ** As the Group share of some company’s net equity is negative, it is recorded under liabilities as a provision for contingencies and charges. There is no joint operation in the sense of IFRS 11 within the companies consolidated by equity method. 13.1 Change in investments in associates (in € millions) 2019 2018 Group share of equity at beginning of period 144.2 151.1 Dividends (27.8) (27.3) Share of net income of associates 37.8 31.4 Change in scope of consolidation 76.3 (12.2) Capital increase 9.9 1.7 Currency translation adjustments (0.1) (0.5) Group share of equity at end of period 240.3 144.2 13.2 Information on significant associates SAS is a joint venture with Continental Automotive GmbH located in Karlsruhe (Germany), with subsidiaries mainly in which manufactures full cockpit modules with electronics and France, Slovakia, Spain, Mexico, Turkey, Czech Republic and circuitry built into the instrument panels. Its headquarters is United States of America. Additional information on this entity (actual data as of November and December forecasts) is provided below: (in € millions) 2019 2018 Sales 738.7 633.0 Operating income (loss) 77.1 63.4 Net income (loss) 37.7 47.0 / Universal Registration Document 2019 83 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements (in € millions) 2019 2018 Fixed assets 232.1 150.8 Current assets 461.6 394.8 Cash 51.8 63.0 TOTAL ASSETS 745.5 608.6 Equity 144.3 136.5 Borrowings 73.7 0.0 Other non-current liabilities 69.1 82.8 Non-current financial liabilities 458.4 389.3 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 745.5 608.6 The other associates, in joint control or significant influence, taken individually, are not considered as significant neither for sales nor for total assets. Note 14 Other equity interests Equity interests correspond to the Group’s interests in the appropriate. The criteria generally applied are the Group’s capital of non-consolidated companies. They are subject to equity in the underlying net assets and the earnings outlook of impairment testing based on the most appropriate financial the Company concerned. analysis criteria. An impairment loss is recognized when 2019 2018 % of share (in € millions) capital Gross Net Net Changchun Xuyang Industrial Group 19.0 12.3 12.3 12.3 Amminex Emissions Systems APS* 91.5 24.0 TactoTek Oy 9.0 5.8 5.8 5.0 Guardknox Cyber Technologies Ltd 7.0 5.4 5.4 Canatu Oy 7.9 7.0 7.0 5.0 Other 36.7 29.9 14.4 TOTAL 67.2 60.4 60.7 * Consolidated from January 1, 2019. Note 15 Other non-current financial assets Loans and other financial assets are initially stated at fair value Provisions are booked on a case-by-case basis where there is and then at amortized cost, calculated using the effective a risk of non-recovery. interest method. 2019 2018 (in € millions) Gross Provisions Net Net Loans with maturity longer than one year 54.4 (17.0) 37.4 57.1 Others 38.2 (4.2) 34.0 34.1 TOTAL 92.6 (21.2) 71.4 91.2 84 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements Note 16 Other non-current assets This item includes: (in € millions) 2019 2018 Pension plan surpluses 29.0 17.6 Guarantee deposits and other 41.1 28.6 TOTAL 70.1 46.2 Note 17 Inventories and work-in-progress Inventories of raw materials and supplies are stated at cost, transferred to the customer, usually shortly before serial determined by the FIFO method (First-In, First-Out). production starts, and specific development work which is sold to customers and corresponding to the definition of work in Finished and semi-finished products, as well as progress when the contract enables to consider that these work-in-progress, are stated at production cost, determined by developments are a specific performance obligation under the FIFO method. Production cost includes the cost of IFRS 15. These costs are expensed (cost of sales) over the materials and supplies as well as direct and indirect period in which the corresponding revenue is recognized, ie at production costs, excluding overhead not linked to transfer of control of these development works to the production and borrowing costs. customer. Work-in-progress includes the costs of specific tooling Provisions are booked for inventories for which the probable produced or purchased specifically for the purpose of realizable value is lower than cost and for slow moving items. manufacturing parts or modules for customer orders and which are sold to the customer, ie for which the control is 2019 2018 (in € millions) Gross Depreciations Net Net Raw materials and supplies 689.1 (124.8) 564.3 546.9 Engineering, tooling and prototypes 512.1 (9.1) 503.0 482.5 Work in progress for production 7.6 (0.5) 7.1 4.9 Semi-finished and finished products 577.9 (99.5) 478.4 397.4 TOTAL 1,786.7 (233.9) 1,552.8 1,431.7 Note 18 Trade accounts receivables Under trade receivables sale programs, the Group can sell a The following table shows the amount of receivables sold with portion of the receivables of a number of its French, German, maturities beyond December 31, 2019, for which substantially North America and other subsidiaries to a group of financial all the risks and rewards have been transferred, and which institutions, transferring substantially all of the risks and rewards have therefore been derecognized, as well as the financing relating to the receivables sold to the financial institutions under these programs which corresponds to the cash concerned. received as consideration for the receivables sold: (in € millions) 2019 2018 Financing 1,027.6 1,032.8 Guarantee reserve deducted from borrowings (10.8) (33.6) Cash received as consideration for receivables sold 1,016.8 999.2 Receivables sold and derecognized (952.7) (977.3) / Universal Registration Document 2019 85 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements Individually impaired trade receivables are as follows: (in € millions) 2019 2018 Gross total trade receivables 2,626.4 1,968.5 Provision for impairment of receivables (17.5) (21.0) TOTAL 2,608.9 1,947.5 Given the high quality of Group counterparties, late payments ■ €24,7 million between one and two months past due; do not represent a material risk. They generally arise from ■ €9,6 million between two and three months past due; administrative issues. ■ €19,7 million between three and six months past due; Late payments as of December 31, 2019 were €178,3 million, breaking down as follows: ■ €27,6 million more than six months past due. ■ €96,7 million less than one month past due; Note 19 Other operating receivables (in € millions) 2019 2018 Down payments 87.5 111.3 Currency derivatives for operations 9.0 29.8 (1) Other receivables 263.9 172.7 TOTAL 360.4 313.8 (1) Including the following amounts for VAT and other tax receivables. 259.0 163.7 Note 20 Other receivables (in € millions) 2019 2018 Short-term portion of loans 12.7 65.5 Prepaid expenses 557.2 388.1 Current taxes 198.7 163.7 Other sundry receivables 70.6 44.2 TOTAL 839.2 661.5 In 2019, the receivables Crédit d’Impôt Recherche (CIR) have d’Impôt pour la Compétitivité et l’Emploi (CICE) for an amount been sold for an amount of €72.4 million vs €95.6 million of €13.1 million. in 2018. In 2018, the Group also sold its receivable on Crédit 86 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements Note 21 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include current account balances known amount of cash and are not subject to a significant risk in the amount of €2,177.9 million (compared to €1,462.0 million of impairment in the event of changes in interest rates. They in 2018) and short-term investments in the amount of are measured at fair value and variances are booked through €141.5 million (compared to €643.3 million in 2018), or a total of P&L. €2,319.4 million as of December 31, 2019. The carrying amount of marketable securities is almost These components include current account balances and identical to market value as they are held on a very short-term units in money market funds that are readily convertible to a basis. Note 22 Shareholders’ equity 22.1 Capital As of December 31, 2019, Faurecia’s capital stock totaled As of December 31, 2019, Peugeot S.A. held 46.34% of the €966,250,607 divided into 138,035,801 fully paid-up shares with capital stock and 62.99% of the voting rights. a par value of €7 each. The capital and additional paid-in capital variance on the The Group’s capital is not subject to any external restrictions. period can be analyzed as follows: Shares which have been registered in the name of the same holder for at least two years carry double voting rights. Capital (in € Additional paid-in Number of shares millions) capital (in € millions) Amount as of January 1, 2019 138,035,801 966.3 604.0 Exercise of stock options Amount as of December 31, 2019 138,035,801 966.3 604.0 22.2 Share-based payment amount corresponding to the expected dividends due on the shares but not paid during the vesting period and (ii) an A – FREE SHARE GRANT amount reflecting the cost of the shares being subject to a lock-up period. The fair value is recognized in payroll costs on In 2010 Faurecia implemented a share grant plan for a straight-line basis over the vesting period, with a executives of Group companies. These shares are subject to corresponding adjustment to equity. service and performance conditions. The amount recognized for the period is an expense of Free shares are measured at fair value by reference to the €18.9 million, compared to €20 million in 2018. market price of Faurecia’s shares at the grant date, less (i) an / Universal Registration Document 2019 87 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements Details of the share grant plans as of December 31, 2019 are set out in the table below: Maximum number of free shares that can be granted* for: Adjustments share Date of market NonAnnual Date reaching exceeding value at transferSales Shareholders’ of Board the the grant date dividend rability Acquisition date Meeting meeting objective objective Performance condition (in €) rate discount date (from) 2019 after tax income target as stated in strategic plan when granted and Faurecia earning per share growth compared to a reference group of 05/27/2016 07/20/2017 520,181 676,200 companies. 48.46 1.75% NA 07/20/2021 07/20/2021 2020 after tax income target as stated in strategic plan when granted and Faurecia earning per share growth compared to a reference group of 05/29/2018 07/19/2018 385,952 501,740 companies. 62.26 2.30% NA 07/19/2022 07/19/2022 2021 after tax income target as stated in strategic plan when granted, Faurecia earning per share growth compared to a reference group of companies and percentage of diversity men-women within the management 05/28/2019 10/09/2019 899,350 1,169,900 population. 39.20 2.50% NA 10/09/2023 10/09/2023 * Net of free shares granted cancelled. The performance conditions for the plan attributed by the 22.3 Treasury stock Board of July 23, 2015 have been met, the corresponding shares, ie 594,666 have been definitely distributed in July 2019. As of December 31, 2019, Faurecia held 1,149,994 treasury The performance conditions for the plan attributed by the stock shares. Board of July 25, 2016 have been met, the corresponding The cost of the shares held in treasury stock as of shares, ie 642,747 will be definitely distributed in July 2020. December 31, 2019 totaled €44.7 million, representing an average cost of €38.9 per share. 88 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements Note 23 Minority interests This item corresponds to minority shareholders’ interests in the equity of consolidated subsidiaries. Changes in minority interests were as follows: (in € millions) 2019 2018 Amount as at beginning of the period 361.6 275.3 Increase in minority shareholder interests 0.0 24.7 Other changes in scope of consolidation (72.5) 40.0 Minority interests in net income for the year 75.0 92.5 Dividends allocated to minority interests (40.6) (67.6) Currency translation adjustments 3.3 (3.3) Amount as at the end of the year 326.8 361.6 The minority interests, taken individually, are not considered as significant in comparison to the total net equity. Note 24 Current provisions and contingent liabilities 24.1 Current provisions A provision is recorded when Group Executive Management has decided to streamline the organization structure and announced the program to the employees affected by it or their representatives, when relevant. (in € millions) 2019 2018 Restructuring 76.9 78.9 Risks on contracts and customer warranties 113.8 57.1 Litigation 15.0 10.0 Other provisions 54.7 45.4 TOTAL 260.4 191.4 Changes in these provisions in 2019 were as follows: Change in scope of Amount consoliAmount as of dation as of January 1, Expenses Sub total and other December 31, (in € millions) 2019 Additions charged Reversal* changes changes 2019 Restructuring 78.9 121.9 (123.4) 0.0 (1.5) (0.5) 76.9 Risks on contracts and customer warranties 57.1 7.8 (45.0) (6.4) (43.6) 100.3 113.8 Litigation 10.0 3.8 (5.1) (1.2) (2.5) 7.5 15.0 Other provisions 45.4 30.4 (5.8) (0.7) 23.9 (14.6) 54.7 TOTAL 191.4 163.9 (179.3) (8.3) (23.7) 92.7 260.4 * Surplus provisions. / Universal Registration Document 2019 89 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements 24.2 Contingent liabilities LITIGATION In 2014, the Alliance of Artists and Recording Companies, Inc. (AARC) filed two consolidated cases in the United States As a reminder, on March 25, 2014, the European Commission and District Court for the District of Columbia seeking damages the United States Department of Justice, on November 27, 2014, and an injunction against a group of automotive the Competition Commission of South Africa, and on May 19, manufacturers and suppliers, including Clarion Corporation of 2017, the Brazilian competition authority (CADE), initiated inquiries America. AARC alleged that the defendants were distributing covering certain suppliers of emission control systems on the basis in-vehicle navigation systems in violation of the Audio Home for suspicions of anti-competitive practices in this market. Recording Act of 1992, in part, because no royalties were paid Faurecia is one of the companies covered by these inquiries. pursuant to the Act. The case centers on whether the systems are “digital audio recording devices” that are capable of On the status of these inquiries: making “digital audio copied recordings” as defined by the ■ the European Commission has announced to close the statute. On March 23, 2018, the District Court issued summary case, as communicated by Faurecia on May 2, 2017; judgment in favor of Clarion and ruled that Clarion’s navigation systems are not “digital audio recording devices” ■ an agreement has been reached with the CADE for a non because they are not capable of producing a “digital audio material amount and made public on September 5, 2018 copied recording” under the statute’s definitions. The District putting an end to the inquiry on Faurecia; Court entered final judgment in favor of Clarion and the other ■ in December 2018, Faurecia has been informed by the defendants and there are no additional claims against Clarion United States Department of Justice that it was no more that remain pending at the District Court level. AARC subject to an inquiry; appealed the District Court’s summary judgment opinion to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia ■ the inquiry of the Competition Commission of South Africa is Circuit (“D.C.Circuit”) on similar grounds argued at the District still ongoing. Court. Moreover, the Group has reached agreements, for non On January 28, 2020, the D.C. Circuit’s three-judge panel material amounts, with the plaintiffs to settle all three class unanimously affirmed the District Court’s summary judgment in actions which were filed in the United States District Court for Clarion’s favor, ruling that automakers and manufacturers of the Eastern District of Michigan against several suppliers of certain onboard vehicle systems (which include Clarion’s emissions control systems, including group affiliates, alleging systems), comprised of hard drives, computer programs and anticompetitive practices in regard to Exhaust Systems. These databases, were not liable for damages or royalty payments agreements have been validated by the court. under the Audio Home Recording Act of 1992, 17 U.S.C. Two class actions for similar allegations have also been filed in § 1001, et. Seq. Plaintiffs may petition the D.C. Court for Canada but are at a very preliminary stage. rehearing or request an appeal from the U.S. Supreme Court. The consequences of still on-going procedures and above There are no other claims or litigation in progress or pending mentioned can not be predicted; therefore, no accruals were that are likely to have a material impact on the Group’s accounted for as of December 31, 2019. consolidated financial position. Note 25 Non-current provisions and provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits 25.1 Non-current provisions (in € millions) 2019 2018 Provisions for pensions and other employee obligations 461.6 393.3 ■ Pension plan benefit obligations 234.3 221.9 ■ Post-retirement benefit obligations 184.3 130.3 ■ Long-service awards 28.8 26.4 ■ Healthcare costs 14.2 14.7 Provisions for early retirement costs 0.0 0.0 TOTAL 461.6 393.3 90 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements CHANGES IN NON-CURRENT PROVISIONS (in € millions) 2019 2018 Amount as beginning of the period 393.3 397.2 Changes in scope of consolidation 50.6 5.8 Other movements 13.4 0.0 Allowance (or reversal) of provision (0.4) 34.1 Expenses charged to the period (16.4) (14.6) Payment to external funds (5.8) (10.5) Restatement differences 26.9 (18.7) Amount as at the end of the period 461.6 393.3 25.2 Provisions for pensions and other Benefit obligations are partially funded by contributions to external funds. In cases where the funds are permanently post-employment benefits allocated to the benefit plan concerned, their value is Group employees may receive, in addition to their pensions in deducted from the related liability. An excess of plan assets is conformity with the applicable regulations in the countries only recognized in the balance sheet when it represents future where the Group companies employing them are located, benefits effectively available for the Group. additional benefits or post-retirement benefit obligations. The Periodic pension and other employee benefit costs are Group offers these benefits through either defined benefits or recognized as operating expenses over the benefit vesting defined contribution plans. period. The valuation and accounting methodologies followed by the Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefits plan are Group are the following: recognized in other comprehensive income. ■ for defined contribution plans, costs are recognized as In case of a change in regime, past service costs are fully expenses based on contributions; recognized as operating expenses, the benefits being fully ■ the liability for defined benefit plans is determined on an acquired or not. actuarial basis using the projected unit credit method, The expected rate of return of defined benefits plan assets is according to the agreements effective in each concerned equal to the discount rate used to value the obligation. This Group company. return is recorded in “Other financial income and expense”. The valuation takes into account the probability of employees The other post-employment benefits mainly cover seniority staying with the Group up to retirement age and expected bonuses as well as health care benefits. The obligation is future salary levels as well as other economic assumptions valued using similar methodology, assumptions and frequency (such as the inflation rate, the discount rate) for each as the ones used for post-employment benefits. concerned zone or country. These assumptions are described in Note 25.2. BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS (in € millions) 2019 2018 Present value of projected obligations ■ Pension plan benefit obligations 468.2 396.8 ■ Post-retirement indemnities obligations 201.0 135.2 ■ Long-service awards 28.8 26.4 ■ Healthcare costs 14.2 14.7 TOTAL 712.2 573.1 Value of plan assets: ■ Provisions booked in the accounts 461.6 393.3 ■ External funds (market value) (1) 279.7 197.4 ■ Plan surplus (2) (29.1) (17.6) TOTAL 712.2 573.1 (1) External funds mainly cover pension plan benefit obligations for €263 millions in 2019. (2) Pension plan surpluses are included in Other non-current assets. / Universal Registration Document 2019 91 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements PENSION BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS A – Description of the plans B – Assumptions used In France, all managerial employees with a salary in tranche C The Group’s obligations under these plans are determined on are granted a defined benefit pension scheme. This scheme an actuarial basis, using the following assumptions: enables a yearly acquisition of a rent based on the tranche C ■ retirement age between 62 and 65 for employees in France; part of the salary. Executive Committee members who have an employement contract with Faurecia S.E. or any of its subsidiaries ■ staff turnover assumptions based on the economic also benefit from a defined benefit pension scheme for French conditions specific to each country and/or Group members and defined contribution pension scheme for foreign company; members, the schemes having been approved by the Board of ■ mortality assumptions specific to each country; Directors on February 11, 2015. In order to comply with the PACTE law from May 22, 2019 and its notification of July 3, 2019 ■ estimated future salary levels until retirement age, based on transposing Directive 2014/50/EU. These two defined benefit inflation assumptions and forecasts of individual salary schemes have been closed, the rights acquired in these schemes increases for each country; being frozen as of December 31, 2019. ■ the expected long-term return on external funds; In the United States, one plan was settled in May 2017. The two ■ discount and inflation rates (or differential) based on local remaining defined benefit pension plans are all closed to new conditions. participants, respectively since 1996 and 2002. The first plan covers 620 participants and the second plan covers 320 participants. The main actuarial assumptions used in the past two years to measure the pension liability are as follows: In Germany, the main defined benefit pension plan still open covers 5,231 participants. The benefit granted is based on the number of years of service, starting after 14 years. (in %) Euro zone United Kingdom USA DISCOUNT RATE 2019 1.20% 2.20% 2.79% 2018 1.95% 2.95% 3.91% INFLATION RATE 2019 1.80% 3.10% N/A 2018 1.80% 3.30% N/A Nota: Iboxx AA rate is the reference to determine the discount rate for the euro zone. In the United States, the pension benefit obligations (closed to new participants) are not sensitive to the inflation rate. The average duration of the various plans is as follows: (in number of years) Euro zone United Kingdom USA Average duration 15.8 21.9 8.1 C – Information on external funds External funds are invested as follows: 2019 2018 (in %) Equities Bonds Others Equities Bonds Others France 26% 66% 8% 23% 75% 2% United Kingdom 38% 60% 2% 31% 68% 1% United States 62% 30% 8% 59% 33% 8% The fair value of shares and bonds falls in the level 1 category (price quoted in active markets) in 2019. 92 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements D – Provisions for pension liabilities recognized on the balance sheet 2019 2018 (in € millions) France Abroad* Total France Abroad Total Amount as at beginning of the period 166.8 167.8 334.6 167.0 166.9 333.9 Effect of changes in scope of consolidation (provision net of plan surpluses) 1.0 49.5 50.5 0.7 5.1 5.8 Additions 16.5 2.1 18.6 15.7 14.9 30.6 Expenses charged to the provision (4.0) (9.7) (13.7) (4.7) (6.6) (11.3) Payments to external funds (0.6) (5.2) (5.8) (6.1) (4.4) (10.5) Actuarial gains/(losses) 8.5 18.9 27.4 (5.8) (8.5) (14.3) Other movements (23.8) 1.7 (22.1) 0.0 0.4 0.4 Amount as at the end of the period 164.4 225.1 389.5 166.8 167.8 334.6 * The provision for €225.1 million as of December, 31, 2019 relates mainly to Germany (€145 million). E – Changes in pension liabilities In France, retirement commitments decreased by €6 million at the closing compared to that of the previous year as detailed below: 2019 2018 (in € millions) France Abroad Total France Abroad Total PROJECTED BENEFIT OBLIGATION Amount as at beginning of the period 187.5 344.5 532.0 185.1 331.9 517.0 Service costs 13.4 14.0 27.4 13.8 11.7 25.5 Annual restatement 3.8 9.3 13.1 2.9 7.8 10.7 Benefits paid (7.7) (17.3) (25.0) (8.9) (17.5) (26.4) Actuarial gains/(losses) 7.6 37.5 45.1 (5.4) (13.5) (18.9) Other movements (including translation adjustment) 1.0 120.6 121.6 0.7 24.1 24.8 Curtailments and settlements (0.3) (21.0) (21.3) (0.7) 0.0 (0.7) Effect of closures and plan amendments (23.8) 0.0 (23.8) 0.0 0.0 0.0 AMOUNT AS AT THE END OF THE PERIOD 181.5 487.6 669.1 187.5 344.5 532.0 VALUE OF PLAN ASSETS as at beginning of the period 20.7 176.7 197.4 18.1 165.0 183.1 Projected return on plan assets 0.4 5.1 5.5 0.3 4.6 4.9 Actuarial gains/(losses) (0.9) 18.6 17.7 0.4 (5.0) (4.6) Other movements (including translation adjustment) 0.0 69.4 69.4 0.0 18.6 18.6 Employer contributions 0.6 5.2 5.8 6.1 4.4 10.5 Benefits paid (3.7) (7.6) (11.3) (4.2) (10.9) (15.1) Curtailments and settlements 0.0 (4.9) (4.9) 0.0 0.0 0.0 Effect of closures and plan amendments 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 AMOUNT AS AT THE END OF THE PERIOD 17.1 262.5 279.6 20.7 176.7 197.4 BALANCE OF PROVISIONS AS AT THE END OF THE PERIOD 164.4 225.1 389.5 166.8 167.8 334.6 TOTAL CHANGE EXPENSED AT THE END OF THE YEAR 16.5 2.1 18.6 15.7 14.9 30.6 / Universal Registration Document 2019 93 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements These costs are recognized: ■ in operating income for the portion relating to service cost; ■ in “Other financial income and expenses” for restatement of vested rights and the projected return on external funds. The actuarial gains and losses generated have been recorded in Other comprehensive income according to IAS 19R. It can be analyzed as follows: 2019 (in € millions) France Abroad Total Detail of actuarial gains and losses of the period: ■ differences linked to financial assumptions (2.9) (43.3) (46.2) ■ differences linked to demographic assumptions (4.7) 5.8 1.1 ■ other differences (0.9) 18.6 17.7 TOTAL (8.5) (18.9) (27.4) F – Retirement pension liabilities: sensitivity to changes in the discount rate and in the inflation rate in the main scope The impact of a 25 basis point increase in the discount rate and in the inflation rate for the projected benefit obligation is as follows: (in %) Discount rate +0.25 pt Inflation rate +0.25 pt France (2.5)% +2.3% Germany (4.5)% +1.3% 25.3 Long-service awards The Group evaluates its liability for the payment of long-service awards, given to employees based on certain seniority requirements. The Group calculates its liability for the payment of long-service awards using the same method and assumptions as for its pension liability. Provisions for long-service awards have been set aside as follows: (in € millions) 2019 2018 French companies 5.9 5.7 Foreign companies 22.9 20.7 TOTAL 28.8 26.4 25.4 Healthcare costs In addition to pension plans, some Group companies, mainly in the United States, cover the healthcare costs of their employees. The related liability can be analyzed as follows: (in € millions) 2019 2018 Foreign companies 14.2 14.7 TOTAL 14.2 14.7 94 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements The increase of 25 basis points in the discount rate and 1 percentage point in the healthcare cost trend rates would lead to the following variations on the Group’s projected benefits obligations: Healthcare cost trend rate (in %) Discount rate +0.25 pts +1 pt Projected benefit obligation (2.2)% +9.7% Expenses recognized in connection with this liability break down as follows: (in € millions) 2019 2018 Service cost (0.1) (0.1) Interest cost* (0.6) (0.7) Curtailment 0.0 0.0 TOTAL (0.7) (0.8) * Interest cost is recorded under “Other financial income and expenses”. The Group’s financial liabilities fall within the IFRS 9 categories liabilities” (Note 26), “Accrued taxes and payroll costs” of (i) financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, and (Note 27) and “Other payables” (Note 28). (ii) other financial liabilities measured at amortized cost. Financial assets and liabilities are broken down into current They are recorded on the following balance sheet items: and non-current components for maturities at the balance “Current financial liabilities” and “Non-current financial sheet date: under or over a year. Note 26 Net debt The Group’s financial liabilities are generally measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. 26.1 Analysis of net debt (in € millions) 2019 2018 Bonds 2,114.6 1,371.4 Bank borrowings 943.7 485.6 Other borrowings 28.8 1.2 Obligations under finance lease 0.0 11.3 Non-current lease liabilities (2) 732.3 N/A Non-current derivatives 6.0 0.5 SUB-TOTAL NON-CURRENT FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 3,825.4 1,870.0 Current portion of long term debt 122.1 46.7 Current portion of lease liabilities (2) 173.7 N/A (1) Short-term borrowings 722.7 665.3 Current derivatives 1.3 2.0 SUB-TOTAL CURRENT FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 1,019.8 714.0 TOTAL FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 4,845.2 2,584.0 Derivatives classified under non-current and current assets (1.8) (1.0) Cash and cash equivalents (2,319.4) (2,105.3) NET DEBT 2,524.0 477.7 NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENT 2,319.4 2,105.3 (1) Including bank overdrafts. 80.5 34.6 (2) See Note 1B First application of IFRS 16. / Universal Registration Document 2019 95 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements The change in net financial debt during the year is as follows: Change in consolidation Balance as of Impact scope and Balance as of December 31, Impact Translation of fair value other December 31, (in € millions) 2018 on cash adjustments changes changes 2019 Bonds 1,371.4 743.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 2,114.6 Bank borrowings 485.6 429.4 3.9 0.0 24.8 943.7 Other borrowings 1.2 0.3 0.0 26.8 0.4 28.8 Obligations under finance lease 11.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 (11.3) 0.0 (1) Non-current lease liabilities N/A 0.0 5.4 0.0 726.9 732.3 Non-current derivatives 0.5 5.5 0.0 0.0 0.0 6.0 SUB-TOTAL NON-CURRENT FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 1,870.0 1,178.4 9.3 26.8 740.8 3,825.4 Current portion of long term debt 46.7 (26.6) (0.1) 0.0 102.1 122.1 Current portion of lease liabilities* N/A (140.1) (0.4) 0.0 314.2 173.7 Short-term borrowings 665.3 (68.5) (2.7) 0.0 128.6 722.7 Current derivatives 2.0 0.1 0.0 (0.8) 0.0 1.3 SUB-TOTAL CURRENT FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 714.0 (235.1) (3.3) (0.8) 545.0 1,019.8 TOTAL FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 2,584.0 943.3 6.1 26.0 1,285.8 4,845.2 classified under non-current and current assets (1.0) 0.1 0.0 (0.8) (0.1) (1.8) Cash and cash equivalents (2,105.3) (78.1) (4.6) 0.0 (131.4) (2,319.4) TOTAL 477.7 865.3 1.4 25.2 1,154.2 2,524.0 * See Note 1B First application of IFRS 16. 26.2 Maturities of long-term debt 2025 and (in € millions) 2021 2022 2023 2024 beyond Total Bonds 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 2,114.6 2,114.6 Bank borrowings 84.9 343.4 208.4 298.4 8.5 943.7 Other borrowings 1.3 27.1 0.2 0.3 0.0 28.8 Obligation under finance leases 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Non current lease liabilities 135.8 111.2 95.2 75.8 314.3 732.3 Non-current derivatives 0.0 2.2 0.6 3.2 0,0 6.0 TOTAL AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 222.0 483.9 304.4 377.7 2,437.4 3,825.4 96 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements 26.3 Financing 2026 BONDS The main components of Faurecia financing are described On March 27, 2019, Faurecia issued bonds for an amount of below: €500 million due June 15, 2026, carrying annual interest of 3.125%, payable on June 15 and December 15 each year, as SYNDICATED CREDIT FACILITY from June 15, 2019. These bonds benefit from the same restrictions as the 2025 On December 15, 2014, Faurecia signed a syndicated credit bonds. facility, with a five-year maturity, for an amount of €1,200 million. This credit facility was renegotiated on June 24, The proceeds of these bonds have been used to refinance 2016, in order to extend the maturity to five years from that the €500 million drawn on the bridge loan described below in date, or June 24, 2021 and improve its terms and conditions. the paragraph “Financing of Clarion Co., Ltd acquisition”. On June 15, 2018, Faurecia signed with participating banks a The bonds are listed on the Global Exchange Market of second agreement to extend again the maturity to five years Euronext Dublin. The costs related to the bond issue are from that date, or June 15, 2023, with two optional one-year expensed in P&L over the life time of the bonds. extensions that can be exercised in June 2019 and June 2020, In order to prefinance the acquisition of 50% of SAS shares, an subject to agreement of participating banks, and that would additional issue for €250 million of these 2026 bonds has been extend the maturity respectively to June 2024 and June 2025. performed on October 31, 2019. These additional bonds have This agreement has improved again its terms and conditions been issued at 104.50% of the pair, which corresponds to a and strengthens the Group’s financial structure. return at issuance of 2.40%. As of December 31, 2019, the A first one-year extension option has been exercised in amount of these 2026 bonds amounted to €750 million. June 2019, extending the maturity of this credit facility to June 2024. 2027 BONDS As of December 31, 2019 this credit facility was not drawn. On November 27, 2019, Faurecia issued bonds for an amount This credit facility includes only one covenant, related to of €700 million due June 15, 2027, carrying annual interest of consolidated financial ratios: Net debt*/EBITDA** must be lower 2.375%, payable on June 15 and December 15 each year, as than 2.79***. Compliance with this ratio is a condition affecting from June 15, 2020. the availability of this credit facility. As of December 31, 2019, the Groupcomplied with this ratio. These bonds benefit from the same restrictions as the 2026 bonds. This credit facility includes some restrictive clauses on asset disposals (disposal representing over 35% of the Group’s total The proceeds of these bonds have been used to refinance consolidated assets requires the prior approval of banks the €700 million bonds due June 15, 2023 carrying annual representing two-thirds of the syndicate) and on the debt level interest of 3.625%, issued on April 1, 2016. of some subsidiaries. This refinancing has been done through a tender offer through which 2023 bond holders could exchange their bonds against 2025 BONDS new 2027 bonds. The rate of exchange has reached 76%. The bonds that were not tendered in this offer have been On March 8, 2018, Faurecia issued bonds for an amount of redeemed in accordance with the offering memorandum. €700 million due June 15, 2025, carrying annual interest of The settlement of these two operations has taken place 2.625%, payable on June 15 and December 15 each year, as respectively on November 25 and November 28, 2019. from June 15, 2018. The bond premium for bonds tendered in the offer is amortized These bonds include a covenant restricting the additional over the duration of the new 2027 bonds; the bond premium indebtedness if the EBITDA** after certain adjustments is lower for bonds redeemed by anticipation has been expensed. than twice the gross interest costs, and restrictions on the debt The bonds are listed on the Global Exchange Market of similar to those of the syndicated credit loan. Euronext Dublin. Costs related to the bond issue are expensed The proceeds of these bonds have been used to redeem the in P&L over the life time of the bonds. €700 million bonds due June 15, 2022, carrying annual interest of 3.125%, issued in March and April 2015. The bonds are listed on the Global Exchange Market of Euronext Dublin (previously Irish Stock Exchange). The costs related to the bond issue are expensed in P&L over the life time of the bonds. * Consolidated net debt. ** Operating income plus depreciation, amortization and funding of provisions for impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, corresponding to the past 12 months. *** This limit was previously at 2.50 and has been changed to 2.79 to take into account the implementation of IFRS 16. / Universal Registration Document 2019 97 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements FINANCING OF CLARION CO., LTD ACQUISITION amount has been received in early January 2019. The USD tranches have been partially converted in euro resources Following the binding agreements reached on October 26, through long term cross-currency swaps. 2018 with Clarion and Hitachi, and the authorization received Thanks to this operation the amount of the bridge loan has from anti trust authorities, Faurecia has launched on been reduced down to €750 million at the end of January 30, 2019 a tender offer on Clarion Co., Ltd, (cf December 2018. Note 10A). At the closing of the tender offer, end of February 2019, The tender covers whole Clarion shares (around 56.55 millions Faurecia was owner of 95.28% of Clarion shares. This shares) for a price of ¥2,500 per share, i.e. a total of around acquisition has been paid early March 2019 for an amount of ¥141.3 billions, or around €1.1 billion. ¥134 billion or €1,051 million at hedging rate. A squeeze out The total amount of the acquisition has been hedged through has then been launched, bringing the level of acquired shares contingent forwards, which will transform in forward hedging at 100% at the end of March 2019, at which date Clarion at a given exchange rate when the offer is a success and the shares have been delisted from the Tokyo Stock Exchange. acquisition has to be paid for; in the opposite case, hedging is The bridge loan has therefore been drawn early March 2019 cancelled without Faurecia having to pay (or receive) any for an amount of €500 million, then paid back with the result of amount, whatever the exchange rate euro/yen. the 2026 bonds issue, this credit facility being then cancelled. In order to secure the financing of the acquisition, of the Finally, during 2019, Faurecia regularly issued commercial repayment of some Clarion debts as well as of integration papers with a maturity up to one year for investors located costs, Faurecia has implemented a bridge loan for an amount mainly in France. The amount of the commercial papers of €1.3 billion with one of its main banks. This loan had a program has been brought from €1 billion to €1.3 billion in maturity of one year, extendable by one year through two September 2019. six-months extension options. This loan included some restrictive clauses similar to the ones of the syndicated loan of Faurecia is rated Ba1 by Moody’s with stable outlook and BB+ €1.2 billion. with a stable outlook by Fitch Ratings (increase of these two ratings on February 20, 2018). On January 31, 2018, Standard & In order to anticipate and secure the refinancing of this bridge Poor’s assigned to Faurecia a BB+ long-term corporate credit loan, Faurecia has signed on December 17, 2018 a private ratings, with a stable outlook. Moody’s confirmed Faurecia’s placement under German law (Schuldscheindarlehen) for a credit rating on April 24, 2019 and so did Fitch Ratings on total amount of €700 million. This transaction is structured into July 3, 2019. In addition, the three rating agencies rated several tranches in EUR and USD, at fixed and variable rates, Ba1/BB+ the bonds issued in March, October and with maturities of four, five and six years. €378 million have November 2019. been received on December 20, 2018 and the remaining 98 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements The Group’s global contractual maturity schedule as of December 31, 2019 breaks down as follows: Carrying Amount Remaining contractual maturities (in € millions) Assets Liabilities Total 0-3 months 3-6 months 6-12 months 1-5 years >5 years Other non-current financial assets 71.4 71.4 71.4 Loans and receivables 70.1 70.1 70.1 Trade accounts receivables 2,608.9 2,608.9 2,557.7 7.7 43.5 Cash and cash equivalents 2,319.4 2,319.4 2,319.4 Interests on: 2025 Bonds (1.1) (101.1) (9.2) (9.2) (73.5) (9.2) 2026 Bonds (1.3) (152.4) (11.7) (11.7) (93.8) (35.2) 2027 Bonds (1.6) (124.7) (8.3) (8.3) (66.5) (41.6) Other long term borrowings (1.3) (70.5) (2.7) (7.0) (10.7) (50.1) Current portion of lease liabilities (173.7) (173.7) (43.4) (43.4) (86.9) Other current financial liabilities (839.6) (839.6) (760.7) (3.6) (75.3) Trade accounts payables (5,316.2) (5,316.2) (5,251.3) (18.3) (46.6) Bonds (excluding interest) 2025 Bonds (680.4) (680.4) (680.4) 2026 Bonds (754.6) (754.6) (754.6) 2027 Bonds (679.6) (679.6) (679.6) Bank borrowings Schuldschein (702.7) (702.7) (702.7) Others (241.0) (241.0) (232.5) (8.5) Other borrowings (28.8) (28.8) (28.8) Non-current lease liabilities (732.3) (732.3) (418.0) (314.3) Interest rate derivatives (6.0) (6.0) 0.0 0.0 0.0 (6.0) 0.0 ■ o/w cash flow hedges (6.0) (6.0) (6.0) ■ o/w derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting under IFRS Currency hedges 11.6 (3.2) 8.4 2.9 3.1 1.3 1.1 0.0 ■ o/w fair value hedges 0.9 (1.3) (0.4) (0.4) ■ o/w cash flow hedges 10.5 (1.9) 8.6 3.3 3.1 1.1 1.1 ■ o/w derivatives not qualifying for hedge accounting under IFRS 0.2 0.0 0.2 0.2 TOTAL 5,081.4 (9,431.1) (4,793.1) (1,178.1) (90.7) (203.9) (1,111.3) (2,209.1) / Universal Registration Document 2019 99 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements 26.4 Analysis of borrowings As of December 31, 2019, the variable rate borrowings were 30.4% of borrowings before taking into account the impact of hedging. (in € millions) 2019 Variable rate borrowings 1,470.9 30.4% Fixed rate borrowings 3,374.3 69.6% TOTAL 4,845.2 100.0% Borrowings, taking into account foreign exchange swaps, break down by repayment currency as follows: (in € millions) 2019 2018 Euros 3,969.0 81.9% 2,327.9 90.1% US Dollars 292.0 6.0% 81.9 3.2% Yen japanese 212.9 4.4% Other currencies 371.3 7.7% 174.3 6.7% TOTAL 4,845.2 100.0% 2,584.0 100.0% In 2019, the weighted average interest rate on gross outstanding borrowings was 3%. Note 27 Accrued taxes and payroll costs (in € millions) 2019 2018 Accrued payroll costs 397.4 353.6 Payroll taxes 157.2 149.5 Employee profit-sharing 36.4 33.5 Other accrued taxes and payroll costs 161.7 81.4 TOTAL 752.7 618.0 Note 28 Sundry payables (in € millions) 2019 2018 Due to suppliers of non-current assets 156.0 187.4 Prepaid income 26.9 31.9 Current taxes 73.0 60.0 Other 103.8 53.5 Currency derivatives for operations 1.2 7.3 TOTAL 360.9 340.1 100 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements Note 29 Financial instruments 29.1 Financial instruments recorded in the balance sheet 2019 Breakdown by category of instrument (1) Financial assets/ Carrying liabilities at Financial Balance amount not fair value assets/liabilities Assets and Financial Sheet defined as through at fair value liabilities at liabilities Carrying financial profit or through amortized measured at (in € millions) amount instruments loss (2) equity (2) cost fair value Other equity interests 60.4 60.4 60.4 Other non-current financial assets 71.4 71.4 71.4 Trade accounts receivables 2,608.9 2,608.9 0.0 Other operating receivables 360.4 351.4 0.1 8.9 9.0 Other receivables and prepaid expenses 839.2 839.2 0.0 Currency derivatives 1.8 1.8 1.8 Interest rate derivatives 0.0 0.0 Cash and cash equivalents 2,319.4 2,319.4 2,319.4 FINANCIAL ASSETS 6,261.5 3,799.5 2,381.7 8.9 71.4 2,462.0 Long-term debt* 3,093.1 1.9 6.0 3,085.2 3,229.8 Non-current lease liabilities 732.3 732.3 732.3 Short-term debt* 846.1 1.3 844.8 846.1 Current portion of lease liabilities 173.7 173.7 173.7 Prepayments from customers 665.4 665.4 0.0 Trade payables 5,316.2 5,316.2 0.0 Accrued taxes and payroll costs 752.8 752.8 0.0 Sundry payables 360.9 359.7 1.2 1.2 Of which Currency derivatives 1.2 1.2 1.2 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 11,940.5 7,096.0 1.3 7.2 4,836.0 4,983.1 (1) No financial instruments were transferred between categories in 2019. (2) All of the instruments in this category are financial assets or liabilities designated as measured on initial recognition. * The fair value of the bonds, excluding accrued interest, was established on the basis of the year-end market value (December 31, 2019): for the 2025 bonds quoted 104.25% of par, at €729.6 million, for the 2026 bonds quoted 106.39% of par, at €798.0 million and for the 2027 bonds quoted 103.68% of par, at €725.8 million. / Universal Registration Document 2019 101 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements 2018 Breakdown by category of instrument (1) Financial Carrying assets/liabilities Financial Balance amount not at fair value assets/liabilities Assets and Financial Sheet defined as through at fair value liabilities at liabilities Carrying financial profit or through amortized measured at (2) (in € millions) amount instruments loss equity (2) cost fair value Other equity interests 60.7 60.7 60.7 Other non-current financial assets 91.2 91.2 91.2 Trade accounts receivables 1,947.5 1,947.5 0.0 0.0 Other operating receivables 313.8 284.0 8.4 21.4 0.0 29.8 Other receivables and prepaid expenses 661.5 596.0 65.5 65.5 Currency derivatives 1.0 1.0 1.0 Interest rate derivatives 0.1 0.1 0.1 Cash and cash equivalents 2,105.3 2,105.3 2,105.3 FINANCIAL ASSETS 5,181.1 2,827.5 2,175.5 21.4 156.7 2,353.6 Long-term debt* 1,870.0 1.2 0.5 1,868.3 1,865.3 Short-term debt* 714.0 2.0 712.0 714.0 Prepayments from customers 605.0 605.0 0.0 0.0 Trade payables 4,562.6 4,562.6 0.0 0.0 Accrued taxes and payroll costs 618.0 618.0 0.0 0.0 Sundry payables 340.1 332.8 7.3 0.0 7.3 Of which Currency derivatives 7.3 7.3 7.3 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 8,709.7 6,119.6 2.0 7.8 2,580.3 2,586.6 (1) No financial instruments were transferred between categories in 2018. (2) All of the instruments in this category are financial assets or liabilities designated as measured on initial recognition. * The fair value of the bonds, excluding accrued interest, was established on the basis of the year-end market value (December 31, 2018): for the 2023 bonds quoted 100.822% of par, at €705.8 million and for the 2025 bonds quoted 94.587% of par, at €662.1 million. The main measurement methods applied are as follows: ■ financial liabilities are primarily recognized at amortized cost calculated using the effective interest rate method; ■ items accounted for at fair value through profit or loss, as well as hedging instruments, are measured using a valuation ■ the fair value of trade receivables and payables related to technique based on rates quoted on the interbank market, manufacturing and sales operations corresponds to their such as Euribor and exchange rates set daily by the carrying value given of their very short maturities. European Central Bank; 102 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements The impact of financial instruments on income: 2019 Breakdown by category of instrument Financial assets/ liabilities at fair Financial value through liabilities at Instruments (in € millions) Impact Income profit or loss amortized cost derivatives Translation differences on commercial transactions (6.1) (6.2) 0.1 Income on loans, cash investments and marketable securities 18.7 18.7 Finance costs (197.7) (197.7) Other financial income and expenses (40.4) (40.4) Net income (expenses) (225.5) 12.5 (238.1) 0.1 2018 Breakdown by category of instrument Financial assets/ Financial liabilities at fair liabilities at value through amortized Instruments (in € millions) Impact Income profit or loss cost derivatives Translation differences on commercial transactions (6.8) (7.0) 0.2 Income on loans, cash investments and marketable securities 9.6 9.6 Finance costs (117.7) (117.7) Other financial income and expenses (55.7) (55.7) Net income (expenses) (170.6) 2.6 (173.4) 0.2 As of December 31, 2019, movements in provisions for impairment break down as follows by category of financial asset: Change in scope of Balance as of Reversals consolidation Balance as of January 1, (surplus and other December 31, (in € millions) 2019 Additions Utilizations provisions) changes 2019 Doubtful accounts (21.0) (9.5) 11.9 0.0 1.1 (17.5) Shares in non-consolidated companies (1.9) (5.0) 0.1 0.0 0.0 (6.8) Non-current financial assets (24.2) (0.3) 6.9 0.0 (3.6) (21.2) Other receivables (35.8) (2.8) 9.3 0.0 18.0 (11.3) TOTAL (82.9) (17.6) 28.2 0.0 15.5 (56.8) 29.2 Financial instruments – fair value hierarchy The Group’s financial instruments that are measured at fair valuation technique based on rates quoted on the interbank value break down as follows by level of fair value market, such as Euribor and exchange rates set daily by the measurement: Level 1 (prices quoted in active markets) for European Central Bank) for currency and interest rate short-term cash investments and Level 2 (measured using a instruments. / Universal Registration Document 2019 103 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements Note 30 Hedging of currency and interest rate risks 30.1 Transactions in foreign currencies Currency risks on forecasted transactions are hedged on the basis of estimated cash flows determined when budgets are and derivatives prepared, validated by Executive Management; these Transactions in foreign currencies are converted at the forecasts are updated on a regular basis. The related exchange rate prevailing on the transaction date. derivatives are classified as cash flow hedges when there is a Receivables and payables are converted at the year-end hedging relationship that satisfies the IFRS 9 criteria. exchange rate. Resulting gains or losses are recorded in the Subsidiaries with a functional currency different from the euro income statement as operating income or expenses for are granted inter-company loans in their operating currencies. operating receivables and payables, and under “Other Although these loans are refinanced in euros and eliminated financial income and expenses” for other receivables and in consolidation, they contribute to the Group’s currency risk payables. exposure and are therefore hedged through foreign Faurecia uses derivative instruments traded on organized exchange swaps or financing in the concerned currency. markets or purchased over-the-counter from first-rate The effective portion of changes in the fair value of counterparties to hedge currency and interest rate risks. instruments used to hedge future revenues is recorded in They are recorded at fair value in the balance sheet. equity and taken to operating income when the hedged revenues are received. Changes in the fair value of instruments used to hedge trade 30.2 Hedging of currency risks receivables and payables are recorded as operating income or expense. Currency risks relating to the commercial transactions of the Group’s subsidiaries are managed centrally by Faurecia using The portion of the change in fair value of these hedges that is forward purchase and sale contracts and options as well as ineffective (time value of the hedges) is recorded under foreign currency financing. Faurecia manages the hedging of “Other financial income and expenses” together with currency risks on a central basis, through the Group Finance changes in the fair value of instruments used to hedge other and Treasury department, which reports to the Executive receivables and payables except for the changes in the fair Management. Hedging decisions are made by a Market Risk value of cash flow hedges which are recorded in amounts to Management Committee that meets on a monthly basis. be potentially reclassified to profit or loss. 2019 Currency exposure (in € millions) USD CZK CNY RUB GBP PLN MXN JPY Trade receivables (net of payables) 64.3 (9.5) 3.4 2.2 9.8 (8.5) (108.1) 5.3 Financial assets (net of liabilities)* (154.2) 0.0 0.0 (36.3) (93.9) 0.0 0.0 12.1 Forecast transactions** 101.7 (49.7) 2.4 20.5 0.4 (69.5) (49.2) 39.3 Net position before hedging 11.8 (59.2) 5.8 (13.6) (83.7) (78.0) (157.3) 56.7 Currency hedges 47.9 57.1 9.0 31.1 94.0 102.6 104.6 (6.9) Net position after hedging 59.8 (2.1) 14.8 17.6 10.3 24.6 (52.6) 49.7 * Including inter-company financing. ** Commercial exposure anticipated over the next six months. 2018 Currency exposure (in € millions) USD CZK CNY RUB GBP PLN MXN ZAR Trade receivables (net of payables) 0.0 (23.1) (13.6) 11.2 (6.2) (22.2) 0.0 0.0 Financial assets (net of liabilities)* (188.4) 0.0 0.0 0.0 (122.9) 0.0 0.0 0.0 Forecast transactions** 193.1 (149.3) 50.4 93.5 (30.5) (159.6) (222.2) 27.3 Net position before hedging 4.7 (172.4) 36.8 104.7 (159.6) (181.8) (222.2) 27.3 Currency hedges 69.3 83.1 0.0 (6.0) 123.0 106.4 162.7 0.0 Net position after hedging 74.0 (89.4) 36.8 98.7 (36.6) (75.4) (59.5) 27.3 * Including inter-company financing. ** Commercial exposure anticipated over the next six months. Hedging instruments are recognized in the balance sheet at fair value. Fair value is determined based on measurements confirmed by banking counterparties. 104 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements INFORMATION ON HEDGED NOTIONAL AMOUNTS Carrying amount Maturities (in € millions) Notional 2019 Assets Liabilities amount* < 1 year 1 to 5 years > 5 years Fair value hedges ■ forward currency contracts 0.1 0.0 5.0 5.0 0.0 0.0 ■ inter-company loans in foreign currencies swapped for euros 0.8 (1.3) 541.2 541.2 0.0 0.0 ■ cross-currency swaps 1.7 (0.6) 106.8 0.0 106.8 0.0 Cash flow hedges ■ forward currency contracts 5.2 (0.9) 405.0 405.0 0.0 0.0 ■ currency option 3.6 (0.4) 221.5 221.5 0.0 0.0 ■ contingent forward 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Not eligible for hedge accounting 0.2 0.0 28.5 28.5 0.0 0.0 11.6 (3.2) * Notional amounts based on absolute values. Carrying amount Maturities (in € millions) Notional 2018 Assets Liabilities amount* < 1 year 1 to 5 years > 5 years Fair value hedges ■ forward currency contracts 0.2 (0.1) 16.6 16.6 0.0 0.0 ■ inter-company loans in foreign currencies swapped for euros 0.9 (0.7) 392.3 392.3 0.0 0.0 ■ cross-currency swaps 0.0 (1.3) 104.8 0.0 104.8 0.0 Cash flow hedges ■ forward currency contracts 2.2 (2.3) 391.8 391.8 0.0 0.0 ■ currency option 7.8 (4.9) 325.4 325.4 0.0 0.0 ■ contingent forward 19.6 0.0 1,102.8 1,102.8 0.0 0.0 Not eligible for hedge accounting 0.1 0.0 31.3 31.3 0.0 0.0 30.8 (9.3) * Notional amounts based on absolute values. The sensitivity of Group income and equity as of December 31, 2019 to a fluctuation in exchange rates against the euro is as follows for the main currencies to which the Group is exposed: Currency exposure (in € milions) USD CZK CNY RUB GBP PLN MXN JPY 2019 1.12 25.41 7.82 69.96 0.85 4.26 21.22 121.94 Currency fluctuation scenario (depreciation of currency/EUR) 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% 5.0% Exchange rate after currency depreciation 1.18 26.68 8.21 73.45 0.89 4.47 22.28 128.04 Impact on pre-tax income (in € millions) (4.46) 0.47 (0.60) 0.23 (0.27) 0.49 5.40 (0.29) Impact on equity (in € millions) 5.02 (2.71) 0.00 0.00 0.00 (4.73) (0.16) (0.24) These impacts reflect (i) the effect on the income statement instruments (both those qualifying and not qualifying as fair of currency fluctuations on the year-end valuation of assets value hedges) and (ii) the effect on equity of the change in and liabilities recognized on the balance sheet, net of the the intrinsic value of hedging instruments for derivatives impact of the change in the intrinsic value of hedging qualifying as cash flow hedges. / Universal Registration Document 2019 105 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements 30.3 Interest-rate hedges Faurecia manages the hedging of interest rate risks on a hedging relationship cannot be demonstrated under IFRS 9, or central basis. Such management is implemented through the where the Group has elected not to apply hedge accounting Group Finance and Treasury department, which reports to the principles. Executive Management. Hedging decisions are made by a The table below shows the Group’s interest rate position, with Market Risk Management Committee that meets on a monthly assets, liabilities and derivatives broken down into fixed or basis. variable rates. Financial assets include cash and cash Changes in the fair value of interest rate hedges are recorded equivalents and interest rate hedges include interest rate directly in “Other financial income and expenses” when the swaps as well as in-the-money options. More than Under 1 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years 5 years Total (in € millions) Fixed Variable Fixed Variable Fixed Variable Fixed Variable Fixed Variable 2019 rate Rate rate Rate rate Rate rate Rate rate Rate Financial assets 2,321.2 2,321.2 Financial liabilities (175.1) (834.2) (203.9) (45.9) (551.0) (590.8) (2,444.3) 0.0 (3,374.3) (1,470.9) Net position before hedging (175.1) (1,487.0) (203.9) (45.9) (551.0) (590.8) (2,444.3) 0.0 (3,374.3) 850.3 Interest rate hedges (762.5) 762.5 (762.5) 762.5 Net position after hedging (175.1) (1,487.0) (203.9) (45.9) (1,313.5) 171.7 (2,444.3) 0.0 (4,136.8) 1,612.8 More than Under 1 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years 5 years Total (in € millions) Fixed Variable Fixed Variable Fixed Variable Fixed Variable Fixed Variable 2018 rate Rate rate Rate rate Rate rate Rate rate Rate Financial assets 2,106.3 2,106.3 Financial liabilities (1.4) (710.4) (26.4) 0.0 (857.4) (239.8) (723.6) (25.0) (1,608.8) (975.2) Net position before hedging (1.4) 1,395.9 (26.4) 0.0 (857.4) (239.8) (723.6) (25.0) (1,608.8) 1,131.1 Interest rate hedges 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 (152.0) 152.0 (25.0) 25.0 (177.0) 177.0 Net position after hedging (1.4) 1,395.9 (26.4) 0.0 (1,009.4) (87.8) (748.6) 0.0 (1,785.8) 1,308.1 Cross-currency swaps variable/fixed rate are included in the ■ bonds maturing in June 2027, issued in November 2019 for a above detailed position, but their value in the balance sheet total amount of €700 million; as well as the notional amounts are included in the ■ a part of the Schuldscheindarlehen (see Note 26.3, corresponding table for currency hedging instruments in § “Financing of Clarion Co.de Ltd Acquisition”) issued in Note 30.2 and not in the interest rate hedging instruments December 2018. herebelow. The interest rate derivatives as of December 31, 2019 aim at The main components of the fixed rate debt are: hedging the variable part of the Schuldscheindarlehen ■ bonds maturing in June 2025, issued in March 2018 for a against an interest rate increase. total amount of €700 million; The second part of the Schuldscheindarlehen, for which funds ■ bonds maturing in June 2026, issued in March and have been received in January 2019, has also been subject to October 2019 for a total amount of €750 million; interest rate hedging beginning of 2019. 106 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements The notional amounts of the Group’s interest rate hedges break down as follows: Carrying amount Notional amounts by maturity (in € millions) 1 to 2019 Assets Liabilities <1 year 5 years >5 years Interest rate options 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Variable rate/fixed rate swaps 0.0 (6.0) 0.0 714.0 0.0 Accrued premiums payable 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 (6.0) 0.0 714.0 0.0 Carrying amount Notional amounts by maturity (in € millions) 1 to 2018 Assets Liabilities <1 year 5 years >5 years Interest rate options 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Variable rate/fixed rate swaps 0.0 (0.5) 0.0 104.0 25.0 Accrued premiums payable 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 (0.5) 0.0 104.0 25.0 A part of the Group borrowings being at variable rates as December 31, 2019 show that the effect on net financial stated in Note 26.4, a rise in short-term rates would therefore expense (before taxes) would not be significant, taking into have an impact on financial expense. account the profile of the Group’s borrowings and derivatives in place as of December 31, 2019. The sensitivity tests performed, assuming a 100 bp increase in average interest rates compared to the rate curve as of 30.4 Counterpart risk on derivatives Faurecia’s counterparty risk connection with its derivatives is not significant as the majority of its derivatives are arranged with banks with strong ratings that form part of its banking pool. The consideration of derivatives compensation agreements existing with counterparts, is summarized as follows: (d) Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet (not fullfiling IAS 32 (a) (b) (c) = (a) (b) compensation criteria) (e) = (c) (d) Gross amounts Net amounts Financial assets as of Gross amount compensated presented in December 31, 2019 value (before (according the balance Financial Collaterals (in € millions) compensation) to IAS 32) sheet instruments received Net amount Derivatives 11.6 0.0 11.6 3.1 0.0 8.5 Other financial instruments TOTAL 11.6 0.0 11.6 3.1 0.0 8.5 (d) Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet (not fullfiling IAS 32 (a) (b) (c) = (a) (b) compensation criteria) (e) = (c) (d) Gross amounts Net amounts Financial liabilities as of Gross amount compensated presented in December 31, 2019 value (before (according the balance Financial Collaterals (in € millions) compensation) to IAS 32) sheet instruments received Net amount Derivatives 9.2 0.0 9.2 3.1 0.0 6.1 Other financial instruments TOTAL 9.2 0.0 9.2 3.1 0.0 6.1 / Universal Registration Document 2019 107 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements Note 31 Commitments given and contingent liabilities COMMITMENTS GIVEN (in € millions) 2019 2018 (1) Future minimum lease payments 96.7 870.4 Debt collateral: ■ mortgages 2.0 2.0 Other debt guarantees 33.7 55.4 Firm orders for property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 173.3 164.3 Other 1.1 1.1 TOTAL 306.8 1,093.2 (1) Commitments on future lease payments are considering for 2019 only obligations not reflected in the lease liability, such as payments on contracts corresponding to exemption criteria allowed by IFRS 16 and considered by the Group (see note 1B) as well as future payments on signed contracts which execution has not yet started. Future minimum lease payments break down as follows: (in € millions) 2019 2018 N+1 8.1 160.8 N+2 3.9 129.9 N+3 5.5 113.7 N+4 5.2 89.3 N+5 and above 74.1 376.7 TOTAL 96.7 870.4 Expiry dates of mortgages and guarantees: (in € millions) 2019 ■ less than a year 24.2 ■ 1 to 5 years 6.9 ■ more than 5 years 4.6 TOTAL 35.7 108 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements Note 32 Related party transactions Transactions with consolidated entities are eliminated by the Transactions with consolidated entities are eliminated by the consolidation process. Faurecia’s business relations with non consolidation process. Faurecia’s business relations with non consolidated or Equity consolidated entities are considered as consolidated or Equity consolidated entities are considered as non significant. non significant. These transactions with PSA group (including with companies accounted for by the equity method (see note 13)) are 32.1 Transactions with PSA group recognized as follows in the Group’s consolidated financial The Faurecia group is managed independently and statements: transactions with the PSA group are conducted at arm’s length terms. (in € millions) 2019 2018 Sales 2,075.8 2,182.6 Purchases of products, services and materials 12.8 15.8 Receivables* 473.3 406.6 Trade payables 138.1 94.5 * Before no-recourse sales of receivables amounting to: 252.0 221.6 32.2 Management compensation serving in this capacity as at December 31, 2019 amounted to €12,641,372 including directors’ fees of €614,870, compared Total compensation for 2019 awarded to the members of the with the 2018 figures of €11,882,938 and €596,000 respectively. Board of Directors and the Group Executive Committee / Universal Registration Document 2019 109 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements Note 33 Fees paid to the Statutory Auditors Ernst & Young Mazars PricewaterhouseCoopers Amount (excl. VAT) % Amount (excl. VAT) % Amount (excl. VAT) % (in € millions) 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2019 2018 2018 AUDIT Statutory and contractual audits Issuer 1.3 0.5 24.8% 10.6% 0.6 14.7% 0.5 10.2% Fully consolidated companies 3.5 3.4 67.5% 72.3% 3.3 82.6% 3.6 73.5% SUB-TOTAL 4.8 3.9 92.3% 83.0% 3.9 97.4% 4.1 83.7% Other services Issuer 0.2 0.5 3.8% 10.6% 0.1 2.6% 0.4 8.2% Fully consolidated companies 0.2 0.3 3.8% 6.4% 0.0 0.0% 0.4 8.2% SUB-TOTAL 0.4 0.8 7.7% 17.0% 0.1 2.6% 0.8 16.3% TOTAL 5.2 4.7 100.0% 100.0% 4.0 100.0% 4.9 100.0% services provided by Ernst & Young Audit to the statement included in management report, contractual audit Company and its subsidiaries mainly relate to issuance of reports, procedures in connection with divestment projects, statements as independent auditors, verification of the consultations and comfort letters in connection with a non-financial statement included in management report, financing operation. contractual audit reports, procedures in connection with Other services provided by PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit divestment projects, consultations and comfort letters in in 2018 to the Company and its subsidiaries mainly relate to connection with a financing operation. issuance of statements as independent auditors, agreed-upon Other services provided by Mazars in 2019 to the Company procedures reports, contractual audit reports, comfort letters and its subsidiaries mainly relate to issuance of statements as in connection with a financing operation, technical independent auditors, verification of the non-financial consultations and procedures on internal controls. Note 34 Information on the consolidating company The consolidated financial statements of the Faurecia group are included in the consolidated accounts of its parent, the Peugeot S.A., parent company of the PSA group, 7, rue Henri Sainte-Claire Deville 92500 Rueil-Malmaison (France). As of December 31, 2019, Peugeot S.A. held 46.34% of the capital stock of Faurecia and 62.99% of the voting rights. Note 35 Dividends The Board of Directors has decided to propose to the next Annual Shareholders’ Meeting a dividend of €1.30 per share. 110 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements 1.1.2.6. List of consolidated companies as of December 31, 2019 Interest of (%) Stake (%) (1) I – FULLY CONSOLIDATED COMPANIES Faurecia France Holding Holding South Africa Faurecia Interior Systems South Africa (Pty), Ltd South Africa 100 100 Faurecia Interior Systems Pretoria (Pty), Ltd South Africa 100 100 Faurecia Emission Control Technologies South Africa (CapeTown) (Pty), Ltd South Africa 100 100 Germany Faurecia Autositze GmbH Germany 100 100 Faurecia Abgastechnik GmbH Germany 100 100 Faurecia Automotive GmbH Germany 100 100 Faurecia Innenraum Systeme GmbH Germany 100 100 Faurecia Emissions Control Technologies, Germany GmbH Germany 100 100 Hug Engineering GmbH Germany 100 100 Clarion Europa GmbH Germany 100 100 Argentina Faurecia Sistemas De Escape Argentina S.A. Argentina 100 100 Faurecia Argentina S.A. Argentina 100 100 Austria Faurecia Angell-Demmel GmbH Austria 100 100 Belgium Faurecia Automotive Belgium Belgium 100 100 Faurecia Industrie N.V. Belgium 100 100 Brazil Faurecia Automotive do Brasil, Ltda Brazil 100 100 FMM Pernambuco Componentes Automotivos, Ltda Brazil 51 100 Clarion do Brasil Ltda. Brazil 100 100 Canada Faurecia Emissions Control Technologies Canada, Ltd Canada 100 100 Clarion Canada Inc. Canada 100 100 China Faurecia Exhaust Systems Changchun Co., Ltd China 51 100 Changchun Faurecia Xuyang Automotive Seat Co., Ltd China 60 100 Faurecia GSK (Wuhan) Automotive Seating Co., Ltd China 51 100 Faurecia (Wuxi) Seating Components Co., Ltd China 100 100 Faurecia Tongda Exhaust Systems Wuhan Co., Ltd China 50 100 Faurecia Honghu Exhaust Systems Shanghai, Co., Ltd China 66 100 Faurecia (Changchun) Automotive Systems Co., Ltd China 100 100 Faurecia Emissions Control Technologies Development (Shanghai) Co., Ltd China 100 100 Faurecia (Shanghai) Automotive Systems Co., Ltd China 100 100 Faurecia (Qingdao) Exhaust Systems Co., Ltd China 100 100 Faurecia (China) Holding Co., Ltd China 100 100 Faurecia (Guangzhou) Automotive Systems Co., Ltd China 100 100 Faurecia Emissions Control Technologies (Chongqing) Co., Ltd China 72,5 100 Faurecia Emissions Control Technologies (Yantaï) Co., Ltd China 100 100 (1) Cumulated percentages of interest for fully consolidated companies. / Universal Registration Document 2019 111 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements Country Interest of (%) Stake (%) (1) Faurecia (Chengdu) Emissions Control Technologies Co., Ltd China 51 100 Faurecia (Nanjing) Automotive Systems Co., Ltd China 100 100 Faurecia (Shenyang) Automotive Systems Co., Ltd China 100 100 Faurecia (Wuhan) Automotive Components Systems Co., Ltd China 100 100 Changchun Faurecia Xuyang Interior Systems Co., Ltd China 60 100 Chengdu Faurecia Limin Automotive Systems Co., Ltd China 90,19 100 Faurecia (Yancheng) Automotive Systems Co., Ltd China 100 100 CSM Faurecia Automotive Parts Co., Ltd China 50 100 Faurecia NHK (Xiangyang) Automotive Seating Co., Ltd China 51 100 Faurecia Emissions Control Technologies (Beijing) Co., Ltd China 100 100 Faurecia Emissions Control Technologies (Nanchang) Co., Ltd China 51 100 Faurecia Emissions Control Technologies (Ningbo) Co., Ltd China 100 100 Faurecia Emissions Control Technologies (Foshan) Co., Ltd China 51 100 Foshan Faurecia Xuyang Interior Systems Co., Ltd China 60 100 Faurecia PowerGreen Emissions Control Technologies (Shanghai) Co., Ltd China 100 100 Faurecia Emissions Control Technologies (Ningbo Hangzhou Bay New District) Co., Ltd China 66 100 Shanghai Faurecia Automotive Seating Co., Ltd China 55 100 Changsha Faurecia Emissions Control Technologies Co., Ltd China 100 100 Dongfeng Faurecia Automotive Interior Co., Ltd China 50 100 Borgward Faurecia (Tianjin) Auto Systems Co., Ltd China 51 100 Faurecia Exhaust Systems (Shanghai) Co., Ltd China 100 100 Faurecia (Jimo) Emissions Control Technologies Co., Ltd China 100 100 Faurecia (Tianjin) Emission Control Technologies Co., Ltd China 51 100 Faurecia Yinlun (Weifang) Emission Control Technologies Co., Ltd China 52 100 Tianjin Faurecia Xuyang Automotive System Co., Ltd China 60 100 Dongfeng Faurecia Emissions Control Technologies Co., Ltd China 50 100 Faurecia (Changshu) Automotive System Co., Ltd China 55 100 Faurecia (Liuzhou) Automotive Seating Co., Ltd China 50 100 Jiangxi Faurecia Coagent Electronics Co., Ltd China 100 100 Shenzhen Faurecia Automotive Parts Co., Ltd China 70 100 Faurecia (Hangzhou) Automotive Systems Co., Ltd China 100 100 Faurecia (Liuzhou) Automotive Interior Systems Co., Ltd China 50 100 Guangdong Coagent Global S&T Co., Ltd China 100 100 Faurecia Chongqing Zhuotong Automotive Interior Systems Co., Ltd China 50 100 Shanghai Faurecia Automotive Seating component Co., Ltd China 55 100 Parrot Automotive Shenzhen China 100 100 HUG Engineering Shanghai Co., Ltd China 100 100 Dongguan Clarion Orient Electronics Co., Ltd China 100 100 Xiamen Clarion Electrical Enterprise Co., Ltd China 100 100 Chengdu Faurecia Xuyang Automotive Seat Co., Ltd China 60 100 Zhejiang Faurecia Interior & Exterior Systems Co., Ltd China 100 100 Coagent Global Limited China 100 100 Parrot Automotive Asia Pacific Ltd China 100 100 Chang Ming Co., Ltd China 82 100 Clarion (H.K.) Industries Co., Ltd China 100 100 China Taiwan Covatech Inc. China Taiwan 82 100 Clairon (Taiwan) Manufacturing Co., Ltd China Taiwan 100 100 (1) Cumulated percentages of interest for fully consolidated companies. 112 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements Country Interest of (%) Stake (%) (1) South Korea Faurecia Korea, Ltd South Korea 100 100 FCM Yeongcheon South Korea 100 100 FAS Yeongcheon South Korea 100 100 Denmark Amminex Emissions Technology AS Denmark 91,5 100 Spain Asientos de Castilla Leon, S.A. Spain 100 100 Asientos del Norte, S.A. Spain 100 100 Faurecia Asientos Para Automovil España, S.A. Spain 100 100 Faurecia Sistemas De Escape España, S.A. Spain 100 100 Tecnoconfort Spain 50 100 Asientos de Galicia, S.L. Spain 100 100 Faurecia Automotive España, S.L. Spain 100 100 Faurecia Interior Systems España, S.A. Spain 100 100 Faurecia Interior Systems SALC España, S.L. Spain 100 100 Valencia Modulos de Puertas, S.L. Spain 100 100 Faurecia Emissions Control Technologies, Pamplona, S.L. Spain 100 100 Incalplas, S.L. Spain 100 100 Faurecia Automotive Industrie Spain, S.L. Spain 100 100 Faurecia Holding España S.L. Spain 100 100 United States Faurecia Emissions Control Systems NA, LLC United States 100 100 Faurecia Automotive Seating, LLC United States 100 100 Faurecia USA Holdings, Inc. United States 100 100 Faurecia Emissions Control Technologies, USA, LLC United States 100 100 Faurecia Interior Systems, Inc. United States 100 100 Faurecia Madison Automotive Seating, Inc. United States 100 100 Faurecia Interiors Louisville, LLC United States 100 100 Faurecia Interior Systems Saline, LLC United States 100 100 Faurecia Mexico Holdings, LLC United States 100 100 FNK North America, Inc. United States 100 100 Faurecia North America, Inc. United States 100 100 Hug Engineering Inc. United States 100 100 Faurecia DMS United States 100 100 Clarion Corporation of America United States 100 100 France Faurecia Sièges d’Automobile France 100 100 Faurecia Industries France 100 100 ECSA Études Et Construction de Sièges pour l’Automobile France 100 100 Siedoubs France 100 100 Sielest France 100 100 Siemar France 100 100 Faurecia Seating Flers France 100 100 Faurecia Investments France 100 100 Trecia France 100 100 (1) Cumulated percentages of interest for fully consolidated companies. / Universal Registration Document 2019 113 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements Country Interest of (%) Stake (%) (1) Faurecia Automotive Holdings France 100 100 Faurecia Automotive Industrie France 100 100 Faurecia Intérieur Industrie France 100 100 Faurecia Systèmes d’Échappement France 100 100 Faurecia Services Groupe France 100 100 Faurecia Exhaust International France 100 100 Faurecia Metalloprodukcia Holding France 70 100 Faurecia Smart Technologies France 100 100 Faurecia Interieurs Saint-Quentin France 100 100 Faurecia Interieurs Mornac France 100 100 Faurecia Ventures France 100 100 Faurecia Automotive Composites France 100 100 Hambach Automotive Exteriors France 100 100 Hennape Six France 100 100 Parrot Faurecia Automotive S.A.S France 100 100 Clarion Europe S.A.S France 100 100 Great Britain Faurecia Automotive Seating UK, Ltd Great Britain 100 100 Faurecia Midlands, Ltd Great Britain 100 100 SAI Automotive Fradley, Ltd Great Britain 100 100 SAI Automotive Washington, Ltd Great Britain 100 100 Faurecia Emissions Control Technologies UK, Ltd Great Britain 100 100 Hungary Faurecia Emissions Control Technologies, Hungary Kft Hungary 100 100 Clarion Hungary Electronics Kft. Hungary 100 100 India Faurecia Automotive Seating India Private, Ltd India 100 100 Faurecia Emissions Control Technologies India Private, Ltd India 74 100 Faurecia Interior Systems India Private, Ltd India 100 100 Clarion India Pvt, Ltd India 100 100 Israel Faurecia Security Technologies Israel 100 100 Italy Faurecia Emissions Control Technologies, Italy SRL Italy 100 100 Hug Engineering Italia S.r.l. Italy 100 100 Japan Faurecia Japan K.K. Japan 100 100 Faurecia Howa Interiors Co., Ltd Japan 50 100 Clarion Co., Ltd Japan 100 100 Clarion Sales and Marketing Co., Ltd Japan 100 100 Clarion Manufacturing and Service Co., Ltd Japan 100 100 Luxembourg Faurecia AST Luxembourg S.A. Luxembourg 100 100 Faurecia Luxembourg Sarl Luxembourg 100 100 Faurecia Holdings AST, Sarl Luxembourg 100 100 Malaysia Crystal Precision (M) Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Morocco Faurecia Équipements Automobiles Maroc Morocco 100 100 Faurecia Automotive Systems Technologies Morocco 100 100 Faurecia Automotive Industries Morocco SARL Morocco 100 100 (1) Cumulated percentages of interest for fully consolidated companies. 114 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements Country Interest of (%) Stake (%) (1) Mexico Faurecia Sistemas Automotrices de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Mexico 100 100 Servicios Corporativos de Personal Especializado, S.A. de C.V. Mexico 100 100 Exhaust Services Mexicana, S.A. de C.V. Mexico 100 100 ET Mexico Holdings II, S. de R.L. de C.V. Mexico 100 100 Faurecia Howa Interior Mexico, S.A. de C.V. Mexico 51 100 Electronica Clarion, S.A. de C.V. Mexico 100 100 Ultra Industrial, S.A. de C.V. Mexico 100 100 Netherlands ET Dutch Holdings B.V. Netherlands 100 100 Faurecia Emissions Control Technologies Netherlands B.V. Netherlands 100 100 Hug Engineering B.V. Netherlands 100 100 Poland Faurecia Automotive Polska S.A. Poland 100 100 Faurecia Walbrzych S.A. Poland 100 100 Faurecia Grojec R&D Center S.A. Poland 100 100 Faurecia Legnica S.A. Poland 100 100 Faurecia Gorzow S.A. Poland 100 100 Portugal Faurecia Assentos de Automovel, Lda Portugal 100 100 SASAL Portugal 100 100 Faurecia Sistemas De Escape Portugal, Lda Portugal 100 100 EDA Estofagem de Assentos, Lda Portugal 100 100 Faurecia Sistemas de Interior de Portugal, Componentes Para Automoveis S.A. Portugal 100 100 Czech Republic Faurecia Exhaust Systems, S.R.O. Czech Republic 100 100 Faurecia Automotive Czech Republic, S.R.O. Czech Republic 100 100 Faurecia Interior Systems Bohemia, S.R.O. Czech Republic 100 100 Faurecia Components Pisek, S.R.O. Czech Republic 100 100 Faurecia Interiors Pardubice, S.R.O. Czech Republic 100 100 Faurecia Emissions Control Technologies Mlada Boleslav, S.R.O. Czech Republic 100 100 Faurecia Plzen Czech Republic 100 100 Romania Faurecia Romania S.R.L. Romania 100 100 Euro Auto Plastic Systems S.R.L. Romania 50 100 Russia OOO Faurecia Interior Luga Russia 100 100 OOO Faurecia Metalloprodukcia Exhaust Systems Russia 70 100 OOO Faurecia Automotive Development Russia 100 100 OOO Faurecia Automotive Exteriors Bumpers Russia 100 100 Clarion RUS LLC Russia 100 100 Slovakia Faurecia Automotive Slovakia SRO Slovakia 100 100 Sweden Faurecia Interior Systems Sweden AB Sweden 100 100 Faurecia CREO Sweden 72 100 (1) Cumulated percentages of interest for fully consolidated companies. / Universal Registration Document 2019 115 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements Country Interest of (%) Stake (%) (1) Switzerland Hug Engineering AG Switzerland 100 100 Faurecia Switzerland Sàrl Switzerland 100 100 Thailand Faurecia Interior Systems (Thailand) Co., Ltd Thailand 100 100 Faurecia Emissions Control Technologies, Thaïland Co., Ltd Thailand 100 100 Faurecia & Summit Interior Systems (Thailand) Co., Ltd Thailand 50 100 Clarion Asia (Thailand) Co., Ltd Thailand 100 100 Tunisia Société Tunisienne d’Équipements d’Automobile Tunisia 100 100 Faurecia Informatique Tunisie Tunisia 100 100 Turkey Faurecia Polifleks Otomotiv Sanayi Ve Ticaret Anonim Sirketi Turkey 100 100 Uruguay Faurecia Automotive Del Uruguay, S.A. Uruguay 100 100 Vietnam Faurecia Vietnam Haiphong Vietnam 100 100 II – COMPANIES ACCOUNTED FOR BY THE EQUITY METHOD Germany SAS Autosystemtechnik GmbH und Co., KG Germany 50 50 China Changchun Xuyang Faurecia Acoustics & Soft Trim Co., Ltd China 40 40 Jinan Jidao Auto Parts Co., Ltd China 50 50 Changchun Faurecia Xuyang Automotive Components Technologies R&D Co., Ltd China 45 45 Dongfeng Faurecia (Wuhan) Automotive Parts Sales Co., Ltd China 50 50 Qinhuangdao WKW-FAD Automotive Interior Parts Co., Ltd China 50 50 Dongfeng Faurecia (Xiangyang) Emissions Systems Co., Ltd China 50 50 Faurecia Liuzhou Automotive Seating Sales Co., Ltd China 50 50 Chongqing Guangneng Faurecia Interior Systems Co., Ltd China 50 50 Hongtai Faurecia Composite (Wuhan) Co., Ltd China 50 50 Faurecia (Liuzhou) Emissions Control Technologies Co., Ltd China 50 50 Wuhan Clarion Kotei Software Technology Co., Ltd China 25 25 Spain Componentes de Vehiculos de Galicia, S.A. Spain 50 50 Copo Iberica, S.A. Spain 50 50 Industrias Cousin Frères, S.L. Spain 50 50 United States Detroit Manufacturing Systems, LLC United States 49 49 DMS leverage lender, LLC United States 49 49 DMS Toledo, LLC United States 49 49 Total Network Manufacturing LLC United States 49 49 France Automotive Performance Materials (APM) France 50 50 Symbio France 50 50 India NHK F. Krishna India Automotive Seating Private, Ltd India 19 19 Basis Mold India Private Limited India 38 38 (1) Cumulated percentages of interest for fully consolidated companies. 116 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements Country Interest of (%) Stake (%) (1) Italy Ligneos Srl Italy 50 50 Japan Faurecia NHK Co., Ltd Japan 50 50 Malaysia Clarion (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 45 45 Mexico Steva Mexico SLP S.A. de CV Mexico 49 49 Hitachi Automotive Systems San Juan Del Rio, S.A. de C.V. Mexico 20 20 Portugal Vanpro Assentos, Lda Portugal 50 50 Turkey Teknik Malzeme Ticaret Ve Sanayi AS Turkey 50 50 (1) Cumulated percentages of interest for fully consolidated companies. / Universal Registration Document 2019 117 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements 1.1.3. Statutory auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements This is a translation into English of the statutory auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements of the Company issued in French and it is provided solely for the convenience of Englishspeaking users. This statutory auditors’ report includes information required by European regulation and French law, such as information about the appointment of the statutory auditors or verification of the information concerning the Group presented in the management report and other documents provided to the shareholders.This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards To the Shareholders, INDEPENDENCE We conducted our audit engagement in compliance with independence rules applicable to us, for the period from Opinion January 1, 2019 to the date of our report and specifically we In compliance with the engagement entrusted to us by your did not provide any prohibited non-audit services referred to Annual General Meeting, we have audited the in Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 or in the French accompanying consolidated financial statements of Faurecia Code of Ethics (Code de déontologie) for Statutory Auditors. for the year ended December 31, 2019. In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a EMPHASIS OF MATTER true and fair view of the assets and liabilities and of the Without qualifying our opinion, we draw your attention to the financial position of the Group as at December 31, 2019 and matter set out in Note 1.B “Modifications to the previously of the results of its operations for the year then ended in published consolidated financial statements” to the accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards consolidated financial statements, which describes the terms as adopted by the European Union. and impact of the first-time application at January 1, 2019 of The audit opinion expressed above is consistent with our report IFRS 16 on lease contracts. to the Audit Committee. Justification of Assessments Key Audit Basis for Opinion Matters AUDIT FRAMEWORK In accordance with the requirements of Articles L.823-9 and R.823-7 of the French Commercial Code (Code de We conducted our audit in accordance with professional commerce) relating to the justification of our assessments, we standards applicable in France. We believe that the audit inform you of the key audit matters relating to risks of material evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to misstatement that, in our professional judgment, were of most provide a basis for our opinion. significance in our audit of the consolidated financial Our responsibilities under those standards are further described statements of the current period, as well as how we addressed in the Statutory Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the those risks. Consolidated Financial Statements section of our report. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on specific items of the consolidated financial statements. 118 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements DETERMINATION OF ASSETS ACQUIRED AND LIABILITIES ASSUMED RECOGNIZED IN CONNECTION WITH THE ACQUISITION OF CLARION CO, LTD (Notes 2 and 10A to the consolidated financial statements) Risk identified Our response Faurecia filed a Tender Offer for Clarion Co, Ltd’s shares We considered the basis for implementing the purchase on January 30th, 2019, which was declared compliant price allocation led by the Group and its external experts. by the competent authorities in relation with antitrust. In particular, with the support of our asset valuation experts, On March 28th, 2019, Faurecia finalized the acquisition our work consisted in: of the totality of Clarion Co, Ltd’s shares for a global ■ Assessing whether the identifiable assets acquired purchase price of 1.1 billion euros. and liabilities and contingent liabilities assumed meet With the support of valuation specialist, the Group the recognition criteria set out in IFRS 3 and if it is consistent determined the fair value of the identifiable assets acquired with the activity of the Group and its sector; and liabilities assumed of Clarion Co, Ltd at the acquisition ■ Obtaining an understanding of the methods used date, in accordance with IFRS 3, as disclosed in Note 10A to determine the fair value of Clarion Co, Ltd’s tangible to the consolidated financial statements. and intangible assets; Goodwill determined within the scope of the Clarion ■ Analyzing the appropriateness of the assumptions Co, Ltd’s purchase price accounting amounted to underlying the estimates used by the Group to determine €603.9m of which €528.9m was allocated to the group the fair value of Clarion Co, Ltd’s assets and liabilities at the of Cash Generating Unit (“CGU”) Clarion Electronics and acquisition date, especially regarding: €75m to the other business groups based on the synergies identified. ■ Intangible assets relating to technologies and trademark, we assessed the royalty rates used, We considered the determination of the fair value of the assets and liabilities recognized within the scope ■ Intangible assets in relation with customer relationships, of the Clarion Co, Ltd’s purchase price allocation to be we assessed the proportion of forecast revenue taken a key audit matter, given the significance of the amounts into account in evaluating these assets with regard to the in question and the estimates required to determine in total revenues and margin taken into account in particular the fair value of technologies, trademark and comparison with the acquisition strategic plan, customer relationships as well as the measurement of ■ Tangible assets, we assessed the key assumptions used Clarion Co, Ltd’s liabilities and contingent liabilities. and involved component auditors to assess a selection of market data; ■ Considering the definition of CGUs and analyzing the purchase price allocation made by the Group; ■ Performing arithmetical checks on the evaluation of assets; ■ Assessing the global consistency of the purchase price allocation and the residual goodwill, mainly by: ■ Analyzing the acquisition strategic plan and the implicit internal rate return of the operation, ■ Analyzing the Weighted Average Return on Assets and reconciling with the implicit internal rate return as well as the Weight Average Capital Cost of Clarion Co Ltd, ■ Analyzing the consistency of the resulting residual goodwill. We also assessed the appropriateness of the disclosures provided in Notes 2 and 10A to the consolidated financial statements. / Universal Registration Document 2019 119 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements FIRST-TIME ADOPTION OF IFRS 16 FOR LEASES (Note 1B to the consolidated financial statements) Risk identified Our response Faurecia has adopted as of January 1, 2019 the IFRS 16 Our audit approach consisted in assessing the relevance “Leases” under a simplified retrospective method. IFRS 16 of the methodology and the compliance with applicable modifies the accounting treatment of operating leases accounting principles retained by the Group to determine at the inception of the contract, with the recognition the main assumptions. Our work also consisted in: of a right of use on the leased asset and of a liability for ■ Assessing the completeness of the lease contracts the lease payments over the lease contract term. databases comparing with the perimeter of “operating The first-time adoption of the standard resulted in the leases” identified under the previously applicable standard recognition, for the January 1, 2019 opening balance sheet, IAS 17 and reviewing the residual lease expenses; of rights of use for a net consideration of €725.8m and a ■ Corroborating, on a sample, the information used for lease debt of the same amount. determining assets and liabilities related to lease contracts We considered the first-time application of the standard with underlying contractual data; as a key audit matter due to the material nature of those ■ Analyzing, on a sample, the consistency of the lease terms leases on the opening financial statements, and the considered with the non-cancelable duration mentioned significance of the Group’s judgements in determining in the contracts; the assumptions used (lease term and discount rate). ■ Evaluating, the consistency of the key assumptions used by management for the calculation of the discount rate in relation with the implicit rate for the contracts, or marginal borrowing rate corresponding to the contract lease duration; ■ Performing a sensitivity analysis based on the discount rates used; ■ Recalculating the lease debt as determined and accounted for by the Group; ■ Testing a selection of IT general controls and applications of the software used by the Group for the calculation of the right of use and the lease debt. We also assessed the appropriateness of the disclosures provided in Note 1B to the consolidated financial statements. 120 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements IMPAIRMENT TESTING OF GOODWILL (Note 10B to the consolidated financial statements) Risk identified Our response The carrying amount of goodwill amounts to €2,146.4m We made inquiries of management about any indications at December 31, 2019. Goodwill is allocated to the four of impairment. We assessed the method used by groups of Cash Generating Units (CGUs) corresponding management to determine the recoverable amount of to the Group’s operating segments: Seating, Clean Mobility, each group of CGUs in order to assess its compliance with Interior Systems and Clarion Electronics. IAS 36. In accordance with IAS 36, goodwill is not amortized but With the support of our asset valuation experts, we assessed tested for impairment at least once a year and more often the consistency of the key assumptions used by if there is an indication that it may be impaired, as management to determine projected future cash flows and, mentioned in the Note 10B. in particular: For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated ■ reconciled the components taken in the impairment tests between groups of CGUs. A CGU is defined as the smallest of each group of CGU with the consolidated financial identifiable group of assets that generates cash inflows that statements; are largely independent of the cash inflows from other ■ compared the key assumptions used to determine the assets or groups of assets, as described in Note 10 to the recoverable amount for the group of CGUs, such as consolidated financial statements. discount rates, with independent market data; Impairment tests are performed to compare the carrying ■ analyzed the consistency of projected future cash flows amount of assets and liabilities by groups of CGUs with the with historical data; higher of their value in use (equal to the present value of ■ reperformed the calculations and reconciled the main the net future cash flows expected) and their fair value strategic plan data with the data used in impairment including costs of disposal. testing; The cash flow forecasts used to calculate value in use ■ performed sensitivity analyses on the recoverable amounts were based on the Group’s 2020-2022 strategic plan. calculated by management, in particular with regard to In order to take into account the development plan for discount rates and operating income. Clarion Electronics following the acquisition of Clarion Co, Ltd in 2019, the cash flow forecasts used for this activity We also assessed the appropriateness of the disclosures on are based on forecasts for the period 2020-2025. The goodwill provided in the Notes to the consolidated financial strategic plans were approved by the Board of Directors. statements. The volume assumptions used in the strategic plans are based on external information sources. For a given group of CGUs, an impairment loss is recognized whenever its recoverable amount falls below its carrying amount. We considered the measurement of the recoverable amount of goodwill to be a key audit matter for the following reasons: ■ the amount of goodwill recorded in the consolidated financial statements is material; ■ defining the inputs to be used to perform impairment tests requires a high degree of judgment and estimation from management, in particular as regards future cash flows, discount rates (WACC) and long-term growth rates, which are inherently dependent on the economic environment; ■ the model used to measure recoverable amount is sensitive to these estimates. / Universal Registration Document 2019 121 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements ACCOUNTING AND RECOVERABILITY OF DEVELOPMENT COSTS (Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements) Risk identified Our response Net capitalized development costs amount to €2,053.7m With regard to the capitalization of development costs: at December 31, 2019. ■ we obtained an understanding of the procedures In accordance with IAS 38, development costs incurred implemented by management to determine the eligibility in connection with producing and delivering modules for of development costs for capitalization and analyzed their specific customer orders are recorded as an intangible compliance with IAS 38; asset pursuant to the conditions set out in Note 11 to the ■ we performed certain specific testing on a sample consolidated financial statements. of customer programs to evaluate whether the related These capitalized costs are amortized to match the development costs were eligible for capitalization. quantities of parts delivered to the customer, over a period With regard to the measurement of the recoverable amount not exceeding five years except under exceptional of capitalized development costs: circumstances. ■ we made inquiries of management about any indications Research costs, and development costs that do not meet of impairment. We obtained an understanding of the the above criteria, are expensed as incurred. method used by management to determine the These assets are tested for impairment whenever there is recoverable amount of these assets in order to consider an indication that they may be impaired. Impairment tests its compliance with IAS 36; involve comparing the carrying amount of the assets ■ with the support of our asset valuation experts, we allocated to a customer contract and that of the assessed the consistency of the key assumptions used by associated specific tooling with the present value of the management to determine projected future cash flows for net future cash flows expected to be derived from the a sample of customer programs subject to an impairment contract, based on the best possible estimate of future test and, in particular: sales. We considered the accounting and recoverability ■ reconciled the components of the carrying amount of of development costs to be a key audit matter for these assets allocated to a customer contract with the the following reasons: consolidated financial statements; ■ the amount of capitalized development costs in ■ compared the key assumptions used, such as discount the consolidated financial statements is material; rates, with independent market data; ■ defining the inputs to be used to perform impairment ■ reperformed the calculations and reconciled the main tests requires a high degree of judgment and estimation strategic plan data per program with the data used in from management, in particular as regards future cash impairment testing; flows, discount rates and the expected gross margin per ■ reconciled, on a sample basis, the data specific to each program, which are inherently dependent on the program, such as projected delivery quantities and economic environment. negotiated unit price per product, with the customer contract or observable external data, where applicable taking into account ongoing negotiations. We also assessed the appropriateness of the disclosures provided on development costs in the Notes to the consolidated financial statements. 122 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements ACCOUNTING AND RECOVERABILITY OF DEFERRED TAX ASSETS (Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements) Risk identified Our response Deferred tax assets amount to €468.4m in the balance We assessed the consistency of the assumptions used by sheet at December 31, 2019, while deferred tax liabilities management to recognize and measure deferred tax assets amount to €38.7m. and their compliance with IAS 12. Deferred income tax assets are recognized only to the With the support of our tax experts, we assessed the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be probability that the Group will be able to utilize the tax loss available in the short or medium term against which the carryforwards currently recognized in its balance sheet, in temporary differences or the loss carryforward can be particular with regard to: utilized. ■ deferred tax liabilities existing in the same tax jurisdiction The assessment of the ability to recover net deferred tax that may be used to offset existing tax loss carryforwards, assets as of December 31, 2019 (€429.7m) is based on the prior to their expiry date; Group’s 2020-2022 strategic plan for the long-term recovery ■ the ability of the Group’s subsidiaries companies of tax losses. concerned to generate future taxable profit against which The Group’s ability to recover deferred tax assets is assessed the existing tax loss carryforwards can be utilized. by management at the end of the year. We also assessed the consistency with the strategic plan of We considered the accounting and the recoverability of the main data and assumptions on which taxable income deferred tax assets to be a key audit matter due to the projections underlying the accounting and recoverability of importance of the assumptions and judgments used by deferred tax assets relating to tax loss carryforwards are management to recognize these assets and to the based. materiality of their amounts in the consolidated financial Lastly, we also assessed the appropriateness of the statements. disclosures on deferred tax assets provided in the Notes to the consolidated financial statements. Specific verifications securities of the Company were admitted to trading on a regulated market). We have also performed, in accordance with professional standards applicable in France, the specific verifications required by laws and regulations of the Group’s information Responsibilities of Management and presented in the Board of Directors’ management report. Those Charged with Governance for We have no matters to report as to their fair presentation and their consistency with the consolidated financial statements. the Consolidated Financial Statements Management is responsible for the preparation and fair We attest that the consolidated non-financial statement presentation of the consolidated financial statements in required by article L. 225-102-1 of the French Commercial accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Code (Code de commerce) is included in the Group’s as adopted by the European Union and for such internal management report, it being specified that, in accordance control as management determines is necessary to enable with article L. 823-10 of this Code, we have not verified neither the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are the fair presentation and consistency with the consolidated free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. financial statements of the information contained therein, which will be the subject of a report by an independent third In preparing the consolidated financial statements, party. management is responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the Report on Other Legal and Regulatory going concern basis of accounting unless it is expected to liquidate the Company or to cease operations. Requirements The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the financial APPOINTMENT OF THE STATUTORY AUDITORS reporting process and the effectiveness of internal control and We were appointed Statutory Auditors of Faurecia by the risks management systems and where applicable, its internal Annual General Meetings held on May 28, 2019 for MAZARS audit, regarding the accounting and financial reporting and on June 17, 1983 for ERNST & YOUNG Audit. procedures. At December 31, 2019, MAZARS was in the first year of their The consolidated financial statements were approved by the engagement and ERNST & YOUNG Audit was in the Board of Directors. thirty-seventh year (which are the twenty-first year since / Universal Registration Document 2019 123 Financial statements The Faurecia group – business review and financial statements Statutory Auditors’ Responsibilities for evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant the Audit of the Consolidated Financial doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going Statements concern. This assessment is based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of his audit report. However, future OBJECTIVES AND AUDIT APPROACH events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to Our role is to issue a report on the consolidated financial continue as a going concern. If the statutory auditor statements. Our objective is to obtain reasonable assurance concludes that a material uncertainty exists, there is a about whether the consolidated financial statements as a requirement to draw attention in the audit report to the whole are free from material misstatement. Reasonable related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee or, if such disclosures are not provided or inadequate, to that an audit conducted in accordance with professional modify the opinion expressed therein. standards will always detect a material misstatement when it ■ Evaluates the overall presentation of the consolidated exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are financial statements and assesses whether these statements considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they represent the underlying transactions and events in a could reasonably be expected to influence the economic manner that achieves fair presentation. decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements. ■ Obtains sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities As specified in Article L.823-10-1 of the French Commercial within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated Code (Code de commerce), our statutory audit does not financial statements. The statutory auditor is responsible for include assurance on the viability of the Company or the the direction, supervision and performance of the audit of quality of management of the affairs of the Company. the consolidated financial statements and for the opinion As part of an audit conducted in accordance with expressed on these consolidated financial statements. professional standards applicable in France, the statutory auditor exercises professional judgment throughout the audit REPORT TO THE AUDIT COMMITTEE and furthermore: We submit to the Audit Committee a report which includes in ■ Identifies and assesses the risks of material misstatement of particular a description of the scope of the audit and the the consolidated financial statements, whether due to audit program implemented, as well as the results of our audit. fraud or error, designs and performs audit procedures We also report, if any, significant deficiencies in internal control responsive to those risks, and obtains audit evidence regarding the accounting and financial reporting procedures considered to be sufficient and appropriate to provide a that we have identified. basis for his opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one Our report to the Audit Committee includes the risks of resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, material misstatement that, in our professional judgment, were intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of of most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial internal control. statements of the current period and which are therefore the key audit matters that we are required to describe in this ■ Obtains an understanding of internal control relevant to the report. audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of We also provide the Audit Committee with the declaration expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the internal provided for in Article 6 of Regulation (EU) N° 537/2014, control. confirming our independence within the meaning of the rules applicable in France such as they are set in particular by ■ Evaluates the appropriateness of accounting policies used Articles L.822-10 to L.822-14 of the French Commercial Code and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and (Code de commerce) and in the French Code of Ethics (code related disclosures made by management in the de déontologie) for statutory auditors. Where appropriate, we consolidated financial statements. discuss with the Audit Committee the risks that may reasonably ■ Assesses the appropriateness of management’s use of the be thought to bear on our independence, and the related going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit safeguards. Courbevoie and Paris-La Défense, February 19, 2020 The Statutory Auditors French original signed by MAZARS ERNST & YOUNG Audit David Chaudat Jean-Roch Varon 124 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements Faurecia parent company – business review and financial statements 1.2. Faurecia parent company – business review and financial statements 1.2.1. report of the parent company Faurecia S.E. company is a holding company which directly Financial structure and net debt and indirectly provides financial, accounting, IT, executive management and administrative services to companies in the The main components of Faurecia financing are described Group. below: The sales 2019 are slightly going down to €30.1 million, compared to €33.4 million in 2018. SYNDICATED CREDIT FACILITY Faurecia invoices trademark royalties, calculated as a On December 15, 2014, Faurecia signed a syndicated credit proportion of the subsidiaries’ sales. These royalties, extended facility, with a five-year maturity, for an amount of since 2015 to all companies wholly owned by the Group, €1,200 million. This credit facility was renegotiated on June 24, totaled €71.2 million in 2019, versus €53.7 million in 2018. 2016, in order to extend the maturity to five years from that date, or June 24, 2021 and improve its terms and conditions. On June 15, 2018, Faurecia signed with participating banks a Results of operations second agreement to extend again the maturity to five years from that date, or June 15, 2023, with two optional one-year The operating profit for the year 2019 is a profit of €24.5 million extensions that can be exercised in June 2019 and June 2020, to be compared to €7.6 million in 2018. subject to agreement of participating banks, and that would The net financial income totaled €439,3 million, compared to extend the maturity respectively to June 2024 and June 2025. a net financial income €392,2 million in 2018. This agreement has improved again its terms and conditions and strengthens the Group’s financial structure. The variance is mainly due to the reversal of investment depreciation essentially for Faurecia Automotive GmbH, A first one-year extension option has been exercised in €47,8 million as well as to the increase of interest income from June 2019, extending the maturity of this credit facility to the subsidiaries, going from €132.5 million in 2018 up to June 2024. €169 million in 2019. Dividends perceived from subsidiaries are As of December 31, 2019 this credit facility was not drawn. going down slightly at €341.2 million to be compared with €360.9 million in 2018. This credit facility includes only one covenant, related to consolidated financial ratios: Net debt(2)/EBITDA(3) must be In 2019, the net non-recurring loss is at €17.5 million versus a loss lower than 2.79(4). Compliance with this ratio is a condition of €15,9 million in 2018. affecting the availability of this credit facility. As of Tax income amounted to €30.9 million, compared with December 31, 2019, the Group complied with this ratio. €31.7 million for fiscal year 2018. This corresponds to the tax This credit facility includes some restrictive clauses on asset income recognized from the positive earnings of French disposals (disposal representing over 35% of the Group’s total subsidiaries that are part of the consolidated tax group. consolidated assets requires the prior approval of banks Net income for the fiscal year showed a profit of representing two-thirds of the syndicate) and on the debt level €477.1 million(1). This compares with a profit €415,7 million of some subsidiaries. in 2018. 2025 BONDS On March 8, 2018, Faurecia issued bonds for an amount of €700 million due June 15, 2025, carrying annual interest of 2.625%, payable on June 15 and December 15 each year, as from June 15, 2018. (1) For information, it is specified that the amount for expenses and costs listed in 4 of Article 39 of the French General Tax Code amount to €156,738.85 and the corresponding tax amounts to €53,965.53. (2) Consolitated net debt. (3) Operating income plus depreciation, amortization and funding of provisions for impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, corresponding to the past 12 months. (4) This limit was previously at 2.50 and has been changed to 2.79 to take into account the implementation of IFRS 16. / Universal Registration Document 2019 125 Financial statements Faurecia parent company – business review and financial statements These bonds include a covenant restricting the additional The bonds are listed on the Global Exchange Market of indebtedness if the EBITDA(2) after certain adjustments is lower Euronext Dublin. Costs related to the bond issue are expensed than twice the gross interest costs, and restrictions on the debt in P&L over the life time of the bonds. similar to those of the syndicated credit loan. The proceeds of these bonds have been used to redeem the FINANCING OF CLARION CO., LTD ACQUISITION €700 million bonds due June 15, 2022, carrying annual interest Following the binding agreements reached on October 26, of 3.125%, issued in March and April 2015. 2018 with Clarion and Hitachi, and the authorization received The bonds are listed on the Global Exchange Market of from anti trust authorities, Faurecia has launched on Euronext Dublin (previously Irish Stock Exchange). The costs January 30, 2019 a tender offer on Clarion Co., Ltd, (cf related to the bond issue are expensed in P&L over the life Note 10A). time of the bonds. The tender covers whole Clarion shares (around 56.55 millions shares) for a price of ¥2,500 per share, i.e. a total of around 2026 BONDS ¥141.3 billions, or around €1.1 billion. On March 27, 2019, Faurecia issued bonds for an amount of The total amount of the acquisition has been hedged through €500 million due June 15, 2026, carrying annual interest of contingent forwards, which will transform in forward hedging 3.125%, payable on June 15 and December 15 each year, as at a given exchange rate when the offer is a success and the from June 15, 2019. acquisition has to be paid for; in the opposite case, hedging is cancelled without Faurecia having to pay (or receive) any These bonds benefit from the same restrictions as the amount, whatever the exchange rate euro/yen. 2025 bonds. In order to secure the financing of the acquisition, of the The proceeds of these bonds have been used to refinance repayment of some Clarion debts as well as of integration the €500 million drawn on the bridge loan described below in costs, Faurecia has implemented a bridge loan for an amount the paragraph “Financing of Clarion Co., Ltd acquisition”. of €1.3 billion with one of its main banks. This loan had a The bonds are listed on the Global Exchange Market of maturity of one year, extendable by one year through two Euronext Dublin. The costs related to the bond issue are six-months extension options. This loan included some expensed in P&L over the life time of the bonds. restrictive clauses similar to the ones of the syndicated loan of €1.2 billion. In order to prefinance the acquisition of 50% of SAS shares, an additional issue for €250 million of these 2026 bonds has been In order to anticipate and secure the refinancing of this bridge performed on October 31, 2019. these additional bonds have loan, Faurecia has signed on December 17, 2018 a private been issued at 104.50% of the pair, which corresponds to a placement under German law (Schuldscheindarlehen) for a return at issuance of 2.40%. As of December 31, 2019, the total amount of €700 million. This transaction is structured into amount of these 2026 bonds amounted to €750 million. several tranches in EUR and USD, at fixed and variable rates, with maturities of four, five and six years. €378 million have 2027 BONDS been received on December 20, 2018 and the remaining amount has been received in early January 2019. The USD On November 27, 2019, Faurecia issued bonds for an amount tranches have been partially converted in euro resources of €700 million due June 15, 2027, carrying annual interest of through long term cross-currency swaps. 2.375%, payable on June 15 and December 15 each year, as from June 15, 2020. Thanks to this operation the amount of the bridge loan has been reduced down to €750 million at the end of These bonds benefit from the same restrictions as the December 2018. 2026 bonds. At the closing of the tender offer, end of February 2019, The proceeds of these bonds have been used to refinance Faurecia was owner of 95.28% of Clarion shares. This the €700 million bonds due June 15, 2023 carrying annual acquisition has been paid early March 2019 for an amount of interest of 3.625%, issued on April 1, 2016. ¥134 billion or €1,051 million at hedging rate. A squeeze out This refinancing has been done through a tender offer through has then been launched, bringing the level of acquired shares which 2023 bond holders could exchange their bonds against at 100% at the end of March 2019, at which date Clarion new 2027 bonds. The rate of exchange has reached 76%. The shares have been delisted from the Tokyo Stock Exchange. bonds that were not tendered in this offer have been The bridge loan has therefore been drawn early March 2019 redeemed in accordance with the offering memorandum. for an amount of €500 million, then paid back with the result of The settlement of these two operations has taken place the 2026 bonds issue, this credit facility being then cancelled. respectively on November 25 and November 28, 2019. Finally, during 2019, Faurecia regularly issued commercial The bond premium for bonds tendered in the offer is amortized papers with a maturity up to one year for investors located over the duration of the new 2027 bonds; the bond premium mainly in France. The amount of the commercial papers for bonds redeemed by anticipation has been expensed. program has been brought from €1 billion to €1.3 billion in September 2019. 126 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements Faurecia parent company – business review and financial statements Faurecia is rated Ba1 by Moody’s with stable outlook and BB+ At December 31, 2019, the shareholders’ equity in the with a stable outlook by Fitch Ratings (increase of these two Company before distribution of the period’s earnings ratings on February 20, 2018). On January 31, 2018, Standard & amounted to €3,592.8 million compared to €3,285.8 million at Poor’s assigned to Faurecia a BB+ long-term corporate credit the close of 2018. It thus increased by €307 million. ratings, with a stable outlook. Moody’s confirmed Faurecia’s At December 31, 2019, Faurecia’s financial debt amounted to credit rating on April 24, 2019 and so did Fitch Ratings on €1081 million, taking into account its gross debt, net of July 3, 2019. In addition, the three rating agencies rated available funds, marketable securities and advances net of Ba1/BB+ the bonds issued in March, October and intra-group cash and loans, compared with net debt of November 2019. €221.9 million at December 31, 2018. Trade accounts payable equaling €10.2 million included 17 invoices due that have been paid after December 31, 2019; accounts receivable amounted to €42.5 million as of December 31, 2019, including €10.5 million for invoices past due, mainly from subsidiaries. These break down as follows: Article D. 441 I. 1°: Invoices received, Article D. 441 I. 2°: nvoices issued, unpaid and in arrears as of the closing date unpaid and in arrears as of the closing date Total Total 0 day 91 days (1 day 0 day 91 days (1 day (indi1 to 31 to 61 to or and (indi1 to 31 to 61 to or and cative) 30 days 60 days 90 days more more) cative) 30 days 60 days 90 days more more) (A) LATE PAYMENT CATEGORIES Number of invoices concerned 1 17 0 48 Number of invoices concerned (including VAT) 36,000 0 21,714 0 48,410 70,124 0 9,693,500 0 0 771,954 10,465,454 % of total purchase amount for the fiscal year (including VAT) 0.05% 0.00% 0.03% 0.00% 0.07% 0.10% % of sales for the fiscal year (including VAT) 0.00% 7.15% 0.00% 0.00% 0.57% 7.72% (B) INVOICES EXCLUDED FROM (A) RELATING TO DISPUTED OR UNRECOGNIZED PAYABLES AND RECEIVABLES Number of excluded invoices 6 0 Total amount of excluded invoices 21,918 0 (C) REFERENCE TERMS OF PAYMENT USED (CONTRACTUAL OR STATUTORY DEADLINE – ARTICLE L. 441-6 OR ARTICLE L. 443-1 OF THE FRENCH CODE OF COMMERCE) Terms of payment used to calcula e late payments Contractual deadlines Contractual deadlines The carrying amount of investments in subsidiaries and JANUARY 2019 affiliates recognized in the balance sheet at December 31, ET Dutch Holdings BV (Netherlands) has acquired 49% of the 2019 came to €4,628.6 million (€3,484,2 million at December capital of the Mexican entity “GMD Stamping Mexico S.A.” 31, 2018). (Seating BG), the other 51% being held by “GMD Stamping S.A.”. Business review relating to the Company’s FEBRUARY 2019 subsidiaries Faurecia Automotive Holdings has acquired 82% of “Chang The operations and results of the Company’s subsidiaries Ming Company” (Hong Kong), which owns 100% of in 2019 are analyzed in detail in the review of the consolidated CovaTech, Inc. (Taiwan), which itself owns 100% of CovaTech financial statements. North America, Inc. (USA), the three entities belonging to The most significant events of 2019 were as follows (BG Faurecia Interiors BG. = Business Group): / Universal Registration Document 2019 127 Financial statements Faurecia parent company – business review and financial statements MARCH 2019 ■ The Chinese joint-venture “Dongfeng Faurecia Automotive Exterior Co. Ltd” is no more a subsidiary of “Faurecia (China) ■ Following the acquisition of Clarion, the here below listed Holding” and, consequently, an entity of the Faurecia subsidiaries and participations have been integrated to the group. Faurecia group. ■ The Swedish entity “Faurecia Interior Systems Sweden AB” ■ Germany: Clarion Europa GmbH (100%); has acquired 72.10% of “Faurecia Creo AB” (Faurecia ■ Brazil: Clarion do Brasil Ltda (100%); Interiors BG), the 27.90% remaining shares been held by minority shareholders (Creo’s employees). ■ Canada: Clarion Canada, Inc. (100%); ■ China: APRIL 2019 ■ Wuhan Clarion Kotei Software Technology Co., Ltd Have been registered the following entities: (25%), ■ “Shanghai Faurecia Automotive Seating Components ■ Dongguan Clarion Orient Electronics Co., Ltd (100%), Company Limited” (Seating BG), held at 100% by “Shanghai ■ Xiamen Clarion Electrical Enterprise Co., Ltd (100%), Faurecia Automotive Seating Company Limited”; ■ Clarion (H.K.) Industries Co., Ltd (100%); ■ the new company “Faurecia Interior Systems (Vietnam) Co., Ltd” (Faurecia Interiors BG), held at 100% by “Faurecia ■ China (Taiwan): Clarion (Taiwan) Manufacturing Co., Ltd Automotive Holdings”. (100%); ■ United States: Clarion Corporation of Amercia (100%); MAY 2019 ■ France: Clarion Europe S.A.S. (100%); The following entities have been registered: ■ Hungary: Clarion Hungary Electronics Kft (100%); ■ “HUG Engineering (Shanghai) Company Limited” (Clean Mobility BG), held at 100% by “Faurecia (China) Holding”; ■ India: Clarion India Pvt, Ltd (100%); ■ “Faurecia Coagent Electronics S&T Co., Ltd” (Faurecia ■ Japan: Clarion Electronics BG), as a company 100% owned by ■ Clarion Co., Ltd (100%), “Faurecia (China) Holding” after the acquisition of the shares previously held by “Guangdong Coagent Electronic ■ Clarion Sales and Marketing Co., Ltd (100%), S&T Co., Ltd”, representing 46.77% of the capital), by ■ Clarion Manufacturing and Service Co., Ltd (100%), “Foshan Rong Guang He He Share Investment Management Cooperative Enterprise (Limited Partnership”, ■ Carebot Corporation (33,3%); representing 0.44% of the capital and by “Beijing Naviifo ■ Malaisia: Co., Ltd”, representing the remaining 2.69% of the capital. ■ Clarion (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd (45%), ■ “Faurecia Powergreen Emissions Control Technologies (Shanghai) Co., Ltd” as a company 100% owned by ■ Crystal Precision (M) Sdn Bhd (100%); “Faurecia (China) Holding”, after the acquisition of the ■ Mexico: shares representing 9% of the capital previously held by the partner “Suzhou Powergreen Emission System Solution ■ Soporte International, S.A. de C.V. (100%), Co., Ltd”. ■ Electronica Clarion, S.A. de C.V. (100%), ■ Ultra Industrial, S.A. de C.V. (100%), JUNE 2019 ■ Hitachi Automotive Systems San Juan Del Rio, S.A. de ■ The subsidiary “Faurecia Exhaust Systems South Africa” has C.V. (20%); been merged into “Faurecia Emissions Control Technologies (Cape Town) (Pty) Ltd”. ■ Russia: Clarion Rus LLC (100%); ■ the legal entity “Siebret” (Seating BG), held at 100% by ■ Thailand: Clarion Asia (Thailand) Co., Ltd (100%). “Faurecia Investments”, has been dissolved without prior The holding of this group of entities is the French Faurecia liquidation and deregistered, all its assets and liabilities subsidiary “Hennape Six”. being transferred to its sole shareholder. These entities belong to the new Business Group “Faurecia AUGUST 2019 Clarion Electronics” (FCE) which combines the activities of Clarion, Parrot and Coagent. ■ The subsidiary “Covatech North America, Inc.” (Interiors BG) has been dissolved; ■ The new Chinese joint-venture “Faurecia (Liuzhou) Emissions Control Technologies Co., Ltd” (Clean Mobility BG), held at ■ the Chinese subsidiary “Zhejiang Faurecia Limin Interior & 50% by “Faurecia (China) Holding”, the 50% remaining Exterior Systems Company Limited” became a 100% shares being held by Liuzhou Wuling Automotive Industry subsidiary of “Faurecia (China) Holding” after having Co., Ltd, has been registered. purchased the 41% of the capital held by “Zhejiang Limin Industry Co., Ltd” and the 9% held by “Zhejiang Geely Holding Group Co., ltd”. 128 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements Faurecia parent company – business review and financial statements OCTOBER 2019 Japanese entity “Clarion Co., Ltd”, has been sold to Hitachi AMS. Has been registered a new SAS Group subsidiary “SAS Logistics France” (Interiors BG), held at 100% by “SAS As this management report is being presented in the form of Autosystemtechnik Verwaltungs GmbH”. this Universal Registration Document, the various Chapters in this document supplement the report. NOVEMBER 2019 As such, the foreseeable changes in the Company and ■ The new Chinese entity “SAS Automotive Systems material events that occurred between the close of the fiscal (Shanghai) Co., Ltd” (Interiors BG), held at 100% by “SAS year and the date of the management report are discussed in Autosystemtechnik Verwaltungs GmbH” has been Sections 1.1.1.1.3 and 1.1.1.7 respectively. registered. The risks that Faurecia faces and the main features of the ■ “Faurecia (Chongqing) Automotive Parts Co., Ltd” (Interiors internal control and risk management procedures are set out BG), previously held at 100% by Faurecia (China) Holding, in Chapter 2 of this Universal Registration Document. became a joint-venture after the sale of 40% of its capital to Information on research and development appears in the the partner “Changchun Xuyang Industrial (Group) introductory chapter, and the way in which Faurecia takes Company Ltd by shares” and 20% to “Shanghai Long Zhong into consideration the social and environmental Automotive Sales Co., Ltd”, “Faurecia (China) Holding” consequences of its business, and its societal commitments in holding the remaining 40%; favor of sustainable development, are detailed in Chapter 4. ■ The new Portuguese joint-venture “Faurecia Aptoide The current capital structure, crossing of thresholds, employee Automotive, Lda” (Faurecia Clarion Electronics BG), held at share ownership through the Faurecia Actionnariat Corporate 50% by “Hennape Six” and at 50% by the partner mutual fund, and other information on the capital stock “Aptoide S.A.” has been registered. (including the table of financial authorizations and their use ■ “Faurecia Exhaust International” has acquired 50% of the during the 2018 fiscal year, the change in capital stock, shares of “Symbio” (Clean Mobility BG), the remaining 50% potential capital stock, treasury stock and information on being held by “Spika SAS” (Michelin Group). purchases and sales of treasury shares) are covered in Chapter 5. DECEMBER 2019 Information on the compensation of the corporate officers and on other aspects of the operation of the Company’s ■ The Spanish joint-venture “Industrias Cousin Frères, S.L.” administrative, management and supervisory bodies (Seating BG), held at 50% by “Faurecia Investments”, has (including the list of corporate offices and duties of the been liquidated and deregistered. corporate officers) appears in Chapter 3. ■ “Faurecia Emissions Control Technologies (Ningbo) Co. Ltd.” Provisions recognized by Faurecia and its subsidiaries for (Clean Mobility BG), previously held at 91% by “Faurecia pensions and other employee benefits are analyzed in (China) Holding” and at 9% by “Ningbo Yuanjing Auto Note 25.2 to the consolidated financial statements. Components Co., Ltd”, became a 100% hold company after the purchase of the 9% of the capital held by the Factors likely to affect a public takeover bid are discussed in partner “Ningbo Yuanjing Auto Components Co., Ltd”. the Chapter 6, Section 6.1. ■ The new entity “Faurecia Holdings AST” (Luwembourg), held Information on the fees of the Statutory Auditors is provided in at 100% by “Faurecia AST Luxembourg S.A.” has been the Chapter 6, Section 6.4. registered Information on options and performance shares is provided in ■ “Faurecia (Changshu) Automotive System Co. Ltd.” (Seating Note 22.2 to the consolidated financial statements and in BG), incorporated as a company owned at 100% by Chapter 5, Section 5.2.2 of this Universal Registration “Faurecia (China) Holding”, becomes a joint-venture after Document. Other detailed information is provided in a special the sale of 45% of its capital to the partner “Shanghai report. Dongchang Enterprises Group Co., Ltd.” Information on the vigilance plan, within the meaning of the ■ The Mexican subsidiary “Soporate International, S.A. de French Law of March 27, 2017, is provided in Sections 2.2.3.3., C.V.”(Faurecia Clarion Electronics BG), held at 100% by the 4.1.7. and 4.4.3. / Universal Registration Document 2019 129 Financial statements Faurecia parent company – business review and financial statements 1.2.2. Parent company financial statements 1.2.2.1. Income statement (in € thousands) Notes 2019 2018 Services sold 30,146 33,439 Sales 30,146 33,439 External services (64,240) (68,040) Taxes other than on income (2,789) (2,722) Salaries and wages (16,241) (19,920) Payroll taxes (4,187) (5,109) Amortization, depreciation and provisions (net of reversals) and expense transfers 3 10,650 16,300 Other income/(expenses) 4 71,176 53,666 Total operating income and expenses (5,631) (25,826) Net operating income 24,515 7,614 Financial income 5 575,634 516,057 Financing costs 5 (136,343) (123,816) NET FINANCIAL INCOME (EXPENSE) 5 439,291 392,241 OPERATING INCOME AFTER NET FINANCIAL INCOME 463,806 399,855 Non-recurring income 6 30,785 36,435 Non-recurring expense 6 (48,265) (52,302) NET NON-RECURRING INCOME 6 (17,480) (15,867) Employee profit-sharing (58) 0 Corporate income tax 7 30,856 31,692 NET INCOME 477 124 415 679 130 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements Faurecia parent company – business review and financial statements 1.2.2.2. Balance sheet as of December 31, 2019 Assets 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Depreciation Gross and (in € thousands) Notes amounts provisions Net amounts Net amounts Intangible assets 8 105 17 88 97 Property, plant and equipment 9 950 843 107 156 Investments 10 4,842,987 43,124 4,799,863 3,649,954 TOTAL FIXED ASSETS 4,844,042 43,984 4,800,058 3,650,207 Operating receivables 42,457 0 42,457 30,432 Other receivables 11 3,214,145 20,000 3,194,145 2,483,995 Marketable securities 0 0 and related receivables 12 44,885 0 44,885 624,661 Cash and cash equivalents 806,097 806,097 635,644 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 4,107,584 20,000 4,087,584 3,774,732 Prepaid expenses 13 39 39 126 Unrealized foreign exchange losses 6,065 6,065 12,647 Bond redemption premiums 0 0 0 Deferred charges 14 53,719 53,719 35,391 TOTAL ASSETS 9 011 449 63 984 8 947 465 7 473 103 Liabilities (in € thousands) Notes 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Capital stock 966,251 966,251 Additional paid-in capital 627,441 627,441 Statutory reserve 96,625 96,625 Untaxed reserves 8,939 8,939 Other reserves 0 0 Retained earnings 1,416,399 1,170,906 Net income for the fiscal year 477,124 415,679 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 15 3,592,779 3,285,841 Provisions for contingencies and charges 16 12,219 18,181 TOTAL DEBT 17 3,427,455 2,262,377 Operating payables 18 91,373 67,406 Sundry payables 18 1,813,342 1,832,854 TOTAL OPERATING PAYABLES AND OTHER PAYABLES 1,904,715 1,900,260 Prepaid income 145 200 Unrealized foreign exchange gains 10,152 6,243 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 8,947,465 7,473,103 / Universal Registration Document 2019 131 Financial statements Faurecia parent company – business review and financial statements 1.2.2.3. Notes to the 2019 parent company financial statements NOTE 1 Summary of significant accounting NOTE 12 Marketable securities and related policies 133 receivables 139 NOTE 2 Highlights and post-balance sheet NOTE 13 Prepaid expenses 139 events 134 NOTE 14 Deferred charges 140 NOTE 3 Depreciation, amortization and NOTE 15 Shareholders’ equity 140 provisions (net of reversals) and expense transfers 134 NOTE 16 Provisions for contingencies and charges 141 NOTE 4 Other income/(expenses) 134 NOTE 17 Borrowings 142 NOTE 5 Net financial income (expense) 135 NOTE 18 Operating payables and other NOTE 6 Net non-recurring income/(expense) 136 liabilities 144 NOTE 7 Corporate income tax 136 NOTE 19 Deferred taxes 145 NOTE 8 Intangible assets 137 NOTE 20 Financial commitments 145 NOTE 9 Property, plant and equipment 137 NOTE 21 Financial instruments used to hedge NOTE 10 Investments 138 market risks 145 NOTE 11 Receivables 138 NOTE 22 Average headcounts 146 NOTE 23 Compensation 146 NOTE 24 Identity of the parent company consolidating the Company’s financial statements 146 132 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements Faurecia parent company – business review and financial statements Note 1 Summary of significant accounting policies The annual financial statements were established in 1.3 Marketable securities and related accordance with the general principles for preparing and presenting annual financial statements (ANC Regulation receivables No. 2014-03 of June 5, 2014), relating to the PCG [Plan Marketable securities are stated at the lower of cost or market Comptable Général (General Accounting Plan)], amended value. by the regulations of the Comité de la Réglementation Comptable [Accounting Regulations Committee] and the Autorité des Normes Comptables [Accounting Standards 1.4 Foreign currency transactions Authority]. The main policies applied are as follows : Unhedged payables and receivables in foreign currency are ■ going-concern; translated at the exchange rate prevailing on the transaction ■ consistency of accounting principles; date. At the balance sheet date, they are remeasured at the year-end exchange rate. Gains or losses resulting therefrom ■ separating of accounting periods. are recognized under “Unrealized foreign exchange losses” for The basic method used for the items presentend in the unrealized losses and under “Unrealized foreign exchange accounts is the historical cost method. gains” for unrealized gains. “Unrealized foreign exchange losses” are accrued for up to the non-hedged amount. Only significant information is expressed. 1.1 Property, plant and equipment 1.5 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents are measured at their nominal Property, plant and equipment are stated at acquisition or value. production cost. Property, plant and equipment are depreciated by the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, as follows: 1.6 Provisions for pensions and other ■ buildings: twenty to thirty years; post-employment benefits ■ building improvements, fixtures and fittings: seven to ten The vested rights of employees under supplementary pension years; and retirement bonus plans are determined on an actuarial ■ other fixtures and fittings: ten years; basis using the projected unit credit method. The valuation takes into account the probability of employees staying with ■ office equipment and computers: three to five years; the Company up to retirement age and expected future ■ software: one to three years; compensation levels. In cases where the funds are permanently allocated to the benefit plan concerned, their ■ furniture: ten years. value is deducted from the related liability. 1.2 Investments 1.7 Non-recurring items The shares in subsidiaries and affiliates are composed of Unusual or non-recurring items are included under long-term investments that enable control of the issuing “Non-recurring income” and “Non-recurring expense”. company or notable influence to be exercised over it, or that establish business relationship with the issuing company. Gross value is equal to contribution value or cost. A provision is 1.8 Financial instruments made if the value in use of a security is lower than its entry value. Value in use is based on the subsidiary’s revalued net Interest-rate risks are hedged, where appropriate, using assets, profitability and future outlook. financial instruments traded on organized or over-the-counter markets. For investments intended to be sold, value-in-use estimates also take into account prices at which prior transactions were Hedging gains and losses are recognized on a symmetrical carried out, if any. basis with the loss or gain on the hedged item. / Universal Registration Document 2019 133 Financial statements Faurecia parent company – business review and financial statements Note 2 Highlights and post-balance sheet events Following approval from the appropriate regulatory bodies, At the same time, the liquidity has been secured and Faurecia has completed on January 30, 2020 the acquisition measures to cut costs and protect cash have been of the remaining 50% of SAS from Continental, a project that implemented. In particular, €600 million from the syndicated was announced on October 14, 2019, through its subsidiary credit line out of its total amount of €1.2 billion (maturity June Faurecia Automotive GmbH. SAS is a key player in complex 2024) have been drawn in March 2020 in order to anticipate a interior module assembly and logistics with sales of around drop of factoring of receivables and a €800 million club deal €740 million in 2019 and employing around 4,490 people. loan has been signed on April 10, 2020 with an 18 months' maturity and 100% drawn upon signature. The global Covid-19 crisis has impacted the Group starting with China in the first quarter 2020 and then the rest of the It remains currently difficult to estimate production levels in world from March. As of April 17, 2020, all plants in China have coming months as they depend on many external restarted their production. parameters, such as government regulations and the pace of resolution of the pandemic in the various geographies, but To face this crisis, Faurecia has immediately put in place all also on the customers’ effective restart of production as well necessary action plans, the top priority remaining the as consumer demand, and therefore the global impact of this protection of the employees and preparing a safe restart of crisis cannot be evaluated at this stage. the activity. Note 3 Depreciation, amortization and provisions (net of reversals) and expense transfers (in € thousands) 2019 2018 Provision reversals 3,776 4,101 (1) Expense transfers 19,562 24,580 Depreciation and amortization (8,877) (8,113) Provisions for impairment of current assets Provisions for contingencies and charges (3,811) (4,268) TOTAL 10,650 16,300 (1) Of which: Transfer of fees included in “External services” relating to new financings: 19,562 24,580 Note 4 Other income/(expenses) (in € thousands) 2019 2018 Operating income Trademark royalties 71,692 74,997 Other income 377 109 SUBTOTAL 72,069 75,106 Operating expenses Trademark royalties 370 20,832 Other non-operating expenses 523 608 SUBTOTAL 893 21,440 TOTAL 71,176 53,666 134 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements Faurecia parent company – business review and financial statements Note 5 Net financial income (expense) Net non-recurring income (expense) breaks down as follows: (in € thousands) 2019 2018 Financial income Income from investments in subsidiaries and affiliates (1) 341,234 360,930 Other interest and related income 169,033 132,454 Net proceeds from sales of marketable securities 21 174 (2) Provision reversals 65,344 22,499 TOTAL 575,632 516,057 Financing costs Interest expense 128,290 103,159 Charges to provisions for impairment of investments (3) 3,392 3,100 Charges to other provisions and other financial expenses 4,659 17,557 TOTAL 136,341 123,816 NET FINANCIAL INCOME (EXPENSE) 439,291 392,241 (1) This item corresponds to dividends received from subsidiaries and affiliates c Faurecia Services Groupe 5,750 4,350 c Faurecia Automotive Espana 5,332 c Faurecia Tongda Exhaust System 6,106 9,958 c Faurecia Honghu Exhaust Systems Shanghai 9,063 19,585 c Faurecia Investissements 296,893 171,922 c Faurecia Automotive Holdings 23,423 140,535 c Faurecia Exhaust International 9,248 (2) of which: c reversal of provisions for Faurecia Exteriors International shares (TUP, 2/07/18) 14,000 c reversal of provisions for Faurecia Automotive GmbH shares 47,787 c reversal of provisions for financial contingencies and charges 17,557 8,499 (3) of which: c Faurecia Automotive GmbH shares 3,100 c Faurecia Automotive Belguim shares 3,392 / Universal Registration Document 2019 135 Financial statements Faurecia parent company – business review and financial statements Note 6 Net non-recurring income/(expense) Net non-recurring income (expense) breaks down as follows: (in € thousands) 2019 2018 Non-recurring income Proceeds from management activities 0 1 (1) Proceeds from disposals of fixed assets 0 0 Proceeds from disposals of bonus shares 30,772 35,603 Provision reversals 13 831 TOTAL 30,785 36,435 Non-recurring expenses On management transactions 6,883 0 Carrying amount of fixed and financial assets sold (2) 7 65 Cost of bonus shares sold 39,394 51,418 Depreciation, amortization and charges to provisions 1,981 819 TOTAL 48,265 52,302 NET NON-RECURRING INCOME/(EXPENSE) (17,480) (15,867) (1) of which proceeds from the sale of investments in subsidiaries and affiliates 14 (2) of which carrying amounts of investments in subsidiaries and affiliates sold or transferred 7 65 Note 7 Corporate income tax Faurecia has elected to file a consolidated tax return. The resulting tax group includes the parent company and its main French subsidiaries. This system allows Faurecia to obtain group relief by offsetting any tax losses recorded by the Company and certain of its subsidiaries against the taxable income of other subsidiaries in the tax group: (in € thousands) 2019 2018 Tax benefit arising from group relief 40,304 41,531 (1) Other tax (expense) income (tax credit) (9,448) (9,839) TOTAL 30,856 18,331 (1) Group income tax charge. 136 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements Faurecia parent company – business review and financial statements Note 8 Intangible assets This can be broken down as follows: Concessions, patents and Other intangible Intangible assets (in € thousands) similar rights assets in progress Total AMOUNT AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2017 80 25 0 105 Additions (including own work capital) 0 Disposals 0 Funding of depreciation, amortization and impairment provisions (8) (8) Depreciation written off on disposals 0 Other movements AMOUNT AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018 80 17 0 97 Additions (including own work capital) Disposals Funding of depreciation, amortization and impairment provisions (9) (9) Depreciation written off on disposals Other movements AMOUNT AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 80 8 0 88 Note 9 Property, plant and equipment 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 (in € thousands) Brut Net Net Land 53 53 53 Buildings 272 0 0 Other property, plant and equipment 625 54 103 TOTAL 950 107 156 Other property, plant and (in € thousands) Land Buildings equipment Total AMOUNT AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2017 53 0 249 302 Additions (including own work capital) 0 Disposals (1,174) (1,174) Funding of depreciation, amortization and impairment provisions (146) (146) Depreciation written off on disposals 1,174 1,174 AMOUNT AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018 53 0 103 156 Additions (including own work capital) 20 20 Disposals (9,935) (9,935) Funding of depreciation, amortization and impairment provisions (60) (60) Depreciation written off on disposals 9,926 9,926 AMOUNT AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 53 0 54 107 / Universal Registration Document 2019 137 Financial statements Faurecia parent company – business review and financial statements Note 10 Investments 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 (in € thousands) Brut Provisions Net Net Equity investments 4,671,771 43,124 4,628,647 3,484,245 Loans to subsidiaries and affiliates 170,823 0 170,823 165,456 Other non-current securities 393 0 393 253 TOTAL 4,842,987 43,124 4,799,863 3,649,954 Movements in investments in subsidiaries and affiliates break down as follows: (in € thousands) Gross value Provisions Carrying amount AMOUNT AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2017 3,275,556 98,420 3,177,136 Capital stock increases 546,209 546,209 Charges to and reversals of provisions (10,900) 10,900 Company liquidation (250,000) (250,000) Sale of shares 0 AMOUNT AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018 3,571,765 87,520 3,484,245 Acquisitions 0 Capital increase 1,100,006 1,100,006 Charges to and reversals of provisions (44,396) 44,396 Company liquidation 0 Sale of shares 0 AMOUNT AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2019 4,671,771 43,124 4,628,647 The increase in the gross value of equity securities mainly concerns Hennape six (capital increase) following the acquisition of Clarion. Note 11 Receivables (in € thousands) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Cash advances 3,136,338 2,446,666 Tax due by subsidiaries in the tax group 9,833 5,516 Prepaid and recoverable corporate income tax 43,462 29,574 Recoverable VAT 805 896 Sundry receivables 1,554 1,343 TOTAL 3,194,145 2,483,995 All receivables are due in less than one year. Prepaid and recoverable corporate income tax corresponds to tax credit (reserch, learning) of €8.7 million and the down-payments made in 2019 amounting to €34.7 million. 138 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements Faurecia parent company – business review and financial statements Note 12 securities and related receivables As of December 31, 2019, this item includes: (in € thousands) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Treasury stock 43,815 39,798 Depreciation on treasurery stock 0 (4,922) Liquidity agreement 915 11,204 Securities 155 499,979 Deposits 0 78,603 TOTAL MARKETABLE SECURITIES 44,885 624,661 Treasury stock transactions during the year break down as follows: (in € thousands) Shares Number of shares Amount Amount as at December 31, 2018 725,660 39,798 Use of treasury stock(1) (594,666) (32,536) Shares buyback 1,000,000 36,553 Amount as at December 31, 2019 1,130,994 43,815 (1) The treasury shares distributed in 2019 were delivered to French or foreign employees of the Group within the framework of the performance shares plan n° 7 (see Note 15.3). (in € thousands) Liquidity agreement Number of shares Amount Amount as at December 31, 2018 191,500 11,204 Shares buyback 1,978,587 83,386 Shares sales (2,151,087) (93,675) Amount as at December 31, 2019 19,000 915 Note 13 Prepaid expenses Prepaid expenses mainly comprise: (in € thousands) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Commissions and bank charges 0 0 Rent 0 0 Other 39 126 TOTAL 39 126 / Universal Registration Document 2019 139 Financial statements Faurecia parent company – business review and financial statements Note 14 Deferred charges Deferred charges as of December 31, 2019 refer to financing The refinancing of the €700 million bond issue (Maturity fees. June 15, 2023 rate 3.625%) by the same nominal amount issued on November 27, 2019 (Maturity June 15, 2027 rate A bond loan of €500 million nominal amount issued on 2.375%) generated issuance costs including €17.4 million was March 27, 2019 (Maturity June 15, 2026 rate 3.125%) charged to expenses to be spread over seven years. generated issuance costs of which €4.8 million were charged as expenses to be spread over seven years. The private placement under German law (Schuldscheindarlehen) put in place to anticipate and secure An additional €250 million nominal amount (Maturity June 15, the refinancing of a bridge loan (Clarion acquisition) 2026 rate 3.125%) generated additional issuance costs of generated issuance costs of which €2.8 million were charged which €2.2 million were charged as expenses to be spread to expenses to be spread over fourth years. over seven years as well. Note 15 Shareholders’ equity 15.1 Change in shareholders’ equity Appropriation Amount decision at Capital Net income Amount as at the OGM of stock for the fiscal as at (in € thousands) 31/12/2018 05/28/2019 increase year 31/12/2019 Capital stock 966,251 966,251 Additional paid-in capital 627,441 627,441 Statutory reserve 96,625 96,625 Untaxed reserves 8,939 8,939 Other reserves 0 0 Retained earnings 1,170,906 245,493 1,416,399 Net income for the fiscal year 415,680 (415,680) 477,124 477,124 TOTAL 3,285,841 (170,187) 0 477,124 3,592,779 15.2 Capital stock and premiums The performance conditions of the plan granted by the Board of Directors on July 23, 2015 were met, the corresponding from equity issues, mergers shares, i.e. 594 666, were granted in July 2019 by distributing and acquisitions treasury shares held, in accordance with the decisions of the Board of Directors. The cost of these shares was re-invoiced by As at 31 December 2019, the share capital was €966,250,607, the Company to the subsidiaries employing the beneficiaries, divided into 138,035,801 fully paid-up shares of €7 each. As of except in countries where this re-invoicing was not possible. December 31, 2019, 65,059,826 registered shares held double voting rights. The performance conditions of the plan granted by the Board of Directors on 25 July 2016 have been met, the corresponding There are no share subscription options as of December 31, shares, i.e. 642,747, will be granted in July 2020 by distribution 2019 of treasury shares. To date, there is no decision by the Board of Directors on the 15.3 Free share allocation plans terms and conditions for the distribution of shares corresponding to the other plans (treasury shares or capital Free share allocation plans are in place for executives holding increase). management positions in Group companies. These grants are subject to a condition of presence and performance conditions. 140 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements Faurecia parent company – business review and financial statements Details of the share grant plans as of December 31, 2019 are set out in the table below: Maximum number of free shares that can be granted* for: Date of Annual Shareholders’ Date of Board reaching the exceeding the Meeting meeting objective objective Performance condition 2019 after tax income target as stated in strategic plan when granted and Faurecia earning per share growth 27/05/2016 20/07/2017 520,181 676,200 compared to a reference group of companies 2020 after tax income target as stated in strategic plan when granted and Faurecia earning per share growth 29/05/2018 19/07/2018 395,952 501,740 compared to a reference group of companies 2021 after tax income target as stated in strategic plan when granted, Faurecia earning per share growth compared to a reference group of companies and percentage of diversity men-women within the 28/05/2019 09/10/2019 899,350 1,169,900 management population * Net of free shares granted cancelled. Note 16 Provisions for contingencies and charges (in € thousands) As of 31/12/2019 As of 31/12/2018 Provision for contingencies Foreign exchange losses 4,659 12,635 SUB-TOTAL 4,659 12,635 Provisions for charges Provision for pensions and other post-employment benefits (1) 5,579 5,545 Other provisions for charges 1,981 1 SUB-TOTAL 7,560 5,546 TOTAL 12,219 18,181 (1) Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits cover the following costs payable by the Company on retirement of employees: c post-retirement benefit obligations; c supplementary pensions paid to some employees. For this last obligation, she is released from her commitments The variation in the provision is mainly explained by the by a deduction of the capital necessary for the service of the commitment relating to a specific additive scheme for annuity that the insurance company, responsible for this members of the Comex (defined benefit for French members service, makes from the fund set up to cover retirement and defined contribution for foreign members) which was commitments not yet definitively acquired. The Company approved in 2015. It guarantees an annuity based on the therefore no longer has any obligation towards former reference salary. employees. In order to comply with the PACTE law from May 22, 2019 and The actuarial valuation was carried out by independent its notification of July 3, 2019 transposing Directive 2014/50/EU. actuaries. The calculations were made on the basis of a this defined benefit scheme has been closed, the rights discount rate of 1.2% and an inflation rate of 1.8%. acquired being frozen as of December 31, 2019. (in € thousands) 2019 2018 Projected benefit obligation 15,334 22,143 Hedging of obligations (10,493) (11,225) Deferred items 738 (5,373) PROVISIONS 5,579 5,545 / Universal Registration Document 2019 141 Financial statements Faurecia parent company – business review and financial statements (in € thousands) 2019 2018 Service cost (3,570) (4,040) Interest cost (460) (331) Expected return on plan assets 219 103 TOTAL (3,811) (4,268) Changes in provisions for liabilities and charges in 2019 were as follows: Reversals Payments to Amount as at (surplus retirement Amount as at (in € thousands) 31/12/2018 Additions provisions) funds 31/12/2019 Provisions for currency risks 12,635 4,659 (12,635) 4,659 Provisions for pensions and other employee obligations 5,545 3,811 (3,686) (91) 5,579 Other provisions for charges 1 1,980 1,981 TOTAL 18,181 10,450 (16,321) (91) 12,219 Note 17 Borrowings (in € thousands) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Bond issue premium 10,962 0 Other bonds 2,150,000 1,400,000 Borrowings and debts from credit institution 1,262,151 964,919 Other borrowings 4,342 2,359 TOTAL 3,427,455 2,367,278 23,7% of the Company’s debt is at variable rates. This debt is hedged using interest-rate caps as described in Note 21.1. The breakdown of the Company’s debt by maturity is as follows: (in € thousands) As of 31/12/2019 Maturing in 2020 432,463 Maturing in 2021 1,420 Maturing in 2022 334,930 Maturing in 2023 205,180 Maturing in 2024 292,500 Maturing in 2025 700,000 Maturing in 2026 750,000 Maturing in 2027 700,000 TOTAL 3,416,493 142 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements Faurecia parent company – business review and financial statements The main components of Faurecia financing are described These bonds benefit from the same restrictions as the 2026 below: bonds. The proceeds of these bonds have been used to refinance the €700 million bonds due June 15, 2023 carrying annual 2025 bonds interest of 3.625%, Issued on April 1st, 2016. On March 8, 2018, Faurecia issued bonds for an amount of This refinancing has been done through a tender offer through €700 million due June 15, 2025, carrying annual interest of which 2023 bond holders could exchange their bonds against 2.625%, payable on June 15 and December 15 each year, as new 2027 bonds. The rate of exchange has reached 76%. The from June 15, 2018. bonds that were not tendered in this offer have been These bonds include a covenant restricting the additional redeemed in accordance with the offering memorandum. indebtedness if the EBITDA(2) after certain adjustments is lower The settlement of these two operations has taken place than twice the gross interest costs, and restrictions on the debt respectively on November 25 and November 28, 2019. similar to those of the syndicated credit loan. The bond premium for bonds tendered in the offer is amortized The proceeds of these bonds have been used to redeem the over the duration of the new 2027 bonds; the bond premium €700 million bonds due June 15, 2022, carrying annual interest for bonds redeemed by anticipation has been expensed. of 3.125%, issued in March and April 2015. The bonds are listed on the Global Exchange Market of The bonds are listed on the Global Exchange Market of Euronext Dublin. Costs related to the bond issue are expensed Euronext Dublin (previously Irish Stock Exchange). The costs in P&L over the life time of the bonds. related to the bond issue are expensed in P&L over the life time of the bonds. Syndicated credit facility On December 15, 2014, Faurecia signed a syndicated credit 2026 bonds facility, with a five-year maturity, for an amount of On March 27, 2019, Faurecia issued bonds for an amount of €1,200 million. This credit facility was renegotiated on June 24, €500 million due June 15, 2026, carrying annual interest of 2016, in order to extend the maturity to five years from that 3.125%, payable on June 15 and December 15 each year, as date, or June 24, 2021 and improve its terms and conditions. from June 15, 2019. On June 15, 2018, Faurecia signed with participating banks a These bonds benefit from the same restrictions as the 2025 second agreement to extend again the maturity to five years bonds. from that date, or June 15, 2023, with two optional one-year extensions that can be exercised in June 2019 and June 2020, The proceeds of these bonds have been used to refinance subject to agreement of participating banks, and that would the €500 million drawn on the bridge loan described below in extend the maturity respectively to June 2024 and June 2025. the paragraph “Financing of Clarion Co. Ltd acquisition”. This agreement has improved again its terms and conditions The bonds are listed on the Global Exchange Market of and strengthens the Group’s financial structure. Euronext Dublin. The costs related to the bond issue are A first one-year extension option has been exercised in expensed in P&L over the life time of the bonds. June 2019, extending the maturity of this credit facility to In order to prefinance the acquisition of 50% of SAS shares, an June 2024. additional issue for €250 million of these 2026 bonds has been As of December 31, 2019, this credit facility was not drawn. performed on October 31, 2019. these additional bonds have been Issued at 104.50% of the pair, which corresponds to a This credit facility includes only one covenant, related to return at issuance of 2.40%. As of December 31, 2019, the consolidated financial ratios: Net debt(1)/EBITDA(2) must be amount of these 2026 bonds amounted to €750 million. lower than 2.79(3). Compliance with this ratio is a condition affecting the availability of this credit facility. As of June 30, 2019, the Group complied with this ratio. 2027 bonds This credit facility includes some restrictive clauses on asset disposals (disposal representing over 35% of the Group’s total On November 27, 2019, Faurecia issued bonds for an amount consolidated assets requires the prior approval of banks of €700 million due June 15, 2027, carrying annual interest of representing two-thirds of the syndicate) and on the debt level 2.375%, payable on June 15 and December 15 each year, as of some subsidiaries. from June 15, 2020. (1) Consolidated net debt. (2) Operating income plus depreciation, amortization and funding of provisions for impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, corresponding to the past 12 months. (3) This limit was previously at 2.50 and has been changed to 2.79 to take Into account the Implementation of IFRS 16. / Universal Registration Document 2019 143 Financial statements Faurecia parent company – business review and financial statements Financing of Clarion Co. Ltd acquisition amount has been received in early January 2019. The USD tranches have been partially converted in euro resources Following the binding agreements reached on October 26, through long term cross-currency swaps. 2018 with Clarion and Hitachi, and the authorization received from anti trust authorities, Faurecia has launched on Thanks to this operation the amount of the bridge loan has January 30, 2019 a tender offer on Clarion Co. Ltd, (cf. been reduced down to €750 million at the end of Note 10A). December 2018. The tender covers whole Clarion shares (around 56.55 million At the closing of the tender offer, end of February 2019, shares) for a price of ¥2,500 per share, i.e. a total of around Faurecia was owner of 95.28% of Clarion shares. This ¥141.3 billions, or around €1.13 billion. acquisition has been paid early March 2019 for an amount of ¥134 billion or €1,051 million at hedging rate. A squeeze out The total amount of the acquisition has been hedged through has then been launched, bringing the level of acquired shares contingent forwards, which will transform in forward hedging at 100% at the end of March 2019, at which date Clarion at a given exchange rate when the offer is a success and the shares have been delisted from the Tokyo Stock Exchange. acquisition has to be paid for; in the opposite case, hedging is cancelled without Faurecia having to pay (or receive) any The bridge loan has therefore been drawn early March 2019 amount, whatever the exchange rate euro/yen. for an amount of €500 million, then paid back with the result of the 2016 bonds issue, this credit facility being then cancelled. In order to secure the financing of the acquisition, of the repayment of some Clarion debts as well as of integration Finally, during 2019, Faurecia regularly issued commercial costs, Faurecia has implemented a bridge loan for an amount papers with a maturity up to one year for investors located of €1.3 billion with one of its main banks. This loan had a mainly in France. The amount of the commercial papers maturity of one year, extendable by one year through two program has been brought from €1 billion to €1.3 billion In six-months extension options. This loan included some September 2019. restrictive clauses similar to the ones of the syndicated loan of Faurecia is rated Ba1 by Moody’s with stable outlook and BB+ €1.2 billion. with a stable outlook by Fitch Ratings (increase of these two In order to anticipate and secure the refinancing of this bridge ratings on February 20, 2018). On January 31, 2018, Standard & loan, Faurecia has signed on December 17, 2018 a private Poor’s assigned to Faurecia a BB+ long-term corporate credit placement under German law (Schuldscheindarlehen) for a ratings, with a stable outlook. Moody’s confirmed Faurecia’s total amount of €700 million. This transaction is structured into credit rating on April 24, 2019 and so did Fitch Ratings on several tranches in EUR and USD, at fixed and variable rates, July 3, 2019. In addition, the three rating agencies rated with maturities of four, five and six years. €378 million have Ba1/BB+ the bonds issued in March, October and been received on December 20, 2018 and the remaining November 2019. Note 18 Operating payables and other liabilities (in € thousands) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Trade payables 10,234 10,094 Other operating payables 81,139 57,312 SUBTOTAL OPERATING PAYABLES 91,373 67,406 Cash advances from subsidiaries 1,812,442 1,832,000 Other liabilities 900 854 SUBTOTAL OTHER PAYABLES 1,813,342 1,832,854 TOTAL 1,904,715 1,900,260 All operating payables and other liabilities are payable in less than one year. 144 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements Faurecia parent company – business review and financial statements Note 19 Deferred taxes Deferred taxes relate to: ■ tax savings arising from the use of tax losses of subsidiaries in the tax group which will have to be restored to them if and ■ temporary differences between the recognition of income when they return to profit. and tax purposes; Deferred taxes are computed based on the tax rate for the ■ tax loss carry forwards of the tax group; year in which they are expected to reverse. Deferred taxes can be analyzed as follows: (in € thousands) 31/12/2019 31/12/2018 Deferred taxes relating to the tax savings arising from using losses in tax-group subsidiaries (693,462) (675,536) SUBTOTAL, DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES (693,462) (675,536) Tax paid on taxable income that is not yet recognized 1,406 (2,205) Charges recognized that are deductible for tax purposes in future years 6,507 6,910 Future tax savings on tax loss carry forwards of the tax group 412,415 437,792 SUBTOTAL, DEFERRED TAX ASSETS 420,328 442,497 NET DEFERRED TAX (LIABILITIES)/ASSETS (273,133) (233,039) Note 20 Financial commitments Endorsements, sureties and guarantees include commitments to subsidiaries and direct and indirect equity investments for an amount of €93.1 million (€76.4 million as of December 31, 2018). Note 21 Financial instruments used to hedge market risks 21.1 Interest-rate hedges The Company manages interest rate hedging centrally. This The hedges arranged comprise mainly euro-denominated management is implemented by the Faurecia group's finance interest rate swaps, designed to hedge interest payable on and treasury department, under the responsibility of general variable rate borrowings. management. Management decisions are taken within a market risk management committee which meets monthly. The notional amounts of the Group’s interest rate hedges break down as follows: Notional amounts by maturity As of 31/12/2019 (in millions) < 1 year 1 to 5 years > 5 years Interest rate options Variable rate/fixed rate swaps 714 Share of variable rate debt (before rate swap) : 23,70 %. / Universal Registration Document 2019 145 Financial statements Faurecia parent company – business review and financial statements 21.2 Currency hedges The company centrally covers the foreign exchange risk of its ■ Future transactions are hedged on the basis of forecast subsidiaries, linked to their commercial operations, by means flows established during the preparation of budgets of forward or optional foreign exchange transactions as well approved by General Management, these forecasts being as financing in foreign currencies. This centralized updated regularly. management is implemented by the Faurecia Group finance ■ Currency risk on inter-company loans and borrowings and treasury department, under the responsibility of general to/from subsidiaries outside the eurozone that are management. Management decisions are taken within a denominated in the subsidiaries’ functional currency but market risk management committee which meets monthly. referenced in euros is hedged through swaps. As of December 31, 2019, the cross-currency swaps in place relate to the following currencies: Position Equivalent As of 31/12/2019 (in millions) BUYER SELLER (in millions) DKK 211.8 28.4 GBP 80.0 94.0 JPY 1,463.6 12.0 RUB 2,523.4 36.1 USD 213.0 189.6 SEK 83.8 8.0 CHF 68.0 62.6 *Note : these are currency swaps that cover intra-group deposits and loans Note 22 Average headcounts 2019 2018 Management 9 8 Staff 0 0 TOTAL 9 8 Note 23 Compensation In 2019, total attendance fees paid to directors amounted to €614,870 compared with €596,000 in 2018. Note 24 Identity of the parent company consolidating the Company’s financial statements Peugeot S.A. – 7, rue Henri Sainte-Claire Deville 92500 Rueil-Malmaison (France) Company Identification (SIRET) No. 552 100 554 00021 146 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements Faurecia parent company – business review and financial statements 1.2.2.4. Five-year financial summary (in €) 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 1 – CAPITAL STOCK AT END OF PERIOD a) Capital stock 966,250,607 966,250,607 966,250,607 966,250,607 960,349,446 b) Number of ordinary shares outstanding 138,035,801 138,035,801 138,035,801 138,035,801 137,192,778 c) Maximum number of future shares to be created: by exercising stock options 0 0 0 244,200 636,500 2 – OPERATIONS AND RESULTS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR a) Sales excluding tax 30,146,000 33,439,165 290,857,463 302,199,773 253,055,437 b) Income before tax, employee profit-sharing, depreciation, amortization and provisions 462,414,608 440,662,106 113,474,100 109,966,776 185,983,522 c) Corporate income tax (1) (31,436,160) (31,692,192) (18,331,259) (25,573,498) (19,348,402) d) Employee profit-sharing 0 (0) 0 0 0 e) Income after tax, employee profit-sharing depreciation, amortization and provisions 477,124,055 415,679,804 94,364,262 99,944,506 226,027,199 f) Total dividend (2) (3) 179,446,541 172,544,751 151,839,381 124,232,221 89,175,306 3 – EARNINGS PER SHARE a) Income after tax and employee profit-sharing, but before depreciation, amortization and provisions 3.15 3.40 0.95 0.98 1.50 b) Income after tax, employee profit-sharing, depreciation, amortization and provisions 3.46 3.01 0.68 0.72 1.65 c) Net dividend per share 1.30 1.25 1.10 0.90 0.65 4 – PERSONNEL a) Average number of employees during the fiscal year 9 8 8 8 16 b) Total payroll for the fiscal year 16,240,474 19,920,220 16,977,910 8,677,854 9,237,393 c) Total employee benefits paid for the fiscal year (social security, other social benefits, etc.) 4,187,781 5,109,349 6,933,157 9,975,137 4,918,450 (1) Amounts in parentheses represent tax savings recognized under the tax consolidation agreement. (2) The 2019 dividend is pending approval by the Ordinary General Meeting of the proposed appropriation of 2019 net income. (3) The part of the 2019 dividend corresponding to shares that the Company holds on its own behalf at the payment date will be allocated to “Retained earnings”. / Universal Registration Document 2019 147 Financial statements Faurecia parent company – business review and financial statements 1.2.3. Subsidiaries and affiliates Reserves and retained earnings Share of before capital stock Gross carrying appropriation of owned (as amount of (in € thousands) Capital stock net income a%) investment I. DETAILED INFORMATION A. Subsidiaries (at least 50% of capital stock owned by the Company) Faurecia investments 103,567 287,804 100.00 480,395 Faurecia Automotive Belgium 10,000 18,239 100.00 60,196 Faurecia USA Holdings Inc. 15 605,800 85.03 600,699 ET Dutch Holdings BV 18 274,436 100.00 610,550 Faurecia Automotive Holdings 23,423 399,887 100.00 918,260 Faurecia Exhaust International 7,301 131 100.00 82,301 Faurecia Services Groupe 40 54 100.00 46 Faurecia Honghu Exhaust Systems Shanghai 6,023 52,131 59.97 1,212 Faurecia Holdings Espana 3,010 438,783 60.59 514,183 Hennape six 1,100,010 (9) 100.00 1,100,010 B. Affiliates (10%-50% of capital stock owned by the Company) Faurecia Automotive Espana S.L. 7,138 746,410 10.66 76,449 Faurecia Automotive GmbH 146,420 (133,297) 25.81 225,184 FaureciaTongda Exhaust System (WUHAN) Co, Ltd 4,791 27,378 50.00 2,217 II. SUMMARIZED INFORMATION Subsidiaries and affiliates not included in Section A 74 Subsidiaries and affiliates not included in Section B TOTAL 4,671,776 148 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements Faurecia parent company – business review and financial statements Outstanding loans Amounts of Profit or Dividends Exchange rates Net and advances guarantees Sales excluding loss (-) received by the used for carrying granted by the and securities sales tax from from the Company during non-French amount of Company and not given by the the last fiscal previous fiscal year or to subsidiaries and investment yet paid Company year year-end be received affiliates 480,395 1,135,701 0 0 333,065 296,893 35,308 310 0 0 (60) 0 EUR 1 = 1.1993 USD 600,699 108,898 0 36,697 (37,032) 0 BS/1.129287 USD PL* 610,550 108,291 0 1,034 7,383 0 918,260 907,628 0 231,684 62,578 23,423 82,301 261,126 0 0 55,350 0 0 0 0 341,690 1,617 5,750 EUR 1 = 7.8044 CNY 1,212 0 0 202,480 29,833 9,540 BS/7.626438 CNY PL* 514,183 30,826 0 0 3,347 0 1,100,010 20,470 0 0 (12,836) 0 76,449 0 0 235,621 12,795 0 206,994 0 0 5,429 44,094 0 EUR 1 = 7.8044 CNY 2,217 0 0 67,365 9,134 6,427 BS/7.626438 CNY PL 74 0 0 4,628,652 2,573,249 342,033 / Universal Registration Document 2019 149 Financial statements Faurecia parent company – business review and financial statements 1.2.4. Statutory auditors’ report on the financial statements This is a translation into English of the statutory auditors’ report on the financial statements of the Company issued in French and it is provided solely for the convenience of English-speaking users. This statutory auditors’ report includes information required by European regulation and French law, such as information about the appointment of the statutory auditors or verification of the management report and other documents provided to the shareholders. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders, Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Statutory Auditors Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report. Opinion INDEPENDENCE In compliance with the engagement entrusted to us by your Annual Meeting, we have audited the accompanying We conducted our audit engagement in compliance with financial statements of Faurecia for the year ended independence rules applicable to us, for the period from December 31, 2019. These financial statements were January 1, 2019 to the date of our report and specifically we approved by the Board of Directors on April 17, 2020 on the did not provide any prohibited non-audit services referred to basis of the elements available at that date, in the evolving in Article 5(1) of Regulation (EU) No 537/2014 or in the French context of the health crisis related to Covid-19. Code of Ethics (Code de déontologie) for statutory auditors. In our opinion, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets and liabilities and of the financial position of the Company as at December 31, 2019 and of the results of its Justification of Assessments Key Audit operations for the year then ended in accordance with Matters French accounting principles. In accordance with the requirements of Articles L.823-9 and The audit opinion expressed above is consistent with our report R.823-7 of the French Commercial Code (Code de to the Audit Committee. commerce) relating to the justification of our assessments, we inform you of the key audit matters relating to risks of material misstatement that, in our professional judgment, were of most Basis for Opinion significance in our audit of the financial statements of the current period, as well as how we addressed those risks. AUDIT FRAMEWORK These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of We conducted our audit in accordance with professional the financial statements as a whole, as approved in the standards applicable in France. We believe that the audit above-mentioned context, and in forming our opinion thereon evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to and we do not provide a separate opinion on specific items of provide a basis for our opinion. the financial statements. ASSESSMENT OF VALUE IN USE OF EQUITY INTERESTS (Notes 1.2 and 10 to the financial statements) Risk identified Our response The balance of equity interests as at December 31, 2019 We assessed the methods used by management to amounted to M€ 4,629, representing 52% of the assets on determine the value in use of each of these equity interests. the balance sheet. We obtained management’s most recent business plans and As stated in Note 1.2 to the financial statements, the gross the impairment tests for each of the significant equity value of these investments is equal to contribution value or interests in order to assess the valuations based on forecasts. cost. An impairment loss is recorded if the value in use of With the support of our asset valuation experts, we assessed these interests falls below their entry value. the appropriateness of the key assumptions used to Value in use is based on the revalued net assets, profitability determine expected future cash flows and in particular: and the future outlook of the interest. Where appropriate, ■ we compared the key assumptions used by management when the future sale of certain investments is being with independent market data, such as discount rates and planned or considered, data from previous transactions are the long-term growth rate; taken into account along with other evaluation criteria. ■ we reperformed the calculations used in the impairment We deemed the assessment of the value in use of equity tests performed by management; interests to be a key audit matter due to the materiality of ■ we reconciled the main strategic plan data used in these assets to the balance sheet and the inherent impairment testing with the specific data for each entity. uncertainty of specific inputs applicable to the assessment of their value in use, in particular the likelihood of achieving For the valuations based on historical data, we examined the the discounted cash flows forecast by management in its consistency of the equity values used with the financial strategic plans. statements of the entities concerned and considered whether any adjustments to equity were based on documentary evidence. 150 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Financial statements Faurecia parent company – business review and financial statements Specific verifications Report on Other Legal and Regulatory We have also performed, in accordance with professional Requirements standards applicable in France, the specific verifications APPOINTMENT OF THE STATUTORY AUDITORS required by laws and regulations. We were appointed Statutory Auditors of Faurecia by the INFORMATION GIVEN IN THE MANAGEMENT REPORT Annual General Meetings held on May 28, 2019 for MAZARS and on June 17, 1983 for ERNST & YOUNG Audit. AND IN THE OTHER DOCUMENTS WITH RESPECT TO THE FINANCIAL POSITION AND THE FINANCIAL At December 31, 2019, MAZARS was in the first year of their STATEMENTS PROVIDED TO THE SHAREHOLDERS engagement and ERNST & YOUNG Audit was in the thirty-seventh year (which are the twenty-first year since We have no matters to report as to the fair presentation and securities of the Company were admitted to trading on a the consistency with the financial statements of the regulated market). information given in the Board of Directors’ management report as approved on April 17, 2020 and in the other Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with documents with respect to the financial position and the Governance for the Financial Statements financial statements provided to the Shareholders. Regarding Management is responsible for the preparation and fair the events that occurred and the elements known after the presentation of the financial statements in accordance with date of approval of the financial statements relating to the French accounting principles and for such internal control as effects of the Covid-19 crisis, Management has informed us management determines is necessary to enable the that such events and elements will be communicated to the preparation of financial statements that are free from material annual general meeting called to decide on these financial misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. statements. In preparing the financial statements, management is We attest the fair presentation and the consistency with the responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to continue as financial statements of the information relating to payment a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to deadlines mentioned in article D. 441-4 of the French going concern and using the going concern basis of Commercial Code (Code de commerce). accounting unless it is expected to liquidate the Company or to cease operations. REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring the financial We attest that the Board of Directors’ Report on Corporate reporting process and the effectiveness of internal control and Governance sets out the information required by risks management systems and where applicable, its internal Articles L. 225-37-3 and L. 225-37-4 of the French Commercial audit, regarding the accounting and financial reporting Code (Code de commerce). procedures. Concerning the information given in accordance with the The financial statements were approved by the Board of requirements of Article L. 225-37-3 of the French Commercial Directors. Code (Code de commerce) relating to remunerations and Statutory Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial benefits received by, or allocated the directors and any other Statements commitments made in their favour, we have verified its consistency with the financial statements, or with the underlying information used to prepare these financial OBJECTIVES AND AUDIT APPROACH statements and, where applicable, with the information Our role is to issue a report on the financial statements. Our obtained by your Company from companies controlled objective is to obtain reasonable assurance about whether thereby, included in the consolidation scope. Based on these the financial statements as a whole are free from material procedures, we attest the accuracy and fair presentation of misstatement. Reasonable assurance is a high level of this information. assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in With respect to the information relating to items that your accordance with professional standards will always detect a Company considered likely to have an impact in the event of material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise a takeover bid or exchange offer, provided pursuant to from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually Article L. 225-37-5 of the French Commercial Code (Code de or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to commerce), we have agreed this information to the source influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis documents communicated to us. Based on these procedures, of these financial statements. we have no observations to make on this information. As specified in Article L.823-10-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), our statutory audit does not OTHER INFORMATION include assurance on the viability of the Company or the quality of management of the affairs of the Company. In accordance with French law, we have verified that the required information concerning the purchase of investments and controlling interests and the identity of the shareholders or holders of the voting rights has been properly disclosed in the management report. / Universal Registration Document 2019 151 Financial statements Faurecia parent company – business review and financial statements As part of an audit conducted in accordance with requirement to draw attention in the audit report to the professional standards applicable in France, the statutory related disclosures in the financial statements or, if such auditor exercises professional judgment throughout the audit disclosures are not provided or inadequate, to modify the and furthermore: opinion expressed therein. ■ Identifies and assesses the risks of material misstatement of ■ Evaluates the overall presentation of the financial the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, statements and assesses whether these statements designs and performs audit procedures responsive to those represent the underlying transactions and events in a risks, and obtains audit evidence considered to be sufficient manner that achieves fair presentation. and appropriate to provide a basis for his opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is REPORT TO THE AUDIT COMMITTEE higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, We submit to the Audit Committee a report which includes in or the override of internal control. particular a description of the scope of the audit and the audit program implemented, as well as the results of our audit. ■ Obtains an understanding of internal control relevant to the We also report, if any, significant deficiencies in internal control audit in order to design audit procedures that are regarding the accounting and financial reporting procedures appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of that we have identified. expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the internal control. Our report to the Audit Committee includes the risks of material misstatement that, in our professional judgment, were ■ Evaluates the appropriateness of accounting policies used of most significance in the audit of the financial statements of and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and the current period and which are therefore the key audit related disclosures made by management in the financial matters that we are required to describe in this report. statements. We also provide the Audit Committee with the declaration ■ Assesses the appropriateness of management’s use of the provided for in Article 6 of Regulation (EU) N° 537/2014, going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit confirming our independence within the meaning of the rules evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists applicable in France such as they are set in particular by related to events or conditions that may cast significant Articles L.822-10 to L.822-14 of the French Commercial Code doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going (Code de commerce) and in the French Code of Ethics (code concern. This assessment is based on the audit evidence de déontologie) for statutory auditors. Where appropriate, we obtained up to the date of his audit report. However, future discuss with the Audit Committee the risks that may reasonably events or conditions may cause the Company to cease to be thought to bear on our independence, and the related continue as a going concern. If the statutory auditor safeguards. concludes that a material uncertainty exists, there is a Courbevoie and Paris-La Défense, April 22, 2020 The Statutory Auditors French original signed by MAZARS ERNST & YOUNG Audit David Chaudat Jean-Roch Varon 152 / Universal Registration Document 2019 2 Internal Controls & Risk Management 2.1. Participants and systems 154 2.1.1. Operations management 154 2.1.2. Functional departments 154 2.1.3. External participants 159 2.2. Description of the main risks 160 2.2.1. Operational and industrial risks 163 2.2.2. Financial and market risks 174 2.2.3. Legal, regulatory, and reputational risks 177 2.3. Insurance and coverage of risks 181 2.3.1. Fire, property damage and business interruption insurance 181 2.3.2. Liability insurance 182 2.3.3. Insurance related to information systems 182 / Universal Registration Document 2019 153 Internal Controls & Risk Management Participants and systems This section describes the parties involved in managing the Faurecia group’s risks and the main significant risks to which the Group believes it is exposed as of the date of this Universal Registration Document. However, other risks that the Group is not aware of at the date of this Universal Registration Document, or which are not considered to date as likely to have a significant unfavorable impact for the Group, its business groups, its financial position, its results or its outlook, may exist or occur. 2.1. Participants and systems The Audit Committee, which is tasked with overseeing the year a formal review of the internal control and risk effectiveness of the internal control and risk management management systems. systems (which are not limited to accounting and financial The charts below provide a summary of the organization and risks), informs the Board of Directors of the main actions taken functioning of internal control and risk management within the by the Group in this realm. Other participants provide Group: information to the Audit Committee which conducts every Board of Directors / Audit Committee Risk Identiﬁcation Executive Committee Risk Committee Risk Risk Monitoring Assessment Internal Control Internal Audit Compliance Finance Legal CSR Risk Control 2.1.1. Operations management 2.1.2. Functional departments The Group’s Executive Committee examines the major Focusing on their specific domains, the Group’s functional operational risks inherent to the Group’s business during the departments are responsible for complying with current monthly meetings of the Operations Committees, and at least regulations and standards, improving their processes and once per year it reviews the risk mapping prepared by the Risk working with the other departments in order to improve Committee. cross-functional processes. The Executive Management of each Business Group is responsible for identifying and managing operational risks inherent to its business which are reviewed every month by its Finance department Operations Committee. PRINCIPLES APPLIED TO THE PREPARATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Group Finance department, which reports to the Chief Executive Officer, is responsible for outlining the rules and procedures, consolidating the financial statements, managing cash and financing, and carrying out management control, internal control and Internal Audits. 154 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Internal Controls & Risk Management Participants and systems It is responsible for performing the following tasks: FINANCIAL REPORTING PROCESS ■ determining the Group’s accounting and financial The goal of the reporting process is to provide all the financial standards in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the and non-financial information needed to manage the Group European Union and the tax provisions and accounting and disclose the financial statements in accordance with standards specific to each country, and ensuring applicable accounting standards and the rules decreed by compliance with them; the Autorité des Marchés Financiers (AMF). A “reporting ■ preparing the annual statutory financial statements, the glossary” describes the content of all reporting data, and procedures explain how reporting should be conducted. monthly consolidated financial statements and, more specifically, the interim and annual financial information to be reported; MONTHLY REPORTING ■ outlining, improving and ensuring enforcement of the The HFM (Hyperion) consolidation system provides for the internal control procedures needed to produce reliable monthly reporting of both financial information (income accounting information. These procedures include in statement and balance sheet data) and non-financial particular a generalization of the permanent inventory information (such as indicators relating to quality, production, process completed by physical inventory taking at least purchasing, safety, human resources, etc.). Each business unit once a year, the separation of tasks, and strict monitoring of reports its final results of operations four days after the end of access to the various accounting transactions based on the the month in accordance with Group standards. Every month, different businesses; the Operations Committee reviews the operational performance and action plans of each Business Group. ■ managing and improving the information systems used to produce accounting and financial data. BUDGET AND STRATEGIC PLAN The Country or Regional Chief Financial Officers who manage the shared financial service centers report to the Group’s The Group draws up a five-year sales plan each year, in which Finance department and are responsible for: programs play an essential role. This plan discusses the Group’s business outlook by business and product line, and the ■ the production of the financial and accounting statements Group’s resources and profitability. It is consolidated using the for all the units within their scope, in compliance with IFRS same tool as for monthly reporting and it is also used to define and local standards and the closure dates defined by the the budgetary targets for the following year. Group; In order to effectively anticipate short-term changes and ■ compliance with and improvements to the internal control improve responsiveness, monthly reporting includes a rolling procedures specific to their scope; forecast for the income statement and cash flow statement ■ strengthening the role and skills of the accounting function; for the current and subsequent quarters. ■ close collaboration with operational sites within their scope INFORMATION SYSTEMS in order to work with them to solve internal control issues and to improve the overall effectiveness of the financial process. For process and data management purposes, Faurecia uses a unique management software package based on SAP Internal and financial controllers are stakeholders in the software. This solution is common to all sites and enables Group’s strategy and sales, R&D and industrial activities at all normalization and digitalization to occur at a faster pace. All levels and report hierarchically to site, Division and Business management processes (orders, inventory, flow of parts, Group managers and functionally to the Group Finance receiving, shipping, accounting, etc.) are supported by this department. Through their function, they are therefore solution. stakeholders in the definition and achievement of the operational objectives. Moreover, Faurecia relies on this software package to accelerate digitalization in numerous areas such as This organization between, on the one hand, shared services management of workshops and transportation, measuring responsible for producing the financial statements and customer satisfaction, managing maintenance, etc. All these complying with the standards, and on the other, the data represent a wealth of information that is beginning to be controllers considered as co-pilots for the management of exploited with the help of Artificial Intelligence (AI) type tools, operational entities, enables a real separation of tasks and a in order to optimize processes. better development of skills in each role, resulting in better overall effectiveness and reduced risk of fraud. The following principles are implemented across the Group to Internal control prepare financial statements: At the Faurecia group, internal control is a mechanism that ■ completeness of transaction processing; encompasses a set of resources, behaviors, training, ■ transaction compliance with applicable accounting procedures and actions that aim to prevent risks that are likely principles; to: ■ periodic review of assets. ■ have an impact on the financial and accounting information published by the Group; ■ cause damage to the Group’s image and reputation; / Universal Registration Document 2019 155 Internal Controls & Risk Management Participants and systems ■ expose the Group to regulatory or legal sanctions from the ■ self-assessment campaigns touching all corporate various jurisdictions and competition authorities of the management cycles (business management, direct and countries in which it operates; indirect purchases, inventory management, management of property, plant and equipment, salary management, ■ threaten the Group’s employees and ecosystem (risk of tracking of standard costs, information system kidnapping, natural disasters, epidemics, environmental management, management of expats and other personnel risks); transfers, etc.). A self-assessment questionnaire addressing ■ prevent the Group’s customers from producing, delay their the most important control items for operational sites (plants production or hinder their product and service performance and R&D centers) was disseminated in 2017, in order to help (critical equipment breakdown, quality risks, delay in these sites strengthen their internal control system (methods product development); of proof, identification of weaknesses and corresponding action plans, local governance). Since 2018, the scope of ■ prevent the Group from being able to continue to finance the self-assessment has been extended to the registered its operations (cash-flow crisis); office and administrative centers to provide Faurecia’s ■ threaten the confidentiality of the information held by the business activities with comprehensive coverage; Group on its own behalf (intellectual property, data on ■ regular communication with operational entities, functional technologies, financial data) or with regard to its employees departments and the Executive Committee to make all (personal data). business lines aware of current topics (fraud, improvement By helping to prevent and control risks that could negatively actions, best practices, etc.). impact the Group in attaining its goals, the internal control Internal control representatives are present at several levels of and risk management system plays a key role in conducting the organization (Group, Business Groups, Divisions, shared and steering its various business activities. However, as financial service centers) in order to support the approach underscored by the AMF’s frame of reference, any internal without taking on the responsibilities of operations control and risk management system, no matter how well management. conceived and applied, cannot provide an absolute guarantee that the Group will achieve its goals. In fact, inherent limits exist to any internal control and risk PROCEDURES management system, notably due to the uncertainties of the Internal control is based on a set of principles and procedures: outside world, the exercise of judgment or shortcomings that the Group culture (“Being Faurecia”), which is grounded in six may arise due to technical or human failure. key values and the Code of Ethics, the Management Code, and the Faurecia Excellence System (FES). The FES represents SCOPE the operational focus, shaping how Group employees work worldwide and structuring the Group’s identity. The Group’s internal control system is deployed throughout the Company and its fully consolidated subsidiaries and covers a The documentation on which the internal control system is larger scope than the procedures related to the preparation based is therefore made up of the following items, which can and processing of accounting and financial information. all be accessed on the Group’s intranet: ■ the Code of Ethics and the Management Code; INTERNAL CONTROL TASKS ■ Manager Empowerment which defines six general The main responsibilities of the Internal Control department cross-functional principles for managers in certain key are: sectors: Acquire a new program; Assess Managers and ■ participating in projects to improve cross-functional Professionals; Decide on Capital Expenditures; Decide on processes (transportation, protection of the access and Exceptional Items; Manage Managers and Professionals rights associated with IT applications, improving IT Compensation; Staff Managers and Professional positions; tools, etc.); ■ the Faurecia Core Procedures (FCP) are set out within nine ■ mobilizing the Group’s co-workers around a common vision processes developed by each Group division respecting a of the primary risks and making them aware of the inherent common general framework and apply to all subsidiaries risks of their business activity; controlled by the Group. They are regularly updated and continually enhanced. The nine processes are as follows: ■ training on internal control, some of which are now offered by Faurecia University, Faurecia’s internal training center, ■ Production Control and Logistics, particularly e-learning modules. Please note that the ■ Purchasing, “basic” module is mandatory for all Group executives; ■ Quality and HSE (Health, Safety and Environment), ■ preparation for COSO certification, which is an internal control standard defined by the Committee of the ■ PMS (Program Management System) and Engineering, Sponsoring Organization of the Treadway Commission. Faurecia’s primary participants in internal control all hold COSO certification; 156 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Internal Controls & Risk Management Participants and systems ■ Sales and Marketing, Compliance and Risk Management ■ Communication, department ■ Finance, RISK MANAGEMENT ■ Human Resources, Risk management is handled by the Group Risk Committee, ■ Information Technology; which is chaired by the Group Chief Financial Officer. The main tasks of the Risk Committee are to update risk mapping, ■ Faurecia’s Alert Management System (AMS) immediately ensure that the corresponding prevention plans are informs Business Group management teams and, if established and implemented and, more broadly, ensure that necessary, the Group Executive Committee of any risks are monitored regularly. problems encountered in production and program management. This system also ensures a prompt and The Risk Committee meets quarterly. The Chief Financial structured response including problem solving which the Officer, the Deputy Chief Financial Officer, the Director of organization capitalizes. Internal Audit, the Chief Compliance Officer, the Risk Manager, the General Counsel, and the Head of Internal Control are also members of this committee. Depending on GOVERNANCE the agenda, the risk prevention plan coordinators are also Internal control reports on its work and sustains the connection invited to attend meetings. between the disciplines in the form of the Internal Control The Risk Committee’s work is also reviewed at least once a Governance Committee, which holds monthly meetings year by the Audit Committee and the Executive Committee. chaired by the Group Chief Financial Officer. This committee The risks monitored by this committee are, in particular, also includes the Deputy Chief Financial Officer, the Director associated with personal safety, quality, program of Internal Audit, the Chief Compliance Officer, the General management, IT systems, the reliability of supplies, asset Counsel, the Risk Manager and the Chief Financial Officers of protection and fire risk, exposure of industrial sites to certain the Business Groups. types of natural disasters, the reliability of financial information, Its work is also regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee of compliance, and the environment. In addition to an annual the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee. review of the entire risk management system, the Audit Committee conducts an in-depth review of a specific risk several times a year. Internal Audit In an effort to progress and continuously improve the The Internal Audit department assesses the effectiveness of mechanism, the risk map is reviewed regularly and the the internal control and governance mechanism and checks inclusion of new risks is submitted to the Risk Committee and that Group procedures are in compliance with local laws and the Audit Committee. regulations. It uses the Group’s risk mapping to shape its tasks. In 2016, the Group appointed a risk manager, who reports to The Internal Audit department is under the responsibility of the the Group Chief Compliance Officer. With the assistance of Group Chief Financial Officer, with an option to directly alert coordinators who have been appointed for each risk in the risk the Group Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman of the map, he oversees the prevention plans that have been Audit Committee. Once per year, it submits the audit program established and reviewed by the Committee and manages to the Group Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial the network of risks identified by the Group. Officer for approval. Every quarter, it presents completed In 2017, the Group started the Faurecia Enterprise Risk reports and the achievement of its objectives. It also reports to Management Program (ERM) to define and oversee risk them regularly on the progress of its work and the measures management actively and consistently. This program is taken to achieve its objectives. It reports to the Audit adapted for all types of risk, no matter what their exposure Committee at least twice per year on the result of its work and and impacts, and applies to operational, financial, strategic, its schedule of actions. reputation and legal risks. Located at the Group’s headquarters, it also has regional Since 2018, the Group has launched a risk assessment teams based in France, Germany, the United States and campaign with Group management every year, working with China. Internal Audit, to update current risk mapping and identify It conducts its assignments wholly independently and potential emerging risks. This approach made it possible to systematically substantiates its findings with specific facts that identify new potential risks and establish the Group’s risk have been duly verified. The recommendations it sends to the universe, with the goal of aligning all lines of defense on a audited sites are monitored through (i) an assessment through single risk baseline. a questionnaire completed six and twelve months after the The ERM program has also been translated into five Faurecia final report, and (ii) an on-site post-audit if one is deemed Core Procedures; the related process, known as the ERM necessary. System, is constructed in a step-by-step approach and The Internal Audit department has an Internal Audit Charter, provides the method that must be followed by each risk which was last reviewed in 2017 and which defines its roles coordinator and the functions responsible for risks. and mission, its field of competence, and the audit methodology used. / Universal Registration Document 2019 157 Internal Controls & Risk Management Participants and systems Since 2017, the issues monitored by the Risk Committee have Internal rules exist in relation to the risk tracking system for been recorded in a risk register, and since 2018, this risk register Faurecia’s third parties and their co-contractors, where is accessible in a dedicated tool where information may be applicable. shared in real time with different lines of defense. Training & Communication COMPLIANCE PROGRAM In order to maintain the Group’s strong culture of ethics and Organization compliance, the Compliance department introduced a training program tailored to risks that targeted populations The Compliance and Risk department was created in 2015. Its may encounter. matrix structure relies on functional and operational resources, which allows for wide distribution of its annual plan. The Chief The training and communication program on ethical rules and Compliance Officer determines with the Deputy Chief compliance relies on various internal communication Compliance Officer program priorities that arise from the risk mechanisms. A solid base of mandatory training courses analysis of the previous compliance plan. Regional on-line (MOOCs) exists. The pedagogical approach promotes Compliance Officers (RCOs) oversee the compliance interactive training using short videos and animations. program in regions where the Group conducts business: North Moreover, the Group has prepared and disseminated America-Mexico, South America, Asia, and EMEA (Europe, practical guides. Middle East, Africa). The compliance team also relies on a Periodic hard-copy and electronic publications as well as network of contact people, called Compliance Leaders, in blogs and intranet communities provide opportunities for the each operational division of the Business Groups. As part of the Group to communicate more widely about the Group’s identification and monitoring of non-compliance risks, the internal rules. compliance team works closely with the Risk Officer and members tasked with Internal Audit and control. Moreover, RCOs and Compliance leaders regularly organize, at industrial sites and within divisions of the Business Groups, on-site training or communication sessions to ensure a close Frame of Reference culture of ethics and compliance. These training sessions also Faurecia is a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact. occur, in particular, in the context of audit duties conducted Consequently, the Group is committed to aligning its by the Internal Audit. operations and strategy with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor standards, the Governance environment, and anti-corruption. This commitment is reasserted in Faurecia’s Code of Ethics, which is updated on a Activities conducted by the Group to prevent breaches, regular basis, specifically in 2014 as part of the roll-out of the including the risk of corruption, as well as areas for Being Faurecia program intended to strengthen the Group improvement are presented and discussed on a regular basis culture and thereby contribute to long-term value creation, in the various bodies where the compliance function is and in 2019 to integrate the changes introduced by measures involved. related to the Sapin II Law. Moreover, the Management Code, On the Group level, the Chief Executive Officer chairs a established to guide the day-to-day management of teams, quarterly committee, which is steered by the compliance customers and also suppliers, translates many of the principles function. The primary activities and strategic decisions of the set out in the Code of Ethics into operational terms. The Code ethics and compliance program are discussed and approved is given to each new employee and is available in the Group’s within this body. main working languages and can also be accessed on the Group’s corporate website and intranet. The Group’s Chief Financial Officer chairs the quarterly Risk Committee, which is steered by the Risk department. The The Code of Ethics is structured around four topics: respect of primary risks identified and monitored by the compliance fundamental rights, development of economic and social function are presented and discussed in this committee. dialogue, skills development, and ethics and rules of conduct. It forms part of the Faurecia Core Procedures and aims to Furthermore, Compliance leaders facilitate quarterly develop accountability and employee empowerment. Compliance Committees, which are chaired by the manager of each of the Business Groups. They deploy and facilitate the Furthermore, the Group has an anti-corruption Code of compliance program at each level of the Group’s activities in Conduct and a best practices guide concerning conjunction with priorities defined at the Group level. anti-competitive practices. As a result, internal rules are widely disseminated to employees. These rules cover, in particular, Finally, each RCO oversees one or several quarterly the following subjects: policy on gifts and hospitality; donations Compliance Committees to present the actions and results of and sponsorships; managing conflicts of interest (via an the compliance program at his or her region level. electronic tool); the “golden rules” of competition law. 158 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Internal Controls & Risk Management Participants and systems WHISTLE-BLOWING PROCEDURE 2.1.3. External participants Faurecia implemented a whistle-blowing system (“Speak Up”), revamped as part of its compliance with the Sapin II and Duty of Care laws and the General Data Protection Regulation (EU The mechanism outlined above is supplemented by the GDPR). Any Group employee is thus called to express his or her participation of external participants, including: concerns or signal a violation of the Code of Ethics, the ■ the Statutory Auditors; anti-corruption Code of Conduct, internal policies and procedures or the law, and to report it to the Company’s ■ third-party organizations which carry out the following Management: certification processes for the entire Group over a three-year cycle: ■ either via the internal whistle-blowing procedure: any Group employee may share his or her concerns or indicate ■ environment (ISO 14001), non-ethical behavior to his or her direct supervisor, to ■ quality (ISO TS/IATF); someone in Human Resources, or a compliance team member; ■ engineers from fire and property insurance companies who conduct a biennial audit on each of the Group’s sites to: ■ or via a dedicated whistle-blowing hotline: any Group employee has the option of using the dedicated ■ assess fire risks and any potential impact on production whistle-blowing hotline. This channel may, in particular, by and customers, used for the most serious cases mentioned above. This ■ assess whether the prevention and protection measures mechanism offers enhanced protection through “legal in place are adequate, confidentiality.” The dedicated whistle-blowing hotline is accessible via a website: http://faurecia.ethicspoint.com/ p // p / ■ issue recommendations to reduce risks. Legal department The Legal department consists of a team located in France and in the main countries where the Group conducts business. In particular, it relies on legal practitioners who are experts in their field (competition, M&A, intellectual property, corporate law, and IT), teams of legal practitioners who focus on the work of the Business Groups and on a network of multidisciplinary legal practitioners who are responsible for the Group’s different regions. The Legal department draws on these diverse skills, constant legal oversight and the implementation of control and reporting processes to ensure the security of the Group’s operations. / Universal Registration Document 2019 159 Internal Controls & Risk Management Description of the main risks 2.2. Description of the main risks Each year, the Group draws up a Group risk matrix which summarizes the main risks in terms of impact and probability. This matrix is shown below. Details concerning the various risks featured in this matrix are set out in this section. This representation includes the risk management measures implemented in order to limit the impact and/or the probability of such risks. It constitutes a tool for the internal management of these risks. This risk matrix has been validated by the Audit Committee of the Group. Loss of a major industrial site Continuity and security of informaCovid-19 Pandemic Business Ethics tion systems HIGH Safety in the workplace Program management Financial risk (currency, interest Supply failure Product Quality & Safety rates, liquidity, etc.) IMPACT Automotive supplier business risk MEDIUM Signiﬁcant litigation External Growth Regulatory developments Talents attraction and retention Intellectual Property Environmental impact of sites and Duty of care and responsible climate change purchasing LOW LOW MEDIUM HIGH PROBABILITY In addition to this matrix, the table below also provides an overview of the main risks and associated risk management measures. The categories below are not set out in order of importance. However, within each category, the risk factors are set out in decreasing order of importance determined by the Group as of the date of this Universal Registration Document on the basis of an assessment of their probability and potential impact taking into account mitigating measures (net risk). The assessment made by the Group of this ranking in terms of importance may however be modified at any time, in particular, in response to new external events or events within the Group. Moreover, even a risk that is currently considered to be of lesser importance could have a significant impact on the Group should it occur at a future date. 160 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Internal Controls & Risk Management Description of the main risks Risk Primary risk control systems Probability Impact Section Operational and industrial risks 2.2.1 COVID-19 Pandemic ■ Implementation of a dedicated crisis committee involving the members ●●● ●●● 2.2.1.1 of the Group Executive Committee ■ Deployment of the Safer Together program applicable to all sites ■ Implementation of cost reduction and cash protection measures. Continuity and ■ Strategic plan dedicated to Information Systems risks ●●○ ●●● 2.2.1.2 security of information ■ Regular audit of sensitive applications systems ■ Precise methodology for management of computer projects ■ Existence of a “Security Operation Center” (SOC) ■ GDPR compliance program Risk associated with ■ Diversity of sales by region, by brand and vehicle model ●●● ●●○ 2.2.1.3 the automotive ■ Constant monitoring of the competition supplier business ■ Innovation and investment in Research & Development ■ Forward management method enabling fine-tuning of the means of production External Growth ■ Strategic priorities set by the Board of Directors ●●○ ●●○ 2.2.1.4 ■ Control and allocation of necessary resources by a dedicated team ■ This team involved in the life of entities concerned and takes part in decision-making bodies ■ Constitution of provisions as necessary Program ■ Existence of a standard (PMCS) organizing the succession of steps for ●●○ ●●○ 2.2.1.5 management the duration of a program ■ Systematic risk assessment using 28 criteria from the initial phase ■ Monthly review of programs and monitoring of action plans ■ Regular audit of each development center EFPD Product Quality ■ IATF 16949 Certification ●●○ ●●○ 2.2.1.6 and Safety ■ Existence of a designated Quality Control department at all levels of the organization ■ Measuring customer satisfaction ■ Whistle-blowing procedure and culture of documentation and conflict resolution (QRCI…) ■ Specialized and independent auditors Loss of a major ■ Industrial risk prevention policy based on an internal standard involving ●○○ ●●● 2.2.1.7 industrial site 20 check points ■ Periodic audits conducted by the insurer and issuance of an RHP label ■ Incorporation of the topic into the early stages of projects (fire, climate-related risk, etc.) ■ Systematic analysis and sharing of incidents ■ Complete analysis of the existing industrial park ■ Specific audits of most vulnerable sites carried out by technical experts ■ Existence of a surveillance and real-time warning system for climate-related events Supply failure ■ Recourse to many local suppliers in different countries ●○○ ●●○ 2.2.1.8 ■ Systematic assessment of risks of any new order via a dedicated committee ■ Awareness of geopolitical, social, ethical, economic and financial risks ■ Constant monitoring of operational and financial performance ■ Operational support of suppliers (logistics, quality, international development...) EFPD Safety in the ■ Existence of an HSE network at all levels of the organization ●○○ ●●○ 2.2.1.9 workplace ■ Systematic analysis of accidents ■ Mandatory training in HSE rules ■ Regular audit of all sites and systematic in the event of an alert ■ Ergonomic analysis of all workstations EFPD Environmental impact ■ Analysis and control of local environmental risks based on ISO 14001 ●●○ ●○○ 2.2.1.10 of sites ■ Monthly “Environment & Energy” Committee chaired by the Group’s and climate change HSE department ■ Network of HSE managers at all levels including at each Faurecia site ■ HSE requirements integrated into the Faurecia Excellence System (FES) ■ Regular internal and FES audit of sites EFPD Talents attraction and ■ Partnerships with more than 100 post-secondary institutions ●●○ ●○○ 2.2.1.11 retention ■ Integration program directed specifically at new hires ■ Internal mobility policy (including abroad) ■ Regular review of compensation policy ■ Quantitative indicators through dedicated reporting / Universal Registration Document 2019 161 Internal Controls & Risk Management Description of the main risks Risk Primary risk control systems Probability Impact Section Financial and market risks 2.2.2 Interest rate risk ■ Centralized management of interest-rate hedges ●●● ●●○ 2.2.2.1 ■ Decisions taken by a monthly committee on market risks ■ Existence of a hedge policy implemented to limit the impact of short-term variations in interest rates on the Group’s earnings Currency risk ■ Centralized management of currency hedging ●●● ●●○ 2.2.2.2 Liquidity risk ■ Coverage of part of Faurecia’s liquidity requirements through ●●● ●●○ 2.2.2.3 receivables sale programs ■ Regular issuance of commercial paper ■ Diversified financial resources Risk related to raw ■ Negotiations with customers and strict inventory management ●●● ●●○ 2.2.2.4 materials ■ Raw material price fluctuations mainly passed on to customers on a “pass through basis” Customer credit risk ■ Completion of a risk analysis prior to the acquisition of new customers ●●● ●●○ 2.2.2.5 ■ Specific reporting on customer receivables Legal, regulatory, and reputational risks 2.2.3 Regulatory ■ Network of legal, tax and financial experts ●●● ●●○ 2.2.3.1 developments ■ Constant monitoring of laws and regulations in France and abroad Significant Litigation ■ Regular monitoring through dedicated reporting ●●○ ●●○ 2.2.3.2 ■ Adequate provisioning EFPD Duty of care and ■ “Buy Beyond” sustainable buying policy ●●● ●○○ 2.2.3.3 responsible ■ Systematic CSR analysis of suppliers and new programs purchasing ■ Required minimum level score ■ Quality Audit of our suppliers covering all CSR aspects ■ Existence of a whistle-blowing system Intellectual Property ■ Internal network of experts and specialists ●●● ●○○ 2.2.3.4 ■ Global network of external advisors ■ Performing patent searches and searches on old technologies ■ Centralized Control of Technical and Legal Matters EFPD Business ethics ■ Global network of Compliance Officers ●○○ ●●● 2.2.3.5 ■ Employee training & awareness raising ■ Code of Ethics/internal procedures ■ Existence of a whistle-blowing system Note: the abbreviation EFPD indicates that this risk presents extra-financial challenges, which are described in detail in Chapter 4 “CSR.” Identification of the primary CSR risks & opportunities is based on CSR risk mapping produced by the Group to supplement Group risk mapping. A risk universe (and the associated descriptions) was thus defined during a process that included consultations with internal and external stakeholders. Identified risks were rated by stakeholders. The risks selected are those with high criticality during this rating phase and were approved by the Group’s Executive Committee in December 2018. 162 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Internal Controls & Risk Management Description of the main risks 2.2.1. Operational and industrial risks 2.2.1.1. COVID-19 Pandemic Probability Impact ●●● ●●● IDENTIFICATION AND DESCRIPTION OF RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT ON THE GROUP On March 11, 2020, the World Health Organization declared A pandemic could have multiple significant impacts that the epidemic due to the Coronavirus (COVID-19), which concerning: started in January 2020, has become a pandemic. The ■ The health and availability of our employees in our development of this pandemic on a global scale has factories and R&D centers; generated, generates and can generate numerous significant ■ The Group's and its partner's financial performance health threats in the countries where the Group operates and (turnover, operating margin and cash in particular); leads or may lead to the gradual implementation of public ■ The operational activities of the Group or its partners measures, in particular the restriction of the movement of (production, suppliers, R&D in particular). goods and people. This situation has disrupted, disrupts and could continue to disrupt, or even prevent, over a more or less long period, the operation of all or part of our production plants and our R&D centers located in impacted areas or due to a drop in demand for our customers, but also impact in the same way the production factories or the points of sale of all or part of our customers and suppliers located in impacted areas or due to a drop in demand in the sector. It is not to be excluded that this type of event will occur again in the future, whether due to a new wave of Covid-19 or another virus. RISK MANAGEMENT In the light of this unprecedented situation, Faurecia has immediately implemented a crisis management plan to adapt, in real time, its response to the impact of the pandemic on the Group’s employees, customers and suppliers. The first priority is the health and safety of employees and their families. The Group has also implemented drastic measures to manage its cash flow as well as a strict control of expenditure and investments during the slowdown of activity. Additional details on this topic can be found in the 20th of April 2020 press release and as well in paragraph 1.1.1.1.3. Beyond these emergency measures, the Group is preparing the safe restart of production as soon as this is possible, including in an environment where the virus is not completely eradicated. A dedicated program Safer Together has been developped for this purpose. It remains currently difficult to estimate production levels in coming months as they depend on many external parameters, such as government regulations and the pace of resolution of the pandemic in the various geographies, but also on the customers’ effective restart of production as well as consumer demand, and therefore the global impact of this crisis can not be evaluated at this stage. / Universal Registration Document 2019 163 Internal Controls & Risk Management Description of the main risks 2.2.1.2. Continuity and security of information systems Probability Impact ●●○ ●●● IDENTIFICATION AND DESCRIPTION OF RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT ON THE GROUP In particular, given that the Group (and, more generally, the There could be multiple potential impacts industry as a whole) has been implementing its digital depending on the type of incident: transformation for several years now, computer systems are ■ a system failure that makes it impossible to incredibly important for day-to-day operations. perform business transactions (production, order intake, deliveries, accounting, etc.); Faurecia is especially faced with risks that could compromise the ■ breach or loss of confidential, personal, or availability and proper functioning of computer equipment used in strategic data. plant production, the confidentiality of know-how and personal Despite the numerous investments made in this field data, as well as, more generally, the integrity and availability of to both human and financial resources, any major information systems, particularly those contributing to business interruption or loss of sensitive data could impact the processes related to ordering, supply and invoicing. Group’s business and have significant operational, financial and reputational consequences. RISK MANAGEMENT Particular attention has been paid to the protection of data and IT systems for several years now. In 2018, under the aegis of the new Director of Information Systems Security, a strategic plan aimed at preventing, detecting and controlling the risks to the security of information systems was devised. This plan, the implementation of which was continued in 2019, covers in particular to the following aspects: ■ reinforcing the protection of the industrial information systems; ■ launching the production of a backup computing system (in the event of a major computing disaster); ■ improving the level of security across all workstations; ■ implementing an SOC (Security Operations Center) in order to detect any potential incidents involving information system security and treating them in a timely manner; ■ controlling the connection of Board members to the systems; ■ allocating technical and human resources to prevent data breaches from the Group’s information systems; ■ strengthening the protection of portable terminals. Centralized management systems, such as SAP and Hyperion, provide means to check integrity, traceability of data as well as separation of tasks for all entities and domains and are subject to regular audits. In 2019, the Group also carried out a “cyber-crisis” exercise that simulated an external attack in order to test and improve its incident response processes. In addition, the Group has “cyber insurance” covering potential business interruption in the event the information systems are paralyzed, as well as Faurecia’s civil liability in the event of a claim following a cyber event. 164 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Internal Controls & Risk Management Description of the main risks 2.2.1.3. Risk associated with the automotive supplier business Probability Impact ●●● ●●○ IDENTIFICATION AND DESCRIPTION OF RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT ON THE GROUP Faurecia group’s business, which manufactures and sells original There is a direct correlation between the Group’s automotive equipment for its automaker customers, is directly sales and operating income and the performance related to the level of sales and automotive production of each of of the automotive sector in the main regions in its customers, which depends on many factors: the overall level of which the Group and its customers are present, consumption of goods and services on a given market, trust in the and also the commercial success of the models economic actors on this market, level of vehicle buyers’ access to marketed by its customers for which the Group credit and any existing government programs (i.e., programs to products components and modules. support the automotive industry or vehicle purchase incentive programs). In addition, the orders placed with the Group are binding supply contracts for open orders without Faurecia’s risk is also tied to the commercial success of the models any guarantees in terms of volume, that is to say marketed by its customers for which the Group produces with no guarantee of minimum volume. They are components and modules. generally based on the life of the vehicle model concerned. The Group could therefore be required Finally, changes in the automotive sector could accelerate the to make certain investments which may not be concentration of automakers, ultimately resulting in the offset by customer order volumes, thereby disappearance of certain brands or vehicle models for which the generating a significant impact on the operating Group produces equipment. income. RISK MANAGEMENT Given its market share and diversified international presence, the Faurecia group has a natural potential to weight its customer risk. Faurecia thus seeks to optimize the quality and diversity of its customer portfolio. In 2019, the Group has done business with more than 100 customers. In addition to historical Group customers (PSA, Renault, Volkswagen…) the Group is now also working with new entrants in the mobility business (Byton, Tesla…) but also several local actors especially in China. The Group is now also working with new kind of customers such as municipalities or industrial companies and fleet managers especially as part of the clean mobility Business Group. In 2019, the Faurecia group’s five largest automaker customers accounted for 66,7% of value-added sales (VW: 18.3%; Ford: 14.6%; Renault-Nissan: 13.8%; PSA 13.1% and FCA 6.7%). The Group also relies on the diversification of its sales by region by vehicle brand and model. In addition, each Business Group monitors the competition on an ongoing basis so that it can respond in the best possible way to calls to tender from automakers and, in particular, to their specific demands for the supply of complex equipment. In this regard, Faurecia stays competitive through innovation and efficiency in product development. / Universal Registration Document 2019 165 Internal Controls & Risk Management Description of the main risks 2.2.1.4. External Growth Probability Impact ●●○ ●●○ IDENTIFICATION AND DESCRIPTION OF RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT ON THE GROUP As part of its external growth policy, Faurecia has made, and may The benefits expected from future or completed make in the future, acquisitions of varying sizes, some of which have acquisitions may not be confirmed within the been and may be significant on a Group-wide scale. anticipated time frames and/or the levels expected and, consequently, may affect the So, for example, in 2019, Faurecia announced that it had finalized Group’s financial position (sales, operating income, the acquisition of the Japanese company Clarion, a major and particularly the level of debt). stakeholder in connectivity and in-vehicle infotainment (IVI), full digital audio systems, HMI (Human Machine Interface) solutions, advanced driver assistance systems, and Cloud services. There are several risks inherent to this type of process which could occur, in particular: ■ Risk of the anticipated synergies not being achieved; ■ Risk of departure of key employees; ■ Risk of overestimation of the target value; ■ Existence of new specific risks within the target (tax, environmental, ethics, legal, etc.). RISK MANAGEMENT The Board of Directors determines the Group’s major priorities and strategies. Executive Management oversees this strategy and allocates the resources necessary to carry it out. The policy of external growth is supported by the team in charge of Business Development, under the responsibility of the Group’s executive Vice President in charge of strategy. This team is also very closely involved in the life of the entities resulting from growth transactions (joint ventures, acquisitions) and thus takes part in their decision-making bodies. Targets are being identified as part of a selection process led by Strategy department with the help of external specialized consulting firms. A set of documents comprising a market analysis, competitors, Business Plan and risks is used as part of the decision making process. Negotiations are led by the same department as well as valuation of the target. Acquisition decisions are being taken by the Board of Directors. This departement is also strongly involved in the daily business of those entities and is participating to their management committees. A post-acquisition integration plan covering all aspects of the relevant entity (human resources, purchasing, sales, R&D, production, etc.) is systematically drawn up and monitored on a regular basis, including at the very highest levels of the organization. Moreover, Faurecia sets aside any provisions that may prove to be required under applicable accounting standards, in particular, concerning the impairment of assets. 166 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Internal Controls & Risk Management Description of the main risks 2.2.1.5. Program management Probability Impact ●●○ ●●○ IDENTIFICATION AND DESCRIPTION OF RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT ON THE GROUP Most of the contracts entered into by Faurecia are awarded after a Depending on the hazards encountered over the call for tenders put out by an automaker to supply complex course of the life cycle of a program, there may be equipment, to which Faurecia responds in the form of a Request for impacts on satisfaction among Group customers Quotation (RFQ). Every contract entered into with a customer and this may have significant consequences for the constitutes a “program” whose production phase, at the outcome reputation of the Group as well as its financial of the development phase, may last from five to ten years. results (sales and/or operating income). Over the course of its life cycle, a program may be exposed to hazards such as a shortage of qualified operators and workers, problems with component availability or quality, problems related to the quality of the assembly or transportation of finished products or difficulties linked to the rate of work imposed by the customer. The Group manages around 500 programs on a permanent basis. RISK MANAGEMENT The Program Management Core System (PMCS) lays out a strict succession of steps for the entire duration of a program, from bid processing to the end of product life. As part of the bid procedure, a risk assessment is done in order to determine in advance, based on a list of 28 preset criteria and with an established oversight structure, the nature and level of the risks that should be eliminated during the program’s development phase. Program reviews are carried out monthly within each division and Business Group to define and monitor action plans, including the plans to eliminate the execution risks that are identified during the acquisition phase. Programs deemed “high risk” are also subject to review by the Group’s Executive Management. Each program is subject to a prospective financial analysis and is being monitored through Key Performance Indicators updated monthly. A Management Alert System on top of those indicators is being used to send alarms and perform corrective actions as soon as possible. Each development center is also audited biannually by the Group on a representation sample of programs at different stages of development to formally evaluate the compliance of the PMCS. / Universal Registration Document 2019 167 Internal Controls & Risk Management Description of the main risks 2.2.1.6. EFPD Product Quality and Safety Probability Impact ●●○ ●●○ IDENTIFICATION AND DESCRIPTION OF RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT ON THE GROUP With over 500 active programs on a permanent basis, Faurecia Faulty products that are delivered or manufactured provides a very large number of vehicle components with a may alter the production of Group customers or potential impact on driver and passenger safety. incur additional costs that have repercussions on the Group’s business, results or financial position. In The products manufactured by the Group could be impacted by this respect, the Group is, among other things, quality issues concerning both the level of quality with regard to exposed to warranty claims, particularly as part of customer expectations and also the level of compliance with vehicle recall campaigns. regard to the regulations in force. RISK MANAGEMENT The Faurecia group manages product quality and safety risks from the new order acquisition phase to manufacturing in the plants. The Group Quality department is responsible for this management at all stages of the process. It is present at all levels of organization from the multidisciplinary team developing new programs or the production plant up to the Group’s management structure. In 2018, Faurecia initiated its Total Customer Satisfaction program which has which has continued into this year. This program aims at getting a global picture of our customer satisfaction both in term of performance and perception on the overall value chain: from order taking to production start. Beyond those quality measures, customer feedbacks are now collected instantly and in a transparent way through a dedicated digital application. The Faurecia Excellence System (FES) is defining how production and operations are being organized. It has been built to improve quality, cost, delivery and security on a continuous basis. Based on a common framework for all plants around the world it allows to guarantee the best possible operational performance. In 2018, the Group decided to improve the Faurecia Excellence System (now called FES X.0) and the roll out of this improved version has been performed throughout 2019. For major problems, a management alert system is used. A structured problem-solving culture (response within 24 hours and identification of root causes, etc.) is constantly being developed by Faurecia’s management: QRCI (Quick Response Continuous Improvement). The Group’s industrial management has an auditing structure that is independent of the operational organizations of the Business Groups, to conducts reviews on both production plants and R&D centers. They use a precise and rigorous questionnaire to assess the application and maturity of enforcement of the Faurecia Excellence System (FES). Each production site is rated either “Poor/Satisfactory/Excellent/Benchmark”. If a site is rated “Poor”, it is required to prepare a corrective action plan which is presented directly to Faurecia’s CEO with a view to reaching a “Satisfactory” level within a maximum of three months. 168 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Internal Controls & Risk Management Description of the main risks 2.2.1.7. Loss of a major industrial site Probability Impact ●○○ ●●● IDENTIFICATION AND DESCRIPTION OF RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT ON THE GROUP The Faurecia group has 248 manufacturing plants located in 37 The total or partial loss of a major industrial site different countries. Some of our plants are highly specialized in terms could lead to the interruption of supplies to a of manufacturing and it would therefore be difficult to set-up customer with major consequences for the alternative solutions within a short period of time in the event of a automotive industry supply chain. An event of this major incident. In addition, some of our plants are located in kind would also have consequences for the “high-risk” areas in terms of natural disasters (earthquakes, Group’s sales and operating income. flooding, etc.). The main causes identified that could potentially lead to the loss of a major industrial site are: ■ a fire or an explosion due to the presence of combustible materials (foam, plastics, etc.) and/or the handling of flammable chemicals (solvents, hydrogen); ■ a major natural disaster such as floods, earthquakes, cyclones or blizzards. RISK MANAGEMENT Faurecia has drawn up an industrial risk prevention policy aimed at limiting potential losses from fire or natural disasters, in partnership with its insurer. The Faurecia group’s industrial risk prevention policy is based on the following foundations: ■ internal guidelines (the HPR grid – Highly Protected Risk) developed with the Group’s insurer, based on 20 items which rank both the prevention management system (human resources) and the protection systems put in place (technical measures); ■ the upstream integration of fire safety and natural disasters into industrial projects, new plants, or any significant redevelopment of existing sites. For example, an analysis of the natural disaster exposure profile forms an integral part of the decision-making matrix when selecting a new site; ■ a schedule of periodic audits carried out by the insurer, following the HPR grid; Around one hundred prevention audits are completed each year, together with some fifteen specific flood or earthquake risk audits for those sites having the greatest exposure; ■ key performance indicators which are monitored every six months by the Group Risk Committee. Sites are ranked according to fire prevention/protection performance and on the basis of their exposure to natural disasters. High-risk sites are monitored closely by Industrial Management within the relevant Business Group; ■ recording and systematic analysis of fires or outbreaks of fire or losses linked to a natural event. The results of this analysis are shared with the plants’ HSE network; ■ the existence of a single database to manage all audit reports, action plans for improvements, the audit program as well as the status and key dates of projects; ■ a monitoring system (24/7) in relation to hydrometeorological phenomena anywhere within the industrial park. This support service enables warnings of coming events to be sent to the sites’ management teams via e-mail or SMS alerts in real time. Depending on the alert level, a series of reactions is defined in action sheets so that appropriate measures are taken to prepare for the event, send employees to safety and ensure the site’s resilience. / Universal Registration Document 2019 169 Internal Controls & Risk Management Description of the main risks 2.2.1.8 Supply failure Probability Impact ●○○ ●●○ IDENTIFICATION AND DESCRIPTION OF RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT ON THE GROUP The Faurecia group uses a large number of suppliers based in different If one or more of the Group’s main suppliers were countries for its raw materials and basic parts supplies. to go bankrupt, or experience an unforeseen stock-out, quality problems, a strike or any other In 2019, the Group made total purchases (production and indirect, incident disrupting its supplies for which it were excluding monoliths) of €11,527 million from around 2,300 main suppliers. liable, this could impact Faurecia’s production output or image, or lead to additional costs that Given its business, the Group could be impacted in the event of would affect the Group’s business, results and supplier failures, for example, following a major loss in one of their overall financial position. production sites or production quality issues. In addition, should the Group, or one of its suppliers or service providers, default at any stage of the manufacturing process, Faurecia could be held liable for failure to fulfill its contractual obligations or for technical problems. RISK MANAGEMENT Group Purchasing department of Faurecia closely monitors the quality and reliability of suppliers’ production operations as well as their credit status and sustainability in order to ensure that the Group’s supply chain is secure: ■ Suppliers’ operational and financial performance is monitored on an ongoing basis so that any restructuring and protection measures that may prove to be required in order to achieve security of supply (quantities and costs) can be successfully taken; ■ Risk is also managed holistically, taking into account geopolitical, environmental, social, ethical, economic and financial risks, and monitoring specific factors related either to the supplier, such as management of fire risk, or to the management of the supplier itself, such as monitoring the level of business it handles. This risk assessment is performed from the initial supplier selection process and can led to a refusal of adding a supplier to our panel. Within this context, Faurecia’s purchasing teams help suppliers to expand and to reduce their risks on both an industrial and a financial level, in particular, by providing operational support to improve their efficiency, quality, logistics, and cost control by means of specialist teams working with suppliers on their own premises. These teams also support suppliers in their international expansion. 170 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Internal Controls & Risk Management Description of the main risks 2.2.1.9. EFPD Safety in the workplace (1) Probability Impact ●○○ ●●○ IDENTIFICATION AND DESCRIPTION OF RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT ON THE GROUP Faurecia employs around 67,000 operators and workers worldwide, The key potential impacts on the Group concern i.e., approximately 58% of its total headcount. the harm caused to the individual(s) in question. Insufficient management of workplace conditions As part of Faurecia’s production activities, personnel are exposed to could also impact the Group’s reputation as well as a variety of risks, including accidents, occupational illnesses or its finances in the event of financial penalties illnesses related to the workplace environment in general that may associated with this harm. affect their health or physical safety. RISK MANAGEMENT Safety in the workplace is one of the key elements of the excellence initiative embodied by the Faurecia Excellence System (FES). Faurecia’s policy on health and safety in the workplace at the day-to-day level centers around two main goals: safeguarding staff health and improving staff safety in the workplace. The Group has a dedicated organization in charge of this topic at every level of the organization (from Group to Plants). The change in the frequency rate of work-related accidents is analyzed in order to measure the effectiveness of actions carried out in this area. After each accident, a “Quick Response Continuous Improvement” (QRCI) analysis is performed using a problem-solving method based on best practices in terms of solving quality problems to ensure that the primary causes of the accident are understood, that corrective actions have been effective and that preventative measures are implemented and shared across the various sites. As such, Faurecia provides specialized internal training to its network of employees, including temporary employees, in 13 mandatory HSE rules and 13 logistical HSE recommendations. The training includes well-targeted theory and practice modules with practical scenarios which allow employees to learn or improve their knowledge of the HSE rules. The 13 mandatory HSE rules relate to personal safety. These rules were implemented at all Faurecia sites. Any plant reporting a serious HSE alert or an abnormally high work-related accident rate is audited by the Group’s Quality department in order to ensure appropriate rules are properly implemented. An unsatisfactory audit systematically results in a report being sent to the Group’s Chief Executive Officer. Faurecia ensures that these rules are applied at all other sites by means of production audits. Moreover, in order to reduce occupational illnesses related to musculoskeletal problems, Faurecia has taken steps for several years to take the strain caused by workstations into greater consideration and to remedy the situation to the extent possible. Ergonomic reviews of workstations form part of the FES and the Group systematically carries out audits at each of its production plants on an annual basis. As a result of these reviews, a variety of solutions have been implemented for manufacturing workstations. The reviews are also used to prepare a list of recommendations that are systematically taken into account during the design of products and manufacturing tools. (1) Excluding pandemic risk detailled in Section 2.2.1.1 / Universal Registration Document 2019 171 Internal Controls & Risk Management Description of the main risks 2.2.1.10. EFPD Environmental impact of sites and climate change Impact ●●○ ●○○ IDENTIFICATION AND DESCRIPTION OF RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT ON THE GROUP In light of its industrial activities as well as the use of a large number Any failure to comply with environmental of potentially pollutant products and materials in the context of the regulations could cause considerable damage to product production process, Faurecia may be exposed to the Group’s reputation and generate a significant environmental risks such as the risk of accidental pollution or any risk financial impact (including in the form of criminal related to the tightening of environmental regulations. Faurecia law sanctions as well as in terms of lost could also be exposed to operational risks related to poor energy opportunities). Accidental pollution could also management (generating excessive CO2 emissions) or poor force the Group to pay significant amounts for the management of raw materials or waste. decontamination of the sites impacted. RISK MANAGEMENT In 2017, Faurecia formalized an environmental policy under which the Group commits to reducing the environmental impact of its facilities. Environmental risk analysis and control are based on ISO 14001. The Environment Committee, which holds monthly meetings and is chaired by the Group Operations department and includes business experts, implements and manages the Group’s environmental policy. Each Business Group has appointed an HSE Officer, who is assisted by a network of HSE managers at the division level (mainly regional) and HSE coordinators at each Faurecia site. These coordinators bring their expertise to the factory management team, are responsible for implementing procedures, and ensure compliance with regulations and Faurecia standards. In late 2019, a “carbon neutrality” project manager was appointed in the Group, reporting to an Executive Committee member in charge of strategy. In 2020, this project manager’s role will involve defining and implementing the Group’s strategy to achieve carbon neutrality for Faurecia’s Business Groups by 2030 (scope 1, 2 and, partially, 3). Energy use optimization across all sites will be one of the key drivers in reducing the footprint within scopes 1 and 2. These objectives are set out in the Group’s 2019/2022 CSR roadmap (see Chapter 4) led by the CSR Officer. The amount of investments reported by the sites for environmental protection, reducing pollutants, and the value of the provisions recorded for environmental contingencies, is indicated in Chapter 4 of this Universal Registration Document. Faurecia has moreover transferred a portion of the risk to the insurance market in order to hedge against damage that may result from environmental pollution. 172 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Internal Controls & Risk Management Description of the main risks 2.2.1.11. EFPD Talents attraction and retention Probability Impact ●●○ ●○○ IDENTIFICATION AND DESCRIPTION OF RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT ON THE GROUP The Faurecia group’s strategy focuses on two priorities: the “Cockpit If positions remain unfilled for too long or again if of the Future” and “Sustainable Mobility.” The development of turnover rates are too high, this could have an products connected to these two strategic priorities requires the use impact on the level of motivation and productivity of previously-unseen technologies in the automotive sector and of the teams. A risk of this type could also slow therefore requires specialized resources with expertise in these new down the development and innovation of the technologies. Group’s business and have a negative impact on the Group’s reputation and results. The Group could experience difficulties in attracting and retaining the necessary talents able to provide the skills required for the development or production of its innovative products and services. RISK MANAGEMENT In 2019, Faurecia continued to focus on recruiting recent graduates and early-career skilled professionals in order to ensure that the Group recruits and retains the talent of the future. Therefore, the Group established preferential partnerships with more than 100 schools, post-secondary institutions and universities in the many countries where the Group operates. All new hires benefit from a personal induction program enabling them to find out more about the Company, its values, strategy and organization. Within this framework, Faurecia also offers its employees many international assignments as well as the opportunity to take part in international projects. To prepare the managers of tomorrow, talent identification starts as early as possible. The applicants are offered diverse career paths to realize their potential. These paths include inter-functions/inter-divisions mobility, project work, and short-term assignments. The plan aims to help employees step out of their comfort zone and provide them with general management skills. Faurecia offers a large catalog of trainings. The Faurecia University has trained more than 7,300 employees in 2019 and its digital training (Leaning Lab) has reached more than 450,000 of delivered training hours since it was initially set-up in 2016. The Group uses VIE (International Volunteer Program) as a key driver to achieve its young graduate recruitment goals. The number of VIE employees has been constantly increasing for several years now. Moreover, the Group’s compensation policy is subject to an annual review by specialized firms in order to ensure, in particular, competitiveness with the local market. Compensation depends on several elements related to individual performance, but also to team performance. The variable portion of compensation rises increasingly with the level of responsibility exercised. These various subjects are monitored through dedicated Key Performance Indicators (KPI). Following audits performed in 2018 by the “Top Employer Institute”, Faurecia has been awarded “Top Employee Europe” label in 2019. This award comes in addition to the country specific “Top Employer” label that has been also received by many key countries within the Group (including France, Germany, Spain, Czech Republic but also China, India, United-States and Mexico). This label rewards company for their excellence in HR practices especially talent attraction and development. / Universal Registration Document 2019 173 Internal Controls & Risk Management Description of the main risks 2.2.2. Financial and market risks 2.2.2.1. Interest rate risk Probability Impact ●●● ●●○ IDENTIFICATION AND DESCRIPTION OF RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT ON THE GROUP As a significant part of the Group’s debt (35%) is at a variable rate, Any significant variation in interest rates combined the Group is exposed to significant risks related to changes in with a poor application of the hedging policy for interest rates. these rates would lead to an increase in finance costs and could have a noticeable impact on the Group’s financial results. RISK MANAGEMENT Faurecia manages the hedging of interest rate risks on a central basis. Such management is implemented through the Group Financing and Treasury department, which reports to the Executive Management. Hedging decisions are made by a Market Risk Management Committee that meets on a monthly basis. As a significant part of the borrowings (syndicated credit facility – if drawn, short-term loans, commercial paper as applicable) are at variable rates. The aim of the Group’s interest rate hedging policy is to reduce the impact on earnings from changes in short-term rates. The Group’s interest rate position based on the nature of the instruments used and the sensitivity of interest expense to short-term rates are disclosed in Note 30 to the consolidated financial statements. Before taking into account the impact of interest rate hedges, 35% of the Group’s financial debt were at variable rates as of the end of December 2019, compared with 37,7% as of year-end 2018. The variable-rate financial debt primarily consists of short-term debt. The main components of long-term fixed rate debt are: ■ bonds maturing in June 2025, issued in March 2018 for a total amount of €700 millions; ■ bonds maturing in June 2026, issued in March and October 2019 for a total amount of €750 million; ■ bonds maturing in June 2027, issued in November 2019 for a total amount of €700 million; ■ part of the Schuldscheindarlehen issued in December 2018 (see the description of this transaction in Note 26.3 paragraphs on “Financing the acquisition of Clarion Co., Ltd”). 174 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Internal Controls & Risk Management Description of the main risks 2.2.2.2. Currency risk Probability Impact ●●● ●●○ IDENTIFICATION AND DESCRIPTION OF RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT ON THE GROUP Given its international presence in a large number of countries Any overly significant fluctuation in exchange rates outside of the Euro zone, the Group is of course faced with risks could have a positive or negative impact on the related to exchange rate fluctuations. Risk arises when Group Group’s financial results. subsidiaries have sales or costs denominated in a currency other than their functional currency. The Group is also subject to currency risk linked to the contribution of the subsidiaries, whose accounting currency is not the euro, to the consolidated results of the Group. The sales, results and cash flows of these subsidiaries, when converted into euros, are sensitive to fluctuations in their accounting currency against the euro. RISK MANAGEMENT Note 30.2 to the consolidated financial statements gives the description of the underlying currency positions and the derivative instruments hedging them, as well as the sensitivity of the Group’s net income and shareholders’ equity to fluctuations against the euro of the various currencies to which it is exposed. Faurecia centrally covers the exchange rate risk of its subsidiaries linked to their commercial operations by means of forward or optional foreign exchange transactions and foreign currency financing. This centralized management is implemented operated by the Group’s Finance and Treasury department, under the responsibility of the general management. The management decisions are taken within a market risk management committee which meets monthly. Future transactions are hedged on the basis of forecast cash flows established during the preparation of validated budgets. by general management, these forecasts are regularly updated. Subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the euro are granted intra-group loans in their functional currencies. These loans are refinanced in euros and although they are eliminated in consolidation, they contribute to the exposure to risk exchange rate risk and this risk is hedged by means of currency swaps or financing in the currency in question. / Universal Registration Document 2019 175 Internal Controls & Risk Management Description of the main risks 2.2.2.3. Liquidity risk Probability Impact ●●● ●●○ IDENTIFICATION AND DESCRIPTION OF RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT ON THE GROUP To finance its investments and its other cash requirements, The inability to access such resources could have an Faurecia is obliged to access finance sourced from both impact on the profitability of the Group and on its financial institutions and financial markets. viability. RISK MANAGEMENT The Group’s liquidity is ensured mainly by its bond issues and its syndicated credit facility. In 2018 and 2019, Faurecia made several bond issues, for a total amount of €2.150 million, reaching maturity between June 2025 and June 2027. Faurecia also holds a €1.2 billion line of credit with its banks that is scheduled to reach maturity at the end of June 2024. As of December 31, 2019, this credit facility was not drawn. This credit facility contains a single restrictive clause on consolidated financial ratios (as opposed to two in the previous credit facility): the net debt*/EBITDA** ratio must be lower than 2.79. Compliance with this ratio is a condition affecting the availability of this credit facility. The various components of Faurecia’s long-term debt and the maturities of the Group’s liquidities are described in Notes 26.2 and 26.3 to the consolidated financial statements. As is noted in Note 26.3 to the consolidated financial statements, as of December 31, 2019, Faurecia was compliant with the financial ratio required by the syndicated credit facility: Ratio Limit Carrying amount as of 31/12/2019 Net Debt*/EBITDA** < 2.79 1,05 * Consolidated net debt. ** Operating income plus depreciation, amortization and funding of provisions for impairment of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets, corresponding to the past 12 months. 2.2.2.4. Risk related to raw materials Probability Impact ●●● ●●○ IDENTIFICATION AND DESCRIPTION OF RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT ON THE GROUP The Group is exposed to raw material risk via its direct raw materials The Group’s operating and net income can be purchases or indirectly through components purchased from its adversely affected by changes in the prices of the suppliers. raw materials it uses, notably steel and plastics. In 2019, direct plastics and steel purchases accounted for approximately 21% of the Group’s total purchases. To the extent that the Group’s sales contracts with customers do not include systematic price indexation clauses linked to the price of its raw materials, Faurecia is exposed to risks related to unfavorable fluctuations in raw material prices. RISK MANAGEMENT Efforts are made to reduce this exposure by continually negotiating conditions with customers and strictly managing inventories. Faurecia does not use derivatives to hedge its purchases of raw materials or energy. Faurecia still has a low level of exposure to this risk, however, since a large proportion of the raw material price fluctuation is passed on to customers on a “pass through basis”. Faurecia’s remaining exposure is, therefore, around 30% of the total raw materials exposure. A 10% fluctuation in the price of raw materials, not including component purchases, would have a 0.36% impact on operating income (expressed as a percentage of total sales). 176 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Internal Controls & Risk Management Description of the main risks 2.2.2.5. Customer credit risk Probability Impact ●●● ●●○ IDENTIFICATION AND DESCRIPTION OF RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT ON THE GROUP In view of the economic context in the automotive sector The failure to recover a customer receivable in the (emergence of new stakeholders, fall in volume, increasingly event of a payment default (for example, stringent environmental standards, etc.), Faurecia cannot rule out customer bankruptcy) could have a negative the possibility that one or more of its customers may not be able to impact on the Group’s financial results. honor certain agreements or suffer financial difficulties. RISK MANAGEMENT Trade accounts receivables are monitored on a regular basis by the Group’s Finance department. In late 2019, a range of measures for assessing customer credit risk was put in place, enabling in particular this risk to be assessed whenever a new customer is acquired. As of December 31, 2019, late payments represented €178 million, or 1% of consolidated sales for the year. Details of trade accounts receivable and other receivables are provided in Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements. 2.2.3. Legal, regulatory, and reputational risks 2.2.3.1. Regulatory developments Probability Impact ●●● ●●○ IDENTIFICATION AND DESCRIPTION OF RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT ON THE GROUP Faurecia operates in over 37 countries and generates 49% of its sales Inadequate planning or preparations for in Europe, 25% in North America, 21% in Asia and 5% in South regulatory decisions or changes made to legal America and rest of the world. requirements could have a significant negative impact (particularly regarding finances) on the Due to the international nature of its business activities, Faurecia is Group’s business. For example, the government exposed to economic, political, fiscal, legal and other types of risks: authorities in a country in which Faurecia conducts ■ any potential amendments to laws or regulations, or to Business Groups could force Faurecia to carry out commercial, monetary or fiscal policies; a product recall (potentially leading to a vehicle ■ customs regulations, foreign exchange controls, investment recall), could order the impounding of products, or restrictions or requirements or any other constraint such as levies or impose sanctions which could have a significant other forms of taxation on settlements and other payments; ■ difficulties in enforcing agreements, collecting payments due and impact on the reputation of the Group and protecting property through foreign legal systems, in particular, negative consequences for its operating income. where intellectual property protection is less stringent. RISK MANAGEMENT The Group relies on the expertise of its Legal, Tax and Finance departments which permanently monitor legislation and regulations in France and abroad via local intermediaries (employees, networks of lawyers, tax specialists, etc.). Regular reviews are carried out regarding changes which may have a significant impact on the Group’s business and specific measures are taken to hedge the associated risks. / Universal Registration Document 2019 177 Internal Controls & Risk Management Description of the main risks 2.2.3.2. Litigation Probability Impact ●●○ ●●○ IDENTIFICATION AND DESCRIPTION OF RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT ON THE GROUP Given its key role in the global automotive industry, the Group may Major litigation could have a negative impact on be subjected to class action lawsuits or the target of litigation or the Group’s financial position or cause harm to the claims filed by its customers, suppliers, end users, or government Group’s image. authorities. RISK MANAGEMENT Adequate provisions have been set aside to cover litigation facing the Group, in accordance with the facts and information available at the balance sheet date. Note 24.2 to the consolidated financial statements as at December 31, 2019 gives a description of ongoing claims and litigation and indicates the total amount of provisions for litigation. Litigation is tracked quarterly at the Group level and monthly at the Business Group level through reporting prepared by the Legal department. Preventative measures, in particular via the provision of training to core teams, are implemented on a continuous basis. 2.2.3.3. EFPD Duty of care and responsible purchasing Probability Impact ●●● ●○○ IDENTIFICATION AND DESCRIPTION OF RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT ON THE GROUP The Group accords particular importance to the risks related to Questioning the Group’s integrity on these issues fundamental rights (child labor, forced labor, non-respect for union could have significant consequences to its freedom, environmental damages…) vis-à-vis its activities, all of its reputation, business activity and financial position. suppliers and subcontractors. Due to the large number of suppliers with which the Group works (more than 2,300 in 2019 in 54 countries), the Group is unable to completely exclude the existence of improper practices at these suppliers regarding compliance with environmental standards, business ethics, employment law, or human and fundamental rights. RISK MANAGEMENT The Group’s Purchasing department established a policy of sustainable buying, called “Buy Beyond,” which reflects the Group’s commitment to comply with the requirements of the Law n°2017-399 of March 27, 2017, related to the duty of care. This policy consists, in particular, of systematically review suppliers that are part of our production process prior to their selection. For existing suppliers, selection among the main suppliers is done. This analysis is conducted through our partner EcoVadis and addresses the following areas: ■ Fair Business Practices: assessment of the organization’s ability to implement tangible actions to ensure data protection, fight against corruption, fraud, anti-competitive practices, money laundering and to avoid conflicts of interest; ■ Labor Practices and Human rights: g assessment of the organization’s level of maturity in terms of the actions on employee health and safety, working conditions, social relations, forced labor and child labor, discrimination and respect for fundamental rights; ■ Environment and Sustainable Procurement: assessment of the formalized policy, verification mechanisms and certification obtained. Since 2019, a score of at least 30 (out of 100) has been required. The required minimum score will be increased on a regular basis over the coming years. Moreover, supplier quality audits, which are a prerequisite to joining Faurecia’s panel of suppliers, also include CSR issues. Faurecia is committed to building close, long-term relationships with its suppliers, based on mutual growth and benefit. It requires its suppliers to abide by the Buy Beyond purchasing policy by enforcing, within their own organization and their own global supply chain, the Code of Conduct for Suppliers and Subcontractors, which was implemented by Faurecia in 2013 and which is always included in the mandatory bidding documents sent to suppliers. Lastly, the Group has an external whistle-blowing system that makes it possible to report any breaches related to human rights and fundamental freedoms, or to individual health and safety as well as the environment. 178 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Internal Controls & Risk Management Description of the main risks 2.2.3.4. Intellectual Property Probability Impact ●●● ●○○ IDENTIFICATION AND DESCRIPTION OF RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT ON THE GROUP The Group conducts an active research and development policy Such events are likely to negatively impact the and stresses protection of the resulting innovations. To this end, the Group’s business and results, as well as its image Group files patents and designs for technologies, products and and the quality of its products. processes in many countries. In particular, 608 new patent applications and 673 territorial extensions were filed by the Group In the event of any involuntary infringement by the in 2019, i.e. 1,281 patent applications filed. There are more than Group, it may be required to modify its products or 10,000 patents in the patent portfolio. processes or negotiate rights of use with third parties generating significant financial consequences. Due to these significant volumes, the Group may be exposed to infringement of its intellectual property rights by third parties. Moreover, given its active innovation policy, the Group may also be exposed to the involuntary infringement of intellectual property rights held by third parties (unpublished or unidentified rights). RISK MANAGEMENT In order to support and accompany its innovation policy and reinforce the protection of its rights, the Group has a centralized organization that handles all technical and legal issues relating to intellectual property. Bi-monthly committee meetings organized for each Business Group allow strategic decisions to be made to protect transactions with all stakeholders. Twice a year, Intellectual Property Management Committees define the strategies for the Business Groups and their application, as well as the resources necessary. The Group files patents and designs for technologies, products, and processes in many countries. The Group also protects its name and certain product ranges via trademark law. For example, the Faurecia trademark is protected in all countries of interest to the Group and this protection is monitored. The Group holds a large, stable portfolio of intellectual property rights thanks to its internal teams of experts and specialists and a global network of advisers, who conduct searches of existing patents and technology watches and monitor the competition, as well as analyses of third-party shares regarding ongoing projects. The Group undertakes actions to prevent, terminate and penalize infringements of its intellectual property rights. For instance, the Group may act against third parties that use its patents, know-how, designs and models or trademarks without its authorization, or it may file challenges or actions for invalidation against third-party patents whose issue the Group does not deem justified. / Universal Registration Document 2019 179 Internal Controls & Risk Management Description of the main risks 2.2.3.5. EFPD Business ethics Probability Impact ●○○ ●●● IDENTIFICATION AND DESCRIPTION OF RISK POTENTIAL IMPACT ON THE GROUP The automotive supplier market in which the Faurecia group is Questioning the Group’s integrity on these issues active is marked by a restricted number of customers and a could have significant consequences to its potentially significant volume of business with each one. In addition, reputation, business activity and financial position. Faurecia is a decentralized Group operating in over 34 countries, and each of these countries may have anti-corruption legislation which is potentially extra-territorial in scope. This is in particular the case with regard to the Sapin II Law in France, the Bribery Act in the United Kingdom and also Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in the United States. These regulations, some of which are quite recent, and the specific nature of the sector, mean that the Group is exposed to sanctions in the event of any non-compliance. In addition, given the specific nature of the automotive sector (presence of a reduced number of stakeholders in certain markets), the Group may also be exposed to antitrust risks (for example, cartel arrangements). RISK MANAGEMENT The Faurecia group’s ethical commitments are formalized and detailed in the Code of Ethics, which establishes the essential rules of conduct and ethics applicable to all personnel as well as its partners. This Code of Ethics is given to each new employee, is available in a range of languages and may also be accessed on the Group’s website and intranet. All Group employees are responsible for complying with the Code of Ethics and, if applicable, ensuring that it is circulated and complied with. The Group also has a Code of Conduct for the prevention of corruption. It contains internal rules that are widely distributed to employees. These rules cover in particular the subjects following: gift and hospitality policy; donations and sponsorship; conflict of interest management (via an electronic tool). Since 2015, the Group has a Compliance department under the responsibility of the Chief Compliance Officer and his or her deputy, and which relies upon regional compliance managers in North America, Mexico, Asia, and the EMEA region (Europe, Middle East and Africa). It also relies on a network of compliance leaders, who are contact people in each operational division of the Business Groups. In 2016, the Compliance department launched an on-line training program with the “Ethics MOOC” intended for the Group’s community of Managers and Skilled Professionals (M&P) as well as the “Antitrust MOOC” and “Internal Control Basics.” Deployment and monitoring of these training courses continued in 2019. In 2018 and 2019, how-to guides on reporting and managing conflicts of interest and on the internal whistle-blowing procedure on allegations of noncompliance with the Code of Ethics were issued. More specifically, a risk management program related to anti-competitive practices was rolled out across the Group with deployment of a guide dedicated to electronic or physical training with at-risk populations in the various countries where the Group operates. The Group has a whistle-blowing system, which was reviewed as part of its compliance with the General Data Protection Regulation and the Sapin II Law, and which allows any employee or partner to flag a potential breach of rules defined in the Code of Ethics. 180 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Internal Controls & Risk Management Insurance and coverage of risks 2.3. Insurance and coverage of risks Faurecia does not have a self-insurance mechanism. The policy for safeguarding assets is based on the implementation and ongoing adaptation of its industrial risk prevention policy and, as described below, its strategy of transferring its principal risks to the insurance market. ■ November 2019: a fire in a workshop used for the 2.3.1. Fire, property damage manufacturing of flooring and trim and door panels in the and business interruption Abrera plant in Spain following an outbreak of a fire on a painting production line. This major incident is currently insurance under investigation. The provisional estimated cost of the material damage, loss of operating income, and additional costs, is in excess of €30 million. Faurecia has taken out a fire, property damage and business interruption insurance policy with a co-insurance group of These incidents, as well as the changes in the insurance major insurers led by Allianz. market more generally, have led to a significant tightening of the program’s conditions for the July 2019 interim period as In 2019, the Group’s expense corresponding to the coverage well as a change in conditions for the fiscal year on January 1, of property damage and business interruption resulting from 2020, with the following main developments: this damage was approximately €10.2 million excluding tax (premium July 2019-July 2020). ■ considerable increase in deductibles, in particular for poorly protected major sites; Buildings and equipment are insured as replacement values. The guarantees are organized around a Master policy which ■ €700 thousand increase in premiums over the first six months directly covers the risks located in the area of freedom to of 2020 in addition to the annual premium of €9.5 million provide services and local policies for subsidiaries located (July 2019 – July 2020); outside the this area. ■ increase in the deductible for failures, and reduction in the The premium rates applicable to exposed capital (direct level of coverage provided for indirect failures (tier 2 and damage and annual gross margin) depend directly on the above suppliers, customer suppliers). HRP classification assigned to the site, after audit by the An invitation to tender is currently underway for the renewal in insurer. July 2020. A significant increase in premiums, the loss of the The Group was recently affected by several major incidents: coverage for indirect failures (tier 2 and above suppliers, customer suppliers), as well as an increase in the deductibles ■ January 2017: major claim for a supplier failure related to a applicable to natural risks for exposed sites, are now all fire at the Recticel plant in the Czech Republic: the unavoidable in the context of this renewal. destruction of molds severely disrupted production for several customers. This claim was closed in November 2017 Further to the Recticel, Beaulieu, and Abrera incidents, with a co-insurance payment of €20 million; preventative action has been increased: ■ January 2018: The Doubs river overflowed, flooding the FCM ■ monitoring by the Risk Committee of the fire protection plant in Beaulieu. The flood damaged numerous machines, action plans for major but poorly protected sites; destroyed inventory and led to a production stoppage of ■ technical and economical assessment of the costs of about 24 hours. The claim was settled for an amount of securing sites exposed to a high risk of flooding; €4.8 million less deductible; ■ implementation with purchases of an assessment routine ■ May 2018: an explosion at the Meridian plant at Eaton and reduction of fire or natural risks on critical supplier sites. Rapids in Michigan, which produces magnesium parts, disrupted several customers (GM, Chrysler, BMW, and Damage insurance is supplemented by builder’s risk insurance Mercedes-Benz) for around one month. The claim was and insurance covering the transportation of goods or settled for €6.5 million less deductible on the basis of equipment and political risk. customer failure;PSA Transport insurance for Europe was renewed with Allianz ■ June 2019: destruction following a fire at the plant in 2020 under identical terms and conditions. A project belonging to the FCM supplier MODULO in Poland. An regarding the consolidation of the various regional transport advance payment of €2 million was paid for the repair of policies is currently ongoing. damaged tools; / Universal Registration Document 2019 181 Internal Controls & Risk Management Insurance and coverage of risks 2.3.2. Liability insurance Since January 1, 2013, Faurecia’s liability has been covered by The Groups’ liability insurance schedule also includes specific a coinsurance group led by AXA. Liability insurance covers policies such as environmental liability insurance and operating liability, product liability after delivery, including the coverage of liability for damages resulting from accidents risk of product recall. Liability insurance takes the form of a caused by employees’ occupational illnesses. Master policy combined with local policies taken out in In 2019, the Group paid approximately €13,1 million (excluding countries where Faurecia has subsidiaries. tax) in premiums for its civil liability policies. The high rate of Several major claims were filed in the United States and in claims as well as the worsening market conditions will lead to a Europe between 2014 and 2019; most of them are still under significant increase in the deductibles applicable in the event investigation. A surge in claims for physical injuries following an of a recall and in premiums as at January 1, 2020. accident has also been recorded in the United States. This increase in claims affects the terms of the liability insurance plan. 2.3.3. Insurance related to information systems On January 1, 2017, Faurecia took out a cyber risk policy from following a paralysis of the information systems and Faurecia’s CHUBB and AXA that covers potential business interruption civil liability in the event of a claim following a cyber event. 182 / Universal Registration Document 2019 3 Corporate governance 3.1. Board of Directors 184 3.5. Shareholding by corporate 3.1.1. Summary presentation of the Board officers and transactions of Directors and key figures 184 in the Company’s securities 254 3.1.2. Composition of the Board of 3.5.1. Shares held by corporate officers 254 Directors 185 3.5.2. Transactions in the Company’s 3.1.3. Organization and functioning of the securities by corporate officers 254 Board of Directors 208 3.1.4. Committees of the Board of Directors 214 3.6. of the members 3.1.5. Assessment of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors and Specialized Committees 222 and Executive Management 256 3.2. Operational management of the Group 223 3.7. Authorizations relating to sureties, endorsements and 3.2.1. Executive Committee 223 guarantees 257 3.2.2. Group Leadership Committee 223 3.3. Compensation of corporate 3.8. Agreements 257 officers 224 3.8.1. Regulated agreements 257 3.3.1. Compensation of executive and 3.8.2. Procedure for assessing ordinary and non-executive corporate officers for normal agreements 257 fiscal years 2018 and 2019 224 3.8.3. Service contracts 257 3.3.2. Board members’ compensation in 3.8.4 Statutory auditors’ special report on respect of the 2018 and 2019 fiscal related party agreements 258 years 240 3.3.3. Compensation for the Group’s operational management 242 3.9. Other information 260 3.3.4. Compensation policy for corporate officers and implementation for 2020 242 3.4. Summary of compliance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code 253 / Universal Registration Document 2019 183 Corporate governance Board of Directors The information below constitutes the chapter relating to the corporate governance report as provided for by the last paragraph of Article L. 225-37 of the French Code of commerce. Certain information forming an integral part of the corporate governance report, as required by Articles L. 225-37-4 and L. 225-37-5 of the French Code of commerce, is shown in other chapters of this Universal Registration Document. The cross-references included in this section indicate the chapter of this Universal Registration Document in which the relevant information can be found. This chapter has been prepared on the basis of the work carried out by the Group's Legal department and Human Resources department. The AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance Code for listed companies is the Code used as a reference by the Company. It can be consulted on the MEDEF website (www.medef.fr). 3.1. Board of Directors 3.1.1. Summary presentation of the Board of Directors and key figures Michel DE ROSEN Patrick KOLLER Chairman of the Board End of mandate 2020 GM Emmanuel PIOCHE Chief Executive Officer End of mandate 2021 GM End of mandate 31 Oct. 2021 Odile DESFORGES Daniel BERNARDINO End of mandate 2020 GM End of mandate 31 Oct. 2021 Linda HASENFRATZ Philippe DE ROVIRA End of mandate 2020 GM End of mandate 2021 GM Penelope HERSCHER Robert PEUGEOT End of mandate 2021 GM End of mandate 2021 GM Valérie LANDON Grégoire OLIVIER End of mandate 2021 GM End of mandate 2023 GM Yan MEI Olivia LARMARAUD End of mandate 2023 GM End of mandate 2020 GM Denis MERCIER Peter MERTENS End of mandate 2023 GM End of mandate 2023 GM Board members affiliated with the shareholder PSA Independent Board members representing employees Compensation Committee Governance & Nominations Committee Audit Committee Chairwoman / Chairman of the Committee 184 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Corporate governance Board of Directors 15 Board members 61.5% Independent Board members(*) 46% Female Board members(*) 2 Board members 6 Nationalities 3.6 years Average tenure 59years Average age representing employees 6 BOARD MEETINGS 96.55% +1 Meeting dedicated to Faurecia spin-off +1 Meeting with independent Attendance rate at Board meetings (without members affiliated with PSA) members only 15 95% Committee meetings Attendance rate at Committee meetings (*) Excluding board members representing employees 3.1.2. Composition of the Board of Directors 3.1.2.1. General information on the composition of the Board of Directors In accordance with the Company’s bylaws, Faurecia’s Board Article L. 225-27-1 of the French Code of commerce. of Directors comprises at least three members and a maximum According to the methods stipulated in the bylaws, one Board of fifteen members, excluding Board members representing member representing employees is appointed by the labor employees, appointed in accordance with Article L. 225-27-1 union having obtained the most votes in the first round of the of the French Code of commerce. elections referred to in Articles L. 2122-1 and L. 2122-4 of the French Labor Code in France, and a second Board member Board members are appointed for a term of four years by the representing employees is appointed by the European General Meeting, on the basis of proposals made by the Committee of employee representatives. They are also Board of Directors, acting on the basis of recommendations appointed for a term of four years. made by the Governance and Nominations Committee. They may be re-elected and can be dismissed at any time by the Each Board member must hold at least 500 registered shares in General Meeting. Neither the bylaws nor the internal rules of the Company. This obligation is reduced to 20 shares for Board the Board of Directors contain rules for staggered terms of members who receive no compensation and does not apply office. However, in practice, appointments are renewed on a to the Board members representing employees. A detailed staggered basis, which helps avoid reappointing Board presentation of the applicable share ownership rules can be members all at once. found in Section 3.5.1 “Shares held by corporate officers” of this Universal Registration Document. In addition, in accordance with the applicable provisions of the law and bylaws, the Company has two Board members The Board of Directors has no advisors (Censeurs). representing employees appointed pursuant to / Universal Registration Document 2019 185 Corporate governance Board of Directors The table below sets out and completes the information presented in the graph above as well as the key figures regarding the composition of the Board of Directors and the Specialized Committees as at December 31, 2019: Number of corporate offices in listed companies Length of Number of (excluding IndepenDate of first time on Age Gender Nationality shares Faurecia) dence appointment End of term Board (1) Committees 1. EXECUTIVE CORPORATE OFFICER Patrick KOLLER 60 years M French/ 42,168 1 No GM of GM 3 years Chief Executive German May 30, in 2021 and 1 Officer and Board 2017 month member 2. INDEPENDENT BOARD MEMBERS Michel de ROSEN 68 years M French 5,944 2 Yes GM of GM 4 years Chairman of the Chairman of the May 27, in 2020 and 1 Governance and Board of Directors 2016 month Nominations Committee Odile DESFORGES 69 years W French 500 3 Yes GM of GM 4 years Chairwoman of the May 27, in 2020 and 1 Audit Committee 2016 month Linda HASENFRATZ 53 years W Canadian 500 2 Yes GM of GM 9 years Chairwoman of the May 26, in 2020 and on Compensation 2011 month Committee Penelope HERSCHER 59 years W American 500 3 Yes GM of GM 3 years Member of the May 30, in 2021 and 1 Governance and 2017 month Nominations Committee Valérie LANDON 57 years W French 500 1 Yes BD Meeting GM 2 years Member of the Audit of in 2021 and Committee October 12, 8 months 2017 Yan MEI 64 years W Chinese 260 (2) 0 Yes GM of GM 1 year May 28, in 2023 and 1 2019 month Denis MERCIER 60 years M French 450 (3) 0 Yes GM of GM 1 year Member of the May 28, in 2023 and 1 Governance and 2019 month Nominations Committee Peter MERTENS 58 years M German 1,000 0 Yes GM of GM 8 months Member of the May 28, in 2023 Compensation 2019 Committee (effective as from November 1, 2019) 3. BOARD MEMBERS AFFILIATED WITH THE SHAREHOLDER PSA Olivia LARMARAUD 61 years W French 20 0 No GM of GM 4 years Member of the Audit May 27, in 2020 and 1 Committee 2016 month Grégoire OLIVIER 59 years M French 100 0 No BD Meeting GM 1 year of in 2023 and October 10, 8 months 2018 Robert PEUGEOT 69 years M French 500 4 (4) No GM of GM 13 years Member of the May 29, in 2021 and 1 Compensation 2007 month Committee Philippe de ROVIRA 46 years M French 20 0 No BD Meeting GM 1 year Member of the of July 19, in 2021 and Governance and 2018 11 months Nominations Committee 4. BOARD MEMBERS REPRESENTING EMPLOYEES Daniel BERNARDINO 49 years M Portuguese 0 (5) November 1, October 31, 2 years Member of the 2017 2021 and Compensation 8 months Committee Emmanuel PIOCHE 54 years M French 0 (5) November 1, October 31, 2 years Member of the Audit 2017 2021 and Committee 8 months (1) As of June 26, 2020, date of the next Annual General Meeting. (2) Increased to 500 on January 7, 2020. (3) Increased to 500 on February 23, 2020. (4) Including two permanent representative corporate offices. (5) In accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code, Board members representing employees are not included in the calculation of the percentage of independent Board members. 186 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Corporate governance Board of Directors 3.1.2.2. Board members’ expertise, positions and corporate offices Information provided below is given as of December 31, 2019. The business address of Board members is that of Faurecia. Daniel BERNARDINO Date of birth: August 9, 1970 Board member representing employees Nationality: Portuguese Date of first appointment: November 1, 2017 Number of Faurecia shares: Date of expiry of term of office: October 31, 2021 Skills: Member of the Compensation Committee Daniel Bernardino is a method agent in the Logistics department Main position held outside Faurecia at Faurecia’s Palmela site (Portugal). He is a sociology graduate. He joined the Group in 1994 as Head of the logistics team. He Other positions and corporate offices in 2019 outside held various employee representation offices between 1997 and Faurecia 2017 and has been a member of Faurecia’s European Works Council for 14 years. Positions and corporate offices held within the last five years and which have expired (2015-2019) ■ Member of Faurecia’s European Works Council (until 2017). Experience in Faurecia’s core businesses Industry / Universal Registration Document 2019 187 Corporate governance Board of Directors Odile DESFORGES Date of birth: January 24, 1950 Independent Board member Nationality: French Date of first appointment: May 27, 2016 Number of Faurecia shares: 500 Date of expiry of term of office: 2020 GM Skills: Chairwoman of the Audit Committee Odile Desforges is an engineer and graduate of École Centrale de Main position held outside Faurecia Paris and of the European Center for Executive Development (CEDEP). ■ Companies Board member She began her career in 1973 as a research analyst at the Institut Other positions and corporate offices in 2019 outside de Recherche des Transports before joining Renault in 1981, where Faurecia she held several positions of responsibility in planning, product development, and purchasing. Subsequently, after serving as French listed companies Executive Vice President of Renault-VI/Mack and as a member of ■ Board member and member of the Audit Committee of the Executive Committee with responsibility for planning, Dassault Systèmes; purchasing and program development from 1999 until 2001, she was appointed President of the Volvo 3P business unit of AB Volvo, ■ Board member and Chairwoman of the Audit and Risks where she remained until 2003. From 2003 to 2009, Odile Desforges Committee of Safran; was a member of Renault’s Management Committee and served ■ Board member of Imerys (until the Shareholders’ Meeting of as head of Worldwide Purchasing for Renault/Nissan. In 2009, she May 2020). was named to Renault’s Executive Committee and appointed as Group Director of Engineering and Quality. She exercised her rights French unlisted companies to retire in July 2012. She was made a Chevalier de l’Ordre National du Mérite and a Chevalier de la Légion d’Honneur by the French government. Foreign listed companies Foreign unlisted companies Positions and corporate offices held within the last five years and which have expired (2015-2019) ■ Board member and member of the Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Compensation Committee of Johnson Matthey Plc. (Great Britain), until July 2019; ■ Board member and member of the Appointments and Compensation Committee of Sequana (France), from 2012 to May 2016. Experience in Faurecia’s core businesses Industry International experience Banking/finance/risk management 188 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Corporate governance Board of Directors Linda HASENFRATZ Date of birth: June 16, 1966 Independent Board member Nationality: Canadian Date of first appointment: May 26, 2011 Number of Faurecia shares: Date of expiry of term of office: 2020 GM 500 Skills: Chairwoman of the Compensation Committee Linda Hasenfratz has been Chief Executive Officer of Linamar Main position held outside Faurecia Corporation since August 2002. She was also its President from ■ Chief Executive Officer and board member of Linamar April 1999 to August 2004, and its Chief Operating Officer from Corporation (Canada) (foreign listed company) September 1997 to September 1999. She has been a Board member since 1998. Other positions and corporate offices in 2019 held outside She has a bachelor’s degree and an Executive MBA from the Faurecia Ivey School of Business at the University of Western Ontario French listed companies (Canada) and has an Honors Bachelor of Science degree from the same institution. French unlisted companies Other foreign listed companies ■ Board member of Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce (CIBC) (Canada). Foreign unlisted companies ■ Member of the Board of Governors, Royal Ontario Museum (Canada); ■ Board member of the Business Council of Canada (Canada) (Chairwoman until January 28, 2019); ■ Member of the Catalyst Canadian Board of Advisors (Canada); ■ Board member of the Association of Equipment Manufacturers (United States); ■ Board member of Synaptive Medical (Canada). Positions and corporate offices held within the last five years and which have expired (2015-2019) ■ Board member of Original Equipment Suppliers Association (United States). Experience in Faurecia’s core businesses Industry International experience Automotive technologies Governance/management of large companies Specific knowledge of a geographic market / Universal Registration Document 2019 189 Corporate governance Board of Directors Penelope HERSCHER Date of birth: July 15, 1960 Independent Board member Nationality: América Date of first appointment: May 30, 2017 Number of Faurecia shares: Date of expiry of term of office: 2021 GM 500 Skills: Member of the Governance and Nominations Committee Penelope Herscher is Chairwoman of the Board of Directors of Main position held outside Faurecia Lumentum Operations LLC. (formerly JDSU) and member of its ■ Companies Board member/Chairwoman Governance Committee. She has also been a Board member of Verint since April 2017 and Other positions and corporate offices held in 2019 outside a member of the Governance Committee. Faurecia French listed companies Since January 2018, she has been a Board member of Pros, where she is a member of the Governance and Compensation Committees. She has also been a Board member of Delphix, an unlisted company, since August 2018. French unlisted companies Until April 2018, she was a Board member of the listed company Rambus, Inc., where she chaired the Strategy Committee and the Compensation Committee and was a member of the Foreign listed companies Governance Committee. ■ Chairwoman of Lumentum Operations LLC (since 2019; From March 2016 to October 2017, she chaired the Board of previously Board member); Savonix, Inc., a start-up in the digital health domain. ■ Board member of Verint (since May 2017); Until July 31, 2017, Penelope Herscher was Chairwoman of the ■ Board member of Pros (since January 2018). Board of Directors at FirstRain, Inc., a software company, which she joined in 2004 and ran as President and CEO until 2015. Foreign unlisted companies From 2002 to 2003, Penelope Herscher held the position of ■ Board member of Delphix (since August 2018). Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer at Positions and corporate offices held within the last five years Cadence Design Systems, Inc., an electronic design automation and which have expired (2015-2019) software company. From 1996 to 2002, she was Chairwoman and Chief Executive Officer of Simplex Solutions, which she led ■ Board member of Rambus Inc. (from 2006 to April 2018); through an IPO in 2001 and which was acquired by Cadence ■ Chairwoman of the Board of Directors of FirstRain, Inc. in 2002. Before Simplex, she was an executive at Synopsys for (from October 2015 to July 31, 2017); eight years and started her career as an R&D engineer with Texas Instruments. ■ Chairwoman of the Board of Directors of Savonix, Inc. (from March 2016 to October 2017); Penelope Herscher holds a Bachelor of Arts with honors and a Master of Arts in Mathematics from Cambridge University ■ Chairwoman and CEO of FirstRain, Inc. (from 2004 to 2015). (England). Industry International experience Automotive technologies Governance/management of large companies Specific knowledge of a geographic market Artificial intelligence/digital CSR 190 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Corporate governance Board of Directors Patrick KOLLER Date of birth: January 2, 1959 Board member Nationality: Franco-German Date of first appointment: May 30, 2017 Number of Faurecia shares: Date of expiry of term of office: 2021 GM 42,168 Skills: Patrick Koller has been Chief Executive Officer of Faurecia since July 1, 2016. Main position held within Faurecia He graduated from the École Supérieure des Sciences et Technologies de ■ Chief Executive Officer l’Ingénieur de Nancy (ESSTIN). Main position held outside Faurecia He has held various management positions with several major ■ Companies Board member manufacturing groups (Valeo, Rhodia). In 2006, he joined the Faurecia group as Executive Vice President of the Other positions and corporate offices held in 2019 outside Faurecia Automotive Seating Business Group (now Faurecia Seating), a Faurecia position he held until February 2, 2015. During this period, he held various French listed companies offices within the Group subsidiaries. ■ Board member of Legrand S.A. On February 2, 2015, he was appointed Deputy Chief Executive Officer, a French unlisted companies position he held until June 30, 2016. Foreign listed companies Foreign unlisted companies Others ■ Board member (donors’ committee) of the Collège de France Foundation. Positions and corporate offices (held within Faurecia group), in the last five years and which have expired (2015-2019) ■ Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operating Officer until June 30, 2016; ■ Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors of Faurecia (China) Holding Co., Ltd (China) until March 12, 2015; ■ General Manager of Faurecia Components Pisek, S.r.o. (Czech Republic) until April 21, 2015; ■ General Manager of Faurecia Plzen (Czech Republic) until April 21, 2015; ■ Member of the Supervisory Board of Faurecia Automotive GmbH (Germany) until May 31, 2015; ■ Representative of Faurecia Investments, Board member and Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors of Faurecia Azin Pars Company (Iran) until September 15, 2015; ■ Member of the Board of Directors of Faurecia NHK Co., Ltd (Japan) until April 28, 2015; ■ Member of the Supervisory Board of Faurecia Automotive Polska S.A. (Poland) until March 30, 2015; ■ Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Faurecia Walbrzych S.A. (Poland) until March 30, 2015; ■ Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Faurecia Grojec R&D Center S.A. (Poland) until March 30, 2015; ■ Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Faurecia Asientos Para Automovil España, S.A. (Spain) until November 30, 2015; ■ Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors of Teknik Malzeme Ticaret Ve Sanayi Anonim Sirketi (Turkey) until March 26, 2015; ■ General Manager of Faurecia Automotive Seating, LLC (USA) until March 4, 2015; ■ Board member of Faurecia Madison Automotive Seating, Inc. (USA) until March 2, 2015. Experience in Faurecia’s core businesses Industry International experience Automotive technologies Governance/management of large companies Specific knowledge of a geographic market L Leadership and crisis management / Universal Registration Document 2019 191 Corporate governance Board of Directors Valérie LANDON Date of birth: August 17, 1962 Independent Board member Nationality: French Date of first appointment: October 12, 2017 Number of Faurecia shares: 500 Date of expiry of term of office: 2021 GM Skills: Member of the Audit Committee Valérie Landon is an engineering graduate of the École Centrale Main position held outside Faurecia de Paris. ■ Vice Chairman Investment Banking & Capital Markets at Credit She began her career in 1985 at Air France. In 1990, she joined Suisse (Foreign listed company) Credit Suisse as an investment banker. Before starting her current position, she served in particular as Head of Investment Banking Other positions and corporate offices held in 2019 outside & Capital Markets for France, Belgium and Luxembourg. Faurecia Positions and corporate offices held within the last five years and which have expired (2015-2019) ■ Independent Board member of Albioma, member of the Audit, Accounts and Risks Committee, member of the Commitments Committee (from 2016 to May 2019); ■ Member of the European Advisory Board of Catalyst (2010-2016). International experience Banking/finance/risk management 192 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Corporate governance Board of Directors Olivia LARMARAUD Date of birth: April 22, 1958 Board member Nationality: French Date of first appointment: May 27, 2016 Number of Faurecia shares: 20 Date of expiry of term of office: 2020 GM Skills: Member of the Audit Committee Olivia Larmaraud is a certified public accountant and earned an Main position held outside Faurecia MSTCF (a Master’s degree in accounting and finance) from ■ Groupe PSA Head of Consolidation and Accounting Université Paris-Dauphine. She also holds a Company Director Standards (French listed company) Certificate, awarded by the Institut Français des Administrateurs and the Institut d’Études Politiques in 2013. Other positions and corporate offices held in 2019 outside She began her career at Deloitte, where she worked for three Faurecia years as an external auditor. She followed this position with French listed companies another three-year stint at Compagnie Générale des Eaux as a member of the consolidation team before joining Sanofi, where she served as a financial controller for eight years. Since 1995, she French unlisted companies has been working within the Finance department of the PSA ■ Board member of the industrial company Delachaux S.A. and group, where she was promoted to the rank of senior manager Chairwoman of the audit committee of this company since in 2008. November 2018. Foreign listed companies Foreign unlisted companies ■ Member of the IFRS Advisory Council since January 2017. Positions and corporate offices held within the last five years and which have expired (2015-2019) ■ Board member and Chairwoman of the Audit Committee of the industrail group SNEF, from July 2015 to December 2018; ■ Board member of the association ACTEO, from 2008 to 2017; ■ Member of the International Standards Committee of ANC (Autorité des Normes Comptables), from 2010 to 2016; ■ Member of the Global Preparer Forum of the IASB (International Accounting Standards Board), from 2008 to 2017. Experience in Faurecia’s core businesses Industry Banking/finance/risk management / Universal Registration Document 2019 193 Corporate governance Board of Directors Yan MEI Date of birth: July 12, 1955 Independent Board member Nationality: Chinese Date of first appointment: May 28, 2019 Number of Faurecia shares: 260* Date of expiry of term of office: 2023 GM Skills: Yan Mei is Senior Partner, Chair of China – Brunswick group Main position held outside Faurecia (China) where she overseas Brunswick’s China business groups ■ Senior Partner, Chair of China Brunswick Group (China) and acts as a counselor to senior executives. (Foreign listed group) She holds a Master of Arts and Master Philosophy degree in International Relations and Political Science respectively from Other positions and corporate offices held in 2019 outside Columbia University in New-York, and a Master in Advanced Faurecia Russian Area Studies from Hunter College at the City University of French listed companies New York. She also holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in Russian Language and Literature from Beijing Normal University. She started her career as a journalist for ITN Channel 4 News French unlisted companies from 1988 to 1990. From 1991 to 2001, she worked as International Assignment Editor and later as the Head of China Desk at CNN (USA). From 2001 Other foreign listed companies to 2005, she joined Turner International Asia Pacific as Vice President. From 2005 to 2009, she held the position of Chief ■ Senior Advisor at KKR & Co. Inc. (since March 2019). Strategy Officer and Chief Representative at News Corp (Beijing). Foreign unlisted companies Before joining Brunswick group in 2013, she was Managing Director of MTV Networks Greater China and Chief Representative of Viacom Asia (Beijing). Others ■ Vice Chair of the Board of the Golden Bridges Foundation. Positions and corporate offices held within the last five years and which have expired (2015-2019) * 500 since January 7, 2020. International experience Specific knowledge of a geographic market 194 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Corporate governance Board of Directors Denis MERCIER Date of birth: October 4, 1959 Independent Board member Nationality: French Date of first appointment: May 28, 2019 Number of Faurecia shares: 450* Date of expiry of term of office: 2023 GM Skills: Member of the Governance and Nominations Committee Denis Mercier is an engineering graduate from the French Flying Main position held outside Faurecia School (1979). ■ Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Fives group (French listed From 1979 to 2008, he held various positions within the French Air company**), member of its Executive Committee. Armée. Other positions and corporate offices held in 2019 outside After having been Commandant of the French Flying School at Faurecia Salon de Provence (France) from 2008 to 2010, he became principal private secretary of the French Minister of Defense from 2010 to 2012. French listed companies Between 2012 and 2015, he held the position of Chief of Staff of the French Air Force and was promoted to the rank of General of the Air Force. French unlisted companies From 2015 to September 2018, he held the position of Supreme Allied Commander of the NATO’s Transformation and joined Fives group in October 2018. Foreign listed companies Denis Mercier was made Grand Officier Légion d’Honneur and Officier de l’Ordre National du Mérite by the French government. Foreign unlisted companies ■ Chairman of the Board of Fives Vostok; ■ Board member of Fives Engineering Shanghai Co., Ltd; ■ Board member of Fives Automation & Processing Equipment Co., Ltd; ■ Board member of AddUp (Fives-Michelin joint venture). Others ■ Chairman of the Board of École de l’Air (EPSCP). Positions and corporate offices held within the last five years and which have expired (2015-2019) ■ Supreme Allied Commander of the NATO’s Transformation (Norfolk naval base – USA), from 2015 to September 2018. * 500 since February 23, 2020 ** Company in which only the bonds are listed. Artificial intelligence/digital Leadership and crisis management / Universal Registration Document 2019 195 Corporate governance Board of Directors Peter MERTENS Date of birth: March 30, 1961 Independent Board member Nationality: German Date of first appointment: 2019 GM (effective as from November 1, 2019) Number of Faurecia shares: 1,000 Date of expiry of term of office: 2023 GM Skills: Member of the Compensation Committee Dr. Peter Mertens was an executive at Audi AG until October 31, Main position held outside of Faurecia 2019, after having served as Chief Technical Officer from ■ Companies Board member May 2017 to October 2018. After completing his studies of Production Engineering at the Other positions and corporate offices in 2019 outside Ostwestfalen-Lippe University of Applied Sciences, he earned a Faurecia Master of Sciences degree in industrial engineering and French listed companies operations research from Virginia Polytechnic Institute in the United States in 1985. From 1985 to 1990, he supervised the Technology Transfer French unlisted companies department at the University of Kaiserslautern (Germany) and received his Dr.-Ing. (Doctor of Engineering) degree. In 1990, Dr. Peter Mertens started his career in the automotive Foreign listed companies industry. He held multiple management positions with Mercedes-Benz AG, prior to taking over management of Tegaron Telematics GmbH, a joint venture between Daimler Chrysler Foreign unlisted companies Services AG and Deutsche Telekom AG, in 1996. ■ Board member of Recogni (United States) since November 6, In 2002, he joined Adam Opel AG as Executive Director for 2019. midsize and large product lines. In 2004, he became responsible for the compact product lines of General Motors Europe and, Positions and corporate offices held within the last five years starting in 2005, for all compact product lines of General Motors and which have expired (2015-2019) worldwide. ■ Executive, Audi AG (Germany), from October 31, 2018 until In 2010, he joined the Management Board of Jaguar Land Rover October 31, 2019; and managed the Corporate Quality for the entire Tata Motors ■ Chief Technical Officer, Audi AG (Germany), from May 2017 to group, including the Jaguar Land Rover Brand. October 2018; From March 2011 to May 2017, he assumed responsibility for ■ Senior Vice President, Research and Development for the research and development as Senior Vice President, Research Volvo Car Group (Gothenburg, Sweden) from March 2011 and Development for the Volvo Car Group (Gothenburg, to 2017; Sweden). ■ Member of the Supervisory Board of Volkswagen Financial Services, from October 2017 to October 2018. Industry International experience Automotive technologies Specific knowledge of a geographic market 196 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Corporate governance Board of Directors Grégoire OLIVIER Date of birth: October 19, 1960 Board member Nationality: French Date of first appointment: October 10, 2018 Number of Faurecia shares: 100 Date of expiry of term of office: 2023 GM Skills: Grégoire Olivier is chief engineer with the Corps des Mines, a graduate of Main position held outside Faurecia École Polytechnique and holds an MBA from the University of Chicago. ■ General Secretary (since January 2018) and member of the Executive After holding several positions within Pechiney and Alcatel between 1991 Committee of Groupe PSA (French listed company) and 2001, he led Sagem between 2001 and 2006. He was appointed Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Faurecia in 2006. He joined Groupe Other positions and corporate offices in 2019 outside Faurecia PSA in 2007 as a member of the Management Board and Executive Vice French listed companies President of the Automobile Programs and Strategy department and became Executive Vice President, China and ASEAN. In September 2016, he joined the Executive Committee and became Executive Vice President of French unlisted companies Mobility Services. ■ Board member of Automobiles Peugeot (since February 2018); ■ Permanent Representative of Peugeot S.A., Board member of Automobiles Citroën (since February 2018). Foreign listed companies Foreign unlisted companies ■ Board member of Changan PSA Automobiles Co., Ltd (CAPSA) – China – (since June 2019); ■ Board member of PCMA Holding B.V. – The Netherlands – (since April 2018). Positions and corporate offices held within the last five years and which have expired (2015-2019) ■ Member of the Supervisory Board of Opel Automobile GmbH – Germany – (from 2017 to 2019); ■ Board member and Chairman of the Audit Committee, Peugeot Citroën Automoviles Espana S.A. – Spain (from 2018 to 2019); ■ Board member of Iran Khodro Automobiles Peugeot – Iran – (2018); ■ Board member of Saipa Citroen Company – Iran – (2018); ■ Board member of Free2move Iberia, S.A.U. (formerly EYSA-PSA Smart City Mobility Services S.A.) Spain (from 2016 to 2018); ■ Executive Vice President of Mobility Services, Groupe PSA (from September 2016 to January 2018); ■ Board member of PSA (Shanghai) Management Company Co., Ltd – China – (from 2014 to 2016); ■ Vice Chairman of Dongfeng Peugeot Citroën Automobiles Sales Company (DPCS) – China – (from 2014 to 2016); ■ Vice Chairman and Board member of Dongfeng Peugeot Citroën Automobiles Company (DPCA) – China – (from 2013 to 2016); ■ Board member of Changan PSA Automobiles Co., Ltd (CAPSA) – China – (from 2011 to 2016); ■ Member of the Management Board, Executive Vice President China and ASEAN, Groupe PSA (from 2010 to 2016); ■ Chairman and CEO of Peugeot Citroen (China) Automotive Trade Co. – China – (from 2010 to 2016). Experience in Faurecia’s core businesses Industry International experience Governance/management of large companies Specific knowledge of a geographic market / Universal Registration Document 2019 197 Corporate governance Board of Directors Robert PEUGEOT Date of birth: April 25, 1950 Board member Nationality: French Date of first appointment: May 29, 2007 Number of Faurecia shares: 500 Date of expiry of term of office: 2021 GM Skills: Member of the Compensation Committee Robert Peugeot studied at the École Centrale de Paris and INSEAD. He has Main position held outside Faurecia held various senior positions within the Groupe PSA, and was a member of its Executive Committee from 1998 to 2007, in charge of Innovation and Quality. ■ Chairman & CEO of FFP S.A. (French listed company) He is a permanent representative of FFP on the Supervisory Board of Other positions and corporate offices in 2019 outside Faurecia Peugeot S.A., a member of the Finance and Audit Committee and chairs Other French listed companies the Strategy Committee. Since February 2002, he has been Chairman and CEO of FFP and has overseen its development. ■ Permanent representative of FFP S.A. on the Peugeot S.A. Supervisory Board; He was made Chevalier de l’Ordre National du Mérite (2000) and a Chevalier de la Légion d’Honneur (2010) by the French Government. ■ Permanent Representative of F&P SAS on the Safran S.A. Board of Directors. French unlisted companies ■ Board member of Établissements Peugeot Frères S.A.; ■ Board member of Tikehau Capital Advisors SAS; ■ Permanent representative of FFP Invest SAS, as Chairman and member of the Supervisory Board of Financière Guiraud SAS (France); ■ General Manager of SC Rodom; ■ General Manager of Sarl CHP Gestion; ■ Permanent representative of FFP S.A., as President of FFP Invest SAS; ■ Member of the Soparexo S.C.A. Supervisory Board; ■ Chairman of F&P SAS; ■ Permanent representative of FFP S.A., as President of FFP Invest SAS; ■ Member of the ACE Management Supervisory Board; ■ Permanent representative of Maillot I on the Board of Directors of SICAV ARMENE 2. Foreign listed companies ■ Board member of Sofina S.A. (Belgium). Foreign unlisted companies ■ Board member of FFP Investment UK Ltd (United Kingdom); ■ Member of the Signa Prime Supervisory Board (Austria). Positions and corporate offices held within the last five years and which have expired (2015-2019) ■ Board member of DKSH S.A. (Switzerland); ■ Member of the Hermès International S.C.A. Supervisory Board; ■ Permanent representative of Maillot I on the Board of Directors of SICAV ARMENE; ■ Permanent representative of FFP Invest SAS on the Board of Directors of Sanef S.A. (France); ■ Board member of Imerys (France); ■ Board member of Holding Reinier SAS; ■ Permanent representative of FFP Invest on the Supervisory Board of IDI Emerging Markets S.A. (Luxembourg). Experience in Faurecia’s core businesses Industry International experience Automotive technologies Governance/management of large companies Banking/finance/risk management 198 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Corporate governance Board of Directors Emmanuel PIOCHE Date of birth: December 4, 1965 Board member representing employees Nationality: French Date of first appointment: November 1, 2017 Number of Faurecia shares: Date of expiry of term of office: October 31, 2021 Skills: Member of the Audit Committee Emmanuel Pioche has been Head of R&D Frames at Faurecia Main position held outside Faurecia (Brières-les-Scellés site, France) since July 2017. Previously, he was a prototype maker in the R&D trimlab at the same site. He holds the professional title of thin-sheet metal worker, holds an Other positions and corporate offices in 2019 outside Aerospace TIG Heavy and Light Metal Welding License, Faurecia obtained a G2 Baccalauréat (management), and a level III programmer analyst’s diploma. Positions and corporate offices held within Faurecia group, in the last five years and which have expired (2015-2019) ■ of the Central Works Council of Faurecia Sièges d’Automobile (from 2007 to 2017); ■ Secretary of the Works Committee at Brières-les-Scellés (from 2002 to 2017); ■ Member of the Workplace Health and Safety Committee – CHSCT (from 2000 to 2017); ■ CFDT union representative and employee representative (from 1999 to 2017). Experience in Faurecia’s core businesses Industry / Universal Registration Document 2019 199 Corporate governance Board of Directors Michel de ROSEN Date of birth: February 18, 1951 Independent Board member Nationality: French Date of first appointment: May 27, 2016 Number of Faurecia shares: 5,944 Date of expiry of term of office: 2020 GM Skills: Chairman of the Board of Directors Date of appointment: May 30, 2017 Chairman of the Governance and Nominations Committee Michel de Rosen has been Chairman of the Board of Directors of Main position held outside Faurecia Faurecia since May 30, 2017. ■ Companies Board member/Chairman He is a graduate of the École des Hautes Études Commerciales (HEC) and the École Nationale d’Administration (ENA). Other positions and corporate offices in 2019 outside of Faurecia Over the course of his career, he has successively held positions French listed companies first as a senior public official and then as a senior executive at companies in France and the United States. ■ Non-Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors of He began his career at the Inspectorate General of Finance Pharnext S.A.; (IGF), a division of the French Ministry of Finance. He was a policy ■ Board member and, since March 5, 2019, non-executive officer in the office of the French Minister of Defense in 1980 and Chairman of the Board of Directors of DBV Technologies. 1981 and served as Chief of Staff for the French Minister for French unlisted companies Industry and Telecommunications from 1986 to 1988. Within the Rhône-Poulenc group, he served in particular as Chief Executive Officer of Pharmuka from 1983 to 1986 and of Rhône Foreign listed companies Poulenc Fibres et Polymères from 1988 to 1993, after which he was Chief Executive Officer and then Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Rhône-Poulenc Rorer in the United States and in France and of Rhône-Poulenc Santé from 1993 to 1999. Foreign unlisted companies In 2000, Michel de Rosen was named Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the US company ViroPharma. In 2008, he became Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of SGD. Positions and corporate offices held within the last five years He joined Eutelsat in 2009. On July 1, 2009, Michel de Rosen was and which have expired (2015-2019) appointed as Deputy Chief Executive Officer of Eutelsat and ■ Member of the High Committee of Corporate Governance of then as Chief Executive Officer and Board member on AFEP-MEDEF until November 2019; November 9 of the same year. From September 2013 to February 2016, he was Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. ■ Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Eutelsat From March 1, 2016 to November 8, 2017, Michel de Rosen was Communications S.A. until February 29, 2016 and Chairman of the Chairman of the Board of Directors. the Board of Directors until November 8, 2017; ■ Board member of ABB Ltd (Switzerland) until April 13, 2017. Industry International experience Governance/management of large companies Specific knowledge of a geographic market Banking/finance/risk management 200 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Corporate governance Board of Directors Philippe de ROVIRA Date of birth: June 8, 1973 Board member Nationality: French Date of first appointment: July 19, 2018 Number of Faurecia shares: 20 Date of expiry of term of office: 2021 GM Skills: Member of the Governance and Nominations Committee Philippe de Rovira is graduated from ESSEC Business School. Main position held outside Faurecia He began his career in Groupe PSA in 1998 as an internal auditor, Chief Financial Officer and member of the Executive following which he held a number of financial or commercial Committee of Groupe PSA (French listed company) positions including Head of Group Control. From August 1, 2017 to August 1, 2018, he was Vice President Finance, Chief Financial Other positions and corporate offices in 2019 outside of Officer and Member of the Management Board of Opel Faurecia Automobiles GhmH. French listed companies French unlisted companies ■ Chairman of Autobiz S.A.S.; ■ Member of the Strategy Committee of Célor S.A.S.; ■ Board member of Automobiles Citroën S.A.; ■ Board member of Banque PSA Finance S.A. Foreign listed companies Foreign unlisted companies ■ Board member of PSA International S.A. Positions and corporate offices held within the last five years and which have expired (2015-2019) ■ Vice President Finance, Chief Financial Officer and Member of the Management Board of Opel Automobiles GmbH (August 2017 to August 2018). Experience in Faurecia’s core businesses Industry International experience Banking/finance/risk management / Universal Registration Document 2019 201 Corporate governance Board of Directors 3.1.2.3. Changes in the composition of the Board of Directors and Specialized Committees in 2019 The following changes were made to the composition of the Board of Directors and of the Specialized Committees during the 2019 fiscal year: Departure Appointment (1) Reappointment Board of Directors Éric BOURDAIS DE CHARBONNIÈRE (GM of May 28, 2019) (2) Hans-Georg HÄRTER (GM of May 28, 2019) (2) Bernadette SPINOY (GM of May 28, 2019) (2) Yan MEI (GM of May 28, 2019) (3) Denis MERCIER (GM of May 28, 2019) (3) Peter MERTENS (GM of May 28, 2019, effective as from November 1, 2019) (3) Grégoire OLIVIER (GM of May 28, 2019) (3) Compensation Committee Hans-Georg HÄRTER (previously the (GM of May 28, 2019) (2) Management Committee) Penelope HERSCHER (BD Meeting of April 19, 2019, effective as from the GM of May 28, 2019) Daniel BERNARDINO (BD Meeting of July 19, 2018, effective as from January 1, 2019) Peter MERTENS (BD Meeting of April 19, 2019, effective as from November 1, 2019) (4) Governance and Éric BOURDAIS DE Nominations Committee CHARBONNIÈRE (previously the Governance (GM of May 28, 2019) (2) Committee) Bernadette SPINOY (GM of May 28, 2019) (2) Penelope HERSCHER (BD Meeting of April 19, 2019, effective as from the GM of May 28, 2019) Denis MERCIER (BD Meeting of April 19, 2019, effective as from the GM of May 28, 2019) (4) Audit Committee Emmanuel PIOCHE (BD Meeting of July 19, 2018, effective as from January 1, 2019) (1) The cooptation of Philippe de Rovira, Chief Financial Officer of PSA, was also ratified at the General Meeting of May 28, 2019. He brings his skills in the following areas to the Board of Directors: experience in Faurecia’s core businesses, international experience, banking/finance/risk management and industry. (2) Date of end of term of office. (3) The appointments of Yan Mei (Chinese national), Denis Mercier (French national) and Peter Mertens (German national), independent Board members, particularly improved diversity on the Board of Directors and bolstered the Board’s skills notably in the following areas: the Asian market, German and international industry, automotive technologies as well as leadership, crisis management and digitization. Grégoire Olivier, General Secretary of PSA, is a Board member with connections to PSA. He brings his skills notably in the following areas to the Board of Directors: experience in Faurecia’s core businesses, and international and industrial experience. (4) The appointment was made subject to his appointment as Board member by the General Meeting of May 28, 2019. 202 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Corporate governance Board of Directors 3.1.2.4. Governance structure According to the internal rules, the Chairman of the Board of Directors organizes and directs the work of the Board of SEPARATION OF THE POSITIONS OF THE CHAIRMAN OF Directors and ensures the effective operation of the Board of THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE Directors and its committees, in accordance with good OFFICER governance principles. In the context of a major change in its governance, since He must: July 1, 2016, the positions of Chairman of the Board of Directors ■ promote the highest standards of integrity, probity and and Chief Executive Officer have been separated within the corporate governance across the Group, particularly at the Company. The situation has remained unchanged since this Board level, thus ensuring the effectiveness thereof; date. ■ manage the relations between Board members and the Chairman of the Board of Directors Chairs of the committees and, in this respect: Michel de Rosen has been Chairman of the Board of Directors ■ promote effective working relations and open since May 30, 2017. As his corporate offices as Board member communication, and foster an environment that enables and Chairman of the Board of Directors expire at the end of constructive discussions and the sharing of information the General Meeting of June 26, 2020, the Board of Directors, between members of the Board of Directors and the further to the recommendation made by the Governance Chief Executive Officer, during and outside meetings, and Nominations Committee, resolved at the Meeting held on ■ lead and govern the Board so as to create the conditions April 17, 2020 to: required for the overall effectiveness of the Board of ■ propose to the General Meeting of June 26, 2020 to renew Directors and its members, and ensure that all key and the corporate office of Michel de Rosen as Board member relevant issues are adequately prepared and discussed for a new term of four years, i.e. until the end of the General by the Board of Directors and the various committees in a Meeting to approve the financial statements for the fiscal timely fashion, year ended December 31, 2023; and ■ schedule and set the agenda of the Board meetings, in ■ renew the corporate office of Michel de Rosen as Chairman consultation with the Chief Executive Officer and the of the Board of Directors, for the same term as his corporate Secretary of the Board, to take full account of the office as Board member, subject to the condition Group’s major challenges and issues raised by Board precedent of the renewal of his corporate office as Board members, and ensure that sufficient time is devoted to member by the General Meeting of June 26, 2020 and to thoroughly discuss significant and strategic matters, the approval, by the same General Meeting, of the ■ address any conflicts of interest, extension of the age limit defined in the bylaws for holding the office of Chairman of the Board of Directors. ■ conduct, with the assistance of the Governance and Nominations Committee, assessments of the Board of The Board of Directors will in fact propose to the General Directors, searches for new Board members and their Meeting of June 26, 2020, further to the recommendation induction program; made by the Governance and Nominations Committee, to increase the age limit set for holding the position of Chairman ■ organize, with the Chief Executive Officer and the Chairs of of the Board of Directors from 70 to 75 and allow for the the various committees, the preparation of and chair renewal of the corporate office of Michel de Rosen as General Meetings, oversee the relations and ensure Chairman of the Board of Directors. In the context of the effective communication with shareholders; potential change to the Company’s shareholding structure ■ manage the relation with the Chief Executive Officer: related to the contemplated distribution of the Company’s shares by PSA to its shareholders, the Board of Directors ■ act as a competent advisor for the Chief Executive considers that the best way to ensure that governance Officer on all issues regarding the interests and remains effective, balanced, stable, and visible during this key management of the Company, period for the Company is to maintain the existing current ■ ensure that the strategies and policies adopted by the governance and collaboration between the Chairman of the Board are effectively implemented by the Chief Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer. Executive Officer; without prejudice to the prerogatives of the Board of Directors and its committees, the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Chairman is regularly informed by the Chief Executive Patrick Koller has been Chief Executive Officer of Faurecia Officer about significant events concerning the since July 1, 2016. He was appointed for an unlimited term. He Company’s strategy, in line with the objectives set by the has also been a member of the Company’s Board since Board of Directors, as well as about major external growth May 30, 2017. projects, significant financial transactions, societal actions, or appointments of Business Group managers and other key positions within the Company. The ROLE OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD Chairman receives from the Chief Executive Officer all OF DIRECTORS information necessary to coordinate the work of the The role of Chairman of the Board of Directors is defined in the Board of Directors and its committees; internal rules of the Board of Directors, which are available on ■ coordinate or conduct specific projects. In particular, at the the governance page of the Company’s website request of the Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman may (www.faurecia.com). represent the Company before stakeholders, public / Universal Registration Document 2019 203 Corporate governance Board of Directors authorities, financial institutions, major shareholders and/or It is specifed that the restrictions on the powers of the Chief key business partners. Executive Officer are set out in the internal rules of the Board of Directors. The Chief Executive Officer must therefore obtain In 2019 and until the publication of this Universal Registration approval from the Board of Directors before carrying out any Document, Michel de Rosen coordinated the work of the acquisition, disposal, or joint venture project representing a Board of Directors in accordance with the bylaws and the total asset value of over €100 million and/or with sales in internal rules and prioritized the introduction of practices to excess of €300 million. These internal rules also state that any improve the way in which the Board operates. He took an material transaction which is not integrated in the Company’s active role in the following: current strategy plan will be submitted to the prior approval of ■ committee work and reviews and attendance at certain the Board of Directors. committee meetings; ■ the process of recruiting new Board members and, generally speaking, discussions about changes to the Board 3.1.2.5. Diversity policy within the Board of Directors and its composition as well as the organization of Directors of committees; PRINCIPLES ■ steering the assessment process of the Board of Directors; The Group’s Board members come from a wide range of ■ reviewing developments in governance-related issues in backgrounds and contribute a range of diverse but order to take into account legislative and regulatory complementary skills to the Board of Directors. This wealth can changes; also be found in terms of gender balance and the range of ■ meetings with certain shareholders and investors, in nationalities, as well as culture, of the Board members. particular during governance roadshows; The Board of Directors, with the assistance of the Governance ■ monitoring the Group’s strategic activities with the Chief and Nominations Committee, ensures that a diversity policy is Executive Officer, including on the contemplated proposed implemented within the Board, in accordance with the distribution of the Company's shares by PSA to its applicable regulations and the AFEP-MEDEF Code. shareholders; The purpose of the diversity policy put in place within the ■ meetings with independent Board members only, meetings Board of Directors is to ensure: with all Board members, except for members affiliated with ■ a rate of Board member independence which is at least in PSA, on the contemplated proposed distribution of the line with the recommendations made in the AFEP-MEDEF Company’s shares by PSA to its shareholders and executive Code; sessions. ■ gender balance within the Board of Directors, at least in line with the applicable law (at least 40%); ROLE OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER ■ the need for Board members to have the necessary The Chief Executive Officer is vested with the widest possible expertise and experience to carry out their duties powers to act under all circumstances in the name of the successfully in line with the strategy and interests of the Company. He exercises these powers within the limits imposed Group (regions, Business Groups, etc.); by the corporate purpose and subject to those explicitly attributed by law to General Meetings of shareholders and to ■ the complementary nature of the skills required for the work the Board of Directors. of the Board of Directors; He represents the Company in relations with third parties. The ■ international diversity so as to reflect the Group’s global Company even remains bound by actions taken by the Chief footprint; Executive Officer that are not within the scope of the ■ the search for generational balance, going beyond the corporate purpose, unless it can evidence that the third party rules on age limits set out in the bylaws. was aware that the action in question exceeded this scope or could not have been unaware of the fact given the In order to evaluate the skills and profiles required for the circumstances, the simple publication of the bylaws not being membership of the Board of Directors, the Governance and sufficient proof. Nominations Committee refers to a skills matrix (see below) and to the principles set out above, also taking into account the most appropriate size of the Board of Directors. 204 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Corporate governance Board of Directors IMPLEMENTATION AND RESULTS OF THE DIVERSITY POLICY WITHIN FAURECIA’S BOARD OF DIRECTORS Skills Daniel BERNARDINO Odile DESFORGES Linda HASENFRATZ Penelope HERSCHER Patrick KOLLER Valérie LANDON Olivia LARMARAUD Yan MEI Denis MERCIER Peter MERTENS Grégoire OLIVIER Robert PEUGEOT Emmanuel PIOCHE Michel de ROSEN Philippe de ROVIRA Experience in Faurecia's core businesses Industry International experience Automotive technologies Governance/management of large companies Specific knowledge of a geographic market Banking/finance/risk management Artificial intelligence/digital Leadership and crisis management CSR / Universal Registration Document 2019 205 Corporate governance Board of Directors Independence Changes in the composition of the Board As of December 31, 2019, the Board of Directors had eight of Directors independent Board members, representing 61.5% of its Given the extensive renewal of the composition of the Board members. This percentage is calculated excluding the Board of Directors in recent years, the Board of Directors, further to a members representing employees, as these are not included recommendation made by the Governance and Nominations in the calculation in accordance with the recommendations Committee, suggests keeping the current composition of the made by the AFEP-MEDEF Code. Board of Directors unchanged and proposes that the General Meeting of June 26, 2020 renew the corporate offices of Board This percentage is greater than the one set by the AFEP-MEDEF members whose terms of office are expiring, i.e. the terms of Code, both for controlled companies (1/3) and non-controlled Michel de Rosen (independent Board member), Odile companies (50%). Desforges (independent Board member), Linda Hasenfratz For more information on how independence is analyzed, (independent Board member) and Olivia Larmaraud (Board please refer to Section 3.1.2.6 “Independence of members of Member affiliated with PSA). The renewal of these corporate the Board of Directors”. offices are part of the continued application of the framework defined by the diversity policy and, in particular, will allow the Balanced representation of men and women Board of Directors to continue to benefit from the experience and skills of Michel de Rosen, Odile Desforges, Linda As of December 31, 2019, the Board of Directors had six Hasenfratz and Olivia Larmaraud, as described in the table of women members, representing 46% of its membership. This skills above. percentage is calculated excluding the Board members representing employees, as they are not included in the It is also specified that the Board of Directors has decided: calculation in accordance with the applicable law. ■ to renew the corporate office of Michel de Rosen as This percentage is greater than the one set by Chairman of the Board under condtion set ou in Section Article L. 225-18-1 of the French Code of commerce (40%). 3.1.2.4 Governance structure above; ■ to renew the chairmanship of each of the Specialized Employee representation Committees, repectively assumed by Michel de Rosen for As of December 31, 2019, the Board of Directors had two the Governance and Nominations Committee, by Odile Board members representing employees, in accordance with Desforges for the Audit Committee and by Linda Hasenfratz Article L. 225-27-1 of the French Code of commerce. for the Compensation Committee, for the term of the corporate office of Board member, subject to the renewal The Board members representing employees mainly of their corporate office by the General Meeting of June 26, contribute to the Board of Directors through their in-depth 2020. knowledge of the Group and of the operational aspects of its businesses. It is finally indicated that, given the potential changes to the Company’s shareholding structure in connection with the International diversity contemplated distribution of the Company’s shares by PSA to its shareholders, the composition of the Board of Directors may As of December 31, 2019, the Board of Directors included change in the event this distribution is completed. members with six different nationalities (American, Canadian, Chinese, French, German, and Portuguese). Most of the Board members have an international career and 3.1.2.6. Independence of members international responsibilities. of the Board of Directors Six Board members are based outside of France. In accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code, the Board of Directors, further to a recommendation from the Governance Balance between the generations and Nominations Committee, examines the independence of As of December 31, 2019, Board members were aged each of its members at least once a year and whenever a between 46 and 69, with an average age of 59. new Board member is appointed. The renewal of the Board of Directors also continued with the The AFEP-MEDEF Code states that a Board member is arrival of three new independent Board members appointed independent when they have no relation of any kind by the General Meeting of May 28, 2019: Yan Mei, Denis whatsoever with the Company, its Group or its management Mercier and Peter Mertens. As of the date of the next General which might compromise the exercise of their free judgment. Meeting, the average seniority within the Board of Directors In order to analyze the independence of its members, the will be 3.6 years and ranges from 8 months to 13 years and 1 Board of Directors applies the criteria provided for in the month. AFEP-MEDEF Code, as reflected in the internal rules of the Board of Directors, as follows: ■ not be an employee or executive corporate officer of the Company; an employee, executive corporate officer, or Board member of a company consolidated thereby; an employee, executive corporate officer, or Board member of the parent company or of any company consolidated by this parent company, and, in each of the cases in question, has not been in the past five years (Criterion 1); 206 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Corporate governance Board of Directors ■ not be an executive corporate officer of a company in ■ could purchase products and take advantage of services which the Company directly or indirectly holds a corporate from companies or groups in which certain of its Board office as Board member or in which an employee members, who may potentially be considered appointed as such or an executive corporate officer of the independent, held roles during the 2019 fiscal year and still Company (currently or who has held such an office for less held such roles as at December 31, 2019, the amounts paid than five years) holds the corporate office of Board were determined under ordinary and normal conditions member (Criterion 2); and represented not significant amounts for these groups; ■ not be a material client, supplier, corporate banker, ■ holds a minority stake in the share capital of a start-up in investment banker, consultant: (i) of the Company or its which one of its Board members, who may potentially be group; or (ii) for which the Company or its group represents considered independent, also holds a minority stake (less a significant part of its business. This criterion is examined on than 1%) and held a non-executive role as at December 31, the basis of a multi-criteria approach (Criterion 3); 2019, the amount invested represents an amount which is extremely insignificant on the scale of the Faurecia group ■ not have close family ties with a corporate officer (0.03% of sales) and, upon completion, the investment had (Criterion 4); been made jointly with other minority investors under ■ not have been the Company’s Statutory Auditor in the past conditions which were similar for all, including the Board five years (Criterion 5); member in question. ■ not have been a Company Board member for more than These quantitative elements are not liable to confirm any 12 years (Criterion 6). suspicions regarding the independence of the Board members. The Chairman of the Board of Directors may not be considered as independent if he receives variable In addition, in the context of this analysis, the Board of compensation or compensation in shares or any remuneration Directors also examined from a qualitative point of view the linked to the performance of the Company or of the Faurecia nature and intensity of the business relationship (potential group (Criterion 7). economic dependence and exclusivity, distribution of negotiation power) as well as the organization of the Board members representing significant shareholders of the relationship (position of the relevant Board member within the Company or of its parent company may be considered as contracting group, direct or indirect decision-making powers independent when these shareholders are not involved in the or influence on the business relationship, level on which control of the Company. However, beyond a threshold of 10% decisions are made within the Group, absence of any of the share capital or voting rights, the Board, further to a representatives of the Group having voting rights on the Board report by the Governance and Nominations Committee, of Directors of the start-up, and shareholding structure of the systematically questions independence, taking into account start-up). the composition of the Company’s share capital and the existence of any potential conflicts of interest (Criterion 8). This analysis shows that none of the Board members liable to be considered independent has any significant business At a meeting held on February 14, 2020, the Board of Directors relationship with the Faurecia group. therefore examined, further to a recommendation by the Governance and Nominations Committee, the situation of As required, please note that if a conflict of interest were to each of the Board members with regard to the criteria set out arise, the rules defined for the management of such conflicts above. in the internal rules would then apply. Therefore, in the event of a one-off conflict of interest, even a potential one, the Regarding the criterion of business relationships more Board member in question cannot take part in the voting on specifically, this was examined using a multi-criteria approach the corresponding deliberation or attend any meetings of the including a quantitative and qualitative analysis intended to Board of Directors in the period during which he has a conflict assess the significance thereof. The analysis includes a review of interests, or even resign from the Board. In case of of the relationships, contracts, and partnerships existing non-compliance with these rules of abstention or withdrawal, between Faurecia and the company or group in which the the Board member could be held liable. In case of conflict of Board member holds an executive function or corporate interest, the Board member will not receive the office. This review was carried out with the Group’s documentation relating to the meeting(s) of the Board of departments responsible for purchasing, sales, R&D, M&A, and Directors in question. finance, and also on the basis of a specific questionnaire addressed to Board members including a section on conflicts The Board of Directors, upon recommendation made by the of interest. Governance and Nominations Committee, and based on the analysis carried out, has therefore considered that, as at Regarding Board members who may be considered December 31, 2019, eight Board members are independent: independent, it would appear, from a quantitative point of Michel de Rosen, Odile Desforges, Linda Hasenfratz, Penelope view, that if the Faurecia group: Herscher, Valérie Landon, Yan Mei, Peter Mertens and Denis Mercier, i.e. a rate of 61.5% (excluding Board members representing employees in accodance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code), which is above the percentage set by the AFEP-MEDEF Code, either for controlled companies (1/3) or uncontrolled companies (50%). / Universal Registration Document 2019 207 Corporate governance Board of Directors The results of the examination of independence of the Board members as at December 31, 2019 are set out in the summary table below: Denis MERCIER Emmanuel PIOCHE (1) Odile DESFORGES Linda HASENFRAT AZ Olivia LARMARAUD Philippe de ROVIRA Penelope HERSCHER Patrick k KOLLER Val V érie LANDON Grégoire OLIVIER Robert PEUGEOT Michel de ROSEN Yan MEI Daniel BERNARDINO (1) Peter MERTENS Criteria Criterion 1: employee and corporate officer over the course of the previous five years ¢ ¢ ¢ Ù ¢ Ù ¢ ¢ ¢ Ù Ù ¢ Ù Criterion 2: cross-directorships ¢ ¢ ¢ ¢ ¢ ¢ ¢ ¢ ¢ ¢ ¢ ¢ ¢ Criterion 3: significant business relationship ¢ ¢ ¢ ¢ ¢ ¢ ¢ ¢ ¢ Ù ¢ ¢ Ù Criterion 4: family relationship ¢ ¢ ¢ ¢ ¢ ¢ ¢ ¢ ¢ ¢ ¢ ¢ ¢ Criterion 5: Statutory Auditor ¢ ¢ ¢ ¢ ¢ ¢ ¢ ¢ ¢ ¢ ¢ ¢ ¢ Criterion 6: term of office more than 12 years ¢ ¢ ¢ ¢ ¢ ¢ ¢ ¢ ¢ ¢ Ù ¢ ¢ Criterion 7: status of non-executive corporate officer ¢ Criterion 8: major shareholder status ¢ ¢ ¢ ¢ ¢ Ù ¢ ¢ ¢ Ù Ù ¢ Ù Independence of the Board member Yes Yes Yes No Yes No Yes Yes Yes No No Yes No ¢ means independence criterion met Ù means independence criterion not met. (1) In accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code, Board members representing employees are not included in the calculation of the percentage of independent Board members. 3.1.3. Organization and functioning of the Board of Directors The functioning of the Board of Directors is governed by the 3.1.3.1. Organization of the Board laws and regulations and by internal provisions, i.e. the bylaws and internal rules of the Board of Directors, most recently of Directors modified on October 9, 2019. Onboarding of new members and training The Board’s internal rules detail the roles and responsibilities of The Board of Directors pays particular attention to the the Board of Directors and its committees. They describe the onboarding of new Board members. To provide the Board roles of the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and the members with optimal conditions for the performance of their Secretary of the Board. They detail the Board’s modus corporate office, an induction program has been put in place operandi and rules and specify that its work must be assessed to present the Group, regarding organizational, functional, on an annual basis. They also describe the roles and and governance matters. In particular, this program includes responsibilities of the Board members. The internal rules are an operational section aimed at providing an understanding available on the governance page of the Company’s website of the Group’s business and products via visits to sites and (www.faurecia.com). plants in various parts of the world. These visits are completed by meetings with members of the Executive Committee, during which the organization of the Group, its business, and the challenges it faces are presented. The program also includes training provided by the Secretary of the Board of 208 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Corporate governance Board of Directors Directors on subjects related to the governance of listed The internal rules also state that attendance at Board meetings companies, and more specifically on Faurecia’s governance. is also possible via video conference or other means of telecommunication, in particular to allow for the actual When appointed or at any time during their term of corporate participation of Board members who are unable to attend office, Board members may also take advantage, if they meetings in person. Board members using these methods are consider it necessary, of additional training on specific aspects considered present for the purpose of the calculation of the relating to the Group, its core businesses and business sector, quorum and the majority. and the challenges in terms of social and environmental responsibility. The above provisions on representation via video conference or other means of telecommunication do not apply to the It is specified that Board members representing employees adoption of the decisions, referred to in Articles L. 232-1 and follow the same induction program as the other Board L. 233-16 of the French Code of commerce, relating to the members. SciencesPo Paris, in partnership with France’s preparation of the parent company and consolidated Institute of Directors (Institut Français des Administrateurs – IFA), financial statements as well as the management report of the also provided them with training tailored to the responsibilities Company and the Group. of their corporate offices, including training on Board member duties that granted them certification. Quorum and majority Number of meetings and duration The Board validly deliberates if at least half of its members attend the Meeting in person or by video conference or any The Chairman convenes the Board meetings and other means of telecommunication or is represented communicates their agendas. Decisions are adopted on the basis of a majority of those The internal rules state that the Board of Directors must meet at members in attendance (or deemed to be in attendance, as least four times per year, as provided by the bylaws, to discuss in the case of the use of video conference or other means of the agenda items listed by the Chairman. By way of exception, telecommunication) or represented. The Chairman of the the Board of Directors meets at least once per year without the meeting has a casting vote. Chief Executive Officer in attendance to assess the performance of said officer and discuss governance issues. Board members’ obligations Sufficient time must be devoted during each Board meeting The internal rules impose certain obligations on members of to usefully and thoroughly discuss the agenda items. the Board with the aim to mainly ensure that they are familiar Finally, it is specified that, following the recommendation with the provisions that apply to them, avoid conflicts of made during the external assessment of the Board of interest, guarantee that they devote the time and attention Directors’ operations for the 2018 financial year, a meeting of needed to perform their duties and that they comply with the only independent Board members is scheduled at least once rules that apply to holding several corporate offices as well a year at the initiative of the Chairman of the Board of regulated agreements. Directors. To properly manage conflicts of interest, each Board member must inform the Board of Directors of any temporary, even if it Information is only potential, conflicts of interest and abstain from voting in The Chairman, assisted by the Secretary of the Board of the corresponding deliberation and attending the Board’s Directors, is responsible for communicating the information meetings for the period during which the said Board member and documents required for the Board meetings to the Board has a conflict of interest, or even resign from the position as a members in a timely manner. Outside their meetings, Board Board member. If these rules calling for the Board member to members receive from the Chairman important or urgent abstain or even withdraw are not followed, the said Board information relevant to the Company and the Group. They member could be held liable. In the event of a conflict of also receive press releases distributed by the Company. interest, the Board member will not receive the supporting documentation for the Board of Directors’ meetings in Any additional information or document requested by a question. Board member is automatically communicated to all other Board members. Regarding information, Board members must request information that they believe is necessary to fulfill their Such information and documents may be provided during a assignments and to allow them to make informed decisions on Board meeting should privacy or timeliness considerations so the topics covered by the Board of Directors. Concerning require. non-public information obtained during the course of their work, they must act as though they are bound to a Representation confidentiality obligation, which goes beyond the mere duty In accordance with the laws, a Board member may of discretion provided for by law, and not share this specifically designate another Board member to represent information with a third party outside the Board of Directors. him at Board meetings. According to the European Regulation The internal rules also stipulate that Board members must act in n°2157/2001 relating to European companies, the Board the Company’s best interest and participate in Board of member represented is included in the calculation of the Directors’ meetings as well as the committee on which the quorum and majority. Board member sits. / Universal Registration Document 2019 209 Corporate governance Board of Directors These obligations also concern the ownerships of a minimum These modifications were approved by the meetings of the number of the Company’s shares (this obligation only applies to Board of Directors held on July 22, 2019 and October 9, 2019, Board members representing employees), the method for further to a recommendation from the two Committees in holding the shares and compliance with rules that apply to question, with effect as from October 1, 2019. security transactions and the holding of shares (see Section 3.5 The composition, assignments and activities of the three “Shareholding by corporate officers and transactions in the committees during the fiscal year 2019 are described in Company's securities” in this Universal Registration Document. sections 3.1.4.1 The Audit Committee , 3.1.4.2 “The Governance and Nominations Committee” and 3.1.4.3 “The Specialized Committees Compensation Committee” of this current chapter in the To optimize its discussions, the Board of Directors set up Universal Registration Document. Specialized Committees which have a purely internal role in Finally, it should be noted that in the context of the potential preparing some of the Board’s deliberations. They issue change to the Company’s shareholding structure in proposals, opinions, and recommendations within their field of connection with the contemplated distribution of the competence. Each Specialized Committee has its own Company’s shares by PSA to its shareholders, the Board of internal rules approved by the Board of Directors which sets its Directors, acting on the basis of a recommendation from the composition, membership rules and operating procedures, Governance and Nominations Committee, decided at a and specific roles. meeting held on December 18, 2019 and in accordance with The Committees report on their work to the Board of Directors best practices in terms of governance, to create an ad hoc after each meeting and perform a self-assessment of their committee. This committee, the creation of which is one of the activities on an annual basis. measures to manage any potential conflicts of interest in connection with the transaction, is in charge of (i) discussing As of December 31, 2019, the Board of Directors had three issues related to governance and the shareholders following permanent Specialized Committees: the share distribution and (ii) initiating discussions with the ■ the Audit Committee; future major shareholders. It is composed of four independent Board members and of one Board member representing ■ the Governance and Nominations Committee; employees. ■ the Compensation Committee. In the context of the external assessment of the Board of Directors for fiscal year 2018, it emerged that improvements 3.1.3.2. Number of meetings of the Board could be made to the organization of two of the Committees of Directors and of the Specialized in place at that time, i.e., the Governance Committee and Committees and attendance rate the Management Committee. The chairmen of these two committees discussed the planned changes and, at the The Board of Directors met six times in the fiscal year ended request of the Board of Directors, formulated a proposal December 31, 2019. Meetings of the Board of Directors lasted regarding the new organization of the Committees. With four hours on average. Attendance at these meetings, by regard to the market practices observed and in the context of Board member and overall, is indicated in the table below. the measures taken for the continuous improvement of the Please note that Board members (present) were physically Company’s governance, a proposal was made to re-organize present at all meetings. Furthermore, two additional meetings the Management and Governance Committees as follows: were also held in 2019: one meeting with the independent Board members only, in accordance with the ■ the Management Committee, initially in charge of the recommendations made during the external assessment of appointment and of matters regarding the compensation the Board of Directors for the 2018 financial year, and one paid to executive corporate officers, became the meeting with all of the Board members, excluding those Compensation Committee. The Compensation Committee, affiliated with PSA, on the contemplated distribution of the the composition of which did not changed during this Company’s shares by PSA to its shareholders. Attendance at reorganization, is in charge of issues relating to the these two meetings was 100%. Finally, three executive sessions compensation paid to all corporate officers (executive and (without the Chief Executive Officer) took place in 2019 to non-executive); discuss the compensation and performance of Chief ■ the Governance Committee, initially in charge of Executive Officer. governance matters as well as the nomination and The Specialized Committees (Audit Committee, Governance compensation of non-executive corporate officers, and Nominations Committee, and Compensation Committee) became the Governance and Nominations Committee. met five times each (these figures include meetings of the The Governance and Nominations Committee, the Management Committee and of the Governance Committee composition of which did not change during this before they were converted into the Compensation reorganization, is in charge of nominations as well as the Committee and the Governance and Nominations succession of all corporate officers (executive and Committee respectively), i.e., a total of 15 meetings. The non-executive) and remains in charge of governance. duration of Committee meetings ranges between two and Moreover, given the key role played by corporate and five hours. Attendance at these meetings, by Board member social responsibility in the Group’s strategy, this additional and overall, is indicated in the table below. responsibility has been given to the Committee. The intervals and frequency of the meetings of the Board of Directors and specialized Committees allow for the submitted topics to be thoroughly discussed and examined. 210 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Corporate governance Board of Directors The table below indicates, for each Board member, attendance during the fiscal year 2019 at meetings of the Board of Directors and of any Specialized Committees of which he is a member. Attendance at meetings of the Attendance at Attendance at Attendance at Governance and meetings of the meetings of the meetings of the Audit Nominations Compensation Board of Directors (1) Committee Committee (2) Committee (3) Michel de ROSEN 100% n/a 100% n/a Daniel BERNARDINO 100% n/a n/a 100% Éric BOURDAIS DE CHARBONNIÈRE (4) 100% n/a 100% n/a Odile DESFORGES 100% 100% n/a n/a Hans-Georg HÄRTER (4) 100% n/a n/a 100% Linda HASENFRATZ 83.33% n/a n/a 100% Penelope HERSCHER 100% n/a 100% (7) 100% (8) Patrick KOLLER 100% n/a n/a n/a Valérie LANDON 100% 100% n/a n/a Olivia LARMARAUD 100% 100% n/a n/a Yan MEI (5) 100% n/a n/a n/a Denis MERCIER (5) 100% n/a 100% n/a Peter MERTENS (6) 100% n/a n/a 100% Grégoire OLIVIER 83.33% n/a n/a n/a Robert PEUGEOT 100% n/a n/a 60% Emmanuel PIOCHE 100% 100% n/a n/a Philippe de ROVIRA 83.33% n/a 80% n/a Bernadette SPINOY (4) 100% n/a 100% n/a TOTAL 96.55% 100% 95% 90% n/a: not applicable (1) Attendance is calculated on the basis of six plenary meetings of the Board of Directors. This figure does not include the two additional meetings which also took place in 2019 (one meeting with the independent Board members only, in accordance with the recommendation made during the external assessment of the Board of Directors for the 2018 financial year, and one meeting with all Board members other than those affiliated with PSA, on the contemplated distribution of the Company’s shares by PSA to its shareholders) for which the attendance rate was 100%. Please note that Board members (present) were physically present at all plenary meetings. (2) This figure also includes attendance by members of the Governance Committee before it was converted into the Governance and Nominations Committee, the composition of which remained unchanged during this reorganization. (3) This figure also includes attendance by members of the Management Committee before it was converted into the Compensation Committee, the composition of which remained unchanged during this reorganization. (4) Up until the General Meeting of May 28, 2019, date on which the term of his corporate office as Board member expired. (5) Since the General Meeting of May 28, 2019, date of his appointment. (6) Since November 1, 2019, date on which his appointment by the General Meeting of May 28, 2019 came into force. (7) Since May 28, 2019, date on which his appointment came into force. (8) Up until May 28, 2019, date on which his office as member of the Compensation Committee came to an end. / Universal Registration Document 2019 211 Corporate governance Board of Directors 3.1.3.3. Roles and responsibilities of the Board of Directors and report on its activity 3.1.3.3.1. ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board of Directors is a collective body that determines Faurecia’s business strategy and oversees its implementation, in accordance with the corporate purpose, taking the social and environmental challenges created by its business into consideration. Subject to the powers explicitly attributed to shareholder’s meetings and within the limits of the business purpose, the Board considers any questions affecting the proper operation of the Company, and Board decisions settle matters concerning it. The Chairman consults it on all Company and Group strategic decisions. The internal rules provide for the following tasks in particular to be carried out by the Board of Directors: Strategy ■ Determining strategic priorities: determining and monitoring the implementation of decisions regarding the Company’s main strategic, economic, social, financial, technological and environmental priorities. The medium-term direction of the Group’s activities is defined by a strategic plan. The draft plan is prepared and presented by the Chief Executive Officer before being adopted by the Board of Directors; ■ Prior authorization to be granted to the Chief Executive Officer for (i) any proposed acquisition, disposal, or joint venture project representing a total asset value of over €100 million and/or with sales in excess of €300 million and (ii) any significant transaction that is not included in the Company’s strategic; Financial statements ■ Settlement of annual statutory financial statements and annual and interim consolidated financial statements and and relations with preparation of the Company management and Group management reports; Statutory Auditors ■ Verification of the relevance, consistency and proper application of the accounting policies used to prepare the financial statements; ■ Monitoring of the process for preparing the financial information; ■ Selection of the Statutory Auditors whose appointment submitted for shareholder approval at the General Meeting, and verification of compliance with the rules that guarantee their independence especially regarding the amount of their compensation; Budget and ■ Approval of the annual budget; planning ■ Periodic review of the Group’s business and of budget execution; ■ Approval of planning items and related reports; Financial position, ■ Quarterly review of the Group’s financial and cash position as well as contingent liabilities; financing and ■ Decision to carry out bond and other complex security issues that are not likely to involve a capital increase; security issues ■ Carrying out transactions impacting the capital under the authority delegated by the Extraordinary General Meeting; Internal control and ■ Monitoring the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management systems and the regular review of risk management opportunities and risks (financial, legal, operational, social and environmental); ■ Supervising the introduction of a system to prevent and detect corruption and influence peddling; ■ Review of risk monitoring and management at least annually following a presentation by the Audit Committee; Compensation ■ Compensation for the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Board members; ■ Implementation of stock subscription or purchase option plans, performance share plans and any other type of long-term compensation, and approval of lists of beneficiaries thereof; Governance ■ Review of governance structure: determination of Faurecia’s executive management procedures, creation of committees of the Board of Directors, appointment of their members, determination of their tasks and operating procedures; ■ Co-option of, and proposals to appoint or reappoint, Board members, appointment or reappointment of the Chairman and Chief Exectutive Officer; ■ Preparation and regular monitoring of the succession plan for executive and non-executive corporate officers; ■ Governance assessment: work of the Board and its committees; assessment of the independence of Board members; ■ Authorization of “regulated” agreements and undertakings within the meaning of French law; ■ Authorization of sureties, endorsements and guarantees, allocation of an annual amount of sureties to be issued by the Chief Executive Officer and determination of the terms and conditions thereof; ■ Notice prior to the acceptance of a new term of office in a listed company by an executive corporate officer; ■ Monitoring of the implementation of the policy on non-discrimination and diversity within the Company’s management bodies in accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Code and applicable regulations; General Meeting ■ Convening General Meeting and setting the agenda and finalizing the draft resolutions; ■ Response to written questions, with the option to delegate to a Board member, the Chief Executive Officer, or a Deputy Chief Executive Officer to respond thereto. 212 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Corporate governance Board of Directors 3.1.3.3.2. REPORT ON THE ACTIVITY OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS IN 2019 The number of meetings of the Board of Directors and the attendance rate are indicated in Section 3.1.3.2 “Number of meetings of the Board of Directors and of the Specialized Committees and attendance rate” above. During the 2019 fiscal year, the main points examined at meetings of the Board of Directors were as follows, given that the issues discussed related (i) to the compensation of executive and non-executive corporate officers, who were not in attendance at those meetings, and (ii) the assessment of the Chief Executive Officer without him being present: Topics Main items discussed Strategy ■ Updates on strategic projects (in particular, the integration of Clarion, Symbio (joint venture with Michelin), the acquisition of the remaining stake in SAS (50%), the contemplated proposed distribution of the Company’s shares by PSA to its shareholders); ■ Reviews of Faurecia’s strategic and business plans, with two meetings, one of which is entirely devoted to the Group’s long-term strategy; ■ Review of Faurecia’s CSR measures; Financial statements and relations ■ Review and settlement of the annual (statutory and consolidated) and half-year (consolidated) with Statutory Auditors financial statements; ■ Proposal to pay a cash dividend of €1.25 for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018; ■ Validation of the press releases relating to (i) the 2018 results and the 2019 annual guidance, (ii) the results for the first half of 2019 and (iii) sales for the first and third quarters of 2019; Budget and planning ■ Review of the budget and strategic plan; ■ Delegations of authority granted to the Chief Executive Officer to establish planning documents; ■ Regular examination of the Company’s figures and results; ■ Communication for the Capital Markets Day; ■ Review of the forecast results and guidance for 2019; Financial position, financing and security ■ Authorization of bond issues with a maximum value of €1 billion; issues ■ Renewal of the authorization given to the Chief Executive Officer to grant sureties, endorsements, and guarantees. ■ Review of the performance in terms of share price; Risks ■ Risk review (Chinese market, Brexit, hypothesis of a crisis in the automotive sector, etc.) and opportunities; Compensation ■ Approval of the compensation policies applicable to executive and non-executive corporate officers and their implementation (including setting the targets for the variable compensation payable to the Chief Executive Officer); ■ Approval of the variable compensation of the Chief Executive Officer for 2019; ■ Awarding of performance share plans Nos. 11 and 11b, acknowledgment of the fulfillment of the conditions applicable to plan No. 8 and adjustment to plan No. 10; ■ Review of the pension schemes with services defined further to the changes in the law and approval of the modification of the age for retention of rights accrued in the event of departure (additional Executive Committee scheme). Governance ■ Review of the results of the external assessment of the work of the Board of Directors and its committees for 2018 and preparation of the 2019 evaluation; ■ Assessment of the Board members’ independence status; ■ Proposed re-appointment and appointment of Board members; ■ Review of the succession plans (including information on the succession of the Group’s key corporate officers); ■ Changes to the roles of the Committees responsible for governance and compensation, and corresponding modifications to the internal rules; ■ Modification of the Code of Conduct relating to the management of inside information and trading in shares; ■ Creation of an ad hoc committee in the context of the conteplated proposed distribution of Faurecia shares by PSA to its shareholders; ■ Approval of the 2018 Registration Document and of the management reports; General Meeting ■ Convening the Combined General Meeting of May 28, 2019, agreeing the agenda and resolutions submitted to shareholders for approval and the explanatory notes; Other points ■ Continuation of the liquidity contract subject to renewal of the share buy-back authorization by the General Meeting of May 28, 2019. / Universal Registration Document 2019 213 Corporate governance Board of Directors 3.1.4. Committees of the Board of Directors 3.1.4.1. The Audit Committee The Audit Committee has internal rules which define its All of the Board members appointed by the General Meeting composition, tasks, and detailed operating methods. These who are members of the Audit Committee are internal rules are available on the governance page of the financial/accounting experts as can be seen from their profiles Company’s website (www.faurecia.com). which appear in Section 3.1.2.2 “Expertise, positions and corporate offices of Board members” in this Universal 3.1.4.1.1. COMPOSITION OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Registration Document. In this regard, it should be noted that the Chairwoman is Chairwoman of Safran’s Audit and Risk Rules governing composition Committee. The composition of the Committee is decided by the Board The Audit Committee also includes one Board member and it can change the composition at any time. representing employees. In accordance with the AFEP-MEDEF Committee members must have special expertise in finance, Code, this Board member is not included when calculating accounting or auditing. Required expertise is assessed based the percentage of independent Board members sitting on the on professional experience, academic training and/or specific Committee. knowledge of the Company’s business. Given these elements, the composition of the Committee is in The Committee is composed of at least three members and line with the two-thirds threshold recommended by the no more than five members and at least two thirds of its AFEP-MEDEF Code and as reflected in the Committee’s members must be independent Board members. Members are internal rules. selected from among the Board members. The Committee may only be composed of members of Faurecia’s Board of 3.1.4.1.2. OPERATION OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Directors who are not executives. It must also not include The Committee meets at least twice per year, before the individuals with cross-directorships (within the meaning of approval of the annual and interim financial statements and Article 15.1 of the AFEP-MEDEF Code). as needed to carry out its duties. The term of office of Committee members is the same as that The time between the review of the financial statements by of their term of office as Board members. The Committee the Committee and their review by the Board must be at least member’s term of office may be renewed at the same time as two days. Exceptionally, the Committee Chairman may their term of office as Board member. decide to shorten this period to take into account the The Board of Directors appoints a Committee Chairman from participation of members who are not based in France. among its members for a term identical to that of their term of The Committee informs the Chairman of the Board of Directors office. The Secretary of the Committee is appointed by the without delay of any issues encountered during the course of Committee Chairman. its work. When convened or invited by the Committee Chairman: Meetings are held at the registered office upon convening ■ the Statutory Auditors attend committee meetings when an notice sent by the Chairman and/or the Secretary of the agenda item requires their presence; Committee. They may also be held by video conference or any other means of telecommunication. A Committee duly ■ the Chief Financial Officer, certain representatives of the deliberates if at least half of its members attend the Meeting in Finance department (such as the directors of Financial person or by video conference or any other means of Control, Internal Audit, Internal Control, and Treasury) or telecommunication. members of the Executive Committee attend committee meetings. The members of the Committee cannot be represented at the Committee meetings. Composition The Committee reports on its work at the next meeting of the As of December 31, 2019, the four members of the Audit Board of Directors. Committee are: The Secretary is responsible for organizing and attending the ■ Odile Desforges, independent Board member, Committee meetings, as well as for preparing meeting minutes Chairwoman; to be submitted to the Committee for approval at the next meeting. ■ Valérie Landon, independent Board member; The Committee may also call on external experts, as ■ Olivia Larmaraud, Board member affiliated with PSA; necessary, ensuring their competence and independence. ■ Emmanuel Pioche, Board member representing employees. The Committee establishes its annual work program based on The changes in the composition of the Committee during the the results of its prior work and the current context of the 2019 fiscal year are set out in the table featured in Company. Section 3.1.2.3 “Changes in the composition of the Board of Directors and Specialized Committees in 2019”. 214 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Corporate governance Board of Directors 3.1.4.1.3. MISSIONS OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Committee studies and prepares some of the Board’s deliberations. It issues proposals, opinions, and recommendations within its field of competence. The Committee only has a consultative role and acts under the authority of the Board of Directors to which it reports whenever necessary and for which it cannot serve as a substitute. In general, the Committee reviews, when necessary, any financial or accounting matter submitted to it by the Chairman of the Board of Directors. The Committee’s internal rules specifically provide for the following responsibilities: Audits of financial statements ■ The Committee is responsible for reviewing the annual statutory financial statements and annual and interim consolidated financial statements of the Faurecia group so as to report to the Board on the results of the statutory audit, the contribution of the audit to the integrity of the financial and non-financial information related to the statement of performance contained in the management report and the role the Committee played in this process. In this regard, the Committee must: i. review the financial statements and related management reports; ii. ensure the relevance, permanence and proper application of the accounting policies used in the preparation of the financial statements, primarily by monitoring their preparation and assessing the validity of the methods selected for processing major transactions; iii. monitor the preparation of the financial information and, where necessary, formulate recommendations to safeguard its integrity; iv. during the review of the financial statements, examine the major transactions likely to give rise to a conflict of interests; v. ensure the adequate processing of major transactions at the Faurecia group level; vi. review the consolidation scope and, where necessary, the reasons for excluding certain companies therefrom; vii. monitor the Statutory Auditors work (where applicable, by taking into account the findings and conclusions of the French Auditors supervisory body – Haut Conseil du Commissariat aux Comptes), ensure the implementation of Statutory Auditors’ recommendations, and call on Statutory Auditors during the meetings reviewing the financial statements and the preparation of the financial information to report on the execution of their audit and the conclusions of their work; viii. examine the financial communication media and formulate appropriate recommendations to the Board of Directors. The Committee’s review of the financial statements must be supported by (i) a presentation by management describing exposure to risks, including those of a social and environmental nature, and the Company’s off-balance-sheet commitments and (ii) a presentation by the Statutory Auditors highlighting the main items in both the results of the statutory audit, particularly adjustments arising from the audit and significant internal control weaknesses identified during the work, and the accounting options selected. Relationship with Statutory Auditors ■ The Committee manages the Statutory Auditors selection process and submits to the Board of Directors recommendations on the Statutory Auditors to be appointed or reappointed by the General Meeting, in accordance with Article 16 of Regulation (EU) No. 537-2014 dated April 16, 2014. It develops the Statutory Auditors selection principles and procedure (in particular through a call for tender, if necessary). It oversees any call for tender and approves its technical specifications and the list of firms consulted, ensuring that the best and not the lowest bidder is selected; ■ The Committee ensures that Statutory Auditors meet the independence criteria, in particular those defined in the French Code of commerce and Regulation (EU) No. 537-2014 dated April 16, 2014. In this respect, it reviews risks to their independence and the safeguards implemented to mitigate them with the Statutory Auditors. The Committee must specifically ensure that the fees paid by the Company and its Group, or the proportion that they represent of the sales of the firms and their networks, are not likely to adversely impact the Statutory Auditors’ independence under the terms of Regulation (EU) No. 537-2014 dated April 16, 2014; ■ The Committee approves the provision of non-audit services. ■ The Statutory Auditors must give a presentation to the Committee on the following: i. their general work program and the tests performed; ii. changes they believe should be made to the financial statements or accounting records and their observations on the measurement methods used; iii. any non-conformities or misstatements found; iv. conclusions resulting from the observations and corrections mentioned above; v. by no later than the date of presentation of the audit report, a supplementary audit report prepared pursuant to (i) Article 11 of Regulation (EU) No. 537-2014 dated April 16, 2014 and (ii) to Article L. 823-16 III of the French Code of commerce and that discloses the results of the statutory audit. Every year they provide the Committee with the following: i. a statement of independence; ii. the amount of fees paid to the network of Statutory Auditors by entities controlled by the Company or its controlling entity for non-audit services, as well as the nature of those services; iii. information related to services carried out in respec of audits directly related to their assignment as Statutory Auditors. / Universal Registration Document 2019 215 Corporate governance Board of Directors Internal control and risk ■ The Committee must obtain an understanding of and assess the internal control procedures and more management specifically monitor the effectiveness of the systems for internal control and systems to manage risks, including those risks of a social and environmental nature, and, where appropriate, Internal Audit systems, concerning the procedures for the preparation and processing of accounting, financial and non-financial information related to the declaration of performance contained in the management report, without prejudice to its independence; ■ The Committee must ensure the existence of internal control and risk management systems, the deployment and implementation thereof, and the implementation of corrective actions in the event of material weaknesses or misstatements of which it must inform the Board of Directors; ■ In this context, the Committee is kept informed of the main findings of the Statutory Auditors and internal auditors. Therefore: i. the Statutory Auditors inform the Committee of any material weaknesses identified in the course of their work, concerning the procedures for the preparation and processing of accounting and financial information; ii. the Committee hears the directors of Internal Audit and Risk Management and advises on the organization of their departments. It must be informed of the Internal Audit Program and receive Internal Audit reports or periodic summaries of these reports. ■ At least once per year, the Committee must make a presentation to the Board of Directors on risk monitoring and control; ■ The Committee is also required to formulate recommendations to the Board of Directors to assist in the preparation of the Chairman’s report on internal control and risk management procedures. Budget and planning ■ The Committee examines and makes recommendations to the Board of Directors for the annual budget and carries out periodic reviews of the Group’s business and budget execution; ■ It reviews planning documents and related reports; Financial position, financing and ■ The Committee carries out periodic reviews of the Group’s financial and cash position as well as its security issues material off-balance sheet commitments; ■ It examines and makes recommendations to the Board of Directors required for complex bond and other security issues not involving a capital increase, for share issues, or for carrying out transactions impacting the capital stock. 3.1.4.1.4. REPORT ON THE ACTIVITY OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE IN 2019 In 2019, the Audit Committee met five times with an attendance rate of 100% (see Section 3.1.3.2 “Number of meetings of the Board of Directors and of the Specialized Committees and attendance rate” which presents the attendance rate for each member of the Audit Committee at its meetings). The main items discussed at these meetings were as follows and the Statutory Auditors reported to the Committee at each of these meetings: Topics Main items discussed Audits of financial ■ Review of the 2018 annual (parent company and consolidated) and 2019 half-year (consolidated) statements financial statements; ■ Review of the proposal to pay a cash dividend of €1.25 for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2018; ■ Review of the press releases relating to (i) the 2018 results and the 2019 annual guidance, (ii) the results for the first half of 2019 and (iii) sales for the first and third quarters; ■ Regular examination of the Company’s figures and results; Budget and planning ■ Review of the budget; Financial position, ■ Review of the performance in terms of the Faurecia share price; financing and security issues ■ Review of the Group’s financial position and net cash; ■ Review of proposed bond issues with a maximum value of €1 billion; ■ Review of proposed financial authorizations in preparation for the General Meeting of May 28, 2019; Relationship with Statutory ■ Independence of the Statutory Auditors (disclosure of their declaration); Auditors ■ Presentation of the additional report from the Statutory Auditors and their fees for the 2018 fiscal year; ■ Statutory Auditors’ presentation of the work carried out in 2019 and their work on closing the fiscal year; ■ Information on any non-audit services supplied by the Statutory Auditors in 2019; Internal control ■ Review of the Internal Audit operations; and risk management ■ Review of the internal control operations; ■ Review of the compliance program and Faurecia action plan on the fight against corruption; ■ Regular review of specific risks and a general review of risk management by Faurecia; ■ Review of the Risks and Corporate and Social Responsibility sections of the 2018 Registration Document; Others ■ Update on the performance of the liquidity contract and its renewal; ■ Integration of Clarion; ■ Study of the accounting impacts on Faurecia of the FCA/PSA merger (completion of additional work connected with USGAAS and PCAOB standards). 216 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Corporate governance Board of Directors 3.1.4.2. Governance and Nominations ■ Penelope Herscher, independent Board member; Committee ■ Denis Mercier, independent Board member; The Governance and Nominations Committee has internal ■ Philippe de Rovira, Board member affiliated with PSA. rules which define its composition, tasks, and detailed The changes in the composition of the Committee during the operating methods. These internal rules are available on the 2019 fiscal year are set out in the table featured in governance page of the Company’s website Section 3.1.2.3 “Changes in the composition of the Board of (www.faurecia.com). Directors and Specialized Committees in 2019”. In the context of the extension of the external assessment of As the Committee is comprised of three independent Board the Board of Directors in respect of 2018, the Board of Directors members, including its Chairman, its composition is compliant decided, with regard to the market practices observed and in with the AFEP-MEDEF Code. the context of steps taken for the continuous improvement of the governance of the Company, to have the Governance Committee (initially responsible for governance matters such 3.1.4.2.2. OPERATION OF THE GOVERNANCE as the appointment and compensation of non-executive AND NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE corporate officers) become the Governance and The Committee meets at least twice per year and as needed Nominations Committee, the missions of which are described to carry out its duties. below, it being specified that the Committee’s composition remained unchanged during this reorganization. The Committee informs the Chairman of the Board of Directors without delay of any issues encountered during the course of These modifications were approved by the meetings of the its work. Board of Directors held on July 22, 2019 and October 9, 2019, further to a recommendation from the two Committees Meetings are held at the registered office upon convening concerned, by this reorganization, with effect as from notice sent by the Chairman and/or the Secretary of the October 1, 2019. Committee. They may also be held by video conference or any other means of telecommunication. The Committee duly deliberates if at least half of its members attend the Meeting in 3.1.4.2.1. COMPOSITION OF THE GOVERNANCE person or by video conference or any other means of AND NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE telecommunication. opinions, proposals, and Rules governing composition recommendations are adopted on the basis of a majority of those members in attendance. The Committee Chairman has The composition of the Committee is decided by the Board a casting vote in the event of a tie. and it can change the composition at any time. The members of the Committee cannot be represented at the The Committee is composed of at least three members and Committee meetings. no more than five members. Members are selected from among the Board members. The Committee should not The Committee reports on its work at the next meeting of the include any executive corporate officer or Board members Board of Directors. with cross-directorships (within the meaning of Article 15.1 of The Secretary of the Committee is responsible for organizing the AFEP-MEDEF Code) and must have a majority of and attending the Committee meetings, as well as for independent Board members, including the Board’s preparing meeting minutes to be submitted to the Committee Chairman. for approval at the next meeting. The term of office of Committee members is the same as that The Committee may request external technical reports on of their term of office as Board members. The Committee subjects within its jurisdiction, paid for by the Company, after member’s term of office may be renewed at the same time as having informed the Chairman of the Board of Directors or the their term of office as Board member. Board of Directors itself and subject to reporting thereupon to The Board of Directors appoints a Committee Chairman from the Board. If the Committee uses the services of external among its members, who must be independent, for a term consultants, it must ensure that they are objective. identical to that of their term of office as Board member. The The Committee establishes its annual work program based on Secretary of the Committee is appointed by the Committee the results of its prior work and the current context of the Chairman. Company. By invitation of the Committee Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, certain management representatives (such as the 3.1.4.2.3. MISSIONS OF THE GOVERNANCE Head of Human Resources) or members of the Executive AND NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE Committee attend committee meetings. The Chairman may also, at his discretion, decide to invite any other guests as The Committee studies and prepares some of the Board’s considered appropriate. deliberations. It issues proposals, opinions, and recommendations within its field of competence, in particular on any matter submitted to it by the Chairman of the Board of Composition Directors. The Committee only has a consultative role and acts As of December 31, 2019, the four members of the under the authority of the Board of Directors to which it reports Governance and Nominations Committee are: whenever necessary and for which it cannot serve as a substitute. ■ Michel de Rosen, independent Board member, Chairman; / Universal Registration Document 2019 217 Corporate governance Board of Directors The Committee’s internal rules specifically provide for the following responsibilities: Governance structure ■ Examining all issues related to the Company’s governance structure, in particular the segregation or combination of the duties of the Chairman of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer, and formulation of related recommendations to the Board of Directors; ■ Ensuring that the Company complies with the laws and regulations relevant to corporate governance and the provisions of the AFEP-MEDEF Code which the Company chose to abide by, and in this respect formulating all recommendations required, as applicable, to amend the bylaws and internal rules of the Board of Directors and its committees; ■ Reviewing the issues related to the Company’s governance structure submitted to it by the Chairman of the Board of Directors; ■ Formulating recommendations to the Board of Directors related to the creation, composition, tasks and operation of committees of the Board of Directors; ■ Carrying out an annual assessment of the operation of the Board of Directors and its committees and a thorough assessment at least every three years (with the potential help of a consulting firm), and formulating related recommendations to the Board of Directors; ■ Reviewing the independence status of each of the members of the Board of Directors on an annual basis (prior to the publication of the Company’s Universal Registration Document). This review is also carried out when a Board member is appointed; Selection, nomination, and ■ Formulating recommendations to the Board of Directors related to the appointment and reappointment succession for executive and of executive and non-executive corporate officers and Board members, it being specified that, for the non-executive corporate officers latter, the Committee will consider the following: the independence of Board members, the requirement and Board members/Selection for the Board of Directors to have the expertise and experience necessary for their work, international and succession of members of the diversity in order to reflect the Group’s global footprint, and gender balance on the Board of Directors; Executive Committee ■ Preparing a succession plan for the executive and non-executive corporate officers and Board members so that it can advise the Board in particular on succession plans in particular in the event of unforeseen vacancies; ■ Carrying out an annual review of the selection and succession plans for members of the Executive Committee; Ethics and compliance ■ Examining the Company’s ethics and compliance policy with respect to best governance practices; Corporate and social ■ Review the priorities related to the Faurecia group’s corporate and social responsibility as well as the responsibility associated goals; ■ Monitor the deployment of the corporate and social responsibility policy, commitments, and initiatives taken by the Faurecia group; ■ Assessing the results recorded in terms of extra-financial performance; ■ In conjunction with the Audit Committee, familiarizing itself with the risks connected to the challenges in terms of sustainable development featured in the extra-financial performance declaration contained in the management report; ■ Obtaining information regarding the resources available to the Faurecia group for the implementation and continuation of its corporate and social responsibility strategy. 218 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Corporate governance Board of Directors 3.1.4.2.4. REPORT ON THE ACTIVITY OF THE GOVERNANCE AND NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE IN 2019 In 2019, the Governance and Nominations Committee met five times with an average attendance rate of 95% (see Section 3.1.3.2 “Number of meetings of the Board of Directors and of the Specialized Committees and attendance rate” which presents the average attendance rate for each member of the Governance and Nominations Committee at its meetings). It should be noted that the number of meetings and achievements of the Governance and Nominations Committee include those of the Governance Committee. The main items discussed at these meetings were as follows: Topics Main items discussed Governance structure ■ Review of the results of the external assessment of the operations of the Board and its committees for 2018 and preparation of the 2019 evaluation; ■ Assessment of the Board members’ independence status; ■ Doctrine on the role played by Board members representing employees in the Board of Directors; ■ Reflections on the Board of Directors’ policy for covering expenses incurred by corporate officers and the proposed procedure; ■ Changes to the roles of the Committees in charge of governance and compensation; Selection, nomination, ■ Proposed re-appointment and appointment of Board members; and succession for executive and ■ Changes in the composition of the Committees; non-executive corporate officers ■ Review of the succession plan (including information on the succession plan for key corporate officers and Board members/Selection of the Group). and succession of members of the Each year, the Governance and Nominations Committee in fact reviews the succession plan prepared Executive Committee in conjunction with Company Management (more specifically, the Chief Executive Offier and the Head of Human Resources for the part devoted to the succession of executive corporate officer), and reports back to the Board of Directors. During this process, the Governance and Nominations Committee reviews the list of talents identified within the Group by name who could potentially succeed executive and non-executive corporate officers, members of the Executive Committee, within a given time-frame. The Committee also reviews the Group policy implemented to identify, support, and train high-potential employees and create a pool of talent. Ethics and compliance ■ Modification of the Code of Good Conduct relating to the management of inside information and trading in shares; Corporate and social responsibility ■ Review of the Group’s CSR approach (including on diversity); Others ■ Review of the chapter on governance in the 2018 Registration Document; ■ Proposal to set up an ad hoc Committee in the context of the distribution of the Company’s shares by PSA to its shareholders; ■ Review of draft resolutions on governance and on compensation paid to non-executive corporate officers in preparation for the General Meeting of May 28, 2019; ■ Compensation paid to the Chairman of the Board of Directors (2019 compensation policy, implementation and ex post 2018). / Universal Registration Document 2019 219 Corporate governance Board of Directors 3.1.4.3. Compensation Committee The changes in the composition of the Committee during the 2019 fiscal year are set out in the table featured in The Compensation Committee has internal rules which define Section 3.1.2.3 “Changes in the composition of the Board of its composition, tasks, and detailed operating methods. These Directors and Specialized Committees in 2019.” internal rules are available on the governance page of the Company’s website (www.faurecia.com). As the Committee is comprised of two independent Board members and a Board member representing employees, its In the context of the extension of the external assessment of composition is compliant with the AFEP-MEDEF Code. It is the Board of Directors in respect of 2018, the Board of Directors reminded, for information, that, in accordance with the decided, with regard to the market practices observed and in AFEP-MEDEF Code, this Board member representing the context of steps taken for the continuous improvement of employees is not included when calculating the percentage the governance of the Company, to have the Management of independent Board members sitting on Committees. Committee (initially responsible for matters such as the appointment and compensation of executive corporate 3.1.4.3.2. OPERATION OF THE COMPENSATION officers) become the Compensation Committee, the missions COMMITTEE of which are described below, it being specified that the Committee’s composition remained unchanged during this The Committee meets at least twice per year and as needed reorganization. to carry out its duties. These modifications were approved by the meetings of the The Committee informs the Chairman of the Board of Directors Board of Directors held on July 22, 2019 and October 9, 2019, without delay of any issues encountered during the course of further to a recommendation from the two Committees its work. concerned by this reorganization, with effect as from Meetings are held at the registered office upon convening October 1, 2019. notice sent by the Chairman and/or the Secretary of the Committee. They may also be held by video conference or 3.1.4.3.1. COMPOSITION OF THE COMPENSATION any other means of telecommunication. The Committee duly COMMITTEE deliberates if at least half of its members attend the Meeting in person or by video conference or any other means of Rules governing composition telecommunication. opinions, proposals, and The composition of the Committee is decided by the Board recommendations are adopted on the basis of a majority of and it can change the composition at any time. those members in attendance. The Committee Chairman has a casting vote in the event of a tie. The Committee is composed of at least three members and no more than five members. Members are selected from among The members of the Committee cannot be represented at the the Board members. The Committee should not include any Committee meetings. executive corporate officer or Board members with The Committee reports on its work at the next meeting of the cross-directorships (within the meaning of Article 15.1 of the Board of Directors. AFEP-MEDEF Code) and must have a majority of independent Board members, including the Board’s Chairman. The Secretary of the Committee is responsible for organizing The term of office of Committee members is the same as that and attending the Committee meetings, as well as for preparing meeting minutes to be submitted to the Committee of their term of office as Board members. The Committee for approval at the next meeting. member’s term of office may be renewed at the same time as their term of office as Board member. The Committee may request external technical reports on subjects within its jurisdiction, paid for by the Company, after The Board of Directors appoints a Committee Chairman from having informed the Chairman of the Board of Directors or the among its members, who must be independent, for a term Board of Directors itself and subject to reporting thereupon to identical to that of their term of office as Board member. The the Board. If the Committee uses the services of external Secretary of the Committee is appointed by the Committee consultants, it must ensure that they are objective. Chairman. The Committee establishes its annual work program based on By invitation of the Committee Chairman, the Chief Executive the results of its prior work and the current context of the Officer, certain management representatives (such as the Company. Head of Human Resources) or members of the Executive Committee attend committee meetings. The Chairman may also, at his discretion, decide to invite any other guests as 3.1.4.3.3. MISSIONS OF THE COMPENSATION considered appropriate. COMMITTEE The Committee studies and prepares some of the Board’s Composition deliberations. It issues proposals, opinions, and As of December 31, 2019, the four members of the recommendations within its field of competence, in particular Compensation Committee are: on any matter submitted to it by the Chairman of the Board of Directors. The Committee only has a consultative role and acts ■ Linda Hasenfratz, independent Board member, Chairwoman; under the authority of the Board of Directors to which it reports ■ Daniel Bernardino, Board member representing employees; whenever necessary and for which it cannot serve as a substitute. ■ Peter Mertens, independent Board member; ■ Robert Peugeot, Board member affiliated with PSA. 220 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Corporate governance Board of Directors The Committee’s internal rules specifically provide for the following responsibilities: Compensation of executive and ■ Formulating recommendations each year to the Board of Directors related to the elements comprising non-executive corporate officers the compensation paid to the non-executive corporate officer. ■ Formulating, on an annual basis, recommendations to the Board of Directors related to the fixed component and the performance-based criteria for the variable component of Executive Management members’ compensation with reference to the general compensation practices of equivalent French or foreign groups, as well as other types of compensation and benefits in kind to be awarded. ■ Formulating recommendations to the Board of Directors on the achievement of the criteria for the variable component for executive corporate officers. ■ Formulating recommendations related to the other elements comprising the compensation paid to the executive corporate officers including the pension and personal risk insurance policies, supplemental pensions, benefits in kind and other financial benefits, in particular, in the event of termination of duties. ■ Ensuring that the commitments falling under the regulated agreements procedure strictly comply with applicable regulations. Board members’ compensation ■ Formulating annual recommendations to the Board of Directors related to the compensation paid to Board members (total amount and allocation mechanism). In addition, each year, it sets the amount of compensation owed to the Board members. Long-term compensation policy ■ Discussing the general policy for awarding stock subscription or purchase options, performance shares (long term incentive plans) and any other type of long-term compensation; ■ Reviewing proposed stock subscription or purchase option plans, performance share plans and any other type of long-term compensation, as well as their allocation to beneficiaries; ■ Formulating recommendations to the Board of Directions related to the award of stock subscription or purchase options, performance shares and any other type of long-term compensation to executive corporate officers and issuing opinions on the lists of other prospective beneficiaries. Performance and compensation ■ Be annually informed of the performance and of the compensation of the members of the Executive of the main managers Committee; of the Faurecia group ■ Review, on a regular basis, the evolution of the compensation policy applicable to the Faurecia group (other than executive officers) main managers (Executive Committee and Group Leadership Committee). 3.1.4.3.4. REPORT ON THE ACTIVITY OF THE COMPENSATION COMMITTEE IN 2019 In 2019, the Compensation Committee met five times with an average attendance rate of 90% (see Section 3.1.3.2 “Number of meetings of the Board of Directors and of the Specialized Committees and attendance rate” which presents the average attendance rate for each member of the Compensation Committee at its meetings). It should be noted that the number of meetings and achievements of the Compensation Committee include those of the Management Committee. The main items discussed at these meetings were as follows: Topics Main items discussed Compensation of executive and ■ Review of the achievement of the performance criteria applicable to the Chief Executive Officer’s non-executive corporate officers variable compensation for 2018; ■ Review of the Chief Executive Officer’s compensation (2019 compensation policy for the Chief Executive Officer, implementation for 2019 (fixed compensation and setting of the targets applicable to the Chief Executive Officer’s variable compensation)) and ex post 2018; ■ Multi-annual review of 2019 qualitative targets attached to the Chief Executive Officer’s variable compensation; ■ Consideration of changes to the Chief Executive Officer’s compensation structure for 2020; Board members’ compensation ■ Review of the expected compensation and the overall compensation paid to Board members for the 2019 fiscal year; Long-term compensation policy ■ Review of performance share plans Nos. 11 and 11b, acknowledgment of the fulfillment of the (long term incentive plans) conditions applicable to plan No. 8 and consideration of the adjustment to plan No. 10; Others ■ Review of the draft resolutions on the compensation paid to the Chief Executive Officer in preparation for the General Meeting of May 28, 2019; ■ Review of the proposed procedure for covering expenses incurred by corporate officers; ■ Review of regulated agreements and undertakings in preparation for the General Meeting of June 26, 2020; ■ Review of the pension schemes with services defined further to the changes in the law and review of the modification of the age for retention of rights accrued in the event of departure (additional Executive Committee scheme). / Universal Registration Document 2019 221 Corporate governance Board of Directors 3.1.5. Assessment of the Board of Directors and Specialized Committees In order to assess its capacity to meet the expectations of the The principal findings of this exercise were as follows: shareholders, the Board of Directors carries out regular ■ the main improvement measures identified by the Board of assessments of its composition, organization and running of the Directors in 2018 were implemented in 2019, i.e. (i) executive Board and its committees. The assessment is carried out sessions (meetings not attended by Group Executive annually, it being specified that a formal assessment is carried Management) continued and a meeting attended only by out every three years with the assistance of an external service independent Board members only was organized, provider, in accordance with the recommendations made in (ii) succession plans and the risk analysis were reviewed in the AFEP-MEDEF Code. greater depth in 2019, (iii) two meetings of the Board were As the most recent external assessment was completed in devoted to strategic matters (one of which was entirely relation to the 2018 fiscal year, the assessment of the Board of devoted to the long-term strategy), (iv) the Specialized Directors for the 2019 fiscal year was carried out in-house, on Committees responsible for governance and compensation the basis of a detailed questionnaire prepared by the were reorganized, and (v) discussions took place between Secretary of the Board of Directors and reviewed with the the Board members and Executive Committee members, Chairman of the Governance and Nominations Committee, and these discussions should continue to be reinforced; then validated by the Board of Directors, further to ■ given in particular the implementation of the above recommendations made by the Governance and recommendations, improvements have been made to the Nominations Committee. organization of the work of the Board and the committees, This questionnaire covers in particular the operations, structure, to the conduct of meetings, and to meeting content. governance, composition, and missions of the Board and its The areas for improvement identified are notably the Specialized Committees, and also the information provided to following: Board members, the subjects discussed, the contribution made by Board members (it being stipulated that a detailed ■ in terms of information, continue to improve the legibility of and in-depth analysis of this point is carried out via the the documentation and add detail to the review of the external assessment), the quality of the discussions, the strategic subjects via theme-based analysis (structural implementation of the recommendations made in the changes to the industry and competition); previous assessment. The questionnaire was sent to the Board ■ in terms of the organization of the work of the Board of members and their replies were summarized by the Secretary Directors, (i) strengthen exchanges between key of the Board of Directors. operational managers and the Board of Directors, and The summary of the assessment was examined by the continue executive sessions (at the beginning rather than at Governance and Nominations Committee on February 12, the end of Board meetings); 2020 before being presented and discussed at the meeting of ■ in terms of the composition of the Board of Directors, the Board of Directors on February 14, 2020. continue to reflect on changes to the composition of the This assessment shows that the Board members are very Board of Directors, in particular in the context of potential satisfied with the organization and operation of the Board of changes to the Company’s shareholding structure linked to Directors and its committees thanks to governance which is PSA’s plan to distribute Company shares to its shareholders tailored to the needs of the Company, the quality of the and the diversity policy; relations and exchanges between the Chairman of the Board, ■ regularly review Board members’ compensation with regard the Chief Executive Officer, and the Board members as well as to practices in France and Europe in order to ensure that to the composition of the management bodies, which enable the Board of Directors remains attractive, in particular, with the challenges being faced by the automotive industry to be regard to foreign Board members. fully understood. 222 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Corporate governance Operational management of the Group 3.2. Operational management of the Group Other than Executive Management, the details of which are set out in Section 3.1.2.4 “Governance structure”, the Group also has an Executive Committee and is also supported by the Group Leadership Committee. The diversity policy within the management bodies is described in Chapter 4, Section 4.2.5 “Promotion of diversity” of this Universal Registration Document. 3.2.1. Executive Committee The Faurecia group’s executive management function is performed under the responsibility of the Chief Executive Officer by an Executive Committee that meets every month to review the Group’s results and consider general matters concerning the Group. As of January 2, 2020, the composition of the Executive Committee is as follows: Patrick KOLLER Kate PHILIPPS Chief Executive Officer Executive Vice President, Group Communications Yann BRILLAT-SAVARIN Patrick POPP Executive Vice President, Group Strategy Executive Vice President, Faurecia Interiors Nolwenn DELAUNAY Christophe SCHMITT Executive Vice President, Group General Counsel Executive Vice President, Group Operations and Board Secretary Jean-Pierre SOUNILLAC Michel FAVRE Executive Vice President, Group Human Resources Executive Vice President, Group Chief Financial Officer Eelco SPOELDER Jean-Paul MICHEL Executive Vice President, Faurecia Seating Executive Vice President, Faurecia Clarion Electronics François TARDIF Mathias MIEDREICH Executive Vice President, Faurecia China Executive Vice President, Faurecia Clean Mobility Hagen WIESNER Thorsten MUSCHAL Executive Vice President, Cockpit Modules and SAS Executive Vice President, Sales and Program Management 3.2.2. Group Leadership Committee Each of the four Business Groups is organized into geographic mechanisms, acoustic treatments and decorative interior divisions (Europe, divided when appropriate into North and trims. South Europe, North America, South America, and Asia or Faurecia’s Group Leadership Committee consists of all of the China) which manage operations in their region and also aforementioned management teams along with the coordinate operations with customers headquartered in their Executive Committee and the key headquarters managers of region. the manufacturing and quality staff and from the Human The four Business Groups also have a central staff that handles Resources, Finance and Legal departments. the main operational functions (sales and marketing, As of December 31, 2019, Faurecia’s Group Leadership programs, manufacturing support, purchasing, quality, human Committee had 263 members. This is Faurecia’s operational resources and finance). These functions are also managed management, responsible for the Company’s operations, within the geographic divisions by equivalent teams. growth and performance. Additionally, some specialized areas are managed by worldwide product lines within the four businesses, such as seat / Universal Registration Document 2019 223 Corporate governance Compensation of corporate officers 3.3. Compensation of corporate officers 3.3.1. Compensation of executive and non-executive corporate officers for fiscal years 2018 and 2019 The Board of Directors, further to a proposal from the Chairman’s personal assistant on activities other than those Compensation Committee, sets the compensation for related to the office of Chairman of Faurecia was to be executive and non-executive corporate officers in included in this €300,000 ceiling. accordance with the applicable legal provisions and the Therefore, the fixed annual compensation paid to the compensation policy. Chairman of the Board of Directors (after deduction of this benefit in kind) totaled €275,253.34 in 2019. 3.3.1.1. Compensation of the Chairman of 3.3.1.1.2.2. Benefits in kind the Board of Directors Other than the provision of a personal assistant for activities 3.3.1.1.1. 2019 COMPENSATION POLICY unrelated to the office of Chairman of Faurecia (see section above), for a total of €24,650, the Chairman of the Board of The compensation policy setting the structure as well as the Directors is entitled to a company car. This benefit is valued at principles and criteria defined in order to determine the €4,982.40. compensation and all benefits granted to the Chairman of the Board of Directors for the fiscal year ended December 31, The total value of all benefits in kind is €29,632.40. 2019, which received 99.68% approval at the Company’s General Meeting held on May 28, 2019 pursuant to the twelfth 3.3.1.1.2.3. Other components of compensation resolution, is set out in Section 5.2.1.5. of the Company’s 2018 Other than those elements described above, the Chairman of registration document. the Board of Directors did not receive any other elements of It should be briefly noted that the 2019 compensation policy compensation. for the Chairman of the Board of Directors provided for fixed It is hereby stipulated, for the avoidance of doubt, that he compensation and benefits in kind. receives no compensation from any company within the The application of the compensation policy in 2019, as consolidation scope as per Article L. 233-16 of the French described below, reflects the willingness of the Company to Code of commerce. put in place a compensation system that is simple, stable, and compliant with market practices as presented to the 3.3.1.1.3. COMPENSATION PAID DURING FISCAL shareholders. The total compensation paid to the Chairman of YEARS 2018 AND 2019 OR AWARDED FOR the Board of Directors, which integrates these principles, THE SAME FISCAL YEARS achieves the objectives set by the compensation policy. The tables below present the compensation and benefits paid 3.3.1.1.2. COMPENSATION PAID DURING 2019 FISCAL during fiscal years 2018 and 2019 or awarded on the basis of YEAR 2019 OR AWARDED FOR THE SAME these fiscal years to the Chairman of the Board of Directors. FISCAL YEAR It is however hereby stipulated that, to the extent that the Chairman of the Board of Directors receives fixed 3.3.1.1.2.1. Fixed annual compensation compensation and benefits in kind only, to the exclusion of On February 15, 2019, the Board of Directors resolved to any other compensation, tables No. 4, No. 5, No. 6, and No. 7 maintain the fixed annual compensation paid to the provided by AFEP-MEDEF Code and AMF recommendation Chairman of the Board of Directors at €300,000. This has No. 2009-16 are not applicable and neither is table No. 10 remained unchanged since 2017. However, it was decided provided by AFEP-MEDEF Code. that the benefit in kind corresponding to the time spent by the 224 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Corporate governance Compensation of corporate officers SUMMARY OF COMPENSATION, OPTIONS AND SHARES GRANTED TO MICHEL DE ROSEN Table No. 1 (AFEP-MEDEF Code and AMF recommendation No. 2009-16) (in €) Fiscal year 2018 Fiscal year 2019 Compensation awarded for the fiscal year (see table 2) 304,982.40 304,885.74 Value of stock options granted during the fiscal year Value of performance shares granted during the year Value of other long-term compensation plans TOTAL 304,982.40 304,885.74 SUMMARY OF COMPENSATION PAYABLE TO MICHEL DE ROSEN Table No. 2 (AFEP-MEDEF Code and AMF recommendation No. 2009-16) Fiscal year 2018 Fiscal year 2019 Amount Amount Amount Amount (gross in €) granted paid granted paid Fixed compensation 300,000 300,000 275,253.34 275,253.34 Annual variable compensation Exceptional compensation Compensation awarded for Board members Benefits in kind 4,982.40 4,982.40 29,632.40 29,632.40 TOTAL 304,982.40 304,982.40 304,885.74 304,885.74 Table No. 11 (AFEP-MEDEF Code and AMF recommendation No. 2009-16) Compensation or benefits Compensation due or that may be due due under a Employment Supplementary on termination or change non-competition Contract pension scheme in position clause Yes No Yes No Yes No Yes No Name: Michel de ROSEN No No No No Position: Chairman of the Board of Directors since May 30, 2017 Corporate office end date: 2020 GM / Universal Registration Document 2019 225 Corporate governance Compensation of corporate officers 3.3.1.2. Compensation of the Chief The Board of Directors, which is mindful of ensuring that the compensation of its Chief Executive Officer is competitive, also Executive Officer took into account the results of a comparative study, covering 3.3.1.2.1. 2019 COMPENSATION POLICY France and Europe, carried out by external consultants on the basis of a group of industrial companies that are comparable The compensation policy setting the structure as well as the in terms of sales, market capitalization and headcounts. principles and criteria defined in order to determine the compensation and all benefits granted to the Chief Executive The fixed annual compensation, as set by the Board of Officer for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019, which Directors, corresponded to the median compensation paid by received 96.51% approval at the Company’s General Meeting a group of industrial companies listed in Paris and was 11% held on May 28, 2019 pursuant to the thirteenth resolution, is below the median compensation paid by the European set out in Section 5.2.1.5. of the Company’s 2018 registration companies used for the comparative study. document. The fixed annual compensation paid to the Chief Executive To summarize, please note that the 2019 compensation policy Officer was therefore €862,500 for fiscal year 2019. for the Chief Executive Officer provided for: 3.3.1.2.2.2. Annual variable compensation ■ fixed annual compensation; At the meeting held on February 15, 2019, on the ■ short-term variable compensation, subject to performance recommendation of the Management Committee (now conditions and representing up to a maximum of 180% of designated the Compensation Committee), the Board of the fixed annual compensation; Directors set the methods for calculating the Chief Executive ■ allocation of free shares, subject to attendance and Officer’s annual variable compensation for 2019, in performance conditions, representing a share equivalent to accordance with the detailed methods of the Chief Executive the short-term variable compensation at most; Officer’s 2019 compensation policy, as follows: ■ termination payment; ■ the variable compensation ranges from 0% to 180% of the Chief Executive Officer’s fixed annual compensation based ■ additional defined contributions and services pension on quantifiable and qualitative criteria; scheme; ■ the quantifiable criteria entitle the Chief Executive Officer to ■ benefits in kind. variable compensation ranging from 0% to 150% of the fixed The application of the compensation policy in 2019, as annual compensation. As indicated in the 2019 described below, reflects the willingness of the Company to compensation policy, these criteria are operating income put in place a compensation system which is legible, (40%) and net cash flow (60%), the targets for which are set competitive and includes predominantly compensation which with reference to the 2019 budget; is based on clear and precise performance criteria relating to ■ the qualitative criteria relate to (i) the integration of Clarion the implementation of the strategy, the fulfillment of which is (50%), assessed mainly with regard to the deployment of a beneficial to all stakeholders. The total compensation paid to clear organization structure and the responsibilities related the Chief Executive Officer, which integrates these principles thereto, to talent identification and retention, to the including in the amount of each component of identification of synergies, the finalization of the integration compensation, addresses the objectives of the compensation plan in the second half of 2019, and the implementation of policy. the budget, and (ii) the enforcement of the strategy (50%), mainly assessed with regard to the order book and, in 3.3.1.2.2. COMPENSATION AWARDED OR PAID particular, the New Value Spaces, and the adoption of the FOR/DURING FISCAL YEAR 2019 Group’s “Convictions” in terms of corporate, social and environmental matters, as communicated by Faurecia 3.3.1.2.2.1 Fixed annual compensation in 2018; At the meeting held on February 15, 2019, on the ■ the qualitative criteria act as multipliers for the quantifiable recommendation of the Management Committee (now criteria. Once all or parts of the targets of the quantifiable designated the Compensation Committee), the Board of criteria have been achieved, the level of achievement of Directors decided to increase the Chief Executive Officer’s the objectives of the qualitative criteria will determine a fixed annual compensation from €825,000 to €900,000, with multiplier effect for the achievement of the quantifiable effect from July 1, 2019, an increase of approximately 9%. criteria ranging between 0.70 and 1.20. If the achievement The Board of Directors set this new compensation by assessing of the targets of the quantifiable criteria is equal to 0, the several operating factors: multiplier effect of the qualitative criteria will not be taken into account. ■ the Group’s excellent performance in fiscal year 2018 and the fulfillment of the financial targets set for the fiscal year, On the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, despite an unfavorable economic context in the second on February 14, 2020, the Board of Directors reviewed the half of 2018; extent to which the targets of the quantifiable and qualitative criteria had been met. According to this analysis, the annual ■ the continuing transformation of the Group with the variable compensation for fiscal year 2019 totals €1,302,480. integration of new high-value technological activities and in particular the creation of a fourth Business Group, Faurecia Clarion Electronics, following the acquisition of Clarion. 226 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Corporate governance Compensation of corporate officers The table below summarizes the principles and results of the analysis carried out by the Board of Directors, on the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, of the annual variable compensation paid to the Chief Executive Officer for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019: Maximum Achieved Weighting as a% as a% given to the of the of the Corresponding criteria criterion (1) criterion amount in € Quantifiable criteria Operating From 0% to 150% of 100% of the fixed income 40% 150% 105% 378,000 annual compensation if the levels Net cash flow 60% 150% 131% 707,400 of achievement of these targets set with reference to the 2019 budget are reached Total quantifiable 100% 150% 120.6% 1,085,400 Integration of Qualitative criteria Clarion 50% 120% 120% n/a Multiplier effect (ranging from 0.70 to 1.20) Strategy of the achievement of the quantifiable execution 50% 120% 120% n/a targets, which may increase variable compensation Total qualitative 100% 120% 120% 217,080 (2) TOTAL VARIABLE COMPENSATION 180% 144.72% 1,302,480 (1) The objectives in terms of figures for the quantifiable targets, which are pre-established and set precisely, are not made public for confidential reasons. (2) This figure provides an understanding of the share of the annual variable compensation represented by qualitative criteria. It corresponds to the difference between (i) the total amount obtained by applying the multiplier coefficient of 1.2 (i.e. 120%) connected to the achievement rate of the two qualitative criteria, multiplied by the amount obtained on the basis of the quantifiable criteria, i.e. €1,085,400, and (ii) the total obtained on the basis of the quantifiable criteria, i.e. €1,085,400. The elements taken into consideration by the Board of After the acknowledgment by the Board of Directors at a Directors in the context of the assessment of the level of meeting on February 14, 2020 of the achievement of the fulfillment of the qualitative criteria are as follows: annual variable compensation criteria for fiscal year 2019, the proportion in terms of fixed and annual variable ■ integration g of Clarion: in order to consider that this criterion compensation is as follows: 39.84% for fixed annual had been fulfilled at maximum, it was in particular noted compensation and 60.16% for annual variable compensation. that (i) the new organization defined with the creation of a fourth Business Group was successfully deployed and the In accordance with the provisions of Article L. 225-100 of the individuals holding key positions were identified, successfully French Code of commerce, the variable compensation for retained, and their loyalty to the structure confirmed, in the the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019 shall be paid only context of the integration and organization of Clarion within once the shareholders, in a meeting to be held on June 26, the new Business Group, (ii) synergies had been identified 2020, have approved the components of compensation paid and their deployment scheduled in accordance with the during the course of fiscal year 2019 or awarded in respect of terms of the execution plan which was finalized during the this fiscal year to Patrick Koller, Chief Executive Officer. second quarter of 2019, and (iii) the 2019 budget was It is also acknowledged that the payment of Patrick Koller’s finalized during the second quarter of 2019 and annual variable compensation for fiscal year 2018, which implemented, and the level of operating income was totaled €1,210,300, was, in accordance with the law, made assessed on the basis of the targets set; subject to a vote in favor at the General Meeting of May 28, ■ strategy gy execution: in order to consider that this criterion 2019 on the components of compensation paid or awarded in had been fulfilled at maximum, it was in particular noted respect of fiscal year 2018 (fifteenth resolution). Since the vote that (i) 2019 had been a record year in terms of orders, with in favor of this resolution was 99.03%, payment of Patrick €25.3 billion, taking aggregate sales over three years Koller’s annual variable compensation for fiscal year 2018 was (2017-2019) to €68 billion, (ii) that orders relating to New made after this General Meeting. Value Spaces, allowing higher operating income to be generated for the Group, are up and represent 17% of total 3.3.1.2.2.3. Performance shares orders (compared with 12% in 2018), and (iii) that in terms of At a meeting held on October 9, 2019, the Board of Directors, CSR linked to the adoption of the Convictions of the Group, on a recommendation from the Compensation Committee, indicators have been identified for each of the Convictions resolved, on the basis of the twenty-third resolution of the on the subject of the environment (greenhouse gases, General Meeting of May 28, 2019, to allocate a maximum of energy efficiency, environmentally-friendly product design, 56,220 shares (or 0.041% of the capital stock as at and waste management), business (patents, assessment of December 31, 2019) to Patrick Koller. high-risk plants, mitigation measures, customer satisfaction, and supplier satisfaction) and Group employees (diversity The maximum amount granted (assessed at target), in and inclusion, employee satisfaction, safety in the accordance with IFRS, is €1,534,078, i.e. 170% of fixed workplace, employability, and social engagement), with reference compensation. ambitious targets set for 2022. / Universal Registration Document 2019 227 Corporate governance Compensation of corporate officers The internal and external conditions and the targets are long-term compensation, to add in comparison with the 2019 presented in the table below. Given the growing importance compensation policy a new internal performance condition of the challenges in terms of corporate and social linked to the gender diversity within the Group and therefore responsibility for all stakeholders and for the Group, it to adjust the weighting given to the various criteria, as is shown appeared appropriate, in order to integrate this trend into below: Type of condition Description Weighting Objectives (1) Internal Group net income after tax (excluding 60% Min.: 2021 Net Income = 90% of SP Net Income; exceptional tax credits) at December 31, 2021, Target: g 2021 Net Income = SP Net Income; before taking into account the capital gains Max.: 2021 Net Income ≥ 110% of SP Net Income; from asset disposals and change in scope of consolidation, as decided by the Board of Directors (2021 Net Income), assessed against the same income anticipated for the same fiscal year by the Group’s strategic plan reviewed by the Board of Directors on the date of the share grant (SP Net Income). Internal (CSR) Gender diversity (% of women) in the “Managers 10% Min.: -1 point; and Professionals” category within the Group as Target: g 100% of the objective; at December 31, 2021 in accordance with the Max.: ≥ +2 points. objectives set by the Board of Directors (10% weighting) External Growth in Faurecia’s net earnings per share 30% ( Benchmark EPS ≤ -20% (therefore negative) g ) between fiscal year 2018 and fiscal year 2021 Min.: Faurecia EPS = 125% Benchmark EPS; (Faurecia EPS), assessed against the weighted Target: Faurecia EPS = Benchmark EPS growth of a reference group comprised of 12 Max.: Faurecia EPS ≥ 75% Benchmark EPS. -20% < Benchmark EPS < +20% comparable international automotive Min.: Faurecia EPS = Benchmark EPS -5%; suppliers (2) (Benchmark EPS). Target: Faurecia EPS = Benchmark EPS; Max.: Faurecia EPS ≥ Benchmark EPS +5%. Benchmark EPS ≥ +20% Min.: Faurecia EPS = 75% Benchmark EPS; Target: Faurecia EPS = Benchmark EPS; Max.: Faurecia EPS ≥ 125% Benchmark EPS. (1) The objectives in terms of figures for internal conditions (and, more specifically, those for the internal condition related to net income), which are pre-established and set precisely, are not made public for confidential reasons. (2) The benchmark group is comprised of the following European and North American automotive suppliers: Adient (Ireland/United States), Aptiv (formerly Delphi) (United States), Autoliv (Sweden), Autoneum (Switzerland), Borg Warner (United States), Continental (Germany), Hella (United Kingdom), Lear (United States), Magna (Canada), Plastic Omnium (France), Tenneco (United States) and Valeo (France). An attendance condition (subject to standard exceptions) ■ one part available to all Group executives in France, applies to all beneficiaries including the Chief Executive subject to eligibility. For the Chief Executive Officer, the Officer. The vesting is completed after a four-year vesting potential benefits may increase each year by 1% of period, it being stipulated that no holding period is stipulated tranche C subject to the achievement of at least 80% of the by the plan. annual variable compensation objectives; The Chief Executive Officer must retain, in registered form and ■ an additional part decided by the Board of Directors of while he continues to hold office, at least 30% of all shares meeting of February 11, 2015, in favor of members of actually acquired under each plan. This threshold requirement Faurecia’s Executive Committee, based on a performance ceases to apply when the Chief Executive Officer holds a condition linked to the achievement of the operating number of shares corresponding to three years of base gross income generated by the Company in comparison with the compensation, factoring in all the previously established plans, budget, as approved by the Board of Directors. and becomes applicable again if the Chief Executive Officer In order to comply with French law No. 2019-486 of May 22, no longer holds the number of target shares corresponding to 2019 known as the “Loi Pacte” and with order No. 2019-697 of this level of base gross compensation. July 3, 2019 on supplemental professional pension schemes, in According to the rules of the plan in question, Patrick Koller transposition of Directive 2014/50/EU of the European made a formal commitment not to hedge the risks associated Parliament and of the Council of April 16, 2014 on minimum with the performance shares allocated to him. requirements for enhancing worker mobility between member states by improving the acquisition and preservation of 3.3.1.2.2.4. Pensions supplementary pension rights, the two parts of the defined benefits pension scheme applicable to the Members of the In 2019, Patrick Koller was covered by the pension scheme set Executive Committee, and which benefit to the Chief up for all of Faurecia’s managers which comprises a defined Executive Officer, were closed as of July 4, 2019 and the contributions pension scheme and a defined benefits pension potential rights acquired have been frozen as of December scheme consisting of two parts: 31, 2019. Due to the freeze of the rights as of December 31, 2019, the Chief Executive Officer cannot acquire additional rights under these schemes since January, 1st 2020. 228 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Corporate governance Compensation of corporate officers The main characteristics of these regimes are described in the summary table below: Defined benefits pension Specific supplementary pension scheme Defined contribution pension scheme (members of the Executive Committee scheme (Tranche C) (France)) Applicable law Article 83 of the French Article 39 of the French Article 39 of the French General Tax General Tax Code General Tax Code Code Scheme entry One year’s seniority in the Having an employment ■ Having an employment contract conditions and Group at the time of contract or a position a (active or suspended) or a position other conditions retirement corporate officer and five as a corporate officer in France giving entitlement years’ seniority in the Group ■ Three-year seniority within to benefit from it at the time of retirement Faurecia’s Executive Committee as from January 1, 2015 Method for Contributions to tranche A Average Tranche C Average total compensation over the determining and tranche B of the compensation over the past three years (fixed + variable), the reference current year (amount of past three years excluding special compensation compensation used contributions paid by the to calculate Company in 2019: entitlements €7,699.56) Vesting formula 1% of the compensation in 1% of the compensation in Depending on Faurecia’s tranche A and 6% of the tranche C and performance, from 1% to 3% of total compensation in tranche B performance conditions compensation (fixed + variable), linked to the degree of the excluding special compensation** achievement of variable compensation targets* Ceiling, amount Not applicable According to the leaving ■ Eight times the annual French or terms and age, between 65-70% of social security ceiling conditions for the average salary of the ■ The total retirement amounts paid determining it last three years by Faurecia must be less than 25% of the reference compensation ■ In addition, the replacement rate across all pension schemes (mandatory and specific) must also be less than 45% Funding of rights Outsourced Outsourced Outsourced Estimated amount €4,086 per annum €24,348 per annum*** €262,319 per annum**** of the pension for the Chief Executive Officer at the end of the fiscal year Associated tax and Not applicable Tax on annuity Tax on contribution payroll expenses * For the Chief Executive Officer, if the annual variable compensation targets are met at a level of: (i) 80% or above, a 1% increase in potential rights (capped at tranche C of the compensation) shall be awarded for the fiscal year in question, and (ii) less than 80%, the increase in rights will be reduced in direct proportion to the achievement of the targets (e.g. a target that is 30% achieved will result in a 0.30% increase in potential rights).The 2019 annual variable compensation representing 144.7% of the reference fixed annual compensation, the increase of rights for 2019 amounted to 1%. ** For the Chief Executive Officer and Executive Committee members, level of annual pension determined according to the Company’s operating income, in relation to the budget, as approved by the Board of Directors on the basis of the following formula: ∑ Xi* R where R = annual reference compensation and Xi = rights granted for each year of seniority, i being equal to (i) 3% if the operating income for the year is strictly greater than 105% of the budgeted operating income, (ii) 2% if the operating income for the year is between 95% and 105% of the budgeted operating income, and (iii) 1% if the operating income for the year is strictly lower than 95% of the budgeted operating income. Given the 2019 operating income, the rights granted in respect of 2019 were 1%. *** Seniority starting from December 18, 2006. **** Seniority starting from January 1, 2015. Further information on these pension schemes can be found in Note 25-2 to the consolidated financial statements. / Universal Registration Document 2019 229 Corporate governance Compensation of corporate officers 3.3.1.2.2.5. Termination payment payment is identical, but the number of criteria is adjusted to take into account the actual length of the term of office. The Chief Executive Officer is entitled to termination payment in accordance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code which was authorized by the Board of Directors on 3.3.1.2.2.6. Benefits in kind July 25, 2016, in accordance with the procedure set out in In accordance with the 2019 compensation policy in force at Articles L. 225-38 et seq. of the French Code of commerce, the Company, Patrick Koller has been provided with a and approved by the General Meeting of May 30, 2017 via company car. The total value of all benefits in kind is €15,350. the fifth resolution. It is also stipulated, for information, that the Company has paid This payment was not triggered during fiscal year 2019. €7,293 under the medical/life/disability insurance scheme. Please note that the characteristics of this payment are as follows: 3.3.1.2.2.7. Other components of compensation ■ the payment is due in case of termination of the Chief Other than those elements described above, the Chief Executive Officer’s term of office on the Company’s Executive Officer did not receive any other components of initiative, subject to his not being terminated due to serious compensation. or gross misconduct; It is hereby stipulated, as required, that he receives no ■ the payment is not be due in case of resignation or compensation from any company within the consolidation retirement; scope as per Article L. 233-16 of the French Code of commerce. ■ the payment is subject to the achievement of the following performance conditions: 3.3.1.2.3. COMPENSATION PAID DURING FISCAL ■ achievement of a positive operating income during each YEARS 2018 AND 2019 OR AWARDED FOR of the three fiscal years preceding the termination of the THE SAME FISCAL YEARS Chief Executive Officer’s term of office, The tables below present the compensation and benefits paid ■ achievement of a positive net cash flow during each of during fiscal years 2018 and 2019 or awarded in respect of the three fiscal years preceding the termination of the these fiscal years to the Chief Executive Officer. Chief Executive Officer’s term of office; To the extent that all stock subscription options ceased to be ■ the amount of the payment is equal to 24 months of the in force on April 16, 2017, tables No. 4 and No. 5 on options reference compensation (fixed compensation and variable awarded or exercised during the fiscal year as defined by the target-based compensation) insofar as both of the AFEP-MEDEF Code and AMF recommendation No. 2009-16 are conditions described above are met during each of the not applicable. This is also the case with regard to table No. 10 three fiscal years in question; in practice, this is equal to the of the AFEP-MEDEF Code given that Patrick Koller does not fulfillment of six criteria; receive multi-annual variable compensation. ■ should one of the six criteria not be met, the termination Finally, the table setting out the past record on the granting of payment is reduced proportionally by 1/6 and may equal to performance shares (table No. 9 of the AFEP-MEDEF Code and 0 should none of these six criteria be fulfilled; table No. 10 of AMF recommendation No. 2009-16) are set out ■ should the Chief Executive Officer’s term of office be shorter in Chapter 5, Section 5.2.2.“Potential capital stock . than three years, the method of calculating the termination 230 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Corporate governance Compensation of corporate officers SUMMARY OF COMPENSATION, OPTIONS AND SHARES GRANTED TO PATRICK KOLLER Table No. 1 (AFEP-MEDEF Code and AMF recommendation No. 2009-16) (in €) Fiscal year 2018 Fiscal year 2019 Compensation awarded for the fiscal year (see table 2) 2,035,300 2,180,330 Value of stock options granted during the fiscal year Value of performance shares granted during the fiscal year (set out in table 6) 1,237,788 1,534,078 Value of other long-term compensation plans TOTAL 3,273,088 3,622,228 SUMMARY OF PATRICK KOLLER’S COMPENSATION Table No. 2 (AFEP-MEDEF Code and AMF recommendation No. 2009-16) Fiscal year 2018 Fiscal year 2019 Amount Amount Amount Amount (gross in €) granted paid granted paid Fixed compensation 825,000 825,000 862,500 862,500 Annual variable compensation 1,210,300 (1) 1,293,750 (2) 1,302,480 (3) 1,210,300 (4) Exceptional compensation Compensation for Board members Benefits in kind 14,400 (5) 14,400 15,350 (5) 15,350 TOTAL 2,035,300 2,133,150 2,180,330 2,088,150 (1) Amount granted for fiscal year 2018. (2) Amount paid in 2018 in respect of fiscal year 2017. (3) Amount to be granted for fiscal year 2019 to be paid subject to approval at the General Meeting of June 26, 2020. (4) Amount paid in 2019 in respect of fiscal year 2018 further to the approval of the 15th resolution in relation to ex post voting by the Chief Executive Officer at the General Meeting of May 28, 2019. (5) Availability of a company car. PERFORMANCE SHARES GRANTED TO PATRICK KOLLER DURING THE FISCAL YEAR Table No. 6 (AFEP-MEDEF Code and AMF recommendation No. 2009-16) Valuation of shares according to Maximum the method number of used for the shares granted consolidated Number during the financial and date relevant statements (in Acquisition of plan period (1) euros) date Vesting date Performance conditions (2) An internal condition, linked to the Group’s net income after tax (weighting of 60%) Internal condition linked to gender diversity (% of women) within the Group “Managers and Professionals” category (weighting of Plan 10%) No. 11 of External condition linked to weighted Plan October 9, growth in net earnings per Faurecia share No. 11 (3) 2019 56,220 1,534,078 10/09/2023 10/09/2023 (weighting of 30%) TOTAL 56,200 1,534,078 (1) The number of performance shares given in this table is the maximum number and corresponds to 130% of the number of shares used in the valuation. (2) Details on the performance conditions as well as the set targets can be found in Section 3.3.1.2.2.3 “Performance shares”. (3) Since it is not known whether the conditions of this plan were met, the value expressed is the target value. / Universal Registration Document 2019 231 Corporate governance Compensation of corporate officers PERFORMANCE SHARES THAT BECAME AVAILABLE TO PATRICK KOLLER DURING THE FISCAL YEAR. Table No. 7 (AFEP-MEDEF Code and AMF recommendation No. 2009-16) Number of shares that Number and date of became available plan during the fiscal year (1) Vesting conditions Plan No. 7 of July 23, 23,643 Patrick KOLLER must retain, in registered form and while he 2015 continues to hold office, at least 30% of all shares actually acquired under each plan. This percentage threshold obligation for each plan will cease to apply once Patrick KOLLER owns a number of shares that corresponds to three years’ gross base compensation, factoring in all the plans already vested, and will again become applicable in the event that Patrick KOLLER no longer holds the target number of shares corresponding to this level of base gross compensation. TOTAL 23,643 (1) The initial grant related to a maximum of 26,383 shares. The achievement rate of performance conditions is the following: the rate for the internal performance condition relating to Group net income (pre-tax) was 107.5% and the rate for the external performance condition was 130%, i.e. an overall performance rate of 116.5%. The total number of performance shares outstanding as of December 31, 2019 which may vest to Patrick Koller, minus the number of shares already vested represents a total of 168,391 shares, i.e. 0.12% of Faurecia’s capital as of that date. Table No. 11 (AFEP-MEDEF Code and AMF recommendation No. 2009-16) Compensation or benefits due or that Compensation may be due on due under a Employment Supplementary termination or non-competition contract pension scheme change in position clause Name: Patrick KOLLER Position: Chief Executive Officer since July 1, 2016 Date of end of corporate office: No Yes (1) Yes (2) No (3) undetermined, Patrick Koller’s appointment as Chief Executive Officer being without a specified term (1) The key aspects of the supplementary pension scheme are described in Section 3.3.1.2.2.4 Pension of this Universal Registration Document. (2) The details regarding the termination payment are described in Section 3.3.1.2.2.5 Termination payment of this Universal Registration Document. (3) Please note, for information purposes, that the 2020 compensation policy, which is to be submitted to the General Meeting on June 26, 2020, includes a 12-month non-compete commitment in the event of resignation, accompanied by monthly compensation equal to 50% of the reference compensation (fixed compensation and annual variable compensation) paid over the last 12 months preceding the termination of position. 232 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Corporate governance Compensation of corporate officers 3.3.1.3. Information on the compensation policy for executive and non-executive corporate officers and changes over the course of the last five fiscal years 3.3.1.3.1. MULTIPLES OF COMPENSATION BETWEEN THE LEVEL OF COMPENSATION OF EXECUTIVE CORPORATE OFFICERS AND THE LEVEL OF AVERAGE AND MEDIAN COMPENSATION OF GROUP EMPLOYEES IN FRANCE Since mid-2016, the Group’s governance structure has been composed of a Chairman of the Board of Directors and a Chief Executive Officer. The ratios and annual change are therefore presented for the 2016-2019 period, it being stipulated that the compensation received in exchange for these corporate offices in the second half of 2016 were annualized for comparison purposes. The corporate office of the Chairman of the Board of Directors was held by Yann Delabrière from July 1, 2016 through May 30, 2017, and then by Michel de Rosen since this date. The corporate office of Chief Executive Officer has been held by Patrick Koller since July 1, 2016. The scope taken into consideration to assess the compensation paid to employees includes, in accordance with the AFEP guidelines on compensation multiples of January 28, 2020, all of the Group’s French legal entities, with the exception of those companies having joined or left the Group in the five years in question(1). On average, over the four years studied, the scope taken into consideration represents nearly 97% of French employees. Please note that the Group’s French headcount represents just 10% of the Group’s total headcount and includes nearly 65% of non-managerial employees. The compensations taken into account in calculations are those of Faurecia employees who were present throughout the entire year in question, compensation for part-time employees being recalculated to the full-time equivalent. The components of the compensations used for these ratios have been calculated on the basis of the fixed and variable compensation paid over the course of the fiscal years in question, including the incentive plans and profit-sharing, as well as the performance shares granted, to the target, over the same periods and recorded at fair value(2). For 2016, as the two corporate offices began mid-year, the compensation paid to the two corporate officers was annualized to calculate the ratios. The table below shows, on the basis of the hypotheses stated above, the ratios between the level of compensation paid to the Chairman of the Board of Directors and to the Chief Executive Officer and the average compensation paid to employees for the scope in question (other than the corporate officers), as well as the median compensation on a full-time equivalent basis paid to employees for the scope in question (other than the corporate officers): 2016 2017 2018 2019 Chairman of the Board of Directors Average compensation (France) ratio 6.6 6.3 6.0 5.8 Median compensation (France) ratio 8.9 8.5 8.2 7.9 Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Average compensation (France) ratio 61.4 63.7 66.5 70.0 Median compensation (France) ratio 83.5 86.1 90.9 94.6 (1) The following companies are excluded from the scope of the calculation: FBA (1,230 employees) sold in 2016, Faurecia Clarion Electronics Europe (formerly Parrot) consolidated in 2018 (230 employees), and Clarion Europe consolidated in 2019 (100 employees). (2) Please note that the valuation of the performance shares when granted is not necessarily representative of the value at the time of delivery. / Universal Registration Document 2019 233 Corporate governance Compensation of corporate officers 3.3.1.3.2. ANNUAL CHANGE IN THE COMPENSATION POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE AND NON-EXECUTIVE CORPORATE OFFICERS, COMPANY PERFORMANCE, AND EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION The compensation and scope taken into account are the same as those used to calculate the ratios set out above in Section 3.3.1.3.1 of the Universal Registration Document. They therefore only include Group employees working in France. The performance criterion used to assess Group performance is the operating income. This criterion is established on a consolidated basis. The table below shows, on the basis of the hypotheses stated above, the annual change in compensation, Company performance, the average compensation paid to employees (other than the corporate officers) on a full-time equivalent basis, as well as the ratios referred to in Section 3.3.1.3.1 of this Universal Registration Document since 2016: 2016-2017 2017-2018 2018-2019 Change in compensation Compensation payable to the Chairman of the Board of Directors -0.7% -0.1% 0.0% Compensation of the Chief Executive Officer 7.7% 8.9% 8.6% Average compensation (France) 3.8% 4.4% 3.1% Change in ratios Chairman of the Board of Directors and average compensation -4.4% -4.3% -3.0% Chairman of the Board of Directors and median compensation -4.8% -3.2% -4.2% Chief Executive Officer and average compensation 3.7% 4.4% 5.3% Chief Executive Officer and median compensation 6.1% 5.3% 7.3% Change in the Performance indicator Operating income (1) 19.3% 10.0% 0.7% (1) Operating income Annual figures (2016: €970.2 million; 2017: €1,157.6 million; 2018: €1,273.9 million; 2019: €1,283.3 million). Despite a decrease in the worldwide automotive production in 2018 and 2019, Faurecia group operating income, in value, is in constant progression thanks to an increase of its sales. In 2019, in a difficult context impacted by a 5.8% decrease in the worldwide automotive production, the Faurecia group, outperforming the market and showing a good level of resilience, succeeded again in improving its level of operating income. 234 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Corporate governance Compensation of corporate officers 3.3.1.4. Tables summarizing the elements of compensation paid or awarded for the past fiscal year ended to executive and non-executive corporate officers The tables below present a summary of the compensation and benefits paid during fiscal year 2019 or awarded in respect of this same fiscal year to the executive and non-executive corporate officers. 3.3.1.4.1. SUMMARY OF THE COMPONENTS OF COMPENSATION PAID TO THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS DURING FISCAL YEAR 2019 OR AWARDED IN RESPECT OF THIS SAME FISCAL YEAR Amount granted in respect of the past fiscal year or accounting Components of compensation valuation Presentation Fixed compensation €275,253.34 The fixed annual compensation of Michel de Rosen in 2019 was unchanged from 2018. It is however noted that the benefit in kind corresponding to the time spent by the Chairman’s personal assistant on activities other than those related to the office of Chairman of Faurecia is included in this €300,000 ceiling, which is why the fixed compensation is less than €300,000. Annual variable compensation Not applicable No annual variable compensation Variable compensation multi-year Not applicable No multi-annual variable compensation Exceptional compensation Not applicable No exceptional compensation Stock options, performance shares or Not applicable No stock subscription or purchase options grant, performance shares, or any other long-term benefit any other long-term benefits Compensation for Board members Not applicable No compensation awarded for Board members All benefits €29,632.40 Availability of an assistant and a company car (accounting valuation) Termination payment Not applicable No termination payment Non-competition indemnity Not applicable No non-competition indemnity Supplementary pension schemes Not applicable No supplementary pension scheme benefit / Universal Registration Document 2019 235 Corporate governance Compensation of corporate officers 3.3.1.4.2. SUMMARY OF THE COMPONENTS OF COMPENSATION PAID TO THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER DURING FISCAL YEAR 2019 OR AWARDED IN RESPECT OF THIS SAME FISCAL YEAR. Amount granted in respect of the past fiscal year or Components of compensation accounting valuation Presentation Fixed compensation €862,500 The fixed annual compensation paid to Patrick KOLLER was €862,500. The Board of Directors decided to increase the fixed annual compensation paid to Patrick KOLLER from €825,000 to €900,000 with effect as from July 1, 2019. The Boards of Directors set this compensation by assessing several factors: ■ the Group’s excellent performance in fiscal year 2018 and fulfillment of the financial targets set for the fiscal year, despite an unfavorable economic context in the second half of the year; ■ the continuing transformation of the Group with the integration of new high value technological activities and in particular the creation of a fourth Business Group, Faurecia Clarion Electronics, following the acquisition of Clarion; ■ the results of a comparative study, prepared for France and Europe by outside consultants based on a group of manufacturers comparable in terms of revenue, capitalization and headcount. Annual variable €1,302,480 At a meeting held on February 14, 2020, the Board of Directors, on the compensation (amount to be paid subject recommendation of the Compensation Committee, determined and finalized the to a favorable vote by the total annual variable compensation to be awarded to Patrick KOLLER for fiscal General Meeting) year 2019. The details of the annual variable compensation, which may range from 0% to 180% of the fixed annual compensation, had been set by the Board of Directors at a meeting on February 15, 2019. The achievement rate of the quantifiable and qualitative criteria is set out below: ■ the quantifiable criteria grant entitlement to variable compensation ranging from 0% to 150% of the fixed annual compensation: (i) the operating income criterion (weighting of 40%), the objectives for which were set on the basis of the 2019 budget, was reached at a level of 105%; (ii) the net cash flow criterion (weighting of 60%), the objectives for which are set using the 2019 budget as a reference, was reached at a level of 131%; These two achievements correspond to a rate of achievement of 120.6%, granting entitlement to €1,085,400. ■ the qualitative criteria which, once all or parts of the objectives of the quantifiable criteria have been achieved, will determine a multiplier effect for the achievement of the objectives of the quantifiable criteria ranging between 0.70 and 1.20. If the achievement of the objectives of the quantifiable criteria is equal to 0, the multiplier effect of the qualitative criteria will not be taken into account. (i) the integration of Clarion (weighting of 50%), assessed mainly with regard to the implementation of a clear structure and associated accountabilities, to identifying and retaining talents, to the identification of synergies, the finalization of the integration plan in the second half of 2019 and the implementation of the budget. The Board of Directors considered that 120% of this criterion had been met. (ii) the application of the strategy (50%), assessed mainly with regard to the growth of the order book, and in particular the New Value Spaces order book, and monitoring of the Group’s “Convictions” on corporate, social and environmental matters announced by Faurecia in 2018. The Board of Directors considered that 120% of this criterion had been met. The Board of Directors therefore considered that the result of the implementation of these two qualitative criteria (120%) correspond to an achievement such as the multiplier of 1.2 should apply to the two quantifiable criteria. The annual variable compensation is equal to €1,085,400 x 1.2, i.e. €1,302,480 corresponding to 144.7% of the reference fixed compensation for 2019 in the capacity of Chief Executive Officer In accordance with the provisions of Article L. 225-100 of the French Code of commerce, the variable compensation for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019 shall be paid only once the shareholders, in a meeting to be held on June 26, 2020, have approved the components of compensation paid during the course of fiscal year 2019 or awarded in respect of this fiscal year to Patrick KOLLER, Chief Executive Officer. It is also acknowledged that the payment of Patrick KOLLER’s annual variable compensation for fiscal year 2018, which totaled €1,210,300, was, in accordance with the law, made subject to a vote in favor at the General Meeting of May 28, 2019 on the components of compensation paid or awarded in respect of fiscal year 2018 (fifteenth resolution). Since the vote in favor of this resolution was 99.03%, payment of Patrick KOLLER’s annual variable compensation for fiscal year 2018 was made after this General Meeting. 236 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Corporate governance Compensation of corporate officers Amount granted in respect of the past fiscal year or Components of compensation accounting valuation Presentation Variable compensation Not applicable No multi-annual variable compensation Multi-year Exceptional Not applicable No exceptional compensation compensation Stock options, Options = not applicable No stock subscription or purchase options grant performance shares or Performance shares = At a meeting held on October 9, 2019, the Board of Directors, on a recommendation any other long-term €1,534,078 from the Compensation Committee, resolved, in the context of performance share benefit (accounting valuation grant scheme No. 11 and on the basis of the authorization from the General Meeting at target) of May 28, 2019 (twenty-third resolution) to allocate a maximum of 56,220 shares to Patrick KOLLER (it being stipulated that, in the event of the achievement of the targets set, the number of shares to be delivered will be 43,250). These 56,220 shares correspond to 0.041% of the Company’s capital stock as of December 31, 2019. The vesting of these shares is subject to the following performance conditions: ■ for 60% of the grant, an internal performance condition relating to the Group’s pre-tax level of net income (excluding exceptional tax credits) for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2021, before inclusion of capital gains from the sale of assets and variations in scope, as approved by the Board of Directors, compared with the same result anticipated for the same fiscal year by the strategic plan examined by the Board of Directors on the date on which the shares are granted; ■ for 10% of the grant, an internal performance condition relating to corporate and social responsibility related to gender diversity (% of women) within the “Managers and Professionals” category within the Group as at December 31, 2021 in accordance with the objectives set by the Board of Directors; ■ for 30% on an external performance condition relating to the level of growth in net earnings per Faurecia share measured between fiscal years 2018 and 2021 and compared with the weighted growth of a reference group of 12 comparable international automotive suppliers over the same period. The final vesting of these shares is also subject to an attendance condition applicable to all beneficiaries of the plan and accompanied by the usual exceptions. The term of the vesting period is four years, and no holding period is stipulated. The Chief Executive Officer must however retain, in registered form and while he continues to hold office, at least 30% of all shares actually acquired under each plan. This threshold requirement ceases to apply when the Chief Executive Officer holds a number of shares corresponding to three years of base gross compensation, factoring in all the previously established plans, and becomes applicable again if the Chief Executive Officer no longer holds the number of target shares corresponding to this level of base gross compensation. It is moreover indicated, for information only, that 23,643 shares granted to Patrick KOLLER in the context of performance share grant plan No. 7 vested during the fiscal year. Other long-term benefits = No other long-term benefits grant not applicable / Universal Registration Document 2019 237 Corporate governance Compensation of corporate officers Amount granted in respect Components of of the past fiscal year or compensation accounting valuation Presentation Compensation as Board Not applicable No compensation awarded as Board member member All benefits €15,350 (accounting Availability of a company car valuation) Termination payment No payment made Since July 25, 2016, Patrick KOLLER benefits from a termination payment meeting the during the fiscal year following requirements: ■ this payment will be due in case of termination of Patrick Koller’s term of ofﬁce as Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, on Faurecia’s initiative, subject to this termination not occurring due to Patrick KOLLER’s serious or gross misconduct; ■ this payment will not be due in case of resignation or retirement; ■ the remittance of this payment is subject to the achievement of the following performance conditions: (i) achieving positive operating income over each of the three fiscal years prior to the end of Patrick KOLLER’s term of office as Chief Executive Officer, (ii) achieving positive net cash flow over each of the three fiscal years prior to the end of Patrick KOLLER’s term of corporate office as Chief Executive Officer, ■ the amount of the payment will be equal to twenty-four months of the reference compensation (fixed and variable target-based compensation) insofar as both of the conditions described above are met during each of the three ﬁscal years in question which, in practice, is equal to the fulﬁllment of six criteria; ■ should one of the six criteria not be met, the termination payment will be reduced proportionally by 1/6 and may equal 0 should none of these six criteria be fulﬁlled; ■ should Patrick KOLLER’s term of office as Chief Executive Officer be less than three years, the termination payment would be calculated using the same method, but the number of criteria would be adjusted to take into account the actual duration of his term of corporate office. ■ This scheme, which was authorized for Patrick KOLLER, Chief Executive Officer, by the Board of Directors’ decision of July 25, 2016 under the conditions set forth under Article L.225-38 of the French Code of commerce, was approved by the General Meeting of May 30, 2017 (fifth resolution). Non-competition Not applicable No non-competition indemnity indemnity 238 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Corporate governance Compensation of corporate officers Amounts allocated Components of in respect of the past fiscal compensation year or accounting valuation Presentation Supplementary defined No payment made On July 25, 2016, the Board of Directors confirmed that although Patrick KOLLER no contribution pension during the fiscal year longer had an employment contract, he would continue to benefit from both scheme (Article 83 of the schemes after July 1, 2016, in his capacity as Chief Executive Officer. French General Tax The terms and conditions for the defined contributions pension scheme are as follows: Code) and ■ defined contribution pension scheme relating to tranches A and B, amounting to supplementary defined 1% for tranche A and 6% for tranche B of the compensation without the benefits pension scheme beneficiary’s participation; (Article 39 of the French General Tax Code) ■ estimated annual pension as of December 31, 2019: €4,086; ■ scheme available to all Group executives who have at least one year’s seniority upon their retirement. The terms and conditions for the defined benefits pension scheme are as follows: ■ scheme available to all Group executives who have at least five years’ seniority upon their retirement; ■ progressive increase in potential rights in relation to seniority and compensation: potential rights increase each year by 1% in tranche C; ■ reference compensation and maximum percentage of income permitted under the supplementary pension scheme: the reference compensation taken into account is the average of the annual compensation collected over the last three years, while beneﬁts are calculated only for the C tranche; ■ estimated annual pension as of December 31, 2019: €24,348; ■ performance condition to determine the increase in rights which is tied to his annual variable compensation: (i) in case of 80% or greater achievement of the annual variable compensation targets, a 1% increase in potential rights (restricted to tranche C of the compensation) will be granted for the ﬁscal year in question, (ii) in case of 80% or lower achievement of the annual variable compensation targets, the increase in rights will be reduced in proportion to the achievement of the targets (e.g., a target that is 30% achieved will result in a 0.30% increase in potential rights). During its meeting of February 14, 2020, the Board of Directors noted that the amount of annual variable compensation was €1,302,480, or 144.7% of the reference fixed annual compensation, with the increase in potential rights amounting for 2019 to 1%. For information purposes, it is specified that in accordance with the provisions of the Ordinance of July 3, 2019, the past non-vested rights are frozen (as a percentage) in the plan existing as at December 31, 2019 (crystallization). This scheme, which was authorized for Patrick KOLLER, Chief Executive Officer, by the Board of Directors’ decision of July 25, 2016, was approved by the General Meeting of May 30, 2017 (fifth resolution). Additional defined No payment made The terms and conditions for the additional defined benefits pension scheme are as benefits pension scheme during the fiscal year follows: (Article 39 of the French ■ this scheme benefits Faurecia’s Executive Committee members holding an General Tax Code) employment contract (current or suspended) or a term of office in France, having been on the Executive Committee for a minimum term of three consecutive calendar years as of the implementation of this scheme (January 1, 2015) or accession to the Executive Committee; ■ level of annual pension determined according to the Company’s operating income, in relation to the budget, as approved by the Board of Directors on the basis of the following formula: ∑ Xi* R where R = annual reference compensation and Xi = rights granted for each year of seniority, i being equal to (i) 3% if the operating income for the year is strictly greater than 105% of the budgeted operating income, (ii) 2% if the operating income for the year is between 95% and 105% of the budgeted operating income, and (iii) 1% if the operating income for the year is strictly lower than 95% of the budgeted operating income. At its meeting held on February 14, 2020, the Board of Directors noted that, given the 2019 operating income, the rights granted in respect of 2019 were 1%; ■ estimated annual pension as of December 31, 2019: €262,319; For information purposes, it is specified that in accordance with the provisions of the Ordinance of July 3, 2019, the past non vested rights are frozen (as a percentage) in the plan existing as at December 31, 2019 (crystallization). This scheme, which was authorized for Patrick KOLLER, Chief Executive Officer, by the Board of Directors’ decision of July 25, 2016, was approved by the General Meeting of May 30, 2017 (fifth resolution). / Universal Registration Document 2019 239 Corporate governance Compensation of corporate officers 3.3.2. Board members’ compensation in respect of the 2018 and 2019 fiscal years 3.3.2.1. Principles for Board members’ compensation In accordance with legal, statutory and internal provisions, Board members receive a fixed annual amount (budget) determined by the General Meeting as compensation for their activities. Its allocation between the Board members is determined by the Board of Directors, upon the recommendation of the Compensation Committee. Since the General Meeting of May 29, 2018 (eleventh resolution), the maximum amount of compensation that may be paid to Board members is €700,000. The principles and rules for the compensation of Board members, which were approved by the Board of Directors at its meeting on April 13, 2016, then adjusted including for the last time at its meeting of February 15, 2018, are as follows: Compensation for Board Variable compensation per members not residing in Fixed compensation (1) session France €3,000 per Board meeting Board of Directors €12,000 €3,000 attendance Committees ■ Member €10,000 €2,500 ■ Chairman €15,000 €3,500 (1) Share on a pro rata basis for Board members that have joined or left the Board during the year. The amount is then divided by the number of Board and committee meetings (giving the right to compensation) organized during the year. The members of the Board of Directors holding executive or It is stipulated that Board members do not receive any other management positions within PSA do not receive any compensation or benefits from the Faurecia group (with the compensation in respect of their corporate office as a Board exception of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chief member. This is also the case for the Chairman of the Board of Executive Officer and the Board members representing Directors and the Chief Executive Officer of Faurecia. employees who hold an employment contract). The payment of compensation for the Board members generally takes place at the start of the following year. 240 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Corporate governance Compensation of corporate officers 3.3.2.2. Compensation paid during fiscal years 2018 and 2019 or awarded for the same fiscal years The table below presents the gross amounts that were paid during/awarded in respect of fiscal years 2018 and 2019: Table No. 3 (AFEP-MEDEF Code and AMF recommendation No. 2009-16) Fiscal year 2018 Fiscal year 2019 Board members Amount Amount (gross amounts in €) granted Amount paid* granted Amount paid** Daniel BERNARDINO 45,000 5,400 73,500 45,000 Éric BOURDAIS de CHARBONNIÈRE 52,500 47,000 18,430 52,500 Jean-Baptiste CHASSELOUP de CHATILLON Jean-Pierre CLAMADIEU 29,000 56,000 29,000 Odile DESFORGES 66,000 51,500 62,000 66,000 Lee GARDNER 10,800 Hans-Georg HÄRTER 65,000 49,500 24,430 65,000 Linda HASENFRATZ 65,000 62,500 77,500 65,000 Penelope HERSCHER 62,000 38,700 73,500 62,000 Patrick KOLLER Valérie LANDON 73,000 10,400 71,000 73,000 Olivia LARMARAUD Ross Mc INNES 25,300 Yan MEI 35,575 Denis MERCIER 37,075 Peter MERTENS 16,930 Amparo MORALEDA 36,600 Grégoire OLIVIER Robert PEUGEOT 50,000 46,500 47,500 50,000 Emmanuel PIOCHE 30,000 5,400 53,000 30,000 Michel de ROSEN 19,800 Philippe de ROVIRA Bernadette SPINOY 58,500 47,000 24,430 58,500 Carlos TAVARES TOTAL 596,000 512,400 614,870 596,000 * Amount paid for fiscal year 2017. ** Amount paid for fiscal year 2018. The relative proportion between the fixed and variable portion Lastly, no compensation other than the amounts of of compensation allocated to corporate officers in respect of compensation indicated above was paid during the past fiscal year 2019 is as follows: 34.95% for the fixed portion and fiscal year or allocated in respect of the same fiscal year to 65.05% for the variable portion. any of its Board members by Faurecia group (except for the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer and the Board members representing employees holding an employment contract). / Universal Registration Document 2019 241 Corporate governance Compensation of corporate officers 3.3.3. Compensation for the Group’s operational management 3.3.3.1. Executive Committee The Board of Directors’ meeting of October 12, 2017, decided that starting with plan No. 6 and for all plans established The total amount of compensation paid during fiscal subsequently, all Executive Committee members must retain year 2019 to the Executive Committee members in office at at least 20% of the shares acquired under each plan. This December 31, 2019, including the Chief Executive Officer, was requirement of a percentage threshold for each plan will €12,026,502. cease to apply once the Executive Committee member in The compensation of the Executive Committee, excluding the question holds a number of shares that corresponds to one Chief Executive Officer, includes a variable bonus. Performing year of base gross compensation, factoring in all the plans on target can result in a bonus worth 50% of the base salary. already established, and it will again become applicable in Should targets be exceeded, this percentage can rise to 100% the event that the member no longer holds the target number of the base salary. 80% of the bonus is based on targets of shares corresponding to one year of base gross related to operating income and cash generation within the compensation. In any event, this ownership requirement will scope of responsibility, and 20% on the same targets no longer apply when the Executive Committee member in measured across the Group. For operation management, the question steps down from the Committee. targets are based at the Group’s level for 100%. In 2017, this bonus changed to be better aligned with the 3.3.3.2. Group Leadership Committee corporate officer’s compensation: it switched from a half-yearly payment to an annual payment, and a multiplier The members of Faurecia’s Group Leadership Committee factor ranging from 0.7 to 1.2 and based on four or five have an interest in the short-term results, through a variable individual weighted targets was added. system of target bonuses. 80% of the bonus is based on targets related to operating income and cash generation within their If the employment contract of an Executive Committee scope of responsibility, and 20% on the same targets member (excluding the Chief Executive Officer) is terminated, measured for the scope immediately above. For operation he may receive contractual severance pay of up to management, the targets are based at the Group’s level for 12 months’ compensation, depending on their position. This 100%. amount is not payable in the event of gross or serious misconduct. Since 2018, a multiplying factor has been added for members that report to a member of the Executive Committee. This Members of the Executive Committee also benefit from the increases the variable compensation by a maximum of 1.1 on performance share plans instituted by the Board of Directors. the basis of individual weighted targets. As of December 31, 2019, plan Nos. 8, 9, 10 and 11 are being vested. They were granted by the Board of Directors’ decisions Members of this team also benefit from the performance share of July 25, 2016, July 20, 2017, July 19, 2018 and October 9, plan instituted by the Board of Directors, according to the 2019. same terms and conditions as the members of the Executive Committee (see Section 3.3.1 “Executive Committee” above)(1). 3.3.4. Compensation policy for corporate officers and implementation for 2020 3.3.4.1. Compensation policy to contribute to the business strategy and sustainability of the Company and to promote its performance and for corporate officers competitiveness over the medium and long term. These The compensation policy described below is determined in objectives are reflected in the determination of stable and accordance with Article L. 225-37-2 of the French Code of long-term compensation structures adapted to the relevant commerce. corporate officers in accordance with market practices and, for the Chief Executive Officer, in a major portion of his The compensation policy for corporate officers is set by the compensation based on performance criteria related to the Board of Directors on the recommendation of the implementation of strategy whose achievement benefits all Compensation Committee and is reviewed annually to stakeholders. These aspects must therefore make it possible to determine any potential adjustments to be made. Any other attract and retain corporate officers, and, more specifically, revision of the compensation policy outside this timetable executive corporate officers. follows the same procedure. The Board of Directors relies on the Compensation Committee The Board of Directors ensures that the compensation policy is for all matters relating to the compensation of corporate adapted to the Company’s strategy and to the context in officers. Two thirds of the Compensation Committee consist of which the Company operates. It also ensures it is in independent Board members (excluding Board members accordance with its corporate interest and that its objective is (1) Some of them also benefit from plans Nos. 10b and 11b. 242 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Corporate governance Compensation of corporate officers representing employees), including the Chair of the principles below, distributes the annual amount of Committee. When determining the compensation policy, the compensation allocated by the General Meeting of Compensation Committee considers the objectives defined Shareholders. To determine the level of the annual fixed by the Board of Directors and the general principles guiding amount requested at the General Meeting of Shareholders, the compensation policy for corporate officers. It also ensures the Board of Directors performs market analysis and that the implementation of the compensation policy, in benchmark on the compensation of Board members in particular in terms of amount or value of allocations and comparable companies in France and Europe and takes into benefits, complies with the objectives and principles that account the compensation forecast, anticipated changes in guided the determination of that policy. To that end, it makes the composition of the Board of Directors and any special any necessary or useful recommendations to guide the events (establishment of an ad hoc committee, etc.). The choices and decisions of the Board of Directors in the benchmark assessment also applies to the determination of determination, implementation, and monitoring of the the distribution methods and its implementation. compensation policy. Within the limits of the annual amount of compensation To guarantee the independence of the process for granted by the General Meeting of Shareholders, Board determining or reviewing the compensation policy, the members receive as compensation for their activity an Compensation Committee and the Board of Directors ensure amount comprised of: compliance with the conflict of interest management rules ■ a fixed portion, as consideration for their duties as a Board provided by applicable laws in force and those provided by member and, where applicable, as a member or Chairman the internal rules of the Board of Directors. of a committee, it being specified that this portion is The compensation policy takes into consideration the prorated for the members who joined or left the Board of principles of the AFEP-MEDEF Code regarding the Directors during the year; and determination of corporate officer compensation. In the ■ a predominant variable portion based on their effective context of a competitive and globalized market, the Board of attendance at meetings of the Board and, where Directors ensures the competitiveness of the compensation applicable, of the committee or committees of which they offered and relies for this purpose on the performance of are members. comparative studies, notably conducted by specialized external consultants. The Board of Directors seeks as far as Board members not residing in France receive an additional possible to align the structure of the Chief Executive Officer’s amount intended to take into account geographic distance compensation with the one of the Executive Committee for any physical attendance at a meeting of the Board of members and with the one of the Group Leadership Directors (it being specified that this amount may be Committee members. The objectives set take into account exceptionally awarded to Board members residing in France changes in the employee base (diversity, etc.). when a meeting takes place abroad). When the Board members attend a meeting of the Board of Directors by Finally, the Board of Directors pays close attention to the videoconference or conference call, this additional amount is transparency of information relating to the structure and not paid. description of the rules stated for in the compensation policy. The rules for the distribution of Board members’ compensation 3.3.4.1.1. COMPENSATION POLICY FOR BOARD may also apply to any ad hoc committee of Board members MEMBERS that may be established to respond to any subject that the Board of Directors considers useful or necessary to follow up on Board members are appointed by the General Meeting of or develop further in the exercise of its missions. The same Shareholders for a period of four years or, for a co-optation, for applies to any seminar which would be organized by the the duration of the predecessor’s remaining term of office. Board of Directors. They may resign at any time without notice and can also be dismissed at any time without notice by the General Meeting Board members representing employees receive of Shareholders. The Board members representing employees compensation under the same conditions and according to are also appointed for a period of four years or, in the event of the same terms as any other Board member, it being specified replacement during their term, for the duration of the that they also receive a compensation under their predecessor’s remaining term. They may resign at any time employment contract within the Faurecia group. For the without notice. These duties also end in the event of a performance of their duties of Board member, they must termination of the employment contract under the conditions indeed benefit from an employment contract within the provided for by law and in the event of dismissal decided by Group. This employment contract is entered for an indefinite the president of the judicial court at the request of the majority period. They can terminate their employment contract at any of Board members. time, subject to a notice meeting the conditions provided under legal, contractual or contractual provisions. The The Board of Directors ensures that the amount of employer may also terminate the employment contract under compensation reflects the level of responsibility assumed by the conditions provided under legal, conventional or the Board members and the time they need to devote to their contractual provisions, in compliance with applicable duties. The Board of Directors, on the proposal of the proceedings, and subject, where applicable, to a notice Compensation Committee and in accordance with the meeting these conditions. / Universal Registration Document 2019 243 Corporate governance Compensation of corporate officers In accordance with best governance practices, executive sample of French listed companies with a separate and non-executive corporate officers do not receive governance structure. compensation for their duties of Board member. The same The Board of Directors has not set any rules regarding the applies to Board members with executive or managerial frequency at which fixed compensation of the Chairman of duties within a shareholder that controls the Company. the Board of Directors is reviewed; however, it is understood In the event that the maximum amount of the annual fixed that in practice the Board of Directors reviews this amount allocated by the General Meeting is exceeded, compensation regularly. A review may take place during the provision has been made to apply a reduction coefficient to term of the corporate office in the event of evolution in the the amount received by the Board members calculated as range of responsibilities of that function or of the Company or follows: (compensation owed to a Board member/total even in relation to market practices. amount of compensation owed) x maximum amount of the Furthermore, since 2019, a portion of that compensation is fixed annual amount approved by the General Meeting. paid as a benefit in kind relating to the time of the personal In the event of a decision by the Board of Directors to entrust assistant provided to the Chairman dedicated to his activities any Board member with a specific task or assignment, he may other those in relation to his chairmanship of Faurecia. receive exceptional compensation whose amount will be proportionate to this task or assignment and in accordance Other components of compensation with market practices. The Chairman of the Board of Directors receives the following Finally, each Board member is entitled to reimbursement, benefits in kind, including: (i) a personal assistant for his upon presentation of supporting documentation, for traveling activities other than those relating to the chairmanship of expenses incurred by him in the exercise of his duties, within Faurecia and (ii) a Company car. the limits of the ceilings stated by the applicable Company It is also stipulated, for informations purposes, that he benefits policy. from the medical/life/disability insurance scheme established within the Company. 3.3.4.1.2. COMPENSATION POLICY FOR THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Furthermore, the Chairman of the Board of Directors does not receive compensation in relation to his duties of Board The Board of Directors shall elect a Chairman, who must be a member or any variable compensation, golden hello, natural person, from among its members. He is appointed for a termination payment, non-competition indemnity, or term set by the Board of Directors, which cannot exceed his performance shares. term as a Board member. The Chairman of the Board of Directors may resign from office at any time without notice Moreover, the Board of Directors does not plan to pay any and the Board of Directors may terminate his office at any exceptional compensation. time without period. 3.3.4.1.3. COMPENSATION POLICY FOR THE CHIEF The Board of Directors ensures in particular that the compensation of the Chairman of the Board of Directors is EXECUTIVE OFFICER adapted to the missions given, consistent with best market The Chief Executive Officer is appointed by the Board of practices and aligned with the interests of all stakeholders in Directors. The Board of Directors shall determine the Chief the Company’s business. Executive Officer’s term of office, which may be fixed or indefinite. The Chief Executive Officer may resign at any time, The compensation of the Chairman of the Board of Directors is with a six months’ notice period (as provided for in the current made up of fixed compensation and benefits in kind, to the compensation policy and subject to its approval by the exclusion of any other compensation components. general meeting dated June 26, 2020) and the Board of In light of the Covid-19 sanitary crisis, and as a personal Directors may terminate his duties at any time without notice. contribution to the many gestures of solidarity of the Group's In accordance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF employees, the Chairman of the Board decided to reduce his Code, the Board of Directors ensures to structure the various fixed annual compensation by 20% for at least the second components of the Chief Executive Officer's compensation so quarter of 2020. as to view his actions on the long-term and enable an alignment of his interests with the interests of the Company Fixed compensation and its shareholders. In this respect, the Board reviews regularly The fixed annual compensation is the only component of the characteristics of the compensation policy of the Chief compensation of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, Executive Officer and the components of its compensation to excluding any other compensation (except for benefits in ensure the reaching of these objectives. kind). The Board of Directors thus requested the Compensation The purpose of the fixed compensation of the Chairman of the Committee to carry out an in-depth review of the structure Board of Directors is to compensate the responsibilities and and components of the Chief executive Officer’s duties attached to that corporate office, whether they are compensation as part of the preparation of the 2020 provided by law or by the Company (internal rules of the compensation policy. This request comes with the framework Board of Directors). The determination of the amount of that of the challenges to which the Group is confronted, both in compensation also takes into account the skills and terms of the potential change in the Company’s shareholding experiences of the beneficiary and is based on a comparative structure related to the contemplated distribution of the study issued by an external consultant on the basis of a Company’s shares by PSA to its shareholders, and the retention of the Chief Executive Officer in a competitive 244 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Corporate governance Compensation of corporate officers context where executive managers receive or may receive, In addition, in light of this crisis, and as a personal sign of interest from other international groups. contribution to the many gestures of solidarity of the Group's employees, the Chief Executive Officer decided to reduce The considerations described hereafter and detailed in the his annual fixed annual compensation by 20% for at least subsequent developments were approved by the Board of the second quarter of 2020. Directors during its meeting held on February 14, 2020 after review of the in-depth analysis carried out by the ■ Certain evolutions were introduced to take into account Compensation Committee as part of the specific context regulatory changes or to improve the visibility of the mentioned above and based on its recommendations: compensation’s structure: the compensation policy provides therefore the implementation of a new defined ■ The Chief Executive Officer’s compensation should continue benefits pension plan made necessary due to legal to be in line with the 2019 compensation policy and based changes in July 3, 2019. In addition, in order to provide a as planned in the 2019 compensation policy, on three main better view on the way qualitative criteria are taken into components: account in the calculation of the annual variable ■ fixed annual compensation; compensation and in light of market practices, it has also been decided to replace the multiplying effect method by ■ short-term variable compensation (annual); the more standard method known as “additive”. ■ long-term variable compensation in the form of The compensation policy, as amended, enables the performance shares; Company to provide an incentive and competitive policy for it being understood that the variable portion of the its Chief Executive Officer and protective for the Company, compensation (short term and long term) subject to but also based on stable general principles. performance conditions, must be predominant. ■ It became necessary to introduce material evolutions to the Fixed annual compensation commitments made to the Chief Executive Officer’s as The fixed compensation for the Chief Executive Officer aims to applicable until 2019 to strengthen them in order to further compensate the responsibilities and tasks associated with this protect the Company's interests: in this respect, it was position by law. The amount of compensation is also set taking decided to establish for the Chief Executive Officer a into account the beneficiary’s skills and experience. twelve-month non-compete covenant as well as a The Board of Directors, on the recommendation of the six-month notice period in the event of resignation. These Compensation Committee, decided, in its meeting dated two mechanisms are described in more detail hereafter. February 14, 2020, to increase the fixed annual compensation ■ In consideration for these additional undertakings requested for the Chief Executive Officer from €900,000 to €1,000,000 as from the Chief Executive Officer and mindful to ensure that of July 1, 2020, i.e. an increase of 11%. This change in the Chief the compensation of its Chief Executive Officer remains Executive Officer’s fixed compensation is made in the context competitive, the Board of Directors, taking into account the of the potential change in the Company’s shareholding linked results of a European Comparative Study carried out by to PSA’s contemplated distribution of Company shares to its external consultants based on a group of comparable shareholders, and reinforcement of the structure as well as the industrial companies in terms of sales, market capitalization components of compensation for the Chief Executive Officer and headcounts, decided to adjust the amount of the following the in-depth review of the Board of Directors, in order annual fixed compensation of the Chief Executive Officer to retain the Chief Executive Officer and ensure stable by increasing it by 11% and to reinforce the relative governance during this key period for the Group. This change proportion of the long term variable compensation in the is also made in relation to the continued transformation of the global structure of its compensation by fixing it to a Group’s business focusing on Sustainable Mobility and the maximum of 250% of its fixed compensation. The Cockpit of the Future. This transformation continued in 2019 contemplated consideration is also accompanied by the with (i) the integration of Clarion, for which the acquisition of willingness to stabilize over time the amounts and caps of all of the shares (excluding treasury shares) was finalized on the fixed annual and variable (annual and long-term) March 28, 2019, within the Group with the creation of a fourth compensation components. In this context, the Board Business Group, (ii) the implementation of the joint venture approved, upon request of the Chief Executive Officer, that Symbio with Michelin and (iii) the buyback of Continental’s these amounts and caps will not be changed for the next 50% interest in the joint venture SAS (project announced on three fiscal years (i.e. 2020, 2021 and 2022 included), except October 14, 2019 and finalized on January 30, 2020). These for very material and duly justified exceptional event. external growth transactions or partnerships bolster and enrich the Group’s offering in its two key strategic development In the extremely difficult context of the Covid-19 sanitary areas. The implementation of the Group’s transformation has crisis and the drastic measures implemented by the Group already resulted in, prompted by the Chief Executive Officer, related to cash flow and strict control of expenditures and record order intakes in 2019, with an increase in the share of investments during the slowdown of activity, the Chief New Value Spaces. The volume of orders amounted to Executive Officer wished to take part to the efforts €68 billion over a three-year period. This change in scope and requested from all the Group stakeholders and informed the the addition of a new business was accompanied by an Board of Directors of his decision to waive for 2020 the increase in the responsibilities of the Chief Executive Officer increase of its compensation (fixed and long-term) who leads a Group of 115,500 employees. Moreover, this proposed in the compensation policy, which will only change in scope was accompanied by solid operational become applicable as of 2021, the other proposed performance in 2019 in a complex and uncertain economic evolutions, including the additional undertakings requested, context. Finally, it is specified that the level of fixed annual remaining applicable as of 2020. compensation was set after a review of the European / Universal Registration Document 2019 245 Corporate governance Compensation of corporate officers Comparative Study by external consultants based on a group The expected levels of achievement of these criteria are of comparable industrial companies in terms of sales, not made public for confidentiality reasons. The capitalization and headcounts. The amount set for the Board achievement of the targets for these criteria are assessed of Directors is in line with the results of the European annually by the Board of Directors, on the Comparative Study.(1) recommendation of the Compensation Committee, on the basis of the consolidated financial statements approved The Board of Directors has not set any rules regarding the by the Board of Directors. frequency at which the fixed compensation of the Chief Executive Officer is reviewed; however, it is understood that in 2. The qualitative criteria, generally from two to four, give right practice the Board of Directors reviews this compensation to variable compensation ranging from 0% to 30% of the regularly. fixed annual compensation, are set each year by the Board of Directors. They cover strategic, business The fixed compensation acts as a reference in determining development and managerial objectives as well as those the annual variable compensation percentage and for in line with the Group’s values and its Convictions in valuing the performance shares. corporate and social responsibility. A weighting is assigned to each, and they are related, where possible, to Annual variable compensation quantifiable indicators. Qualitative criteria are The annual variable compensation is based on quantifiable pre-determined and precisely defined but may sometimes criteria, which are predominant, and qualitative criteria, it not be made public for confidentiality reasons. The being understood that the award of variable compensation achievement of the targets for these criteria are assessed subject to performance criteria is not reserved solely for the annually by the Board of Directors, on the Chief Executive Officer. The choice of performance criteria, recommendation of the Compensation Committee, on the whether quantifiable or qualitative, is notably led by (i) the basis of objective information mainly stemming from search for continuous improvement in the Company’s internal and external documents evidencing the potential financial and operational performance and (ii) the achievement of these targets. consideration of strategic aspects and corporate and social It should be noted that payment of the variable responsibility issues. In this way, they contribute to compensation components described above is subject to the compensation policy objectives. These criteria, whose approval of all the compensation components by the objectives are specific and predetermined, are regularly Ordinary General Meeting of the Shareholders under the terms reviewed and may be modified from time to time in order to and conditions provided for by law. continue to fully meet the objectives of the compensation policy. Long-term variable compensation in the form of The Chief Executive Officer’s variable compensation may performance shares range from 0% to 180% of his fixed annual compensation Share-based compensation, which is based on both internal depending on the achievement of the quantifiable and and external performance conditions, helps to strengthen the qualitative criteria. Chief Executive Officer’s loyalty and focus his actions on the 1. The quantifiable criteria, which give right to variable long-term while at the same time aligning his interests with the compensation ranging from 0% to 150% of the fixed annual interests of the Company and its shareholders. It thus compensation, are linked: contributes to the compensation policy objectives. ■ for 40%, to the operating income; The Chief Executive Officer is eligible for the performance ■ for 60% to the net cash flow. share plans established by the Company, subject to performance and presence conditions identical to those set For each quantifiable criterion, the targets are set by the for all the beneficiaries of the plans (i.e. the members of the Board of Directors in relation to the budget for the current Group Leadership Committee). year and the variable portion varies within a range The Company’s policy in this regard is based on simple, between 0% and 150% of the amount of the fixed annual transparent, enduring principles. Therefore: compensation able to be obtained with respect to this criterion, being understood that achievement of the ■ performance shares are generally granted during the budget means 100% realization of this target. second half of each fiscal year; ■ performance share grants are subject to internal and external performance conditions as well as a presence condition applicable to all French and foreign plan beneficiaries(2); (1) The European Comparative Study includes 14 European industrial companies whose sales and capitalization are similar, and which are suppliers to the automotive, defense or aerospace industry or one in the steel sector. (2) Presence condition with the usual exceptions. 246 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Corporate governance Compensation of corporate officers ■ the vesting period applicable to the plans is four years as between the last fiscal year before the grant date of the from their grant date for all French and foreign plan performance shares and the third fiscal year ended after beneficiaries; the plans include no holding period. It is the grant date of the performance shares. This condition is however stated that the Chief Executive Officer must hold a assessed against the weighted growth of a reference group minimum of 30% of the shares acquired from each plan. This made up of twelve comparable international automotive threshold requirement ceases to apply when the Chief suppliers over the same period. Executive Officer holds a number of shares corresponding The reference group is comprised of the following European to three years of base gross compensation, factoring in all and North American automotive suppliers: Adient the previously established plans, and becomes applicable (Ireland/United States), Aptiv (ex Delphi) (United States), again if the Chief Executive Officer no longer holds the Autoliv (Sweden), Autoneum (Switzerland), Borg Warner number of target shares corresponding to this level of base (United States), Continental (Germany), Hella (United gross compensation; Kingdom), Lear (United States), Magna (Canada), Plastic ■ the number of shares that may be granted to the Omnium (France), Tenneco (United States) and Valeo beneficiary under each plan is determined using an (France). external benchmark from which are deduced a minimum This group is intended to be stable over time and may be number of shares (50%), a target number (100%) and a modified only in the event of significant evolution concerning maximum number (130%). In all cases, the final allocation one of its constituents, in particular in the event of a takeover, depends on the fulfillment of performance and presence merger, de-merger, absorption, dissolution, disappearance or conditions. change in business, subject to maintaining the overall The performance conditions are the following: consistency of the reference group and enabling an external performance condition consistent with the external ■ 60% fulfillment of an internal performance condition related performance objective set for the grant to be applied. to the Group’s net income after tax and before taking into account any exceptional events. This internal condition is The achievement of these conditions is assessed by the Board measured by comparing the net income of the third fiscal of Directors, on the recommendation of the Compensation year after the grant date of the performance shares to that Committee, on the basis of (i) the consolidated financial forecast for the same fiscal year in the Group’s strategic statements approved by the Board of Directors (and after plan reviewed and approved by the Board of Directors on necessary adjustments) concerning the internal performance the grant date of the performance shares; condition related to the Group’s net income, (ii) the Faurecia group’s Human Resources reporting concerning the internal ■ 10% fulfillment of an internal performance condition related performance condition related to the gender diversity and to the gender diversity within the Group’s Managers and (iii) a calculation performed by an external company Professionals category. This internal condition is measured specialized in compensation on the basis of consolidated by comparing the actual percentage of women in the financial statements approved by the competent body of Managers and Professionals population of the third fiscal companies part of the reference group and by Faurecia, year after the grant date of the performance shares to the concerning the external performance condition related to net target percentage set by the Board of Directors on the earnings per share. grant date of the performance shares; The plans are constructed as follows: ■ 30% fulfillment of an external performance condition, i.e., growth of the Company’s net earnings per share assessed Internal conditions (net income and gender diversity) H2/ﬁscal year N 12/31/ﬁscal year N 12/31/ﬁscal year N+1 12/31/ﬁscal year N+2 H2/ﬁscal year N+4 Assessment of Acquisition date of the fulﬁllment performance shares × = Grant date of performance shares during H2 of ﬁscal year N, of internal conditions (vesting date deﬁnition of target amount and minimum and maximum amounts where applicable) for the internal conditions External condition (net earnings per share) Fiscal year N-1 H2/ﬁscal year N 12/31/ﬁscal year N 12/31/ﬁscal year N+1 12/31/ﬁscal year N+2 H2/ﬁscal year N+4 Assessment of external condition Assessment of the Acquisition date of fulﬁllment of the performance shares external condition (vesting date where × = Grant date of performance shares during H2 of ﬁscal year N, applicable) deﬁnition of target amount and minimum and maximum amounts for the external condition / Universal Registration Document 2019 247 Corporate governance Compensation of corporate officers The maximum amount of grant, calculated according to IFRS Given the freeze of rights, with effect from December 31, 2019, standards, may not represent more than 250% of the fixed the Chief Executive Officer can no longer vest additional rights annual compensation of the Chief Executive Officer. The under these plans as of January 1, 2020. Company’s long-term compensation practices are pp Vested supplementary y pension p g rights for p periods of reexamined on a regular basis to ensure their compliance with employment p y after January y 1,, 2020 best market practices. Following the freezing of past-non vested rights under defined According to the rules of the plan to be granted, the Chief benefit pension plans governed by Article L.137-11 of the Executive Officer makes a formal commitment not to hedge French Social Security Code, Faurecia intends to implement a the risk of the performance shares granted to him. vested rights supplementaty pension plan for rights relating to periods of employment after December 31, 2019 that Pension complies with the new legal requirements set out in Article The Chief Executive Officer benefits from the same pension L.137-11-2 of the French Social Security Code. plan as the one provided for the other members of the Thus, the Chief Executive Officer, would be eligible to benefit Group’s Executive Committee with a France contract. from this new vested rights supplementary pension plan This plan includes a defined contribution supplementary governed by Article L. 137-11-2 of the French Social Security pension plan, which benefits to all Group’s executives in Code, which would have the following characteristics: France, and a defined benefit supplementary pension plan. ■ Eligibility conditions and other conditions for entitlement: This defined benefit supplementary pension plan is subject to performance conditions. ■ being a member of Faurecia's Executive Committee, ■ with a current or suspended employment contract or a Supplementary defined contribution pension plan corporate term of office in France, and, The Chief Executive Officer is a beneficiary of the defined contribution plan (Article 83 of the French General Tax Code), ■ rights definitively vested after 3 years on Faurecia's open to all Group executives in France with at least one year’s Executive Committee seniority at the time of retirement. ■ Reference salary equal to the gross salary (base and This plan covers tranches A and B of the beneficiary's variable, excluding exceptional items) received during the compensation and entitles the beneficiary to contributions of year of membership of the Executive Committee; 1% on Tranche A and 6% on Tranche B of the compensation, ■ Rate of vesting: 0% to 3% of the annual reference salary with no contribution by the beneficiary. depending on the achievement of performance conditions; Supplementary defined-benefits pension plan ■ Enhanced performance conditions conditioning the vesting of rights and under which, below a minimum target, no (article 39 of the French General Tax Code) subject to vested rights may be granted. performance conditions Supplementary pp y pension p p for periods of employment p y prior p to The performance conditions are as follows: January y 1,, 2020 ■ Based on Faurecia’s operating income: The Chief Executive Officer, affiliated to the plans before July ■ 2.7% if the operating income is strictly higher than 100% 4, 2019, is eligible for a defined benefit pension supplement of the budgeted operating income, comprising two components : (i) a component, which was subject to eligibility conditions and open until July 3, 2019, to ■ 1.8% if the operating income amounts to between 95% all Group’s executives in France described in Section and 100% of the budgeted operating income, 3.3.1.2.2.4 Pensions above and (ii) an additional component ■ 0.9% if the operating income amounts to between 75% implemented, also subject to eligibility conditions, for the and 95% of the budgeted operating income, benefit of members of Faurecia's Executive Committee. For the Chief Executive Officer, these two plans are subject to ■ 0% if the operating income is strictly lower to 75% of the performance conditions. budgeted operating income. Provided that he ends his professional career within the Group, ■ Based on the level of achievement of annual variable the Chief Executive Officer is likely to receive an annuity under compensation (FVC) targets: these plans, which caracteristics are described in section ■ 0.3% if the level of achievement is strictly higher than 3.3.1.2.2.4 “pensions” above. 100%, In order to comply with law No. 2019-486 of May 22, 2019 said ■ 0,2% if the level of achievement amounts to between Pacte law and Ordinance No. 2019-697 of July 3, 2019 95% and 100%, transposing the Directive on improving supplementary pension rights’ portability, the two components of the defined benefit ■ 0.1% if the level of achievement amounts to between pension plan applicable to the members of the Executive 75% and 95%; Committee, and from which the Chief Executive Officer ■ 0% if the level of achievement is strictly lower than benefits, were closed as of July 4, 2019, and the rights of 75%. potential beneficiaries were frozen as of December 31, 2019. 248 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Corporate governance Compensation of corporate officers If the level of achievment of one of the conditions is strictly ■ achievement of a positive net cash flow during each of lower than 75%, no right can be granted for the given year. the three fiscal years preceding the termination of the Chief Executive Officer’s term of office; ■ Rights acquired under the plan covered by Article L. 137-11-2 of the French Social Security Code, are capped ■ the payment is equal to 24 months of the reference at 30 points per beneficiary. compensation calculated on a total compensation basis (annual fixed and variable) paid with respect to the ■ Furthermore, given that the current Chief Executive Officer is 12 months preceding the termination of his corporate office the beneficiary of rights provided by other supplementary (the “Reference Compensation”). This payment is due if the plans served by the Group (including the PAPP), the two conditions described above are fulfilled in each of the aggregate amount of rights under these plans and the three fiscal years concerned, which in practice amounts to plans governed by Article L.137-11-2 of the French Social the fulfilment of six criteria; Security Code in force within Faurecia will be capped as follows: ■ should one of the six criteria not be met, the termination payment is reduced proportionally by 1/6 and may equal to ■ the sum of pensions under the new plan and other 0 should none of these six criteria be fulfilled; supplementary plans offered by the Faurecia Group (including the PAPP), is limited to 8 times the Annual ■ should the Chief Executive Officer’s term of office be shorter Social Security ceilings (€329,088 in 2020); than three years, the method of calculating the termination payment is identical, but the number of criteria is adjusted ■ the sum of rights vested under the new plan and other to take into account the actual length of the term of office. supplementary plans offered by the Faurecia Group (including the PAPP plan), may not exceed 25 % of the average annual reference remuneration received over Non-compete, non-solicitation, non-poaching the last three calendar years; and prior notice covenants ■ the annual amount of the total retirement pensions paid Given the nature of the Chief Executive Officer’s duties and under the compulsory plans (basic state plan and the responsibilities entrusted to him and for the sole purpose of supplementary AGIRC-ARRCO plan) and Faurecia protecting the Company’s legitimate interests, a Group’s specific plans may not exceed 45 % of the non-compete covenant is put in place for the Chief Executive average annual gross reference salary received during Officer. the last three calendar years preceding the date of the In case of resignation, the Chief Executive Officer is bound by cessation of activity or the departure from the Executive a non-compete covenant prohibiting him, for a period of Committee, whichever occurs earlier. 12 months following the termination date of his office, (i) from If one of these ceilings is exceeded, rights under the soliciting the Group’s customers or convincing such persons to conditional pension plan PAPP will be reduced by the same terminate their business relationship with the Group, (ii) from amount so that the cumulative amount of pensions does not exercising management, executive, administrative or exceed one of the ceilings described above. However, the supervisory duties as employee or officer of a competitor application of the these ceilings may not, under no company and (iii) from acquiring or holding shares (or other circumstances, reduce the rights vested after January 1, 2020 securities) representing more than 5% in the share capital of a under this plan. competitor company. ■ Financing outsourced to an insurance company, to which In consideration for this undertaking, the Chief Executive contributions will be paid annually. Officer may receive throughout the period of this undertaking, a monthly payment equal to half of the reference compensation (annual fixed and variable) paid with respect Severance payment to the 12 months preceding the resignation. The Chief Executive Officer is also the beneficiary of a The Board of Directors may unilaterally waive the severance payment, the Board of Directors having decided implementation of this undertaking upon the departure of the that the Chief Executive Officer cannot be an employee and Chief Executive Officer (in which case the payment will not be as a consequence cannot enjoy the protective regime due). attached to such status. The maximum overall payment amount that the Chief This payment is backed by granting conditions in accordance Executive Officer will be eligible to receive with respect to the notably with the AFEP-MEDEF Code: non-competition and/or termination payment may not ■ the payment is due in case of termination of the Chief exceed 24 months of his Reference Compensation. Executive Officer’s term of office on the Company’s In addition, in the event of the resignation of the Chief initiative, subject to his not being terminated due to serious Executive Officer, he shall respect a 6-month notice period. In or gross misconduct; this case, the resignation shall become effective at the ■ the payment is not due in case of resignation or retirement; expiration of the 6-month notice period (starting from the date ■ the payment is subject to the achievement of the following of notification of the resignation). The Board of Directors may waive or reduce such 6-month notice period. In such a case, performance conditions: the notice period indemnity will be reduced accordingly to ■ achievement of a positive operating income during each the effectively worked period. of the three fiscal years preceding the termination of the Lastly, the Chief Executive Officer is bound by a Chief Executive Officer’s term of office, non-solicitation/non-poaching obligation for a period of 12 months from his departure date from the Group. / Universal Registration Document 2019 249 Corporate governance Compensation of corporate officers Benefits in kind Article L. 225-37-2 II of the French Code of commerce, the compensation policy for Board members as presented in the The Chief Executive Officer is eligible for a Company car. corporate governance report included in the 2019 Universal It is also stipulated for information purposes, that he benefits Registration Document, Chapter 3 “Corporate Governance” from the medical/life/disability insurance scheme established Section 3.3.4.1.1 “Compensation policy for Board Members”. within the Company. Approval of the compensation policy for the Chairman of the He does not receive compensation with respect to his Board of Directors for the 2020 fiscal year corporate office as a Board member of the Company. The General Meeting, ruling under the quorum and majority conditions required for Ordinary General Meetings, after Potential change of governance having read the corporate governance report indicated in and circumstances Article L. 225-37 of the French Code of commerce describing To the extent a new Chairman of the Board of Directors the components of the compensation policy for the Chairman (separate from the CEO) or a new Board member is of the Board of Directors for the 2020 fiscal year, approves, in appointed, the compensation policies for the Chairman of the application of Article L. 225-37-2 II of the French Code of Board of Directors and the Board members, respectively, commerce, the compensation policy for the Chairman of the described above would apply to them. Board of Directors as presented in the corporate governance report included in the 2019 Universal Registration Document, To the extent a new Chief Executive Officer or one or more Chapter 3 “Corporate Governance”, Section 3.3.4.1.2 Deputy Chief Executive Officers would be appointed, the “Compensation policy for the Chairman of the Board of Board of Directors, on the recommendation of the Directors”. Compensation Committee, would then set the amount of the fixed annual compensation, criteria, performance levels, Approval of the compensation policy for the Chief Executive parameters, structure and maximum percentages in relation Officer for the 2020 fiscal year to their fixed annual compensation, by adapting them to the The General Meeting, ruling under the quorum and majority parties concerned. conditions required for Ordinary General Meetings, after Pursuant to the provisions of Article L. 225-37-2 of the French having read the corporate governance report indicated in Code of Commerce, the Board of Directors, upon proposal Article L. 225-37 of the French Code of commerce describing from the Compensation Committee, may decide to adjust the the components of the compensation policy for the Chief annual variable compensation provided under the Chief Executive Officer for the 2020 fiscal year, approves, in Executive Officer compensation policy. This adjustment could application of Article L. 225-37-2 II of the French Code of exceptionally affect, both upward and downward, one or commerce, the compensation policy for the Chief Executive several criteria (including adding or substituting new criteria) Officer as presented in the corporate governance report and their weighting or objectives of the criteria of the Chief included in the 2019 Universal Registration Document, Executive Officer annual variable compensation so as to Chapter 3 “Corporate Governance”, Section 3.3.4.1.3 make sure this compensation reflects both the Chief Executive “Compensation policy for the Chief Executive Officer”. Officer and Group performance. This option can only be used by the Board of Directors, upon proposal from the Compensation Committee, in the event of 3.3.4.2. Implementation in 2020 exceptional circumstances resulting in particular from a 3.3.4.2.1. COMPENSATION OF MICHEL DE ROSEN, significant change in the Group’s scope following a merger or CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS, sale, the acquisition or creation of a significant new business IN RESPECT OF 2020 activity or the elimination of a significant business activity, a change in accounting method or a major event affecting the On the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, markets and/or the Group’s business sector. Any decision on the Board of Directors, in its meetings on February 14, 2020 and derogation must be temporary and duly motivated. April 17, 2020, decided that the Chairman of the Board of Directors would receive, for 2020, the compensation items listed below provided for in the 2020 compensation policy. Resolutions submitted to the General Meeting Resolutions relating to the compensation policy for corporate Fixed annual compensation officers that will be submitted to the General Meeting dated June 26, 2020 are the following: The Chairman of the Board of Directors benefits from a fixed annual compensation under the terms set out in the 2020 Approval of the compensation policy for Board members for compensation policy. the 2020 fiscal year The Board of Directors, on the recommendation of the The General Meeting, ruling under the quorum and majority Compensation Committee, decided to maintain the conditions required for Ordinary General Meetings, after Chairman’s compensation unchanged at €300,000, it being having read the corporate governance report indicated in specified that this ceiling includes, as in 2019, the amount of Article L. 225-37 of the French Code of commerce describing the benefits in kind corresponding to the time of the assistant the components of the compensation policy for Board made available to the Chairman for business other than those members for the 2020 fiscal year, approves, in application of relating to his Chairmanship of Faurecia. 250 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Corporate governance Compensation of corporate officers In light of the Covid-19 sanitary crisis, and as a personal The share of qualitative criteria in the annual variable contribution to the many gestures of solidarity of the Group's compensation in respect of 2020 amounts to 30%, thus employees, the Chairman of the Board decided to reduce his highlighting the change in the multiplying factor method used fixed annual compensation by 20% for at least the second in previous fiscal years, to the additive method in accordance quarter of 2020. with the terms of the 2020 compensation policy. The two qualitative criteria set by the Board of Directors in Benefits in kind application of the 2020 compensation policy and their The Chairman of the Board of Directors receives benefits in respective weighting are as follows: kind according to the terms set out in the 2020 compensation ■ at 60%, the execution of the strategy. Essentially, this consists policy. of focusing on the growth of the order book, and in The benefits in kind remain unchanged compared to the 2019 particular the growth of the New Value Spaces, and on fiscal year. monitoring corporate and social responsibility Convictions, and more specifically on carbon neutrality and the 3.3.4.2.2. COMPENSATION OF PATRICK KOLLER, CHIEF deployment of the diversity project; EXECUTIVE OFFICER, IN RESPECT OF 2020 ■ at 40%, ensure a smooth transition in the change in the Company’s shareholding, as it will change from a controlled On the recommendation of the Compensation Committee, company to a company with a significant free float. the Board of Directors, in its meetings on February 14, 2020 and Essentially, this will consist of (i) identifying and building a April 17, 2020, decided that the Chief Executive Officer would new shareholder base, (ii) managing the impacts linked to receive, for 2020, the compensation items listed below such a transition in the shareholding and (iii) the quality of provided for in the 2020 compensation policy. communication with financial community. Fixed annual compensation Performance share grant The Chief Executive Officer benefits from a fixed annual The Chief Executive Officer is a beneficiary of performance compensation under the terms set out in the 2020 shares according to the terms provided for in the 2020 compensation policy. compensation policy. It is reminded that in the extremely difficult context of the It is reminded that in the extremely difficult context of the Covid-19 sanitary crisis and the drastic measures implemented Covid-19 sanitary crisis and the drastic measures implemented by the Group related to cash flow and strict control of by the Group related to cash flow and strict control of expenditures and investments during the slowdown of activity, expenditures and investments during the slowdown of activity, the Chief Executive Officer wishes to take part to the efforts the Chief Executive Officer wishes to take part to the efforts requested from all the Group stakeholders and informed the requested from all the Group stakeholders and informed the Board of Directors of his decision to renounce for 2020 to the Board of Directors of his decision to renounce, for 2020, to the increase of its fixed annual compensation as provided for in increase of the relative proportion of the variable long term the compensation policy, this increase becoming effective variable compensation in the global structure of his only in 2021. compensation as provided for in the compensation policy It is also reminded that in light of this crisis, and as a personal for 2020 and asked the Board to limit as a consequence, contribution to many gestures of solidarity of the Group's for 2020, the allocation of performance shares at the same employees, the Chief Executive Officer decided to reduce his ceiling than in 2019, i.e. 180% of his fixed annual reference fixed annual compensation for 20% for at least the second compensation. quarter of 2020. Pension Annual variable compensation The Chief Executive Officer benefits from defined contribution The Board of Directors, on the recommendation of the and defined benefits pension scheme provided for by the Compensation Committee, has set, in accordance with the 2020 compensation policy. terms of the 2020 compensation policy, the ceiling for the annual variable compensation at 180% of the fixed annual Non-competition indemnity, prior notice and compensation of the Chief Executive Officer. This ceiling non-solicitation/non-poaching therefore remains unchanged compared to the 2019 fiscal year. The Chief Executive Officer is bound by a non-compete obligation in the event of his resignation with indemnity, prior The share of quantifiable criteria in the annual variable notice in case of resignation and a non-solicitation/ compensation with respect to 2020 remains unchanged non-poaching obligation in accordance with the terms set out compared to the 2019 fiscal year, at 150% of the variable in the 2020 compensation policy. annual compensation. This is also true for the two quantifiable criteria used and their weighting, namely operating income at 40% and net cash flow at 60%. / Universal Registration Document 2019 251 Corporate governance Compensation of corporate officers Termination payment 3.3.4.3.3. COMPENSATION FOR BOARD MEMBERS IN The Chief Executive Officer benefits from a termination RESPECT OF 2020 payment according to the terms outlined in the 2020 The amounts set for each meeting of the Board, and should compensation policy. the case be, for meetings of the Committees are mentioned in Section 3.3.2.1 “Principles for Board members’ compensation”. Benefits in kind These amounts remain unchanged compared to 2019. The Chief Executive Officer receives benefits in kind according It is specified that in accordance with 2020 compensation to the terms set out in the 2020 compensation policy. policy, meeting of ad hoc Committee, and should the case be, the Board seminary will be compensated. 252 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Corporate governance Summary of compliance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code 3.4. Summary of compliance with the recommendations of the AFEP-MEDEF Code The AFEP-MEDEF Code requires detailed reporting on the application of its recommendations and explanations to be provided, if applicable, as to why a company may not have implemented some of them. As of the end of the 2019 fiscal year, Faurecia did not entirely comply with the recommendations contained in the AFEP-MEDEF Code on the following issues. AFEP-MEDEF Code recommendations Explanations – Practice followed by the Company 10.2 Board of Directors’ assessment The assessment of the functioning of the Board of Directors with respect “The assessment is based on three objectives: to the 2018 fiscal year, which was conducted externally by a leading ■ (…); specialist consultancy, included a detailed and in-depth assessment of ■ (…); ■ assess the actual contribution of the Board member to the Board’s the functioning of the Board by including a review of the actual individual contribution of each Board member, and each Board work”. member was asked to assess their own contribution but also that of their peers, with individual feedback by the Chairman of the Board of Directors. Between each three-year external assessment, the assessment of the functioning of the Board of Directors is performed internally each year based on a detailed questionnaire prepared by the Secretary of the Board of Directors and reviewed with the Chairman of the Governance and Nominations Committee. In particular, it looks at the contribution of each Board member to the Board’s work and comments may be made, if the Board member wishes, on the contribution of other members. 25.6.2 Supplementary defined contribution pension schemes defined The eligibility of members of the Executive Committee, including the according to Article L. 137-11 of the French Social Security Code. Chief Executive Officer, for the pension scheme is subject to the “These supplementary pension schemes are subject to the condition obligation that they end their professional career within Faurecia. By that the beneficiary is a corporate officer or employee of the company way of exception to this principle, it seems justifiable, in the event of at the time when they claim their pension rights in application of the invalidity or termination by the Group from the age of 60, that the right rules in force”. to the pension scheme should be maintained. In the event of termination by the Group, entitlement to the scheme is only maintained in the case that the beneficiary does not take on any other professional work. This provision must give the Company more flexibility in managing the departure of Executive Committee members from the age of 60. / Universal Registration Document 2019 253 Corporate governance Shareholding by corporate officers and transactions in the Company’s securities 3.5. Shareholding by corporate officers and transactions in the Company’s securities 3.5.1. Shares held by corporate officers Pursuant to the bylaws, each Board member must hold at corresponding to one year’s compensation (including the least 20 Faurecia shares throughout the term of office. 500 shares held as a Board member) and must comply with this obligation within two years of being appointed as Furthermore, the internal rules of the Board of Directors provide Chairman. that each Board member must hold 500 shares in the Company, including 20 shares provided for in the bylaws, As at December 31, 2019, corporate officers held less than during the entire term of their corporate office. However, 0.05% of the Company’s capital and voting rights. Details of Board members who do not receive compensation in respect the number of shares held by each corporate officer are of their directorship are only required to hold 20 shares included in the summary table in Section 3.1.2.1 “General provided for in the bylaws and, in accordance with the law, information on the composition of the Board of Directors” and Board members representing employees are not required to in the Board members’ biographies in Section 3.1.2.2 “Board hold a minimum number of shares. members’ expertise, positions and corporate offices”. This information shows that the Board members comply with the The internal rules of the Board of Directors’ also state that the shareholding obligations set by the bylaws and internal rules. Chairman of the Board of Directors must hold shares 3.5.2. Transactions in the Company’s securities by corporate officers Since April 14, 2010, the Company has a Code of Conduct for ■ 15 calendar days prior to the publication of the quarterly Group employees and executives who have access to insider sales, this period includes the date of publication. information by virtue of their positions and offices, with The Code also describes the disclosure requirements for provisions on the management, ownership and disclosure of securities transactions, which apply to persons with managerial such information. This Code was amended, for the last time, responsibilities within the meaning of the EU Regulation on by the Board of Directors during its meeting held on market abuse and to persons closely associated with them, December 18, 2019. It is available on the governance page of and lists the transactions to be disclosed since the regulation the Company's website (www.faurecia.com). entered into force. In accordance with the applicable Under the measures to prevent insider trading within the regulations, corporate officers were informed of disclosure Group, the Code provides, among others, for blackout periods requirements for securities transactions applicable to them as that require corporate officers as well as persons who have well as to their close associates. regular or occasional access to accounting or financial The Code also states that when there is any doubt relating to information before publication to refrain from trading in the information held, the persons concerned must inform the Faurecia shares during certain periods surrounding the Group’s Chief Financial Officer who, in their capacity as publication of interim results, annual results and quarterly sales. compliance officer, will have 24 hours to offer an opinion on These periods are defined as follows: the planned transaction. ■ 30 calendar days prior to the publication of the press Lastly, the Code notes the obligation that corporate officers release on annual or interim results, this period includes the hold shares in registered form and, more generally, the date of publication; sanctions for insider trading or disclosure of insider information. 254 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Corporate governance Shareholding by corporate officers and transactions in the Company’s securities The transactions performed during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2019 by corporate officers and their close relatives and who have been reported to the Autorité des Marchés Financiers (AMF) and the Company, in application of the applicable regulatory requirements, are presented in the table below: References Financial Type of Date of Date of receipt of Transaction Amount of Declarant of the AMF decision/notice instrument transaction transaction the declaration venue Unit price transaction Patrick KOLLER 2019DD601084 Shares Disposal March 29, 2019 April 2, 2019 Euronext €38.0000 €124,374.00 Paris Patrick KOLLER 2019DD605772 Shares Disposal May 3, 2019 May 3, 2019 Euronext €46.4169 €1,206,839.4 Paris Patrick KOLLER 2019DD605987 Shares Disposal April 1, 2019 May 6, 2019 Euronext €38.2000 €446,061.40 Paris Patrick KOLLER 2019DD626740 Shares Delivery of July 23, 2019 July 26, 2019 Outside n/a n/a performance a shares trading venue Denis MERCIER 2020DD667552 Shares Acquisition (1) December 31, February 3, 2020 Euronext €47.8500 €3,349.50 (2) 2019 Paris (1) Shares acquired to fulfill the shareholding obligation for Board members provided for in the bylaws and internal rules. (2) Transaction having crossed the threshold of €20,000 per calendar year. The previous transactions performed in 2019 were also performed to fulfill the shareholding obligation for Board members provided for in the bylaws and internal rules. / Universal Registration Document 2019 255 Corporate governance Declaration of the members of the Board of Directors and Executive Management 3.6. Declaration of the members of the Board of Directors and Executive Management Within the framework of an active conflict of interests member must inform the Board of Directors of any specific management policy and to collect the information required conflict of interests, even if it is only potential, and refrain from under Annex 1 item 12 of European Regulation No. 2019/980, voting on the relevant resolution and attending Board each year the Company notably provides its Board members meetings during the period in which they find themselves in a with a detailed questionnaire allowing them to obtain the situation of a conflict of interests, or even resign from their information required and thus make the necessary position as a Board member. In case of non-compliance with declarations. these rules of abstention or withdrawal, the Board member could be held liable. In case of conflict of interest, the Board To the Company’s knowledge and on the date this Universal member concerned will not receive documentation relating Registration Document was drawn up, there is no family to the Board meeting(s) in question. relationship between Faurecia’s corporate officers. It should also be noted that in the context of the potential Moreover, to the Company’s knowledge and on the date this change to the Company’s shareholding structure in Universal Registration Document was drawn up, none of the connection with the planned distribution of the Company’s members of the Board of Directors and Executive shares by PSA to its shareholders, the Board of Directors, acting Management have, within the last five years, (i) been found on a recommendation from the Governance and guilty of fraud, (ii) been questioned or publicly sanctioned by Nominations Committee, decided at a meeting held on a statutory or regulatory authority (including designated December 18, 2019 and in accordance with best governance professional bodies), (iii) been banned by a tribunal from practices, to create an ad hoc committee. The duties of the serving as a member of an administrative, management or ad hoc committee are detailed in surveillance body or from being involved in the management Section 3.1.3.1“Organization of the Board of Directors” in this of an issuer and (iv) been involved in bankruptcy, receivership, Universal Registration Document. liquidation or administration proceedings while they served as a member of an administrative, management or surveillance To the Company’s knowledge and on the date this Universal body, with the exception of Penelope Herscher who was Registration Document was drawn up, there was no Chairwoman of the Board of Directors of FirstRain Inc., which arrangement or agreement entered into with the major voluntarily filed under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code shareholders, customers, suppliers or others under whose terms in 2017 before being sold several months later to Ignite one of the members of the Board of Directors or Executive Technologies. Management was appointed to their role. To the Company’s knowledge and on the date this Universal Finally, to the Company’s knowledge and on the date this Registration Document was drawn up, no potential conflicts of Universal Registration Document was drawn up, no restriction interest have been identified between the duties of each of has been accepted by members of the Board of Directors or the members of the Board of Directors and the Executive Executive Management regarding the disposal, within a Management with regard to the Company and their private certain period of time, of their holdings in the Company’s, interests and/or other duties. It is specified that one Board except for (i) the provisions of the bylaws and internal rules member, Peter Mertens, has a minority interest in a start-up in regarding shareholding (see Section 3.5.2 “Transactions in the which the Group has made a very small investment (less than Company’s securities by corporate officers” of this Universal 0.03% of sales) and was appointed, in November 2019, as a Registration Document) and the retention obligation linked to Board member of this company. It should be noted that this allocations of performance shares for the Chief Executive investment was made before the effective appointment of Officer under the terms of which they must retain at least 30% Peter Mertens as a Company Board member, that the of the shares actually acquired under each plan. This investment conditions are similar for all minority investors threshold requirement ceases to apply when the Chief (including the Company), that the Company does not have Executive Officer holds a number of shares corresponding to any voting right in the Board of Directors of this start-up and three years of base gross compensation, factoring in all the that the decisions on this investment are not taken by the previously established plans, and becomes applicable again if Company’s Board of Directors. In addition, in the event of the Chief Executive Officer no longer holds the number of conflicts of interests, the provisions of the internal rules will target shares corresponding to this level of base gross apply. The Board’s internal rules provide that each Board compensation. 256 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Corporate governance Authorizations relating to sureties, endorsements and guarantees 3.7. Authorizations relating to sureties, endorsements and guarantees In accordance with the law and bylaws, the Board of Directors for contracts with successive partial deliveries, the Chief can, within the limit of a total amount which its fixes, authorize Executive Officer is authorized to provide guarantees the Chief Executive Officer to issue sureties, endorsements and representing a maximum of €5 million per transaction. It is guarantees on behalf of the Company. specified that sureties, endorsements and guarantees provided to tax and customs regimes may be given without In its meeting held on July 19, 2018, the Board of Directors any limit on the amount. authorized the Chief Executive Officer to issue sureties, endorsements and guarantees within the limits of a global Since the previous authorization had expired, the Board of amount of €50 million, up to a limit of €10 million per Directors, in its meeting held on July 22, 2019, decided to transaction, for a one-year period. If the Group is required to renew the authorization granted to the Chief Executive provide advance payment guarantees or performance bonds Officer, according to the same terms as described above. 3.8. Agreements procedure to assess ordinary agreements entered into under 3.8.1. Regulated agreements normal conditions (unregulated agreements) and regulated agreements. The Statutory Auditor’s special report on related-party This internal document formalized the procedure applicable agreements is included in Section 3.8.4 below. to the identification and qualification of agreements prior to It should be noted that, as a result of the repeal of their conclusion or amendment. It sets out the role of the Legal Article L. 225-42-1 of the French Code of commerce, the Department in this assessmet process as well as the rules to be regulated commitments relating to pensions and termination taken into account when examining these agreements. The payments were taken in favor of the Chief Executive Officer. methods used by the Governance and Nominations These commitments are notably outlined in Sections 3.3.1.2.2.4 Committee and the Board of Directors to assess the procedure “Pensions” and 3.3.1.2.2.5 “Termination payment” of this are also described. It is specified that, as far as possible, the Universal Registration Document. person directly or indirectly affiliated with one of these agreements may not take part in its assessment. 3.8.2. Procedure for assessing 3.8.3. Service contracts ordinary and normal agreements To the Company’s knowledge and on the date this Universal Registration Document was drawn up, there is no service contract linked a Board member with Faurecia or any of its In accordance with the applicable provisions, the Board of subsidiaries. Directors of April 17, 2020 adopted, on the recommendation of the Governance and Nominations Committee, a / Universal Registration Document 2019 257 Corporate governance Agreements 3.8.4 Statutory auditors’ special report on related party agreements This is a translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English-speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional standards applicable in France. To the shareholders, PERSON CONCERNED In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of Faurecia, we hereby Patrick Koller in his capacity as Chief Executive Officer (CEO) report to you our special report on related party agreements. It is our responsibility to inform you, based on the information NATURE AND PURPOSE provided to us, on the main terms and conditions of Specific additive defined benefits pension plan (article 39 of agreements that have been disclosed to us or that we may the French General Tax Code) (the PAPP ). have identified as part of our engagement, as well as the reasons given as to why they are beneficial for the Company, This plan, authorized by the Board of Directors of February 11, without commenting on their relevance or substance or 2015, as modified by an unilateral decision by the CEO dated identifying any undisclosed agreements. Under the provisions July 4, 2016, is applicable to the members of the Executive of Article R. 225-31 of the French Commercial Code (Code de Committee of Faurecia who hold a current or suspended commerce), it is your responsibility to determine whether the employment contract or a corporate office mandate in agreements are appropriate and should be approved. France and who are members of the Executive Committee for a minimum consecutive period of three civil years from the Where applicable, it is also our responsibility to provide you introduction of this regime or the entry into the Executive with the information required by Article R.225-31 of the French Committee. Patrick Koller, as Chief Executive Officer, was Commercial Code in relation to the implementation during authorized to be covered by the PAPP, by the Board of the year of agreements already approved by the Directors, in a decision dated July 25, 2016 and approved by Shareholders’ Meeting. the General Meeting of May 30, 2017, according to the terms We performed the procedures that we deemed necessary in of the fifth resolution. accordance with the professional standards applicable in France (Compagnie Nationale des Commissaires aux TERMS AND CONDITIONS Comptes) relating to such engagements. These procedures consisted in verifying that the information provided to us is The order dated July 3, 2019 transposing the European consistent with the underlying documents. directive dated April 16, 2014 (the “Order”) provides for (i) the closing of defined benefits pension plans conditioned to presence as of July 4, 2019 and (ii) the prohibition to acquire new supplementary rights conditioned to presence as of Agreements submitted for the approval January 1, 2020. to the annual general meeting The Board of Directors acknowledged that, pursuant to the We were not informed of any agreements authorized and Order, past non-vested rights are frozen (in percentage) into entered into during the year to be submitted for approval to existing scheme as at December 31, 2019 (crystallization). As a the Annual General Meeting pursuant to the provisions of consequence, for the calculation of the current PAPP benefits, Article L. 225-38 of the French Commercial Code. only the years during which the potential beneficiary belongs to the Executive Committee until December 31, 2019 are In addition, further to the request made to us for the purpose taken into account. The past non-vested rights granted to the of the fifth resolution, we report on the modification made to potential beneficiary for each year of seniority are frozen at the specific additive defined benefit pension plan which that date. corresponded to a commitment covered by Article L. 225-42-1 of the French Commercial Code until the Order no. 2019-1234 In the context of the review of the PAPP and in accordance of November 27, 2019. with article L. 225-42-1 of the French Code of commerce, the Board of Directors has decided (Patrick Koller not taking part to the deliberation nor to the decision) not to apply to the Modification made to the specific potential beneficiaries (including the Chief Executive Officer) the condition of presence at retirement date, in case of additive defined benefit pension plan departure at the Company’s initiative after the age of 60 set up for members of the Executive instead of 62 as stipulated in the PAPP, if the potential Committee beneficiary does not have any other professional activity until retirement. OF AUTHORIZATION The initial financial terms and conditions of the PAPP remain Board of Directors’ decision of December 18, 2019. unchanged. The estimated amount of the annuity as of December 31, 2019 granted to Patrick Koller under this plan was €262,319. No payment was made in 2019 to Patrick Koller under this plan. 258 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Corporate governance Agreements GROUNDS JUSTIFYING THE MODIFICATION OF THE AGREEMENTS PREVIOUSLY APROVED BY THE ANNUAL COMMITMENT GENERAL MEETING The modification adopted should give the Company more We have not been informed of any agreements approved in flexibility in managing departures after the age of 60. prior years and which remained current during the last year. Courbevoie and Paris-La Défense, April 22, 2020 The Statutory Auditors MAZARS ERNST & YOUNG Audit David Chaudat Jean-Roch Varon / Universal Registration Document 2019 259 Corporate governance Other information 3.9. Other information The table summarizing the delegations in force granted by the The specific conditions governing shareholders’ participation General Meeting in relation to capital increases and the use in the General Meeting or the provisions of the bylaws which made of these delegations during the fiscal year is included in outline these conditions are included in Chapter 6, Section 6.1 Chapter 5, Section 5.2.1 “Authorized capital stock” in this “Legal information . Universal Registration Document. Finally, factors likely to affect a public takeover bid or exchange are described in Chapter 6, Section 6.1 “Legal information”. 260 / Universal Registration Document 2019 4 CSR 4.1. Faurecia’s social and environmental responsibility strategy 262 4.1.1. Committing to sustainable development 262 4.1.2. Achieving quantifiable results by 2022 263 4.1.3. Getting teams on board and contribute to the transformation of the Group 264 4.1.4. Engaging on major international agreements and drawing on the acknowledged expertise of external partners 266 4.1.5. Animating the CSR approach based on dialogue with stakeholders 269 4.1.6. Assessing the CSR results at the very top levels of the organization 270 4.1.7. Answering to the extra-financial performance declaration and the duty of care 271 4.2. performance 273 EFPD 4.2.1. Safety in the workplace 274 4.2.2. Engaging employees 277 EFPD 4.2.3. Talents attraction and retention 281 EFPD 4.2.4. Social dialog 286 4.2.5. Promotion of diversity 287 4.2.6. Social performance indicators 288 4.3. Environmental performance 298 4.3.1. Environmental policy 299 EFPD 4.3.2. Environmental impact of production plants and climate change 300 4.3.3. Innovation of products and services promoting air quality and reduced carbon footprint 306 4.3.4. Circular economy 310 4.3.5. Reporting process 311 4.4. Societal performance 313 EFPD 4.4.1. Business ethics 314 EFPD 4.4.2. Product Quality and Safety 316 EFPD 4.4.3. Duty of care and responsible purchasing in the supply chain 318 4.5. Report by the independent third party on the consolidated non-financial statement presented in the management report 321 / Universal Registration Document 2019 261 CSR Faurecia’s social and environmental responsibility strategy 4.1. Faurecia’s social and environmental responsibility strategy 4.1.1. Committing to sustainable development In the last two decades, Faurecia has undergone major Group has a better understanding of customer expansion on an international scale. Over the same period, expectations and makes better decisions. It encourages the the main global challenges (urbanization, demographic broadest possible diversity through recruitment and career growth, technological changes, and climate change) have management and by fostering workplace conditions and a continued to intensify, with ever greater impacts on the world flexible organization that are adapted to individual needs; economy. ■ the world is in a state of permanent disruption. Technology is Faced with these fundamental changes, Faurecia’s Executive rapidly changing Faurecia’s business models and working Management decided in 2018 to signal its commitment at the methods. The Group must anticipate the next trends, remain very highest level by setting out its six convictions for a more agile and invest in innovation and education. It strives to responsible world and to make them a key focus of the ensure the employability of its employees throughout their Group’s values and ambition: working life, through lifelong learning, professional mobility and on the job training. This is the best guarantee for ■ environmental issues pose a serious challenge for humanity. ensuring that everyone can reap the benefits of Faurecia wants to help cap the rise in temperature by technological advances and innovations as well as reducing the carbon footprint of its activities and offering changing work practices. For younger generations, solutions for Sustainable Mobility. The Group supports Faurecia has extensive programs of apprenticeships, national and international organizations in reducing global work/study, volunteers for international experience (VIE) warming and by respecting their principles. Air quality is a and internships that both provide the Group with a talent growing health challenge in cities. Through its solutions and pool and enable extensive on-the -job training and cultural partnerships, Faurecia works to reduce pollutant emissions integration; and improve air quality; ■ companies must have a positive impact on society. ■ short term thinking jeopardizes future generations. In an Faurecia is a member of the community in each region ever-changing world, Faurecia must invest in its future and in where it operates worldwide. The Group contributes to particular in technology, new business models and learning. economic development and the creation of social value by The Group must preserve natural resources and meet hiring locally, providing career training and advancement environmental challenges for the well-being of future for employees and through a commitment to ethics and generations. At the same time, in order to maintain the social responsibility. Above and beyond its legal obligations, confidence of its customers and shareholders, it must deliver Faurecia has a responsibility to maintain a frank and short term financial and operational performance. Faurecia ongoing dialogue with the communities that surround its must be able to balance both long term and short term and sites, to ensure that its operations are harmoniously not jeopardize one at the expense of another. Its culture integrated into each region. As appropriate, the Group enables it to combine rigor and discipline in short-term initiates or contributes to projects and programs that execution with a long-term vision; address local needs, by offering its expertise and resources ■ opposing strengths create value. Faurecia believes in a in support. system of transparency and dialogue. Each employee and On a day-to-day basis, the convictions are embodied by the stakeholder can voice an opinion, criticism, or alternative Being Faurecia corporate model which governs the Group’s suggestion or report a violation without fear of personal management, ethics, and operational excellence via consequences and in complete transparency. The Group managerial values (entrepreneurship, autonomy, and believes in open, responsible and balanced dialogue, accountability) and behavioral values (energy, respect, and based on mutual recognition and an acceptance of the exemplarity). legitimacy of each viewpoint. Faurecia’s relationship with its suppliers is guided by the principles of respect and These six convictions form the foundations underpinning partnership to create long term value for both parties. The Faurecia’s sustainable development strategy and set the Group views and respects collective representation of scale of its ambitions in response to major global challenges. In employees and social dialogue in the same proactive and this context, the role of Group Sustainable Development constructive spirit; Officer was created in late 2018, reporting to the Executive Vice President, Group Human Resources, member of the ■ diversity is a strength. Diversity in the workforce with regard Executive Committee. In 2019, the Group validated its first to gender, place of origin, culture or educational roadmap for the 2019-2022 period and its Corporate and background, experience or any other difference is a source Environmental Responsibility (CSR) governance. of strength for the Group. Thanks to Faurecia’s diversity, the 262 / Universal Registration Document 2019 CSR Faurecia’s social and environmental responsibility strategy 4.1.2. Achieving quantifiable results by 2022 Faurecia’s CSR strategy has three key focuses: Planet – Business – People Each one of these focuses is built on the Group’s six convictions and sets quantifiable progress targets for an initial period from 2019 to 2022. Simultaneously ambitious and achievable, these goals for 2022 were drawn up in collaboration with all of the Business Groups and support functions. PLANET BUSINESS PEOPLE CARE CARE CARE Faurecia is convinced environmental issues pose a Faurecia is convinced the world is in a state of Faurecia is convinced diversity is a strength, that’s why serious Challenge for Humanity, that’s why we care to permanent disruption, that's why we care to we care to increase DIVERSITY IN TEAMS improve our ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT PREPARE FUTURE % Females managers in M&Ps 31% in 2022 CO2 tons equivalent/ Nombre d'usines à GHG Plant risk Million euros of sales -20% by 2022 risque (basé sur emissions assessment Gender Scope 1 & 2 l'évaluation interne des -5% in 2022 % Females managers and 21% in 2022 risques)/% du nombre in top leaders mitigation Energy d'usines MWh/million € of sales -10% by 2022 efﬁciency Number of new % non European Patents > 500 / year Cultural 39% in 2022 patents ﬁled in top leaders 100% of the new innovation Develop projects and 80% EcoDesign the methodology Engagement Index of the products People in products and assess the based on the 67 pts in 2022 portfolio satisfaction innovation portfolio screened by the Employee Survey EcoDesign methodology by Faurecia is convinced power must have counterFaurecia is convinced short term thinking jeopardizes 2022 balance, that’s why we care to improve ETHICS IN future generations, that’s why we care to PERFORM A OUR STAKEHOLDERS RELATIONSHIPS RESPONSIBLE WAY Waste Tons wastes in landﬁll treatment per Million € -5% by 2022 Index based on the of sales Ranking 4/5 stars Fr1t, number of Total in 2022 Safety at accidents per million Customer Satisfaction -30% in 2022 work hours worked without Stakeholders day lost satisfaction Index based ont he Supplier Survey 2.95 / 4 Number of training 24h/emplyee/ Employability hours per employee year Faurecia is convinced companies must have a positive impact on society, that’s why we care to increase our COMMUNITIES CONTRIBUTION FOUNDATION at Group level to develop projects on Education 10 projects | Mobility | in 2022 Societal engagement Environment LOCAL COMMUNITIES >1100 involvement from Sites projects/year 2019 datas are detailed in the sections social, environmental and societal performance of this chapter. Each of these goals has then been integrated into internal action plans to enable the relevant teams to steer their projects, and to measure the results achieved with regard to the expectations and commitments made by the Group to its stakeholders. / Universal Registration Document 2019 263 CSR Faurecia’s social and environmental responsibility strategy 4.1.3. Getting teams on board and contribute to the transformation of the Group The CSR roadmap is based on six key projects led by project managers tasked with defining the associated action plans and implementing these in coordination with the Business Groups and relevant support functions. All of these projects have a significant social and environmental impact which requires a considerable commitment from Faurecia employees and contributes to the transformation of the Group. PLANET BUSINESS PEOPLE CARE CARE CARE Strategic innovation for sustainable Inclusive culture to attract, CO2 neutrality by 2030 mobility & cockpit of the future develop and retain diverse talents Total customer satisfaction Learning organization to for long term partnerships anticipate future disruption Foundation Faur’good for mobility, education, environment ■ Achieving carbon neutrality by 2030 ■ Committing to total customer satisfaction Faurecia has set itself the goal of achieving carbon Thanks to strong mobilization on all levels within the Group, neutrality for its scope 1, 2 and, in part, three activities (see the “5-Star Consumer Experience” program aims to raise all chapter on environmental performance). This includes in employees’ awareness of the impact of their day-to-day particular the indirect footprint of Faurecia’s activities, tasks on customer satisfaction, to help spread best including a majority of purchasing, freight, travel, waste practices, and to reward employees having achieved products, buildings, and product recycling operations. exemplary results. In concrete terms, this means that by 2030 the Group will ■ Developing an inclusive culture for the hiring and retention have reduced its greenhouse gas emissions as far as of talents possible and, depending on the existing technologies, will Diversity in the workplace, in any form, whether in relation to offset all remaining emissions as far as possible by taking gender, country of origin, disability, culture, age, initial part in carbon removal projects. training, etc., is a strength which each individual contributes The Group made an official commitment at its Capital to the Group. For the past 20 years Faurecia has grown Market Day on November 26, 2019 and set up an internal while addressing the challenge of globalization. With less structure by appointing a Carbon Neutrality Project Officer than 10% of its headcount in France, the Group has been who reports to the Executive Committee member able to maximize potential talent in the 37 countries where it responsible for strategy and innovation. The position involves has progressively set up operations. defining the strategy with the Business Groups and relevant At the same time, social challenges have increased in support functions, before proceeding with its number, and inclusion, particularly gender balance, is implementation by the business units based on the following currently extremely urgent for the industry. In 2019, Faurecia three key priorities: Operations – Design – Compensation. launched an inclusive management approach focusing in ■ Innovating for Sustainable Mobility and the Cockpit of the particular on gender. The Group revised its internal Future organization with the appointment of a Diversity Officer who reports to the Executive Committee member responsible for Faurecia continues to accelerate its transition toward clean human resources. The aim of this approach is to create the mobility solutions thanks to the development of the Business conditions for a better understanding of the potential which Group Clean Mobility, and also by investing in hydrogen diverse teams are able to contribute in terms of technologies alongside Michelin via the Symbio joint perspective, creativity, positive attitudes, and, ultimately, venture. Finally, the recent acquisition of Clarion Electronics performance. The first part of this project relates to the offers good growth opportunities for Cockpit of the Future training which was launched for each management team solutions. In order to support and accelerate this transition, and which will be rolled out more widely in 2020. This training Faurecia has been developing for several years now a large will focus on the unconscious bias which may act as an ecosystem of industrial partners and start-ups, supported by obstacle to the correct functioning of teams. The second a network of in-house experts. part relates to tools for the development of future talents, in particular, via a program aimed specifically at recruiting high-potential female executives in order to have more 264 / Universal Registration Document 2019 CSR Faurecia’s social and environmental responsibility strategy candidates able to take managerial roles and to ensure the change, and to be ready for the world and its challenges. promotion of women through mentoring and coaching. Faurecia places access to knowledge at the heart of the achievements and success of each individual, thanks in ■ Promoting training and apprenticeships to prepare for the particular to an on-line training package (MOOC) major changes of the future accessible via any private or professional support by all Faurecia’s core businesses are undergoing a transformation Faurecia employees. with the development of digitization and new technologies, ■ Committing to projects with a social impact the training provided by the Group via its in-house universities (attended in person and online) ensures that Launched in March 2020, the Faurecia corporate each individual has a good understanding of the foundation will contribute to supporting and developing fundamentals of his or her relevant core business, has taken solidarity-based projects that promote education, mobility, on board the technological developments, and is able to and the environment. Projects presented by employees provide the correct responses and interpretations required during the first 2020 call for projects campaign will be to work with an outside world undergoing very rapid implemented in 2020 in the different countries where the change. Group operates. A Board of Directors has been appointed. It is chaired by the Group’s Chief Executive Officer and Faurecia also wants to provide each non-manager & composed of three members from Executive Management professional employee, in all of the countries in which the and two external Board members. The General Delegate, Group has a presence, with the means of accessing appointed by the Board of Directors, is supported by an apprenticeship schemes enabling them to achieve operating manager. professional development, to be better prepared for / Universal Registration Document 2019 265 CSR Faurecia’s social and environmental responsibility strategy 4.1.4. Engaging on major international agreements and drawing on the acknowledged expertise of external partners In alignment with its six convictions, Faurecia has made a commitment, via international initiatives, in order to mark its commitments in terms of business ethics and climate change. The Group is also supported by partners and methodologies widely recognized in terms of CSR to manager its supply chain and develop its climate strategy: ■ The Global Compact : Having signed up in 2004 to the 10 principles of the Global Compact, initiative of the United Nations launched in 2000, Faurecia has committed to promote respect for human rights commitments and international labor standards, environmental protection, and the prevention of corruption : 7. 8. 9. 1. 2. Applying the Undertaking Promoting the precautionary initiatives to development and Promoting and Taking care not to be approach to promote greater diffusion of respecting the protection complicit in human rights environmental environmental environmentalof international human violations challenges responsibility ly-friendly rights law technologies HUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT THE 10 PRINCIPLES 3. 4. Respecting freedom of Contributing to the association and elimination of discrimina10. acknowledging the right tion of all kinds in relation to collective bargaining to employment Working against corruption in all its forms, including 5. 6. extortion and bribery Contributing to the Contributing to the effective abolition of elimination of all forms of child labor forced or mandatory labor INTERNATIONAL LABOR STANDARDS THE COMBAT AGAINST CORRUPTION ■ The Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations order to go even further in the application of these principles, 17 sustainable development goals (or the 2030 SDG Agenda) were adopted in 2015 by the United Nations’ 193 countries. These constitute an action plan for a fair transition toward sustainable development by 2030. Faurecia supports the aims of this program and, therefore, in 2019, identified to which of the 17 SDGs it is making a contribution through its CSR actions and its operations. 266 / Universal Registration Document 2019 CSR Faurecia’s social and environmental responsibility strategy Faurecia contribution to the Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations Partnership for the achievement of the Goals: Engagement with local communities Partnerships for sustainable innovation with key players in the industrial and technological sectors Quality Education: Training and skills development of our employees, in particular via our internal Faurecia University Support for solidarity and local initiatives in favor of education Climate change: Development of solutions for zero emission mobility and for air quality Gender equality: Reducing our carbon footprint to achieve Speciﬁc promotion and development of women Carbon Neutrality by 2030 Fighting against discrimination and for professional equality Responsible consumption and production: EcoDesign of products Sustainable management of waste and chemicals substances Decent work and economic growth: Development of local employment Sustainable cities and communities: Active prevention of accidents at work and Fight against mortality and road injuries via our Reduced inequalities: occupational diseases quality and product safety policy Fight against all forms of discrimination Respect and promotion of international Air quality innovations particularly suited to Commitment to the international principles relating to human rights and labor law urban areas representativeness of the Group at all levels throughout our value chain ■ French Business Climate Pledge ■ Application of the TCFD (Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure) for an exhaustive and transparent climate disclosure Since 2017, Faurecia has been one of the 99 companies to have signed the French Business Climate Pledge, a commitment made at the One Planet Summit. These The TCFD was created by the G20 during the COP21 to define businesses represent sales of €1,650 billion and 6 million jobs recommendations concerning the financial transparency of worldwide. Via this initiative, Faurecia is reaffirming its companies with regard to climate. Chaired by Michael commitment to strengthen its investments and innovation Bloomberg, its final report published in June 2017 specifies the for the promotion of low-carbon solutions, in order to see a elements of climate reporting expected in companies' drastic fall in the planet’s greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. reference documents for 4 pillars: governance, strategy, risk In this context, Faurecia has in particular launched Symbio, management and the indicators and metrics used. a joint venture with Michelin for the development of hydrogen motor technologies. ■ Partnership with EcoVadis for a more sustainable value chain also bases its sustainable development approach on recognized methodologies and external partners who are experts in their respective fields. Since 2017, Faurecia has been working with its partner EcoVadis to carry out an in-depth assessment of its suppliers focusing on their ethical, social, and environmental practices. 80% of all direct suppliers are currently assessed by EcoVadis. / Universal Registration Document 2019 267 CSR Faurecia’s social and environmental responsibility strategy For the first time, Faurecia is presenting hereinafter a summary of the various levels on which climate challenges are integrated into the Group’s strategy and governance on the basis of the eleven key recommendations made by the TCFD: GOVERNANCE STRATEGY RISK MANAGEMENT INDICATORS & GOALS Recommendation 1 Recommendation 3 Recommendation 6 Recommendation 9 ■ A review of the CSR roadmap ■ The environmental risk linked to ■ In accordance with the ■ The 2019/2022 CSR goals: was validated at a meeting of site production is monitored by a recommendations made by the ■ GHG emissions (scope 1 & 2) the Executive Committee held network of HSE experts on a local TCFD, an initial seminar dedicated -20% of CO2 equivalent/€m in September 2019. Going and global level. In terms of to climate issues in 2019 enabled of sales forward, the Executive environmental management the Executive Committee to ■ energy efficiency -10% of Committee will now validate this more widely, the Group is assess three potential scenarios MWh/€m of sales roadmap on an annual basis. promoting measures for (economic, social, and ■ waste management -5% of ■ In October 2019, this roadmap improvement by obtaining environmental) for 2050 linked to waste not reclaimed; was presented to and ISO 14001 certification for its sites the impact of climate change. ■ delopment of an EcoDesign approved by the Board of (77% in 2019). ■ The system used by the Group to methodology enabling 100% Directors at a meeting ■ The climate risk connected to an identify and classify risks ranks of the innovative product dedicated to this issue. Going increase in the number of these into various categories portfolio and 80% of the forward, the Board of Directors climate-related disasters is (strategic, operational, existing portfolio to be will now validate this roadmap relatively low for the Group's compliance, financial, etc.) and analyzed. on an annual basis, further to sites, 32 of which have exposure levels (major risk, secondary risk, ■ The carbon neutrality target was examination by the to flood risk and 7 of which are in etc.), in particular, via an launched in November 2019, Governance and Nominations areas at risk from tropical storms. assessment of the probability and the compensation policies do Committee. ■ The risk to reputation and impact of these risks. not yet reflect this goal. ■ In November 2019, the commercial and financial risk ■ Risk mapping is updated by the Executive Committee organized related to the impact of its committee each quarter and the an initial seminar focusing on activities on the climate is now risk universe is updated annually. climate-related challenges, with taken into account in the presentations from outside context of the carbon neutrality experts. project and will be assessed during 2020. Recommendation 2 Recommendation 4 Recommendation 7 Recommendation 10 ■ A Group carbon neutrality ■ Faurecia’s portfolio of ■ The mapping of major risks is ■ Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions manager was appointed and technologies covers all scenarios validated each year by the published in the chapter reports to the Executive in relation to the motorization mix Executive Committee, Audit environmental performance. Committee member responsible and will allow us to adapt to Committee and the Board of for strategy and innovation, and future choices by consumers Directors. to the Chief Executive Officer. and to climate-related ■ The Audit Committee also carries He or she works closely with the regulations. This strategy out an in-depth review of four risks Group CSR manager responsible guarantees the growth in sales each year. for the CSR strategy and for of Faurecia Clean Mobility in extra-financial reporting, who accordance with its financial reports to the Executive commitments. Committee member responsible ■ In 2019, the Group decided to for Human Resources. aim for the carbon neutrality of ■ Monthly meetings of the HSE its activities within scopes 1, 2, Committee are chaired by the and, partially, 3 by 2030. This Group HSE manager and strategy will allow the Group to attended by the Business better manage the risks to Groups’ CSR, carbon neutrality, reputation and the commercial and HSE managers. and financial risks connected ■ A half-yearly CSR Operations with its global carbon footprint. Committee is chaired by the CSR manager and the carbon neutrality manager leads the Committee’s climate-related discussions in connection with the climate correspondents from the Business Groups. Recommendation 5 Recommendation 8 Recommendation 11 ■ A project for achieving carbon ■ The Group’s risk mapping ■ The target of achieving neutrality by 2030 has been includes, within its risks, the risk carbon neutrality by 2030 launched. The roadmap and related to the environmental concerns Faurecia’s activities associated scenario will be impact of its sites and climate within scopes 1 and 2 and drawn up in 2020. change. This risk is monitored by partially within scope 3. This the Group’s Risk Committee. includes in particular the ■ In 2020, the impacts of indirect footprint of Faurecia’s prospective climate scenarios will activities, including the be taken into account in the majority of purchasing, freight, major trends used in the strategic travel, waste products, plans for the Business Groups. buildings, and product ■ In 2020, each Business Group will recycling operations. set out this risk analysis within its own scope, and will reinforce the corresponding action plans, in particular in relation to carbon neutrality. 268 / Universal Registration Document 2019 CSR Faurecia’s social and environmental responsibility strategy 4.1.5. Animating the CSR approach based on dialogue with stakeholders Dialogue with stakeholders is at the core of Faurecia’s commitment and is a key driver in its local presence. It involves the Group’s different business lines and functions, which contribute to a proactive and constructive approach. Listening and dialogue are therefore key factors in providing solutions that are relevant and adapted to all stakeholders. This allows Faurecia to better integrate their expectations and the challenges associated with its global and local strategy. Faurecia therefore applies a policy based on structured and proactive dialogue with all of its stakeholders, the key elements of which are set out in the table below: Stakeholders Information and communication Consultation and dialogue Key events in 2019 (as an option) Suppliers Corporate internet site for Continuous collaborative work Organization of Supplier’s Day, attended by communicating CSR Information Organization of conventions over 100 of the four Business Groups’ Code of Conduct for suppliers and Awards suppliers, in order to share the Group’s key sub-contractors Strategic monitoring and innovation strategies and initiate new partnerships. meetings External CSR support and assessment with EcoVadis (CSR screening) Customers Universal Registration Document Continuous collaborative work Introduction of the 5-Star Customer Specific questionnaires Faurecia Program Management Experience customer satisfaction strategy System (Total Customer Satisfaction Tokyo Motor Show platform) Launch of Customer Champion Week to Innovation Days mark World Quality Day 2019: in-house Site visits and presentation of promotion of best practices for customer innovations satisfaction and retention Innovation Continuous collaborative work Industrial chairs in association with Tel-Aviv technology platform partnerships Technology days universities and Technological Technology partnership with Microsoft Research Institutes Investment in Guardknox, a leading start-up Specific cooperation actions in the automotive safety sector Research and start-up assessment Proposed acquisition of 50% of the partner’s Strategic partnerships stake in its SAS joint venture Joint ventures and acquisitions Pace Awards from Automotive News magazine for the resonance-free pipe technology Partnership with Devialet to develop premium automotive audio solutions Investors Quarterly financial information Meetings between Executive Capital Market Day 2019 with the Yearly and half-yearly financial Management and financial market announcement of ambitious goals for 2022 statements players and launch of the carbon neutrality by 2030 Letter to shareholders Free hotline for individual shareholders program Annual report and corporate and societal responsibility report included in the Group’s Registration Document Targeted communication to financial analysts and institutional investors Local Brochures and reports Solidarityand community-focused FUELS program: program aimed at getting communities Website initiatives by employees via voluntary employees involved in local aid organizations Specific events site-based measures Creation of a Faurecia corporate foundation which seeks to provide support for projects internationally in those countries in which Faurecia has a presence, focusing on mobility, the environment, and education Employees The Faur’us internal and collaborative Regular dialogue with employees, Happy Trainees Certification (5th in the learning network employee representatives, and labor international category) In-house and on-line training (Faurecia unions “Top Employer” certification in 10 countries University and Learning Lab) “Employee empowerment” system “Top Employer Europe” designation Dynamic prospectuses/displays at Annual internal engagement survey Development of the “Joining Faurecia” Faurecia sites Integration program directed program to welcome employees from Communication with post-secondary specifically at new hires Clarion Electronics educational institutions: job fairs, site Relationships and partnerships with visits, ambassador network post-secondary institutions Planet care Universal Registration Document Open dialogue with governments and Reaffirmation of Faurecia’s climate Website NGOs commitments via its support for French Communication on progress in relation to Member of international and regional Business Climate Change the United Nations Global Compact professional associations and Launch of a program for achieving carbon Communication on the contribution federations neutrality by 2030 made to the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals / Universal Registration Document 2019 269 CSR Faurecia’s social and environmental responsibility strategy 4.1.6. Assessing the CSR results at the very top levels of the organization ■ Board of Directors: monitoring and review of the Group’s ■ the CSR sponsors from the Business Groups: Seating | Interiors extra-financial performance | Clean Mobility | Faurecia Clarion Electronics, tasked with the deployment of the approach within their entity. Once a year, the Group’s CSR Officer presents an analysis of extra-financial risks and an extra-financial performance At these meetings, members of the CSR Committee discuss review to the Board of Directors’ Governance and new directions in relation to the CSR strategy, the results Nominations Committee and Audit Committee. Then once a achieved by action plans, extra-financial risk mapping, the year the key aspects of the CSR strategy (the associated review of the annual extra-financial audit, and ensure that results, and the future orientations validated by the Executive CSR is being properly implemented via the various strategy Committee) are presented to the Board of Directors’ plans for the Functions and Business Groups. Governance and Nominations Committee. These factors are ■ The internal network of CSR sponsors, a key resource for the then presented once a year to the Board of Directors. rollout of the CSR strategy by the business and the ■ The Executive Committee: monitoring, review, and definition operations teams of the CSR strategy In order to pass on and roll out the CSR strategy to the Business Once a year, the Group’s CSR Officer presents to the Groups, Faurecia has appointed CSR ambassadors tasked with Executive Committee an extra-financial performance review defining and steering CSR policy within their Business Group. (CSR plans and associated results) and discusses new CSR Their role is to ensure that the CSR strategy for their entity is strategies in order to plan for the associated challenges, risks, properly defined and financed, to identify the appropriate and opportunities, and to monitor the progress made with employees for the steering of each subject (Planet, Business, the objectives set out in the CSR roadmap. People), and to report back to the other members of the Group’s CSR Committee on the progress made. Moreover during the year, one or several CSR topics within the planet – business – people priorities may be placed on ■ A CSR target integrated into the variable compensation the agenda by the Executive Committee depending on the paid to the Chief Executive Officer and Senior Management actions and programs underway. Starting with the creation of the six convictions in 2018, the ■ Operational CSR Committee: steering and implementation short-term variable compensation paid to the Group’s Chief of the Group CSR roadmap Executive Office has included a qualitative target linked to the deployment of these convictions and the creation of a An operational CSR Committee meets twice a year, which roadmap. brings together: From 2019, in order to involve the 300 senior executives in ■ key Group roles for the application of CSR to policies and the rollout of the initial CSR goals, 10% of their long-term processes: hygiene, safety, and the environment (HSE) | variable compensation now includes a performance strategy & innovation (including the carbon neutrality condition linked to the achievement of the gender balance project) | legal | risk | compliance | Internal Audit| targets set by the Group. human resources | purchasing; and January February September October November December March April May June July August NEW Board Board NEW Gov. Committee NEW Excom Audit Committee Long term Focus CSR Board Focus Compliance CSR Focus NEW Focus CSR perspective Audit Board Committee NEW Board Excom Audit Committee Bi-annual Audit Committee Quarterly [strategic] Focus CSR Focus Int.Control CSR Seminar Focus Risks Annual Annual Excom Board Excom Ethic & Risk & Int.Control Focus Compliance Compliance Committee Committee Short term Operational Risk perspective Quarterly Bi-annual Committee Monthly NEW Annual [operational] Operational Internal Control Operational Operational Business Groups Committee Compliance Board CSR Committee Management Board 270 / Universal Registration Document 2019 CSR Faurecia’s social and environmental responsibility strategy 4.1.7. Answering to the extra-financial performance declaration and the duty of care ■ Process for drawing up the Extra-Financial Performance A final list of risks and opportunities was validated by the Declaration (EFPD) Executive Committee in December 2018. It was completed by the CSR roadmap monitoring indicators validated by the The Group Risk Committee meets twice a year, attended in Executive Committee in September 2019. particular by the CSR Officer. Since 2018, the Group’s risk mapping has included extra-financial risks. This information, The table below provides a summary of Faurecia’s main which forms the Group’s EFPD pursuant to extra-financial risks and opportunities, as well as the Article L. 225-102-1 of the French Code of commerce, is associated policies and indicators to meet the requirements based on a materiality analysis carried out in 2018 by an of the EFPD. The sections which follow (4.2, 4.3 and 4.4) set in-house working group with members from the risk, legal, out in detail the policies and results using indicators over the operations, purchasing, human resources, and CSR last three years. Chapter 2 on risk and risk management also departments. The analysis of the Group’s extra-financial sets out the extra-financial risks integrated into the main risks challenges was made in comparison with a risk universe for used for the Group’s risk mapping: peers within the automotive sector, and on the basis of the recommendations made by the Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), and the Plateforme de l’Automobile (Automotive Industry Platform or PFA). The preliminary list of risks drawn up on the basis of a methodology linked to frequency of occurrence and degree of seriousness was then discussed over the course of some twenty interviews with external stakeholders for each risk identified. Main Risks and Opportunities * extra-financial risks integrated into Indicators Topic the Group’s main risks Approach and actions ** indicators integrated into the CSR roadmap SOCIAL Safety in the *R ■ Existence of an HSE network at all levels of ■ (FR0t) (accidents with lost time per workplace the organization million hours worked) ■ Systematic analysis of accidents ■ ** FR1t (accidents without lost time ■ Mandatory training in HSE rules per million hours worked) ■ Regular audit of all sites and systematic in the event of an alert ■ Ergonomic analysis of all workstations SOCIAL Talents attraction and *R ■ Partnerships with more than 100 ■ Turnover rate of managers and retention post-secondary institutions professionals ■ Integration program directed specifically at ■ Rate of managers & professionals new hires hired recently graduate ■ Internal mobility policy (including abroad) ■ Regular review of compensation policy ■ Quantitative indicators through dedicated reporting SOCIAL Social dialog R ■ Existence of a European Committee ■ Number of establishment or ■ Integral part of the duties of the site HR company agreements signed manager during the fiscal year ■ Annual survey of employee satisfaction, including social climate SOCIAL Employee O ■ ** Employee engagement index commitment SOCIAL Diversity O ■ **% of women/total managers and skilled professionals ■ **% of women managers and skilled professionals within top management ■ **% of non-Europeans within top management SOCIAL Employability O ■ ** Number of hours of training per employee per year SOCIETAL Business ethics *R ■ Global network of “Compliance Officers” ■ Percentage of managers & ■ Employee training & awareness raising professionals having received ■ Code of Ethics/internal procedures training on the Code of Ethics ■ Existence of a whistle-blowing system / Universal Registration Document 2019 271 CSR Faurecia’s social and environmental responsibility strategy Main Risks and Opportunities * extra-financial risks integrated into Indicators Topic the Group’s main risks Approach and actions ** indicators integrated into the CSR roadmap SOCIETAL Duty of care and *R ■ Sustainable purchasing policy ■ Rate of suppliers whose CSR responsible purchasing ■ Systematic CSR analysis of suppliers in all new performance was evaluated policy programs ■ ** Supplier satisfaction index ■ Required minimum level score ■ Quality audit of suppliers covering all CSR aspects ■ Whistle-blowing procedure SOCIETAL Product Quality and *R ■ IATF 16949 Certification ■ ** Customer satisfaction index Safety ■ Existence of a designated Quality Control ■ **% of sites at risk (based on an department at all levels of the organization internal analysis of operational ■ Total Customer Satisfaction program risks)/total sites ■ Whistle-blowing procedure and culture of documentation and conflict resolution (QRCI, etc.) ■ World Quality Day ■ Specialized and independent auditors SOCIETAL Commitment to O ■ ** Number of solidarity actions communities carried out by the sites in local communities ENVIRONMENTAL Environmental impact *R ■ Analysis and control of local environmental ■ Part of ISO 14001-certified of production plants risks based on ISO 14001 production plants and climate change ■ Monthly HSE committees ■ ** Tons of CO2 equivalent scopes 1 ■ Network of HSE managers at all levels & 2 (production)/€m of sales including at each Faurecia site ■ ** Tons of CO2 equivalent scope 3 ■ HSE requirements integrated into the (transportation)/€m of sales Faurecia Excellence System (FES) ■ ** Energy use in MWh/€m of sales ■ Regular internal and FES audit of sites ■ ** Tons of waste/€m of sales ENVIRONMENTAL Innovation of products O ■ Scope 3 of GHG emissions to improve air quality ■ ** Number of new patents and reduce the CO2 ■ ** Launch of the definition of an footprint EcoDesign methodology (simplified product life cycle analysis) ■ Process for drafting a duty of care plan duty of care applicable to parent companies and instructing companies, the aim of which is to identify risks The table below provides a summary of the policies and and prevent serious breaches in human rights and associated tools to comply with regulatory requirements fundamental freedoms, personal health, safety and the related to the duty of care. It uses the five-part structure environment. presented by Law No. 2017-399 of March 27, 2017 on the Information available in this Regulatory duty of care requirements Policies and processes put in place by Faurecia Universal Registration Document 1. Risk mapping aimed at identifying, analyzing, and The Group’s risk mapping includes extra-financial risks Section 2.2 ranking risks. and covers the subjects of human rights and fundamental freedoms, personal health and safety, and the environment. 2. Procedures for the regular assessment of the situation Faurecia has set up a Supplier Risk Management Section 4.4.3 regarding subsidiaries, subcontractors or suppliers with department. It is supported by its partner EcoVadis in which an established commercial relationship is in making an assessment of supplier risks with regard to place, with regard to risk mapping. corporate and environmental responsibility. 3. Actions tailored to risk mitigation or to the prevention Faurecia has put in place a Code of Ethics which obliges Section 4.4.1 of serious breaches of human rights or environmental each employee to comply with the International Labour damage. Organization’s (ILO) international treaties. Training relating to this Code is mandatory for all salaried managers and professionals. 4. Whistle-blowing mechanism and system for the Faurecia has a whistle-blowing mechanism at the Section 4.4.1 recording of alerts relating to the existence or disposal of its employees and suppliers. A procedure for occurrence of risks defined with the labor union the management of alerts has been defined. representatives. 5. Monitoring system for implemented measures and Faurecia has put in place governance on a local and Section 4.1 & 2.1 assessment of their effectiveness. Group level in relation to compliance, Internal Audit, risk management, HSE and CSR. 272 / Universal Registration Document 2019 CSR Social performance 4.2. Social performance Human resources represent a key success factor for Faurecia. The Group therefore guarantees a healthy and safe work The Group must be able to depend on competitive teams environment, by its commitment to the safety of people around the world to challenge the best competitors. The working, by attracting and developing their talents and Group’s performance is inseparable from its corporate social through constructive social dialogue. It is also convinced that responsibility. employee commitment and promotion of diversity are key performance levers, representing significant competitive advantages for the Group. The table below presents Faurecia’s main corporate social risks and opportunities and the associated results: Corporate Social Risks and Opportunities Indicators 2017 2018 2019 Goals for 2022 Safety in the FR0t (Accidents leading to lost time per 1 0.95 0.80 workplace* million hours worked) by employees and temporary workers. FR1t (Accidents with or without lost time 1.9 2.35 2.05 -30% per millions of hours worked) by base 2019 employees and temporary workers. Talents Rate of managers & professionals hired 39.3% 32.4% 34.1% attraction and who are recent graduates retention** Turnover rate of managers and 8.3% 9.1% 8.9% professionals Social dialog Number of company agreements 308 (in 353 (in 356(in signed 22 countries) 18 countries) 26 countries) Employee Employee engagement index 64 67 commitment Diversity** Percentage of women managers 23.3% 23.8% 24.4% 31% and skilled professionals Percentage of women among 11.6% 15.3% 15% 21% the top 300 Percentage of non-Europeans among 34% 39% the top 300 Employability* Number of training 21.1h 21.6h 24h hours/year/employee * Excluding the Business Group Faurecia Clarion Electronics. ** Including the Business Group Faurecia Clarion Electronics. / Universal Registration Document 2019 273 CSR Social performance 4.2.1. EFPD Safety in the workplace Safety in the workplace is one of the key elements of the these prevention programs is then audited by the Faurecia excellence initiative embodied by the Faurecia Excellence Excellence System(2). Best practices are shared between System (FES). It forms part of the personal respect requirement different organizations in the Group; which every site must satisfy. Faurecia’s policy on health and safety in the workplace at the day-to-day level centers MANAGEMENT’S COMMITMENT around two main goals: safeguarding employee health and improving their safety in the workplace. The commitment of Management is crucial to the deployment of the Group’s HSE policy. A program with 14 areas for In the context of the Group’s production Business Groups, progress was created with the systematic participation of all employees as well as contractors are exposed to the risk of Business Groups. This program will be expanded throughout work-related accidents. The Group is committed to 2020. For example, two areas of progress aim to implement implementing policies and active measures (prevention, one systematic safety point at the start of each meeting, and assessment, training) in order to prevent risks that could affect an observation report on the HSE situation after a site visit by employee safety, regularly monitor their proper application an Officer. A Group HSE Officer leads the network of HSE and measure their effectiveness. managers from the Business Groups. 4.2.1.1. Deployment of a HSE culture(1) 4.2.1.2. Acting for safety at work In 2019, Faurecia launched a new work safety management for safer operations program, “CARE”, whose goal is raising awareness and engaging all employees, based on four fundamentals: THE SEVEN FUNDAMENTALS OF SAFETY Over 12 years ago, Faurecia put in place the 13 mandatory COMPLIANCE WITH RULES HSE rules. These rules have made a considerable contribution to the improvement seen in workplace safety indicators. Faurecia trains all of its employees in HSE rules. These rules will Since 2016, Faurecia has reduced these rules down to the shortly be reinforced by in-house training on the Seven Safety seven safety fundamentals for all employees, in particular, Fundamentals. The training includes well-targeted theory and operators, Faurecia employees and employees of external practice modules with practical scenarios which allow contractors. These seven fundamentals are as follows: employees to learn or improve their knowledge of the HSE rules. Faurecia ensures that these rules are applied by carrying 1. stop work: each individual should and must stop work out annual audits within each division. immediately when dangerous conditions or behavior has been observed which could lead to injury, damage to HABITS AND PRACTICES FOR THE SAFETY equipment, or cause harm to the environment; OF ALL EMPLOYEES 2. lock out/tag out, signing in and out. Protection processes applicable during maintenance work are defined and set The attitude of every employee is key to managing safety, this out in writing; ranges from lost time in the event a dangerous situation is detected to an investigation into the safety culture with any 3. equipment safety: protection in hazard zones, verification related activity, to safety campaigns in every plant or even of safety equipment, and identification of removable parts competition between teams to promote security. Mutual and pinch points; assistance between employees is crucial and will thus increase 4. safety of flows: the plant must produce a detailed the level everyone’s of safety. documented risk assessment for each intersection and install stop and/or warning signs depending on the risk, the RISK PREVENTION pathways followed by pedestrians and by transportation Faurecia’s safety policy relies heavily upon prevention. The vehicles must be separated, and a stop sign is mandatory Group regularly initiates daily risk detection programs for each intersection with a forklift; concerning work safety in all its plants. Proper application of (1) Health, Safety, the Environment. (2) The Faurecia Excellence System (FES) governs the organization of Faurecia’s production and operations. It is designed to continuously improve the quality, cost, delivery and safety performance of the Group. The FES complies with the requirements of the quality, environment and safety standards of the automotive industry (ISO/TS 16949, IATF 16949, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001). It benefits from the capitalization of more than 14 years of Faurecia’s experience and has been continuously enriched with the best internal and external practices of lean manufacturing. The FES makes it possible to secure an appropriate operational performance of Faurecia’s production plants, whatever their geographical position and their local activity specificities, thanks to common working methods and language. 274 / Universal Registration Document 2019 CSR Social performance 5. a specific work permit must be held for high-risk operations: only the external companies who have followed this process subcontractors are monitored and a safety plan is drawn are authorized to work on the roofs at Faurecia plants. up; 6. reinforcement of the deployment of the wearing of ERGONOMICS AND WORKING CONDITIONS personal protection equipment (PPE) across all of the Most occupational illnesses reported by employees involve Group’s plants. The application of these rules and their musculoskeletal disorders. To reduce this, Faurecia has taken monitoring via FES production audits is contributing to the steps for several years to consider the strain caused by prevention of work-related accidents not resulting in lost workstations and to remedy the situation as much as possible. time (FR1t). These rules related to protective equipment require the wearing of helmets during maintenance Ergonomic analysis of workstations is part of the FES tools and operations, gloves and cut-resistant sleeves when using this point is systematically checked during production site cutting elements or handling metal and thermal protection audits. when working with hot materials. These rules also impose As a result of these reviews, a variety of solutions have been the mandatory wearing of ear protectors in the event of implemented for manufacturing workstations. The reviews are high noise levels; furthermore, each Faurecia plant defines, also used to prepare a list of recommendations that are on an individual basis, the personal protection equipment systematically taken into account during the design of to be used by its employees or visitors. Safety footwear and products and manufacturing tools. Faurecia uniforms are mandatory in all the plants. For plants with a high noise level, ear protectors, as well as A number of recommendations from professional ergonomists safety glasses, are mandatory; and Group HSE coordinators are being factored into the Program Management System (PMS). 7. the prevention of risks related to fires and chemicals is covered. All of the Group’s operations managers and plant managers have received training in ergonomics as part of accelerating These new fundamentals principles have been explained at all the FES deployment, which was launched during the second Faurecia plants via a range of communication methods half of 2009 and continued since then. The goal of this (video, messages, presentation). A new questionnaire has program is to ensure that these managers play a real been drawn up to help plants complete a self-assessment leadership role in the continuous improvement process, regarding their deployment levels in the first half of 2020. notably for ergonomics-related issues. Employees are now at the very heart of Faurecia’s safety approach. The “stop work” is launched in all plants with posters and training. Risk monitoring is now the most important 4.2.1.3. Workplace safety indicators tool for avoiding accidents. Each plant takes part in this The change in the frequency rate of work-related accidents is process and Faurecia has identified more than 10,000 risks at analyzed in order to measure the effectiveness of actions the Group level each month. carried out in this area. To guarantee the same level of Faurecia has launched an application which enables visitors workplace safety for all employees, temporary workers are to a plant to give their feedback regarding the situation at the included in the same manner as Faurecia employees in the plant. This tool provides the plant with an external view and following indicators: areas for improvement in terms of safety. Faurecia has also improved its communication on safety. An KEY INDICATORS TO FOLLOW RESULTS ON SAFETY online platform allows best practices to be exchanged. A AT WORK one-page newsletter on a safety-related topic is sent to plants ■ FR0t: 0.8 (Accidents leading to lost time per million hours on a weekly basis. This tool helps the plants that systematically worked) by employees and temporary workers. FR0t begin their meetings with a safety-related topic. measures the number of work-related accidents involving a Faurecia is also continuing fire safety initiatives, especially with Faurecia employee or temporary worker, with lost time, per the installation of sprinklers, which enables workforce safety to million hours worked; be strengthened and the risk of production downtime to be ■ FR1t: 2.05 (Accidents with or without lost time per millions of reduced in the event a fire should break out. hours worked) by employees and temporary workers. FR1t An analysis of events has shown that proven cases of fire are measures the number of work-related accidents involving a related to work outside of standard production processes. For Faurecia employee or temporary worker, with or without lost this reason, the plants will now systematically review risks for time, per million hours worked. non-standard operations. Both indicators are calculated on a rolling six-month basis. In addition to the applicable regulations, supplemental After each FR0t and FR1t accident, an analysis is performed using requirements have been implemented for external contractors a problem-solving method based on the best practices in terms carrying out tasks at high levels. External companies are asked of solving quality problems to ensure that the root causes of the to guarantee that all employees (including temporary staff) accident are understood, that corrective actions have been carrying out tasks at high levels have been trained and are effective, and that preventative measures are implemented and fully qualified. Each external company must appoint a security shared across the various sites. manager who will guarantee that all measures devised during the risk assessment are applied and adhered to. As a result, / Universal Registration Document 2019 275 CSR Social performance Number of accidents with lost time per million hours worked (FR0t)* 18 16.1 16 14 12 10 8.7 8 6 5.6 4.2 4 4 2.7 2.4 1.7 2 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.8 1 0.95 0.9 0.6 0.5 0.7 0 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 H1 H2 2019 2019 Number of accidents with or without lost time per million hours worked (FR1t)* 60 55.2 50 40 30 28.4 25.2 20 19.4 15.8 11.9 10 9 6.2 3.2 2.6 2.2 2.3 2 1.8 1.9 2.4 2.1 2 0 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 H1 H2 2019 2019 plants that have few accidents, with or without lost time, to focus on accident prevention and relevant priorities. The actions launched through the CARE project have reduced the rate of FR0t accidents by 16% and the rate of First aid procedures are monitored across all autonomous FR1t accidents by 13% on a year-to-year basis. For the two production units, together with the application of the FR0t and FR1t indicators, progress accelerated in the second problem-solving method, allowing production managers to half of 2019. make rapid progress in the appropriation of accident analyses and to increase their responsiveness. In its plants, Faurecia also monitors the FR2t indicator, the stability of which, since 2016, shows that the FR0t and FR1t The Group will complete the analysis of its accidents via the indicators have not deteriorated. This indicator measures the accident severity rate to have a complete understanding of number of first aid procedures performed following an accidents and in order to best identify action priorities in incident per million hours worked. This monitoring enables prevention. * Excluding the Business Group Faurecia Clarion Electronics. 276 / Universal Registration Document 2019 CSR Social performance 4.2.2. Engaging employees 4.2.2.1. Being Faurecia: a strong corporate culture The Faurecia group has inherited a long tradition of the automotive industry and poorer visibility regarding the technological innovation and manufacturing excellence. The macroeconomic environment, but with a level of confidence Group has grown rapidly both organically and through major in the Group’s strategy which remains high. acquisitions. Today, it is among the world’s leading automotive In addition to this questionnaire, in 2019, Faurecia launched an suppliers with sales of €17,768.3 million and a headcount of annual questionnaire to measure the level of commitment nearly 115,500 people in 37 countries. from all Group employees with open-ended contracts. The During the first phase of its history, the Group focused on results show a level of commitment of 64/100 points, measured developing systems and processes necessary to ensure that it on the basis of four employee assessment criteria: level of provides the same level of quality and operational satisfaction in the workplace, willingness to recommend performance to all of its customers around the world. Faurecia as a responsible employer, pride in belonging to the Group, and confidence in the strategy. For several years now, the Group has entered a new phase of development, characterized by steadier growth and a greater emphasis on value creation. 4.2.2.2. Training to support the Group’s Under these new circumstances, in 2019 the Faurecia group continued to advance its cultural transformation program, transformation Being Faurecia, which was launched in 2014. Being Faurecia Within the Group, training is an investment in support of aims to redefine the corporate culture and its management strategic directions. In this context, the Group supports the model. The program seeks to create an environment that development and employability of employees at all levels of promotes an entrepreneurial spirit and autonomous operating responsibility as a part of Faurecia’s rapid and ambitious teams. As part of this approach, the human resources transformation. development strategy has been recalibrated and tasks have It’s a key tool in the implementation of genuine continuous been realigned. The priority given to internal promotion has improvement, supported by the Faurecia Excellence System been reaffirmed and most of the Human Resources (FES), which shapes the culture of performance and constant development processes have been reviewed and improved. learning. Training plans are managed on different levels within Faced with an industry undergoing profound change, in 2019, the organization according to the practices in the different the Group wanted to strengthen understanding among its countries in which the Group operates. employees of the transformation challenges facing Faurecia, Faurecia uses the 70:20:10 learning model: so that everyone can more easily identify new situations in order to launch transformation projects, while guaranteeing ■ 70% of employees learn in performing their daily tasks; operational performance on a daily basis. Faurecia is ■ 20% of employees learn while working with their co-workers positioning itself as a Group focused on creating value that is and managers; customer-oriented, innovative, and has management principles based on self-control, the pursuit of excellence, and ■ 10% of employees learn by participating in organized entrepreneurship. training sessions (in class or online). The Group’s values are broken down into managerial values In this context, training activities, internal training, using (entrepreneurship, autonomy, accountability) and behavioral adapted digital tools, workshops centered on sharing values (respect, exemplarity, energy), enabling it to support the experience and skills are the preferred methods, so that emergence of exemplary behavior within the organization, as Faurecia’s training system is in line with the pace and set out in a Management Code. This practical guide for demands of its business lines. Training being at the center of managers provides a clear description of the exemplary each employee’s development, specific actions are behavior expected. implemented as much to promote individual change as to increase team effectiveness. It has reinforced the decentralized organizational principles. All decision-making processes have been reviewed. The Faurecia’s training courses cover largely three key employee number of such processes has been reduced significantly and needs, through a four-level structure: their content has been pared down in order to validate the ■ for all employees (production plants, Research Centers, autonomy of the teams at the different levels of the administrative headquarters), there is regular organized organization. training to support implementation of the Faurecia To measure commitment and practices, an employee Excellence System. In addition, the skills academies cover satisfaction survey was conducted in 2019 with managers and the necessary job skills in the four major Business Groups professionals to measure the level of adherence and (Faurecia Seating, Faurecia Interiors, Faurecia Clean attachment to Being Faurecia within the teams. A high level of Mobility and Faurecia Clarion Electronics) and an IT engagement resulted in a response rate of more than 81%, Academy trains our employees in the use of the tools which represents 21,700 managers and professionals surveyed. deployed in digital transformation applications; The results showed a slight drop to 58/100 points, compared with 61/100 points in 2017, against a backdrop of change in / Universal Registration Document 2019 277 CSR Social performance ■ for managers and skilled professionals: Faurecia University is ■ combining the use of appropriate working methods which, in charge of training 22,000 managers and executives in the depending on the situation, either guarantee excellence in managerial skills required for transformation; performance or, on the contrary, stimulate creativity to propose transformation solutions; ■ for administrative staff and technicians (26,000 individuals); specific industry-related training has been drawn up and, ■ developing people’s ability to work in an international since 2018, they have had access to the digital training setting. provided by Faurecia University (via PC or smartphone) and to a constantly growing range of training courses; 4.2.2.2.2. FAURECIA UNIVERSITY ■ for operators: training is provided via each production plant Faurecia University is now a member of the CLIP network and is now completed by the Faurecia University digital (created by the European Foundation for Management platform which is being rolled out in 2019 and will continue Development) which groups together the 25 most mature in 2020. In 2019, one half of operators (34,000 individuals) corporate universities run by leading global groups (Siemens, connected to the digital training platform via one of the Santander, Cap Gemini, Telecom Indonesia, Unicredit, etc.). range of media provided (PC, tablet, or, on request, via These companies share joint ambitions and best industry their own smartphones) thereby already covering the practices. In particular, they are considered as a reference in United States, Mexico, China, India, France, England, South terms of the strength of top management’s alignment in the Africa, Russia, Spain, and Poland. All other operators will be role and mission of Faurecia University, as well as the quality connected in 2020. and speed with which the Faurecia University offer is being put Training also facilitates the development of the organizational online. structure and operational principles prevailing within the With more than 7,300 employees having completed classroom Group. In this context, the changes induced by the Being training, 2019 was marked by an increased digitization of Faurecia strategy are gradually incorporated into the Group’s Faurecia University. In addition to the three regional campuses training programs. Lastly, training is a management tool. It is Europe (Nanterre), China (Shanghai), North America (Auburn the responsibility of supervisors (identification of needs, Hills and Puebla) which continued to fulfill their mission of communication with interested parties) and is implemented providing Corporate training and creating programs specific with the support of the Group’s Human Resources network. to each region, the University acquired a fourth structure in India (Pune). 4.2.2.2.1. KEY AREAS OF TRAINING ■ Role and responsibilities of Faurecia University The priorities identified in training plans are used to achieve Faurecia University aims to support the development of the goals set for different business units. They are structured managerial skills and offer a firm foundation for the around the following themes: transformation of the Group’s business model and the ■ improving plant performance (safety, quality, costs and associated culture. Its role is also key in the commitment of deadlines) and ensuring optimal production start-up; employees so that they remain loyal to the transformation undertaken. To do this, Faurecia University gives priority to ■ enhancing the attractiveness of customer offerings; providing support to managers throughout their careers so ■ increasing technological expertise in products and that they are able to satisfy their need to grow within the processes; strategic process of the Company’s transformation, by: ■ increasing the professional qualifications of employees, ■ ensuring their full integration into the Group’s culture; fostering their career development and enhancing their ■ helping them to acquire functional skills necessary for employability; their professional growth; ■ developing managerial skills in line with Faurecia’s ■ offering training to help them acquire and improve their Leadership Competency Model; managerial skills and to develop their leadership skills; ■ anticipating and managing identified skills requirements ■ preparing them for key positions (plant manager, over the medium term; program manager, R&D manager); ■ strengthening a shared culture focusing on value creation ■ Mode of governance and entrepreneurial spirit, while respecting the fundamentals of Faurecia’s internal codes (ethics and Faurecia University has a Governance Committee, composed management), in particular compliance with competition of members of the Group’s Executive Committee. The law; Governance Committee met three times in 2019. In addition, these plenary sessions, members of the Governance Committee are closely associated with the development of new programs and, more specifically, active in certain key programs in which they play an active role (by their presence or in the specific choice of training topics). 278 / Universal Registration Document 2019 CSR Social performance ■ A firmly established and expansive training offer equal to ■ Training programs linked to strategic transformations of the best practices of major international groups functions and core businesses The range of training on offer covers the main leadership, ■ The CX program (commercial signature): was launched functional (sales, purchasing, human resources, etc.), and in 2019 to support the significant investment made by operational skills via different programs, it is enhanced by Faurecia in improving customer satisfaction and the the constant presence of our managers or Executive positioning of the business’ commercial signature. It is Committee members who take part, speak to, or interact intended to be deployed for executives in the sales with participants: divisions. ■ Leadership development, key skills for Group managers ■ The program for human resources officers was launched with HEC in 2019. It is aimed at helping human resources ■ Launched in 2016, the training reached 1,350 managers officers develop the strategic areas of human resources in 2019 (compared with 1,400 managers in 2018), transformation (commitment, digitization, talent evidence of the effort maintained in the context of a management, etc.) while at the same time ensuring that slowing economy. Training covers a full range of they remain anchored in the operational reality of their leadership skills broken down by themes and levels of sectors. The training alternates between internal and responsibility. In 2019, the offer was completed by new external case studies, conferences, and learning new modules on new technologies and agile methods and methods for creativity. their adoption within Faurecia’s various core businesses. ■ The training provided to plant managers and program ■ The DRIVE program consists of two levels for managers teams has continued to enjoy growing success with the and experienced managers, and is structured around teams. It responds in particular to the key need to various modules (leadership, change leadership, strengthen skills and synergies within program teams and innovation, etc.). This offer has been enhanced by the plants, from the moment production is launched. experience and training staff of our partner Impact International (a well-reputed English firm specialized in ■ The creation of the new Faurecia Clarion Electronics managerial training). This was rolled out on campus in Business Group has led to the creation of a specific Nanterre (France), Auburn Hills (United States), Puebla training package to explain to new employees the (Mexico), Shanghai (China) and now also in India (Pune). benefits and challenges related to the creation of this To complete the needs, training in agile methods (used in new Business Group. A set of 15 online training sessions start-ups and the software industry) was launched in 2019 have been translated into Japanese and were widely in partnership with Numa (network of business followed by employees. “Joining Faurecia” training incubators). Initiated by engineering research and session were attended in person by 100 managers from development, these training programs are proving more the new Business Group in 2109. and more successful (already completed by ■ Supporting our managers in a world in a state of permanent 190 individuals). Agile methods have also proven to be disruption relevant both in the context of the Cockpit of the Future and Clean Mobility strategies, and in the context of the Faurecia University developed two new activities in 2019 to creation of the Faurecia Clarion Electronics Business create areas for brainstorming and learning which help Group and the transformation of functions (Purchasing, provide a better understanding of possible future scenarios HR, etc.). and their impact on Faurecia’s business model in the automotive industry. ■ The IGNITE program, designed and run by the London Business School, this program is rolled out in two stages. ■ A series of CEO conferences –launched by Patrick Koller– Based on an initial module focused on the focused on the new global geopolitical dynamics “transformation of the business model” completed by all (Europe, China, United States) and was attended by over executives, a “team management and leadership in a 300 executives and watched by more than complex world” module has already been completed by 2,500 Faurecia employees thanks to digital tools. Globally 60% of executives. These modules continue to give renowned experts on these subjects (former ministers, executives the tools to deepen their ability to operate in heads of international bodies, university lecturers) shared the new ecosystem of the automotive industry, whose their visions of the transformations of the possible world. technological wealth is enormous, and to engage their ■ Faurecia think tank is involved in the production of teams as their environment changes around them. scenarios intended to inform management about In 2019, a new module (already completed by possible strategies in response to the risks and 100 people) was launched in cooperation with France’s opportunities (climate-related, political, social, etc.) École Polytechnique to provide a better understanding of which are the hardest to predict but will have the the dynamics of the technological revolutions currently greatest impact on Faurecia; Faurecia think tank underway (data management, artificial intelligence, received contributions from 50 Faurecia executives and cyber security, digitization, etc.) and their impact on the managers from all around the world, and from an corporate business model. academic network of leading universities (Toulouse School of Economics, Fudan University in Shanghai, École Polytechnique in Paris, Pennsylvania University, Sciences Po Paris). / Universal Registration Document 2019 279 CSR Social performance ■ The Learning Lab created to help Faurecia employees have a better understanding of the major challenges created by the During 2019, digital training offerings reached new transformation of the Company in connection with those milestones in terms of use of the digital learning platform often complex ones of the industry. These measures aim to with the Learning Lab and the internal collaborative make the transformation of the Company simple, learning network Faur’us. understandable, and engaging for as many employees as The Learning Lab is an internal digital learning platform possible. More than 80 new learning content modules are created by and open to all Faurecia employees. Faurecia available via this community (teaching documents, has been a pioneer company in giving all operators access explanatory videos, podcasts by Patrick Koller and also by to these training programs in just two years –one half in 2019, many managers who play a key role in the transformation the other in 2020. In total, 77,000 individuals now have of the Company, etc.). With more than 12,000 regular access to this training, including 32,000 operators already. visitors, this learning community has established itself as the The training takes the form of dynamic short animated community with the second highest number of visits from videos, accompanied by questions. Multimedia access (PC, employees. tablet, smartphone via a dedicated app) is provided with a now well-stocked library of over 300 digital lessons which use a range of formats and respond to a varied range of 4.2.2.3. Employee Empowerment development needs. The offer covers Faurecia’s fundamentals (FES, Program Management System, basic To significantly strengthen our joint goals of Total customer operations, gender diversity, ethics and compliance), and satisfaction and sustainable operational performance, 2019 also management as well as numerous domains of business has seen the launch of a major update of our core operations transformation (digital, technology, etc.). The Learning Lab system, the Faurecia Excellence System (FES X.0). has become the most valuable key training tool for our Almost 2,600 division managers and site management teams employees and also constitutes an important vehicle for participated in nine regional workshops and 25 mother plant their commitment and employability. workshops generating approximately 40,000 training hours. The 2019 figures provide evidence of the impact with (as these sessions focused the management on the FES in 2018) use almost doubling. With over 14 languages fundamentals and their role to ensure the active involvement available (including Japanese which has ensured that the of all Faurecia employees to build the continuous Japanese employees of Clarion Electronics have been improvement mindset. the employee empowerment (EE) rapidly brought on board), the Learning Lab provides nearly subsystem has this as its primary goal. 20 thousand hours of training each month. As a cornerstone of the continuous improvement mindset, Since the opening of the Learning Lab in 2016: Employees are encouraged to actively contribute improvements ideas and whilst in 2019 the number of ■ more than 11 million knowledge-testing questions were improvement ideas implemented per employee and has answered with a supported response; remained stable at 11, Faurecia has started to see a consistent ■ more than 1.670 million videos were viewed; increase in the second half of the year. ■ more than 450,000 hours were spent learning. Considerable progress has been made in 2019 in the way the Group train and educate teams in FES X.0: ■ The Faur’us digital platform ■ six new Employee Empowerment MOOC’s (Mass Online Faur’us further adds to the collaborative and social Open Course) were launched covering seven of the EE dimension of this learning process by significantly offering Fundamentals. The remaining six EE Fundamentals will be the possibility of sharing knowledge throughout the updated in early 2020. The Group has seen a fivefold professional community. It also enables collaborative and increase in participation of these MOOC’s with over open work methods to be spread, providing access to rich 16,000 employees participating in 2019. This will only and diverse knowledge by increasing the collective increase as the learning lab for all project starts to take effectiveness of employee work. This tool is key in a global effect; group with a presence in over 35 countries. On a daily basis, more than 35,000 employees use this platform in their ■ Faurecia has enrolled all Plant Managers and their full professional activities (sharing information, exchanging best management teams (2,000 managers) in a knowledge practices, discussions, etc.). More than 2,600 active embedding program that sees a daily (via app or outlook) professional communities exist (on management and touch of FES knowledge directly tailored to their role and leadership, Human Resources, logistics, industrial their relative knowledge level. This equates to more than operations, etc.) and the network generates more than half a million questions answered in one year; 25 million interactions a year (document sharing, reading of ■ both the existing EE Fundamentals and Site human content, discussions, etc.). resources Manager programs have been updated, with ■ Ensuring our employees are more committed to the pre-learning reinforcement using new MOOC’s. In 2020 the transformation: All on board connect focus on train the trainer, especially for EE Fundamentals, will continue to ensure the delivery of these programs to the Benefiting from the installation of the Faur’us digital human resources and operations target population. platform, a dedicated learning community has been 280 / Universal Registration Document 2019 CSR Social performance The real focus in 2020 will be the continued embedding of ■ succession planning & career development for key core FES knowledge to improve the Group’s joint end goals of positions; Total Customer Satisfaction and a sustainable operational ■ annual performance reviews for every employee which performance. includes individual development actions (except some restrictions in a small number of sites due to Union/works council requirements); 4.2.2.4. Development of Technicians and ■ every Plant has an active plan to permanently engage and Operators employee performance motivate employees as part of the successful Being 2019 has seen a major focus on people management and Faurecia initiative. development with the FES X.0 project. Specifically, with the In 2019, in addition to the bi annual Employee satisfaction Employee Empowerment fundamentals, the Group ensures: surveys that have been running in Faurecia since 2012, an ■ mastery of workstations (training, quality performance, annual light Employee Engagement survey was launched as delivery performance and improvement at workstations); part of the Groups Sustainable Development Convictions. This allows an annual view of all (permanent) employee ■ development plans for current and future Team (GAP) engagement and is a major input to the site Engagement and Leaders and Supervisors; Motivation Plans. ■ active participation in improvement activities including submitting, implementation and recognition of ideas; 4.2.3. EFPD Talents attraction and retention Faurecia integrates and develops the potential of its skilled ■ identifying individual potential as early as possible in order professionals and managers to improve their performance to develop the necessary skills in the medium to long term; and skills and offer them attractive career paths. The effective ■ offering diverse career opportunities while considering the development of engineers’ and managers’ potential is at the technical and managerial paths as equal in importance. core of the Being Faurecia program. The Group seeks to continuously improve the performance of its managers and ■ Indicators on acquisition and retention of talents in 2019: ensure their professional development so that they can realize ■ 8.9% (including FCE) rate of resignation within the Group their potential. for managers and professionals, a slight improvement on At the same time, the Group constantly adapts its allocation 2018 (9.1%), of Human Resources to meet short-term business demands ■ 34,1% (including FCE) of managers & professionals hired and prepares for the medium-term to ensure that the Group are recent graduates, always has best-in-class in terms of managers and technical experts, driven by the pursuit of excellent customer service. ■ 40% (including FCE) of VIEs were hired in long term contract upon completion of their program, Anticipation of business needs, short and medium term management of resources, the effectiveness of individual ■ 1,231 (excluding FCE) potential talents for the Group’s development of managers and skilled professionals, allows Senior Management (Group Leadership Committee: the Faurecia to offer its employees opportunities in career 300 members who represent Senior Management), or advancement and better retain its teams, thus constantly nearly three potential candidates identified per position, reducing the risk of losing talent. ■ 2,715 (excluding FCE) potential talents for key posts (Plant Effective implementation of a collective and individual Manager or Program Manager or equivalent) or more resource management method is guaranteed by respect for than 1 potential candidate (158%) per position. common principles: ■ investing in recruitment of employees having growth potential; 4.2.3.1. Attracting and retaining talents ■ measuring performance in an equitable and factual Faurecia has grown substantially in recent years, and now has manner, allowing each individual to demonstrate the ability a headcount of just over 115,500 people, more than 21,700 of to deliver results; whom were managers and skilled professionals with open-ended contracts as of the end of 2019. ■ continually developing technical and managerial skills; / Universal Registration Document 2019 281 CSR Social performance In 2019, in a macroeconomic context which is less favorable than that of 2018, the number of hires fell by 40% in comparison with 2018 and represents 1,870 managers and professionals (compared with 3,127 in 2018), on a like-for-like basis (excluding Clarion Electronics). These were mainly completed in Asia (673), the countries having seen the largest number of hires completed in this region being China (341) and India (234), as well as in Europe and in North America, as set out below: External Recruitment for Open-ended contracts (CDI) 2019* 2018 Change Asia 673 1,583 -910 Europe 680 744 -64 North America 457 581 -124 South America 14 50 -36 Other 46 169 -123 TOTAL 1,870 3,127 -1,257 * Including the Business Group Faurecia Clarion Electronics (FCE). ■ 383* additional hires with open-ended contracts (CDI) were discussions with schools and to share with students the made in the context of the hiring to permanent posts of expertise accrued by our employees. apprentices and conversions from fixed-term contracts. To ensure the success of newly recruited employees, Faurecia ■ 43% (excluding FCE) of recruitment was in production, 24% offers all new hires a personal induction program enabling to sales roles, research and development, and program them to find out more about the Group, its values, strategy management. and organization, and to become acquainted with its culture and operating systems. Some countries have organized In 2019, Faurecia continued to focus on recruiting recent special events, such as orientation days, to expedite the graduates and early-career professionals in order to ensure integration of new hires. that the Group recruits and retains the talent of the future. Programs and partnerships with more than 100 schools, Developing and promoting international exposure is essential universities and post-secondary institutions are in place in for a Group that employs 57% (including FCE) of its skilled many countries where the Group operates so as to publicize professionals and managers outside of Europe and carries out internship and job opportunities among students. This is in 64% (including FCE) of its recruitment outside this region. Within particular the case in France with colleges and universities this framework, Faurecia can offer its people many such as ESTACA, ENSAM, EM Lyon, HEC, Centrale Supelec, international assignments as well as the opportunity to take Kedge Business School, École Centrale Nantes, ECE, ESTIAM, part in international projects. UTBM and UTC, and also in other major countries abroad A stable employee base is essential for safeguarding the (Michigan State University in the United States; Shanghai Group’s investment in human capital. In 2019, the resignation Jiaotong University in China; Karlsruher Institut fur Technologie rate of managers and skilled professionals improved slightly as in Germany, etc.). To support these partnerships, Faurecia has indicated below. set up a network of international Ambassadors to facilitate Resignation rate 2019* 2018 change Comments Asia 9.1% 9.8% -0.7% India +4.7% Europe 7.9% 7.3% +0.6% France +1.2% North America 10.4% 12.1% -1.7% Senior Management 4.9% 1.4% +3.5% TOTAL 8.9% 9.1% -0.2% * Including the Business Group Faurecia Clarion Electronics. 4.2.3.2. The talents of tomorrow reaching 34.1% including FCE (compared with 32.4% in 2018), including the Business Group Faurecia Clarion Electronics. In 2019, the Group continued to implement two Faurecian Talent Initiatives in order to attract and retain the employees To help it reach its target to recruit more young graduates, of tomorrow, two key factors in sustaining the Group’s growth. including female graduates, the Group relies heavily on the VIE international corporate volunteer program. In 2019, the The first project’s goal is to improve gender diversity at the number of international corporate volunteer contracts time of recruitment and for career development in general continued to grow, with 307 signed, compared with 282 (see Section 4.2.5 on diversity). in 2018. Nearly 40% (including FCE) of young managers and The goal of the second project is to recruit more young professionals having completed their international corporate graduates. The number of recent graduates hired to entry volunteer program during 2019 were hired by Faurecia, mainly level management positions continued to grow in 2019, in France, Germany, and the United States. 282 / Universal Registration Document 2019 CSR Social performance 4.2.3.3. Developing our talent, Czech Republic, Poland, UK; in Asia: China, India, and on the American continent, in the United States and Mexico. a powerful ambition The Top Employer label rewards companies for the excellence To prepare the managers of tomorrow, talent identification of their practices in terms of management of human capital should start as early as possible. especially in the field of attraction and development of Faurecia has more than 6,900 (excluding FCE) identified talents, compensation and social advantages, training and talents, a net increase (up 23%) in comparison to 2018 (5,600). development of competences. The applicants are offered diverse career paths to realize their potential. These paths include inter-functions/inter-divisions mobility, project work or short-term assignments. The plan aims 4.2.3.4. Consolidating the Group’s to help employees step out of their comfort zone and provide performance culture and them with general management skills. having exemplary leaders External assessments are offered to current and future leaders. The aim is to help all individuals better understand their A fair, objective performance assessment is a cornerstone of development potential so they can make the best career employee development and a key Being Faurecia concept. choices. Individual development plans are defined as part of This assessment leads to an annual performance review this process. In all, 27 assessments were carried out in 2019 between manager and skilled professional and their (total since the beginning: 303). supervisor. The goal, beginning with the self-assessment prepared by the employee, is both to measure attainment of Alongside these internal activities, a reinforcement plan was individual annual goals and to assess managerial and rolled out in France, Germany, the United States and China to behavioral skills. This factual, measurable assessment allows recruit high-potential applicants for whom an accelerated not only to identify high-performing managers and skilled career path is defined and implemented. Eight additional professionals, but also to validate and implement actions for hires were completed in 2019 in this context. A total of individual development in order to continually increase 24 individuals are taking part in this program. An identical short-term performance as well as develop each person’s program aimed at hiring high-potential women has been potential over the medium to long term. By end 2019, 98% launched in order to improve diversity within Senior (excluding FCE) of managers and professionals were assessed Management. through a performance review. The Group also places great importance on the international In 2019, the Group launched the fifth campaign of its dimension of its Senior Management team, while taking steps performance appraisal system, STAR (Setting Targets, to attract, develop and retain local talent across the globe. Achieving Results) for all managers and professionals, a Thus, 34% of the Group’s Senior Management is today comprehensive approach combining three components: composed of non-Europeans (17% from North America, 16% from Asia, 1% from South America) and 66% European (45% ■ a management by objective component that aligns French, 10% German). individual performance with business objectives; 40% (excluding FCE) of the managers and professionals ■ a managerial skills assessment makes it possible to identify identified (excluding FCE) as having the potential to join the each individual’s strengths as well as areas where there is Group Leadership Committee (the 300 members who room for improvement to construct practical and effective represent Senior Management) come from non-European individual development plans. The Code, which describes countries (compared with 36% in 2018). the managerial skills that must be mastered at each level of the organization, is at the center of performance The Executive Committee continued to strengthen its management and the identification of the potential and involvement in managing talent. Twice a year, the Committee development of future leaders; now reviews the Group’s top performers with a particular focus on potential executive managers. Furthermore, beyond ■ the assessment of behavior enables the measurement of People Reviews normally organized at the Business Group, commitment to the Group’s values. They consist of three Division and functional levels, Key Reservoir Reviews were managerial values (entrepreneurship, autonomy and carried out in North America, Asia and South America in order accountability) and three individual values (respect, to develop internal mobility and to optimize local talent exemplarity and energy). A Management Code was management. Since 2016, a new process called “Cross BG developed to provide a practical illustration of the behavior Point HR” was also set up at Group level in order to develop expected from managers in the main situations they might the mobility of Senior Managers between Business Groups. face. This Code is intended to be a practical guide for managers to develop exemplary behavior. Once a year, the Group’s succession plan is presented to members of the Board of Directors’ Governance and In 2019, the quality of the interviews and commitment shown Nominations Committee. by management remained an objective of the STAR campaign. In order to reinforce the message, the three Following audits carried out by the Top Employer Institute, priorities defined last year have been retained: improving the Faurecia is among the companies which were awarded the quality of the feedback received, strengthening internal “Top Employer Europe” label for 2019. This global recognition equity in terms of performance assessment, and improving the can be added to the Top Employer certification received by resilience and monitoring of development actions. key countries of the Group in Europe: France, Germany, Spain, / Universal Registration Document 2019 283 CSR Social performance Finally, in order to improve the effectiveness of the responsibility exercised. Therefore, the greater the level of performance assessment, two changes were introduced in the responsibility, the more variable components represent a 2019 campaign: greater portion of total compensation. For non-manager and skilled professionals, Faurecia has tools at the local level which ■ the removal of the requirement for validation by two levels enable it to link their contributions to the value generated. of management, allowing the importance of the role of the direct senior manager to be reinforced and, also, the Finally, Faurecia is committed to guaranteeing a validation process to be simplified; compensation policy in line with the Group’s culture and values. ■ a reduction in the number of behavioral skills assessed during the interview process. 4.2.3.6.1. CHANGES IN COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS 4.2.3.5. Developing skills and optimizing The total amount of compensation paid, including payroll career management taxes, increased by 4.87% across the Group as a whole: €3,535 million in 2019, compared with €3,371.3 million in 2018. The Group’s internal promotion policy revolves around offering Meanwhile, the number of employees at the end of the year career opportunities to employees who succeed and increased by +0.9% (+6.9% for managers and professionals). demonstrate their potential. The Group adheres to current minimum wage legislation in Due to the reduction in external recruitment, the rate of each country. Wage negotiations are held in the majority of vacancies filled internally for managers and skilled countries. In 2019, worldwide, 96 agreements were concluded professionals stood in total at 64% (excluding FCE) (compared on salary/bonus/compensation components and 76 on to 46% in 2018). The rate is 90% compared to 83% in 2018 for profit-sharing/incentives. Senior Management positions (Top 300). These results for managerial positions were achieved through the 4.2.3.6.2. VARIABLE COMPENSATION FOR MANAGERS implementation of solid planning for succession and individual At Faurecia, variable compensation systems are aligned with development plans, based on individual reviews made at the Group’s strategic objectives. For executives, in particular, least once a year at all levels of the Company (sites, divisions, a system of short-term, variable compensation, based Business Groups, Group) and based on a rigorous use of essentially on business unit performance, applies in all Faurecia’s managerial skills model. countries in which Faurecia operates. At the end of 2019, Furthermore, the implementation of solid succession plans about 4,400 executives, out of a total of more than 18,000, made it possible to develop and fill internally 83% (excluding had open-ended contracts. FCE) compared to 81% in 2018, of the required Plant Manager Simultaneously, since 2018, there has been a local bonus positions and 80% (compared to 66% in 2018) of the required policy applicable to all countries, in compliance with local Program Manager positions. regulations. In 2019, 15.7% (compared to 14.5% in 2018) of managers and Lastly, a medium-term variable compensation plan was skilled professionals benefited from internally mobility. introduced for Managers who are members of the former In line with the Group’s expertise management policy, Senior Management Group (now the Global Leadership Faurecia particularly rewards performance in technical and Management Group) and who, since 2018, have not been technological areas. The Group offers its experts a specific eligible for the free shares award program. The right to benefit career program, which has the added advantage of allowing from this plan is subject to an attendance condition and to it to enhance business-specific skills within each product line. performance conditions similar to those voted by the Board of In 2019, Faurecia had 370 experts compared to 354 in 2018, Directors for the free shares plan, subject to performance including 48 senior experts and 4 master experts. conditions, applicable to members of the Global Leadership Management Group (see previous paragraph). 4.2.3.6. Compensation Policy 4.2.3.6.3. ALLOCATION OF FREE SHARES SUBJECT In order to attract, retain and motivate talent, Faurecia’s TO PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS compensation policy is determined in a way to ensure it is Faurecia has implemented a program for the awarding of free competitive with the internal compensation practices of the shares subject to performance conditions for Global local market for each of the Group’s business units and Leadership Management to promote motivation and loyalty. It complies with legal regulations. To this end, each year follows a procedure established by the Board of Directors at its Faurecia examines market practices with firms specialized in meeting of December 17, 2009. compensation. The Combined General Meeting of May 28, 2019 authorized For managers and skilled professionals, compensation the Board of Directors to grant a maximum of depends on several components, in particular the level of 2,000,000 performance shares. 284 / Universal Registration Document 2019 CSR Social performance Based on this authorization, on October 9, 2019, the Board of Employees also have access to the Group retirement savings Directors granted a maximum of 1,147,260 free performance plan (PERCO), set up in late 2012. Like the employee savings shares to 274 beneficiaries (including fifty-two high-potential plan, payments into the Group pension savings plan can be managers). The right to these shares is subject to an made from discretionary and non-discretionary profit-sharing attendance condition and to the following three performance plans as well as voluntary employee contributions. At conditions: December 31, 2019, total funds managed in the Group retirement savings plan (PERCO) stood at €7.4 million (of which ■ an internal performance condition, linked to the Group’s €4.7 million is under active management) net income after tax in 2021; A defined contributions pension scheme was also introduced ■ a second internal performance condition linked to CSR, in 2006 for Group executives and has been opened to relating to the percentage of women (%) making up the voluntary contributions from employees since 2013. Over Group’s managers and professionals; and €111.5 million is managed within these various pension ■ an external performance condition, linked to Faurecia’s schemes. growth in basic earnings per share between 2018 and 2021 compared with the weighted growth of a reference group Incentive Plans made up of twelve comparable international automotive The incentive agreements entered into by the Group’s various suppliers. French companies mostly establish how voluntary incentive It should be noted that the grants were made in October 2019 payouts are calculated based on two sets of indicators: whereas the grants under the last nine plans had been made ■ financial indicators on a Company level. This part accounts in July, due to the acquisition of Clarion Electronics in 2019. for about 40% of the overall payout and is calculated On the basis of the authorization received from the Combined annually; General Meeting held on May 28, 2019, the Board of Directors ■ operational performance indicators calculated at site level of October 9, 2019 also decided to grant an additional plan and selected from among the Faurecia Excellence System for the allocation of free shares subject to performance FES indicators. This part accounts for about 60% of the conditions to six beneficiaries (other than corporate officers of overall payout and is calculated half-yearly. the Company) within a geographical area of the Group and also members of the Global Leadership Management Group. Under these agreements, the payout is capped at 5 to 6% of This plan concerns a maximum of 33,240 shares and is payroll if the objectives are achieved –although in exceptional accompanied by attendance and performance conditions cases it may be raised from 6% to 8% if objectives are specific to the geographical area in question. exceeded– and is allocated to employees partly in proportion to salary and partly applied on a uniform basis depending on As at December 31, 2019, under the plans in place, there were hours worked. a maximum of 2,990,587 performance shares that could be definitively granted through October 2023 subject to the In 2019, €22.7 million was paid out to employees under the achievement of the associated performance conditions. incentive plan (versus €22.6 million in 2018), of which €9.8 million was invested in Group employee savings plans in France (PEG or PERCO). Specific update concerning France Company savings plan Profit-sharing In France, the Group has over the past few years The mandatory profit-sharing agreements of the various group implemented several mechanisms to allow employees to companies stipulate, for the most part, that employee accumulate savings. profit-sharing calculated in accordance with the legal formula must be allocated among employees prorated on the basis of Since 2004, employees have had access to a Group their compensation for the year in question, subject to employee savings plan (PEG) open to amounts distributed compliance with regulatory limits. under profit-sharing and incentive plans, as well as voluntary contributions. The amounts allocated to the profit-sharing reserve may be held in a no-access account or invested in the corporate 13 funds are available, including Faurecia Actionnariat, a mutual funds set up in connection with the Group employee mutual fund investing exclusively in Faurecia stock. At savings plan (PEG) or retirement savings plan (PERCO). December 31, 2019, total funds managed in the employee savings plan (PEG) stood at €66.4 million, of which 20.4% was In 2019, €13.6 million was paid out to employees under the invested in Faurecia Actionnariat (3,264 employee profit-sharing plan (versus €6.2 million in 2018), of which shareholders). €6.1 million was invested in Group employee savings plans in France (PEG or PERCO). / Universal Registration Document 2019 285 CSR Social performance 4.2.4. EFPD Social dialog Pursuant to the development of economic and social In South America, in an equally difficult context marked by dialogue of the Code of Ethics in force since 2007 in the restructurings, registered employee numbers fell by 8.2%. context of the Being Faurecia program, the Group’s various Finally, despite a clear slowdown observed in China which led entities continued an active policy of dialogue and to a certain number of businesses being combined within negotiation with employee representative bodies. larger plants and, therefore, to the closure of a certain Challenge of the social dialog risk: number of small-scale plants, Faurecia continued its growth in Asia where the number of registered employees grew by 5.7%, The absence or poor management of social dialogue could thereby benefiting from the consolidation of Clarion have an impact on the Group’s performance and the Electronics with a strong presence in China and Japan. well-being of its employees. Faurecia has always considered social dialogue to be a true lever for improving operational efficiency and defining the 4.2.4.2. Greater social dialogue and Group as an integral player in sustainable development, development of economic and social dialog is accorded consultation with employee special attention. In this context, the Group is committed to representative communicating in a regular and structured manner to the Implementation of an active policy of consultation and various employee representative bodies about its negotiation in 2019 resulted in a record number of signed accomplishments, profits and more generally about its agreements. 356 agreements with facilities or companies were strategy. Whenever possible, priority is also given to research thus concluded in 26 countries, including 159 in particular in and concluding agreements in the various areas where France, 63 in Germany, 33 in Brazil, 18 in Mexico, 16 in employee commitment is a gauge for success in the Argentina, nine in Thailand, six in China and five in the United implementation of projects. States, Italy, Czech Republic and Uruguay. Social dialog is also a preferred vehicle of communication to Out of these agreements, 27% related to pay and other forms share about safety and improvement of working conditions of compensation, 21% to profit-sharing for employees, 16% to while emphasizing concrete achievements and best conditions in the workplace, 15% to working hours and 6% to practices. the provision of tools and/or digital processes. More specifically, negotiations about the organization of work 4.2.4.1. An environment of contrasting and working hours allowed sites to adapt to fluctuations in workloads due to changes in customer needs or the closing business activity by region and/or start-up of new programs, in such a way to maintain or In 2019, at constant exchange rates and despite the drop-in even grow, the flexibility needed to safeguard business linked to a slowdown in the market across all regions, competitiveness. Faurecia managed to record a performance level that was In the continuum of all the agreements on competitiveness well above the level of automobile production growth thanks and performance since 2012, which concern 49 sites, the to its resilience and agility. constant search for competitiveness is a key issue to keeping The drop-in activity was reflected by the change in registered the business going or to winning new programs, thereby employee numbers, which nevertheless grew thanks to the avoiding any new plans for industrial redeployment. acquisition of Clarion Electronics in April 2019, increasing from In addition, in all the countries in which it operates, the Group 92,884 in late 2018 to 93,699 in late 2019 (up 0.9%). is keen to implement existing plans so as to reduce the impact Industrial redeployment initiatives affected 61 plants in 2019, on jobs arising from a slowdown in business. At the same time, impacting 5,664 jobs in 13 countries, mostly in Asia, North in the event of any industrial redeployments, the Group prefers America, South America, and Europe. to make use of internal mobility, both on a geographical and cross-divisional level, as well as voluntary redundancy plans. In In this context, despite the restructuring processes launched in the event that a site closure is required, the Group endeavors, Western Europe and the difficulties in hiring permanent staff where this is possible, to put in place re-industrialization encountered in certain Central European countries, Europe projects by providing financial and/or operational assistance has seen registered employee numbers increase by 1.0%, to industrial players that are likely to propose redeployment thanks also to a good level of resistance linked to the solutions to its employees. In cases where compulsory commercial success of certain vehicles and to the acquisition redundancies cannot be avoided, providing support for those of Clarion Electronics. employees seeking redeployment is a priority. In North America, despite the positive effect generated by the Wishing to have a more accurate reflection of its European acquisition of Clarion Electronics, with a particularly strong reach and so as to reinforce its international brand image, presence in this region, the number of registered employees Faurecia S.E., the Group’s parent company, adopted the fell by 1.4% due to the major restructuring efforts made in legal form of a European Company in 2018 and, in this order to manage the anticipated end of production at context, negotiated the creation of a European Company Faurecia Seating and performance levels below those Committee, known as the “Faurecia European Company recorded by regional automotive production. Committee (FE2C)”. This body replaced the previous body for the purpose of sharing information, exchanging viewpoints 286 / Universal Registration Document 2019 CSR Social performance and holding dialogue on the European level created in 2003. seven largest countries in terms of employee numbers (i.e. The October 22, 2018 agreement, signed for an unlimited term France, Poland, Germany, Czech Republic, Spain, Romania, stipulates, in continuity of what had been undertaken to date, and Portugal), met four times during the course of the year, that regular and constructive dialog will continue; the including one extraordinary meeting held via conference call information and, if applicable, consultation on a European in the context of the aforementioned proposed acquisition. level on industrial goals, the Group’s strategy, and their The meeting held in November 2019, initially planned to take potential impact in terms of employment being continued in a place in Portugal, in accordance with the agreement in force, spirit of trust-based cooperation. was held on an exceptional basis at the registered office to enable the Group Chief Executive Officer to present the In accordance with this agreement, the 25 members of the proposed consolidation between Groupe PSA and the FCA body were divided in direct proportion to the number of Group. employees from the 16 countries in Europe in which Faurecia has a presence. The 25 members were then elected or In order to help the representatives of the European Company appointed in accordance with the rules in force in their Committee successfully perform their assignments under the country. The Committee welcomed nine new representatives, best possible conditions, the launch of a training program was joining the 16 representatives who had already held office agreed focusing mainly on modules aimed at enabling them within the previous body. to fully comprehend the challenges and constraints of the automotive sector, and to understand their role as The European Committee held plenary sessions twice during representatives to this body. This training should be completed the course of the year, on May 21 and 22, 2019 in an ordinary before the 2020 plenary session. meeting and on October 29, 2019 in an extraordinary meeting, in the context of the proposed acquisition of the Moreover, the two Board members representing employees remaining 50% of the joint venture with SAS. The Committee’s who have been sitting on Faurecia’s Board of Directors since presiding body, now composed of representatives from the November 1, 2017, are continuing their 4-year terms. 4.2.5. Promotion of diversity Faurecia is stepping up the promotion of diversity as a true Particular emphasis is brought to bear on strengthening the strength and asset, generating both a positive impact on gender balance with the goal of increasing the presence of performance and also a source of innovation and motivation women as senior executives within the Group and more for all of the Group’s employees. Diversity, guided on a daily generally throughout the entire population of managers and basis by the Group’s values, convictions and Code of Ethics, skilled professionals. addresses all aspects whether it is origin, gender, age or disability. In 2019, 32.1% of managers and professionals part of the GLC were non Europeans. ■ Indicators to follow gender diversity 2019 2018 2017 % of women on the Group Leadership Committee 14.8% 15.3% 11.6% % of women managers and skilled professionals 24.4% 23.8% 23.3% % of women are members of a plant Management team 21% 20.7% 20.8% ■ Diversity within the governing bodies At the end of 2019, the rate of women among the 10% of positions of greatest responsibility was 14.5%. The Executive Committee (Excom) of Faurecia is composed of 14 members, including two women, a rate of 14%. ■ The associated actions to promote diversity in the Group In 2019, four new members entered, including one woman, are: which represents a promotion rate of 25%. The Excom ■ the deployment of teleworking, and the implementation members are either recruited from among the directors of of concierge-type services, in order to promote a better Faurecia (260 GLC) or externally. The plan to strengthen balance between personal and professional life; GLC members to reach 21% women in 2022 aims to appoint 40% of new female GLCs each year, which increases the possibility of appointing women to Excom in the future. / Universal Registration Document 2019 287 CSR Social performance ■ the annual review of women’s careers: the People female talents, which will be built on mentoring, coaching Review was adapted in order to include a specific and sponsorship is also currently being finalized. section on female talent at various levels within the During 2019, as part of the continued deployment of its Group. Simultaneously, an effort was launched to support “Faurecian Talent Initiatives” approach, the Group spouses of expatriate employees thanks to external and implemented actions to accelerate gender balance personalized support that helps with moving, facilitates through its recruitment, career development and cultural and professional adaptation and helps to find outreach to women; local employment; ■ training is a permanent lever to speed up this cultural ■ an annual statistical analysis of pay equality: since 2016, change: Faurecia University ensures that diversity additional analyses have been carried out in the Group’s management is an integral part of the training delivered key countries to ensure equality in terms of pay. The to managers, and it has handled the establishment of results of the three statistical studies carried out show no training programs targeting women in order to enable major differences; them to bolster their leadership (influence, impact and visibility). This program has now been rolled out in ■ the program aimed at recruiting and developing female Faurecia University’s four campuses (Mexico, United talent: in order to promote this Group gender equality States, China, Europe), increasing the training effort from approach, a Diversity Officer was appointed in 2019. She 57 female managers in 2018 to 205 in 2019. Finally, to reports to the Executive Committee member in charge of guarantee inclusive management that better takes into human resources. In this context, recruitment agencies consideration the challenges of gender diversity in the were reviewed in order to raise their awareness regarding team dynamic, a training course tailored for compliance with the new CSR gender balance management committees has been drawn up with the commitments. In order to align with these targets, human resources consulting firm Korn Ferry and will be Faurecia’s country recruitment officers also promote this rolled out in 2020; gender balance. In 2019, the results were significant with growth in the percentage of external recruitment of ■ a network of internal diversity and inclusion ambassadors women managers and skilled professionals representing was launched in order to promote diversity within their 30.1% in 2019 compared with 25.9% in 2018. In addition to scope of work by sharing Group initiatives. With over these initial actions, a program aimed specifically at 40 members worldwide now, ambassadors can obtain recruiting high-potential female executives was launched support from local networks and may organize internal with an external partner in order to have more candidates events and take part in diversity activities and able to take managerial roles, and to thereby reach the associations in their countries. A sponsor at the Group goal in terms of gender balance among Faurecia’s 300 level coordinates this network via bi-monthly meetings, most senior executives. A program for the development of with support from the communication teams. 4.2.6. Social performance indicators The information presented in this section has been disclosed in Based on the 68 indicators that were established, the reporting accordance with the provisions of Articles R. 225-105 and units answered 100 questions that were answered at the level R. 225-105-1 of the French Code of commerce and with the of the audit and reporting team within the Group’s HR key guidelines put forward by the “Global Reporting Initiative” Management department. and relating to employment data held by companies. Social reporting is articulated around two complementary It meets the requirements of the legislator regarding the social axes of analysis: a part concerning some of the main types of data of listed companies, the wishes of the Management of effects passed by gender, age and occupational category, the Faurecia group and the requests of the main shareholders and then by the absenteeism rate indicators, the number of of the Company. applications received or training expenditure spent. In the 39 countries in which the Group is present, 500 reporting The return of this information was completed on January 10, units have been declared to the Human Resources 2019 via the Group’s usual consolidation system (Métis). department. These units were defined according to an The scope in question remains compliant with the statutory analytical breakdown of the Group’s activities, allowing scope adopted in the context of the financial report, including consolidation by product, geographical area and legal entity. the Faurecia Clarion Electronics data. Social data is then consolidated globally, by geographical area: Europe, North America, South America, Asia and other countries. 288 / Universal Registration Document 2019 CSR Social performance Total workforce 2019 vs. 2018 2019 2018 2019 vs 2018 Of which Of Of openwhich% which% ended RegisTempoopenTempoopenRegisTempocontracts tered rary Number ended tered rary Number ended tered rary Number (CDI) EmEmof Emcontracts EmEmof Emcontracts EmEmof Em(in ployees ployees ployees (CDI) ployees ployees ployees (CDI) ployees ployees ployees points) Europe 44,263 8,261 52,524 77.1% 44,785 8,844 53,629 76.3% -1.2% -6.6% -2.1% 0.7 North America 19,751 823 20,574 89.5% 20,026 970 20,996 84.5% -1.4% -15.2% -2.0% 4.9 South America 5,104 83 5,187 95.9% 5,560 169 5,729 95.3% -8.2% -50.9% -9.5% 0.6 Asia 17,106 10,736 27,842 59.3% 16,176 9,577 25,753 61.3% 5.7% 12.1% 8.1% -2.0 Others 7,475 1,894 9,369 62.2% 6,337 2,249 8,586 59.7% 18.0% -15.8% 9.1% 2.5 FAURECIA 93,699 21,797 115,496 74.6% 92,884 21,809 114,693 74.2% 0.9% -0.1% 0.7% 0.5 Number of employees: Registered employees: The Group’s total number of employees grew by over 800, i.e., The Group’s registered employees increased by 815 people up 0.7% in 2019. in 2019 (+0.9%). This increase was particularly noticeable in Asia (+5.7%, i.e., +930 people) due to the integration of Clarion This growth is partly due to the acquisition of Clarion Electronics employees, and in other countries (+18.0%, i.e., Electronics following which nearly 6,600 new employees joined +1,138 people). the Group in April 2019, mainly in Asia (+4,555 employees), North America (+1,468 employees), and in Europe The slowdown in business impacted Europe (-1.2%, i.e., (+529 employees). -522 people), North America (-1.4%, i.e., -275 people) and South America (-8.2%, i.e., -456 people). The synergies recorded in the months following this integration allowed these employee numbers to be reduced by nearly Excluding consolidation effects related to the acquisition of 14% to reach nearly 5,700 employees in late December 2019. Clarion Electronics, the reduction in the Group’s registered employee numbers came to a 5.0% drop, i.e., nearly Efforts focused mainly on China (-700 employees) and Japan 4,600 fewer people, mainly in China, the United States, (-200 employees). Mexico, and Germany. Outside of this scope, the Group’s total employee numbers fell Temporary employees: by over 4,800 (-4.3% on a like-for-like basis) due to the slowdown in business activity over all regions in which the Group has a The number of temporary employees remained generally presence. Other than Clarion Electronics, this decline represents stable over the period, despite the acquisition of Clarion a drop of 3.0% in total employee numbers in Europe, 9.3% in Electronics (-0.1%). As in 2018, temporary employees represent North America, 10.0% in South America, and 6.0% in Asia. 19% of total employee numbers as at close 2019. Excluding consolidation effects, this is a 1.2% drop compared with 2018. The relative proportion of short-term contracts remained stable over the period, rising from 74.2% to 74.6%. The proportion of In Europe, the rate rose from 16.5% to 15.7%. It reached 16.1% temporary employees also remained stable at 19%. at the end of 2019 in Western Europe, compared to 15.1% in Central Europe. Total employment increased mainly in Asia in 2019 (+2,089 people) due to the integration of Clarion Electronics This rate remains high in Asia (38.6%), with the proportion of employees in China and Japan, and also in North Africa with temporary labor being structurally high in China. an increase in employee numbers in Tunisia (+287 people) and Morocco (+583 people). Registered employees 2019 vs. 2018 2019 2018 TechniTechnicians, cians, foremen & Managers foremen & Managers adminis& skilled adminis& skilled Operators trative profesOperators trative profesChange & workers staff sionals Total & workers staff sionals Total ‘19 vs. ‘18 Europe 28,474 6,582 9,207 44,263 28,926 6,618 9,241 44,785 -1.2% North America 14,104 1,574 4,073 19,751 14,792 1,300 3,934 20,026 -1.4% South America 3,828 795 481 5,104 4,221 840 499 5,560 -8.2% Asia 7,251 1,995 7,860 17,106 8,125 1,505 6,546 16,176 5.7% Others 6,072 653 750 7,475 4,984 640 713 6,337 18.0% FAURECIA 59,729 11,599 22,371 93,699 61,048 10,903 20,933 92,884 0.9% / Universal Registration Document 2019 289 CSR Social performance The number of registered employees rose by 0.9% in 2019, In South America, in the context of economic difficulties, the including an increase of 6.9% for managers and professionals, number of registered employees decreased by 8.2%, mainly in 6.4% for technicians, foremen and administrative staff and a Argentina and Uruguay. fall of 2.2% for operators and workers. Excluding the effects In Asia, the number of registered employees increased by 5.7% linked to the acquisition of Clarion Electronics, the number of thanks to the acquisition of Clarion Electronics with a strong registered employees fell by 5.0% in 2019, including 2.0% for presence in Japan and China. managers and professionals, 4.4% for technicians, foremen and administrative staff and 6.1% for operators and workers. On a like-for-like basis in 2018, the number of registered employees in Asia decreased by 15.2%, impacted by a net In Europe, the number of registered employees fell by 1.2% slowdown in business in China. (-2.2% on a like-for-like basis), including a drop of 1.6% for operators and workers, 0.5% for technicians, foremen and This reduction comes to 23.4% for operators and workers, 18.7% administrative staff, and 0.4% for managers and professionals. for technicians, foremen and administrative staff, and 4.1% for The main impact was felt in Germany. managers and professionals. In North America, the number of registered employees fell by Other countries recorded a rise in their registered employees 1.4%, i.e. -275 people, mainly in the USA. Excluding the acquisition of 18.0%, mainly in Morocco (+486 people) and Tunisia of Clarion Electronics, this a 9.0% reduction, including a 11.8% (+454 people). drop for operators and workers, Mexico and USA combined. Registered employees by type of contract 2019 vs. 2018 2019 2018 2019 vs. 2018 OpenFixedOpenFixedOpenFixedended term ended term ended term contracts contracts contracts contracts contracts contracts (CDI) (CDD) Total (CDI) (CDD) Total (CDI) (CDD) Total Europe 40,486 3,777 44,263 40,945 3,840 44,785 -1.1% -1.6% -1.2% North America 18,411 1,340 19,751 17,752 2,274 20,026 3.7% -41.1% -1.4% South America 4,973 131 5,104 5,460 100 5,560 -8.9% 31.0% -8.2% Asia 16,504 602 17,106 15,775 401 16,176 4.6% 50.1% 5.7% Others 5,827 1,648 7,475 5,129 1,208 6,337 13.6% 36.4% 18.0% FAURECIA 86,201 7,498 93,699 85,061 7,823 92,884 1.3% -4.2% 0.9% Open-ended contracts rose by 1.3% (+1,140 people). Over the Excluding consolidation effects, the number of employees with same period, the number of employees with fixed-term open-ended contracts fell by 4.6%, i.e., -3,900 people. There contracts fell by 4.2%, i.e., -325 people. The impact of the was a 9.1% fall in the number of fixed-term contracts, i.e., acquisition of Clarion Electronics represents the integration of -711 people. These adjustments are due to the reduction in 5,900 open-ended contracts (CDI) and 482 fixed-term business in Europe, North America, South America, and above contracts (CDD) in April 2019, over 69% of which are in Asia all, in Asia. (essentially China and Japan). Open-ended contracts On a like-for-like basis, the number of open-ended contracts accounted for 92.0% of the registered employees as opposed fell by over 2,600 in China, over 900 in Europe, 600 in North to 91.6% in 2018. America, and 500 in South America. 2019 age pyramid by gender < 20 20 -29 30 -39 40 -49 > 50 Total Registered employees M W M W M W M W M W M W Operators & workers 974 442 11,135 5,541 10,509 6,254 8,840 5,682 6,755 3,597 38,213 21,516 Technicians, foremen & administrative staff 133 65 2,116 1,315 2,051 994 1,940 698 1,778 509 8,018 3,581 Managers & skilled professionals 0 0 3,863 1,512 5,840 2,220 4,089 1,251 3,095 501 16,887 5,484 TOTAL 1,107 507 17,114 8,368 18,400 9,468 14,869 7,631 11,628 4,607 63,118 30,581 290 / Universal Registration Document 2019 CSR Social performance 20,000 18,400 18,000 17,114 16,000 14,869 14,000 12,000 11,628 10,000 9,468 8,368 8,000 7,631 6,000 4,607 4,000 2,000 1,107 507 0 M W M W M W M W M W < 20 20 29 30 39 40 49 > 50 Women accounted for 32.6% of the Group’s registered 16,235 of registered employees are aged over 50, i.e. 17.3%, employees, an increase of 1.4 points compared with 2018. up 1.6 points as compared to 2018. They accounted for 36.0% of operators and workers, 30.9% of For all age brackets, the breakdown by staff category technicians, foremen and administrative staff, and 24.5% of remained stable, with operators and workers accounting for managers and skilled professionals at the Group level. 64% of registered employees, technicians, foremen and administrative staff representing 12%, and managers and Faurecia is a relatively young Group with 58.7% of employees skilled professionals accounting for 24%. aged under 40 and 28.9% aged under 30. 2019 Clarion Electronics acquisition 2019 2019 Technicians, Open-ended Fixed-term foremen & Managers & contracts contracts Operators & adminisskilled Registered employees (CDI) (CDD) Total workers trative staff professionals Total Europe 526 3 529 321 131 77 529 North America 1,194 274 1,468 920 295 253 1,468 South America 38 2 40 14 13 13 40 Asia 4,142 413 4,555 1,665 983 1,907 4,555 Others 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 FAURECIA 5,900 692 6,592 2,920 1,422 2,250 6,592 This table sets out the profiles of the Clarion Electronics employees integrated in April 2019 by contract and socio-professional category. / Universal Registration Document 2019 291 CSR Social performance External hires 2019 vs. 2018 2019 2018 2019 vs. 2018 Hires on Hires on Hires on Hires on Hires on Hires on openfixedopenfixedopenfixedended term ended term ended term contracts contracts contracts contracts contracts contracts Registered employees (CDI) (CDD) Total (CDI) (CDD) Total (CDI) (CDD) Total Europe 3,045 3,775 6,820 4,987 4,135 9,122 -38.9% -8.7% -25.2% North America 2,739 4,784 7,523 2,813 8,334 11,147 -2.6% -42.6% -32.5% South America 676 132 808 1,190 90 1,280 -43.2% 46.7% -36.9% Asia 2,570 926 3,496 4,006 907 4,913 -35.8% 2.1% -28.8% Others 1,022 1,492 2,514 1,049 1,085 2,134 -2.6% 37.5% 17.8% FAURECIA 10,052 11,109 21,161 14,045 14,551 28,596 -28.4% -23.7% -26.0% This table sets out changes in hiring excluding the effect of In North America, 2,739 hires were made on open-ended transfers of fixed-term contracts to open-ended contracts, contracts, compared with 2,813 in 2018 (+2.6%), mainly in the and excluding the flows generated by the arrival of Clarion United States. Hires on fixed-term contracts fell by 42.6%, falling Electronics employees in April 2019. from 8,334 in 2018 to 4,784 in 2019, particularly in the United States and Mexico, in order to respond quickly to fluctuations For all registered employees, the number of hires fell by 26.0% in business activity. as compared with 2018, including 28.4% decrease for open-ended contracts and a 23.7% decline for hires on In South America, the volume of hires fell as compared to 2018 fixed-term contracts. On a like-for-like basis compared (by nearly 37%, all contracts combined), mainly due to a net with 2018, the number of hires fell by 29.1%, including a 30.6% decline in fixed-term contact hires. This change should be drop for open-ended contracts and a 27.7% drop for considered in view of the substantial slowdown in hires fixed-term contracts. These figures evidence the Group’s since 2015 in response to the economic downturn in this responsiveness in adapting to reductions in volumes across all region. regions. In Asia, after many years of growth, the volume of hires on In Europe, hires via open-ended contracts fell by 38.9% open-ended contracts underwent a marked slowdown compared with 2018, mainly in Central Europe (-43.5%), and in (-35.8%), in particular in China, given the net slowdown in particular in Romania, Czech Republic, and Slovakia, after business in the region. several years of strong recruitment in this region. Hires in In other countries, hires on open-ended contracts were stable Western Europe fell by 24% over the same period, mainly in compared with 2018. These hires primarily occurred in France. Morocco. External hires 2019 vs. 2018 2019 2018 Technicians, Managers Technicians, Managers foremen & & skilled foremen & & skilled Operators adminisprofesOperators adminisprofesRegistered employees & workers trative staff sionals Total & workers trative staff sionals Total Europe 5,096 1,034 690 6,820 6,852 1,326 944 9,122 North America 6,453 427 643 7,523 10,016 392 739 11,147 South America 603 191 14 808 985 245 50 1,280 Asia 2,576 238 682 3,496 2,921 406 1,586 4,913 Others 2,125 219 170 2,514 1,739 214 181 2,134 FAURECIA 16,853 2,109 2,199 21,161 22,513 2,583 3,500 28,596 Operators and workers represented 79.6% of hires in 2019, 3,500, including 2,130 on open-ended contracts. Hires of compared with 10.0% for technicians, foremen and managers and skilled professionals on open-ended contracts administrative staff, and 10.4% for managers and skilled (CDI) therefore fell 40.2% in 2019. professionals, compared with 78.7%, 9.1% and 12.2% In Europe, hires of operators and workers fell by 25.7%, mainly respectively in 2018. The 26.0% reduction in external hires in Romania. Hires of technicians, foremen and administrative in 2019 encompasses a 25.1% reduction for operators and staff fell by 22.0%, and hires of managers and skilled workers, a 18.4% reduction for technicians, foremen and professionals fell by 26.9, mainly in France. administrative staff, and a 37.2% reduction for managers and skilled professionals, across all types of contracts. There were In North America, hires of operators and workers decreased by nearly 2,200 managers and skilled professionals hired, 1,870 of 35.6%. The number of hires of structural and managerial staff them on open-ended contracts (85%). In 2018, they stood at also fell by 5.4%, mainly in the USA. 292 / Universal Registration Document 2019 CSR Social performance In South America, hires registered a decline of 37.0%, across all skilled professionals. This change mainly concerned China and categories. are directly linked to the slowdown in business in this country. In Asia, the number of hires per professional category fell by In other countries, the number of hires of workers and 11.8% for operators and workers, 41.4% for technicians, operators grew by 22.2%, essentially in Tunisia and South foremen and administrative staff, and 57.0% for managers and Africa. Transfers from fixed-term to open-ended contracts 2019 vs. 2018 2019 2018 TechniTechnicians, Managers cians, Managers foremen & & skilled foremen & & skilled Operators adminisprofesOperators adminisprofesRegistered employees & workers trative staff sionals Total & workers trative staff sionals Total Europe 1,179 198 124 1,501 1,110 262 238 1,610 North America 2,537 102 232 2,871 2,818 69 126 3,013 South America 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 1 Asia 34 4 2 40 57 6 2 65 Others 274 10 25 309 246 19 11 276 FAURECIA 4,024 315 383 4,722 4,231 357 377 4,965 The number of transfers from fixed-term contracts to These transfers almost exclusively involved operators and open-ended contracts fell by 4.9% in 2019. workers. Departures by reason 2019 vs. 2018 2019 2018 Resignations Resignations Registered (open-ended Individual Group (open-ended Individual Group employees contracts) layoffs layoffs Others Total contracts) layoffs layoffs Others Total Europe 3,170 2,422 186 2,205 7,983 3,446 1,978 369 2,334 8,127 North America 2,364 4,588 397 1,898 9,247 2,327 5,322 116 2,958 10,723 South America 125 899 174 101 1,299 164 762 10 413 1,349 Asia 3,235 1,918 799 661 6,613 2,285 1,425 23 1,146 4,879 Others 488 168 3 699 1,358 340 306 0 473 1,119 FAURECIA 9,382 9,995 1,559 5,564 * 26,500 8,562 9,793 518 7,324 26,197 * Of which 1,932 end of fixed-term contracts, 2,794 resignations from fixed-term contracts, and 838 retirements or deaths. The number of employees who left the Group totaled 26,500 Czech Republic, Romania, United States, and Mexico), 7.2% in 2019, compared with 26,197 in 2018, an increase of 1.2%. concerned technicians, foremen & administrative staff, and or 20.6% concerned managers and skilled professionals (mainly in 7.3% of them were at the end of a fixed-term contract. China, France, and United States). Resignations of employees with open-ended contracts The proportion of individual and collective layoffs increased, represented 36.6% of departures in 2019 compared with 32.6% rising from 39.4% to 43.6% of total departures, recorded mainly in 2018. They increased in West and Central Europe and in China, the United States, and in Mexico. above all in Asia and mainly in China. 72.1% of them concerned operators & workers (mainly in China, Poland, / Universal Registration Document 2019 293 CSR Social performance Training hours 2019 vs. 2018 2019 2018 Training hours Training hours Training hours per employee Training hours per employee Europe 613,722 14.9 615,391 14.9 North America 515,765 27.5 560,135 28.1 South America 97,562 19.6 101,556 19.0 Asia 435,844 29.9 428,229 29.2 Others 203,445 28.2 133,553 22.4 FAURECIA 1,866,338 21.6 1,838,864 21.1 For 2019, this indicator has been consolidated on a like-for-like The total number of hours of training given in 2019 increased basis excluding Clarion Electronics. by 1.5% over the period, mainly in Poland, South Korea, and Morocco. The average number of training hours rose in 2019. It stands at 21.6 hours per employee on a group level, up 0.5 points on 2018. Expatriates by region of deployment on 31/12/2019 2019 2018 Europe 65 79 North America 51 56 South America 3 7 Asia 59 61 Others 10 15 FAURECIA 188 218 For 2019, this indicator has been consolidated on a like-for-like The number of expatriates declined by nearly 14% in 2019 in basis excluding Clarion Electronics. view of the strong increase in local managerial teams. The change in the number of expatriates and the great diversity of their nationalities are aimed at supporting the Group’s international growth. Employees with disabilities 2019 vs. 2018 2019 2018 Europe 936 892 North America 15 15 South America 150 98 Asia 42 36 Others 43 47 FAURECIA 1,186 1,088 For 2019, this indicator has been consolidated on a like-for-like voluntaristic in Europe and particularly in France and basis excluding Clarion Electronics. Germany, than in other countries. Faurecia employs more than 1,200 people with disabilities, In France and Germany, the proportion of employees with mainly in Europe. This figure increased by 9.0% compared disabilities was unchanged at nearly 5% of registered to 2018. employees. The criteria used to define employees with disabilities are Changes in South America are explained by the defined by legislation in each country, legislation that is more implementation of a proactive insertion policy in Brazil. 294 / Universal Registration Document 2019 CSR Social performance 2019 Work schedules Registered employees Two 8-hr shifts (1) Three 8-hr shifts (2) Weekend (3) Others Total Europe 10,835 14,594 359 18,475 44,263 North America 4,318 6,915 3 8,515 19,751 South America 1,649 597 0 2,858 5,104 Asia 4,999 1,019 71 11,017 17,106 Others 3,830 2,385 4 1,256 7,475 FAURECIA 25,631 25,510 437 42,121 93,699 (1) Work in two shifts. (2) Work in three shifts. (3) Reduced weekend hours. Work schedules are organized to meet the needs of our primarily our production plants, represent over 55.0% of our customers in light of the production capacity of our plants. The registered employees. fixed shift work schedules ((1), (2) and (3)), which concern Part-time staff 2019 2019 2018 Europe 699 613 North America 4 6 South America 3 4 Asia 0 0 Others 0 0 FAURECIA 706 623 For 2019, this indicator has been consolidated on a like-for-like They represent, in 2019, 2.2% of registered employees in France basis excluding Clarion Electronics. as in 2018, 3.9% in Germany compared with 3.4% in 2018 and 3.5% in Spain as in 2018. Part-time employment contracts only apply to Europe, and in particular to France, Germany and Spain. Overtime (in hours) 2019 vs. 2018 2019 2018 Overtime (in hours) % hours worked Overtime (in hours) % hours worked Europe 2,585,182 3.8% 3,233,782 4.6% North America 3,912,911 10.1% 5,057,029 11.9% South America 366,758 3.8% 595,523 5.7% Asia 5,773,360 20.5% 6,072,529 20.7% Others 987,232 6.8% 846,224 7.1% FAURECIA 13,625,443 8.5% 15,805,087 9.6% For 2019, this indicator has been consolidated on a like-for-like The amount of overtime hours in 2019 fell by 1.1 point basis excluding Clarion Electronics. compared with 2018 and represents 8.5% of hours worked across the Group. Overtime hours are determined in accordance with the legislation of each country. Recourse to overtime hours increased in Tunisia and Morocco in 2019. It fell in all other regions in line with the slowdown in business. / Universal Registration Document 2019 295 CSR Social performance Absenteeism on 31/12/2019 vs. 31/12/2018 2019 Absence as a result of work-related Sick leave accidents Other absences Total Abs. rate 2019 Abs. rate 2018 Europe 2,326,591 125,509 223,477 2,675,577 3.9% 3.8% North America 227,411 19,318 634,449 881,178 2.3% 2.6% South America 118,224 14,166 20,324 152,714 1.6% 2.0% Asia 62,323 9,660 60,767 132,750 0.5% 0.5% Others 219,444 23,227 11,388 254,059 1.7% 2.1% FAURECIA 2,953,993 191,880 950,405 4,096,278 2.6% 2.7% For 2019, this indicator has been consolidated on a like-for-like At the same time, the number of hours worked decreased by basis excluding Clarion Electronics. 2.6% from 164.3 million to 160.1 million hours over the same period. Absenteeism reported was due to illness, workplace accidents and various unauthorized absences. That led to an increasing rate of absenteeism at 2.6% for 2019. The number of hours of employee absence fell by 6.8% Sick leave accounted for nearly 72% of hours of absence between 2018 and 2019, to reach nearly 4.1 million hours in recorded across the Group. This percentage is nearly 87% in total compared with 4.4 in 2018. Europe. Maternity/paternity/parental leave at 31/12/2019 Maternity leave Paternity leave Parental leave Total TechniTechniTechniTechnicians, Manacians, cians, Manacians, Manaforemen gers foremen Managers n foremen gers foremen gers Ope& & Ope& & Ope& & Ope& & rators adminisskilled rators adminisskilled rators adminisskilled rators adminisskilled & trative profes& trative profes& trative profes& trative profesworkers staff sionals Total workers staff sionals Total workers staff sionals Total workers staff sionals Total Europe 641 118 179 938 470 120 245 835 550 198 172 920 1,661 436 596 2,693 North America 170 7 37 214 213 15 54 282 0 0 1 1 383 22 92 497 South America 66 21 9 96 107 8 3 118 0 0 0 0 173 29 12 214 Asia 102 48 95 245 227 26 310 563 45 18 41 104 374 92 446 912 Others 285 29 27 341 7 3 3 13 0 1 0 1 292 33 30 355 FAURECIA 1,264 223 347 1,834 1,024 172 615 1,811 595 217 214 1,026 2,883 612 1,176 4,671 For 2019, this indicator has been consolidated on a like-for-like Europe. Parental leave increased by nearly +11% (mainly in basis excluding Clarion Electronics. Central Europe). The number of employees taking maternity leave grew by The conditions and durations of maternity/paternity and 3.7% in 2019, mainly in China and Morocco. Those benefiting parental leave are governed by legislation in each country. from paternity leave decreased respectively by 2.2%, mainly in 296 / Universal Registration Document 2019 CSR Social performance Occupational illnesses by type as at 31/12/2019 2019 Musculoskeletal Deafness or disorders of the Musculoskeletal Exposure to hearing arms back disorders asbestos impairments Others Total 192 30 1 2 23 248 North America 15 4 0 0 0 19 South America 20 23 0 0 0 43 Asia 0 0 0 0 0 0 Others 0 0 0 0 0 0 FAURECIA 227 57 1 2 23 310 For 2019, this indicator has been consolidated on a like-for-like Musculoskeletal disorders of the arms accounted for almost basis excluding Clarion Electronics. 73% of the occupational illnesses recorded within the Group. 0.3% of the Group’s registered employees had an The conditions for recognition of these different pathologies occupational illness in 2019, a ratio which remains stable are governed by legislation in each country. compared with 2018. Nearly 42% of these disorders were recorded in France. Subcontracting 2019 2019 2018 One-off One-off subcontracting Ongoing subcontracting Ongoing projects subcontracting Total projects subcontracting Total Europe 567 1,425 1,992 638 1,459 2,097 North America 504 521 1,025 193 709 902 South America 296 420 716 368 258 626 Asia 85 631 716 214 703 917 Others 82 260 342 71 231 302 FAURECIA 1,534 3,257 4,791 1,484 3,360 4,844 For 2019, this indicator has been consolidated on a like-for-like This change is explained mainly by a lower usage of basis excluding Clarion Electronics. subcontractors in Europe and Asia. The use of subcontractors decreased by 1.1% in 2019. Social and cultural activities in 2019 (for registered employees) Supplementary health and personal risk (in € thousands) Accommodation Transportation Catering Medical care insurance Subsidies Total Europe 10,272 15,548 10,183 5,830 21,875 4,957 68,665 North America 11,304 11,204 5,180 2,827 5,941 444 36,900 South America 696 4,044 4,071 7,647 655 198 17,311 Asia 16,001 11,960 12,297 20,293 25,609 1,247 87,408 Others 656 2,438 1,708 590 718 88 6,198 FAURECIA 38,927 45,193 33,440 37,187 54,798 6,934 216,480 For 2019, this indicator has been consolidated on a like-for-like basis excluding Clarion Electronics. The total increase is 1.5% for 2019. / Universal Registration Document 2019 297 CSR Environmental performance 4.3. Environmental performance As a major player in pollution control systems and sustainable is part of the Group’s product approach, encompassing mobility, Faurecia has long been committed to weighing lowering vehicle emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) thanks environmental issues as it engages in activities spanning to weight and volume reduction and improvements to energy product design to product end-of-life, management of the efficiency (for example, by using energy recovery techniques), environmental impact of its production plants, and and controlling emissions of polluting gases. collaboration with suppliers. Reducing environmental impacts Environmental Risks and 2019/ 2022 Opportunities Key performance indicators* 2017 2018 2019 Targets Environmental impact Part of ISO 14001-certified production 78.1% 77.7% 77.0% of sites and climate change plants Tons of untreated waste/€m of sales 13 14 15 -5% Energy consumption (MWh)/€m 112 116 117 -10% of sales Tons of CO2 equivalent/€m of sales 39 41 42 -20% (scopes 1 and 2 calculated on a production perimeter, in 2019 with around 726,000 tonnes of CO2 equivalent, emissions are stable compared to 2018, including a calculation uncertainty of +/-9%, mainly due to emission factors) Innovation of products Rollout of the EcoDesign methodology Assess 100% and services promoting (based on simplified life cycle analyses) of the air quality and reduced innovation carbon footprint portfolio and 80% of the portfolio of existing products Circular economy Waste recycling rate (externally) 61% 58% 59% (responsible use of resources; waste management and recycling/recovery) Sales from November 1 N-1 to October 31 for the reporting year N 17,401 17,672 17,041 (in € millions) excluding FCE BG * Group scope excluding the Faurecia Clarion Electronics Business Group. 298 / Universal Registration Document 2019 CSR Environmental performance 4.3.1. Environmental policy Governing policies and bodies Training employees on the sites The HSE policy is steered by the Group’s QHSE (quality, environmental impact hygiene, safety, environment) department. It is rolled out to Upon being on-boarded, new employees, both permanent sites via the “Green Attitudes” campaign, which aims to and temporary, attend an education session on strengthen the environmental culture of the teams and environmental impact management on the certified sites so educate them about behaviors in their daily work that can they can immediately learn about the environmental best help improve the Group’s environmental performance. This practices of the site where they work. In 2019, more than campaign is organized around four themes: protection of the 45,096 training hours were dedicated to the environment. soil and subsoil, energy management, the quality of air emissions as well as waste management. It consists of posters For the most part, environmental training is done internally. The illustrating 10 environmental attitudes to adopt, an online sessions deal with environmental impact and risk training module and a self-assessment questionnaire. The latter management, waste classification and management, enables the progress by sites adopting good environmental chemicals management, implementation of natural disaster attitudes to be assessed. Since 2019, monitoring of these emergency response plans and also the environmental action plans has also been audited via the FES (Faurecia monitoring of subcontractors’ sites. Excellence System(1)) management system. The training provided by external organizations helps to The organization of Faurecia’s HSE comprises a Group HSE develop internal expertise, such as mastering the ISO 14001 Officer supported by a network of HSE Officers in each certification process. Business Group. This network meets once a month. Each Business Group’s HSE department is organized with a network of operating division and site HSE managers. The investment related to protecting the environment In 2019, investments related to environmental protection amounted to €10.7 million. Around 80% of the investments are dedicated to energy efficiency. Provisions for environmental risks represented €2,953,000. Provisions are mainly related to site remediation costs. In accordance with the applicable regulatory provisions, Faurecia has identified two French sites subject to the obligation to provide financial guarantees for their safety. On July 1, 2019, the amount of guarantees established was €304,843 for the sites in question. (1) The Faurecia Excellence System (FES) governs the organization of Faurecia’s production and operations. It is designed to continuously improve the quality, cost, delivery and safety performance of the Group. The FES complies with the requirements of the quality, environment and safety standards of the automotive industry (ISO/TS 16949, IATF 16949, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001). It benefits from the capitalization of more than fourteen years of Faurecia’s experience and has been continuously enriched with the best internal and external practices of lean manufacturing. The FES makes it possible to secure an appropriate operational performance of Faurecia’s production plants, whatever their geographical position and their local activity specificities, thanks to common working methods and language. / Universal Registration Document 2019 299 CSR Environmental performance 4.3.2. EFPD Environmental impact of production plants and climate change The environmental risks identified concern soil, water and air pollution, waste, limited use of dangerous chemical products and noise pollution. 4.3.2.1. Improving the sites’ environmental 4.3.2.2. Energy efficiency and carbon performance through ISO 14001 emissions certification As part of the Group’s sustainable development approach, As part of the implementation of Faurecia’s environmental Faurecia has set itself the ambition of achieving carbon policy, the Business Groups have committed to an ISO 14001 neutrality by 2030. A project officer was appointed in certification approach for all production plants with over November 2019 with the task of defining a strategy and 2 years’ activity. Through this certification, Faurecia commits to implementing it in partnership with the Business Groups. responding to its customers’ requirements and thereby to demonstrating its environmental performance. 4.3.2.2.1. IMPROVING ENERGY EFFICIENCY OF SITES In 2019, 77% of production plants held ISO 14001 certification, Faurecia’s sites are encouraged to improve their energy an increase of 2.7% at constant scope. At actual scope, a slight efficiency by optimizing the energy efficiency of their decrease of 0.8% was observed. This decrease is due to the buildings, production tools and by improving purchasing. entry of 12 new sites into the reporting scope of which only two Electricity and natural gas are the two most used energy are certified ISO 14001. Five plants were newly certified sources (respectively 72% and 24%) by Faurecia sites for during 2019. industrial and home uses. Fossil fuels represented a share of In 2019, 33 assembly sites (known as Just in Time sites) and 12 27%. research and development sites were also ISO 14001 certified. In 2019, total energy consumption was 2,001,919 MWh (down The percentage of sites with ISO 14001 certification is tracked 3% at constant scope compared to 2018). At actual scope, every six months by the Risk Committee. total energy consumption decreased by 2% thanks to the energy saving actions carried out by the sites and presented Number of production plants with ISO 14001 below. certification or with an action plan for attaining ISO 14001 * Energy consumption, overall and by source, in MWh* 180 In millions 2.0 160 24.8 % 24.9 % 24.1 % 140 1.5 2.2 % 0.4 % 2.3 % 0.4 % 2.3 % 0.4 % 120 100 122 124 1.0 125 80 71.1 % 71.1 % 71.8 % 60 0.5 40 0.3 % 1.1 % 0.3 % 1.1 % 0.3 % 1.2 % 23 0 20 26 32 2017 2018 2019 12 9 5 Natural Gas 0 2017 2018 2019 LPG Steam Number of ISO 14001 certiﬁed production plants Fuels Other energies Number of production plants with an action plan for ISO Electricity Renewable energies 14001 certiﬁcation * Faurecia Clarion Electronics Business Group is outside of the scope. Number of production plants with no action plan for ISO 14001 certiﬁcation * Faurecia Clarion Electronics Business Group is outside of the scope. 300 / Universal Registration Document 2019 CSR Environmental performance Breakdown of total energy consumption by Business lighting system and the water use system enabled Group* considerable savings to be obtained compared to a conventional building. The site estimates its annual water consumption savings at around 3,250 tons. FAS 23% Developing renewable energies Faurecia is committed to purchasing increasingly low-carbon electricity, in collaboration with its suppliers, site by site. In 2019, FIS the average percentage of carbon-free electric energy in the 56% Group was over 45%, including 15% of renewable electric energy, mainly wind, hydro and solar energies, as follows per country : FCM 21% Italy Netherlands * Faurecia Clarion Electronics Business Group is outside of the scope. Encouraging energy savings at site level Luxembourg As part of its “Green Attitudes” approach, the Group Australia encourages sites to implement energy saving actions, and USA specifically: the replacement of incandescent light bulbs by LEDs, the detection of compressed air leaks and the South Korea implementation of energy recovery techniques. Poland In parallel, the sites conduct energy audits to identify other Czech energy saving possibilities. Since 2015, 77 sites (21 assembly republic sites, 50 production plants and six research and development sites) have conducted energy audits, representing 33% of the China sites within the reporting scope, 20% of the sites that Spain conducted these energy audits did so voluntarily and free from any regulatory obligations. Mexico In 2019, 66 sites (including 47 production plants, 13 assembly sites and 6 R&D sites), or 28% of the sites included in the France Germany reporting scope, implemented initiatives to increase the energy efficiency in their buildings and production tools. In total, the amounts invested represented over €8.3 million, or almost double the amounts invested in 2018 (over €4.3 million In 2020, a global action plan was launched over the 2020-2025 in 2018). The actions most commonly mentioned by the sites to period to produce or buy even more carbon-free electricity, maximize energy efficiency were the installation of intelligent better than local power grids, in particular by on-site or off-site lighting systems, the use of LEDs, building insulation work, and power purchase agreements. buying or refurbishing production machines that consume less energy. The Bains sur Oust site, in the Faurecia Interiors Business 4.3.2.2.2. REDUCE AND CONTROL CARBON Group in France, for example, invested €1,200,000 to change EMISSIONS AND THEIR CONSEQUENCES a cooling unit. Since 2012, Faurecia has estimated its direct (scope 1)(1) and To improve the energy efficiency of buildings and, more indirect (scope 2) emissions(2) and since 2016, includes its generally, to reduce their environmental impacts starting from emissions related to the Group’s entire value chain, i.e., the design phase, the Group encourages all of its new including upstream and downstream from its business activity buildings (new constructions) to be LEED® (Leadership in (scope 3)(3). In 2019, the Group launched an update of its Energy and Environmental Design) certified. To obtain carbon footprint conducted in partnership with the company certification, new buildings must meet strict requirements in Deloitte and publishes for the first time its emissions in value for terms of site layout, efficient water management, energy use, scope 3. This update of Faurecia’s carbon footprint (the latest the selection of materials, interior air quality and design version was in 2017 with Carbone 4) allows the Group to factors. In 2019, the Changshu site in China, in the Faurecia obtain a good understanding of its various emission sources Seating Business Group, was LEED certified at the “certified” and its levels of uncertainty. level. From the building’s design stage, the choice of the HVAC (Heating, Ventilation and Air Conditioning) system, the (1) Scope 1: Direct emissions corresponding to consumption of the primary energy source (natural gas, domestic heating oil…). (2) Scope 2: indirect emissions corresponding to energy consumption (electricity, heat) that the Company uses but does not produce. (3) For more information, see Section 4.3.5.2. Carbon emissions calculation methodologies. / Universal Registration Document 2019 301 CSR Environmental performance In 2019, Faurecia’s direct and indirect emissions amounted to Detailed breakdown of emissions in tons of CO2 740,000 tons (scope 1+ scope 2). Scopes 1 and 2 represent equivalent scope 1, scope 2 and scope 3 around 3% of the Group’s total CO2 emissions. The increase in emissions in 2019 is explained by a change in the reporting scope Emissions scope which now includes all Faurecia sites including (excluding Faurecia Clarion (tCO2e) administrative sites and research and development sites, Electronics Business Group) 2019 Uncertainty representing more than 17,000 tons of CO2 equivalent, to SCOPES 1&2 which added to this is the consideration of emissions linked to external heat for around 4,800 tons of CO2 equivalent. Scope 1 130,000 low Scope 2 610,000 low Summary of GHG emissions in tons CO2 equivalent – UPSTREAM SCOPE 3 scope 1 and scope 2 * Purchased goods and services 4,780,000 medium 900,000 Capital goods 358,000 high Fuel and energy-related activities 207,000 low 800,000 740,000 Upstream transportation 418,000 medium 723,000 700,000 685,000 Waste 168,000 medium Business travels 44,000 low 600,000 Commuting 178,000 high 500,000 Upstream leased assets 43,000 medium DOWNSTREAM SCOPE 3 400,000 Downstream transportation 155,000 medium 300,000 Processing of sold products 55,000 high Use of sold products 16,000,000 medium 200,000 Product's end of life 275,000 medium 100,000 Downstream leased assets 0 Franchises 0 0 Investments 33,000 high 2017 2019 AROUND Indirect CO2 emissions (Scope 2) 23,500,000 MEDIUM Direct CO2 emissions (Scope 1) * Excluding Faurecia Clarion Electronics Business Group 302 / Universal Registration Document 2019 CSR Environmental performance Level of uncertainty in CO2 emissions calculation, scope 1, 2, 3 Uncertainty* + Uncertainty* Value (tCO2e) Scope 1 & 2 9% -9% 740,000 Scope 3 34% -27% 22,700,000 Scope 1,2,3 controlled (scope 1,2,3 excluding use of sold products) 39% -19% 7,500,000 Scope 1,2,3 global 33% -26% approx. 23,500,000 * The level of uncertainty in calculating CO2 emissions is assessed taking into account the accuracy of the input data and the uncertainties on the emission factors by country and type of energy. 4.3.2.3. Preventing and managing waste Breakdown of total amount of waste generated, in tons, by treatment method (100% of 2019 actual In 2019, the sites generated 249,841 tons of waste (stable at scope) * constant scope and actual scope compared to 2018). 248,663 249,839 Non-hazardous waste constitutes 62% of the waste generated 250,000 by the Group’s sites. 74% of waste from Faurecia sites was recycled, recovered or reused externally and 18% of waste was disposed of in landfills. 200,000 The Faurecia Interiors Business Group represents 43% of the Group’s total waste and 74% of the waste disposed of in 58% 59% landfills. In 2019, the Business Group reduced its tonnage of 61% hazardous waste sent to landfills by 56%. The “zero waste” 150,000 initiative at the Kosice site in Slovakia can also be mentioned. This approach took place in several stages: raising awareness among employees of the “0 waste” concept, elimination of all plastic materials from non-production operations, the transition 100,000 to 100% recycled plastics and steel from production operations, and the use of the internal water treatment plant 19% 18% to recycle waste water. Thanks to this project, the site did not 20% record any waste sent to landfills in 2019, and 38% of the 50,000 annual total of waste, and 99% of the waste water is now 13% 13% recycled. 13% The Faurecia Seating Business Group represents 34% of the 0 Group’s total waste and 17% of the waste disposed of in 2017 2018 2019 landfills. Since 2017, the actions implemented by this Business Group have enabled a 70% reduction in waste sent to landfills Recycled externally over a scope of 25 sites for which the local regulations and/or Disposed of in landﬁll infrastructures enable the implementation of sustainable alternative solutions for landfills, representing a total of Incinerated with energy recovery 2,086 tons of landfill waste avoided. Incinerated without energy recovery Eliminated by other treatments Unknown treatment sector Reused externally, without transformation * Faurecia Clarion Electronics Business Group is outside of the scope. The initiatives related to externally recycled waste are covered in Section 4.3.4.4 / Universal Registration Document 2019 303 CSR Environmental performance 4.3.2.4. Limiting accidental discharge into constant scope (-12% at actual scope). This decrease is mainly due to three sites with the implementation of installations with the water and soil lower water consumption. This risk, inherent in the industrial activity of a site, is well understood by the Faurecia sites and their operators, who are Distribution of water consumption, by use * trained to react in the event of accidental spillage, notably through the application of the “10 Environmental Attitudes”. In addition, all the ISO 14001-certified sites systematically include prevention of this risk in their management system. 36% Destination of released water, in % * 2% 17% 64% 14% Domestic use of water * Faurecia Clarion Electronics Business Group is outside of the scope. 67 % Water consumption by source of supply in m3 * 3,500,000 3,367,442 Released into the environment without on-site treatment 3,112,588 3,000,000 2,978,040 Released into the environment without on-site treatment (used for open loop water cooling system) Released into the environment after on-site treatment 2,500,000 Released to the Public Wastewater network * Faurecia Clarion Electronics Business Group is outside of the scope. 2,000,000 Since 2012, Faurecia has been assessing the environmental risks of its industrial projects, by systematically conducting environmental audits and subsoil investigations research when 1,500,000 appropriate. In the context of industrial restructuring resulting in plant 1,000,000 closures, the Faurecia group systematically assesses the environmental impact and carries out a soil and subsoil investigation when appropriate. 500,000 0 4.3.2.5. Using resources in a responsible 2017 2018 2019 manner Public water (m3) REDUCING WATER CONSUMPTION Groundwater (m3) Sanitary use represents 64% of water consumption at Faurecia’s sites (see the diagram breaking down consumption Surface water (m3) by use below). Faurecia’s total water consumption in 2019 was * Faurecia Clarion Electronics Business Group is outside of the scope. 2,978,040 m3, a decrease of 16% compared to 2018 at 304 / Universal Registration Document 2019 CSR Environmental performance MANAGING CONSUMPTION OF RAW MATERIALS 4.3.2.7. Limiting VOC emissions (Volatile 2019 was a transition year towards carbon neutrality for Organic Compounds) Faurecia. The implementation of this project is supported by a Faurecia is committed to limiting airborne emissions of change in the consumption data reporting process, notably regulated Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs, process for raw materials, and specifically for two major items, metal emissions(1) which are subject to specific rules as they and plastics. Metals represent 80% of the total weight of metal contribute to the formation and accumulation of harmful and plastic raw materials purchased, compared to 20% for compounds such as ozone in the environment. plastics. In 2019, 39% of the total weight of metal and plastic raw materials purchased by the Group were recycled In 2019, VOC emissions amounted to 1,672 tons (i.e., -24% at materials (49% of metals, and 7% of plastics). constant scope and -19% at actual scope compared to 2018). This decrease is due to the reduction in VOC emissions in the Faurecia Interiors Business Group, i.e., -29% at constant scope 4.3.2.6. Limiting the use of dangerous due notably to work to optimize the operational management of installations in order to limit the diffusion of emissions. chemical products The Faurecia Interiors Business Group sites are the Group’s Substance management systems are put in place across the main source of VOC emissions (67%), due to activities requiring entire supply chain, from suppliers to manufacturing significant use of glues, paints and release agents. Three customers, for all products delivered by Faurecia. Among production plants from this Business Group are responsible for other benefits, this approach gives the Group access to 39% of the VOC emissions Group-wide. Two of these sites have complete information on the substances entering into its considerably reduced their emissions by installing new products, in compliance with regulations such as the equipment (solvent recycling machines and electrostatic European Union’s REACH (Registration, Evaluation and spray guns), which explains the reduction in VOCs at the Authorization of Chemicals) regulation. Thanks to this Group level. approach, Faurecia also keeps a close watch on new developments in its supply chain in order to investigate substitutes for certain substances when necessary. 4.3.2.8. Location of Faurecia sites and Among its initiatives in this area, Faurecia has developed an anticipatory approach to the identification and sharing of the local natural environment information within the supply chain on chemicals or 20 sites, comprising 13 production plants, five assembly sites constituents of concern, based on a list of chemicals or and two research and development sites, are located less constituents considered as potentially of concern for its than 3 kilometers from a protected area. 75% of these sites are products and their use. In some cases, such as catalyst located in Europe, 10% in Latin America, 5% in North America protectors in exhaust systems (ceramic fibers), Faurecia has and 5% in South Africa. defined an internal procedure that is more stringent than These protected areas close to the Faurecia sites are Natural REACH. Areas of Ecological Fauna and Flora Interest type 1 or 2, areas Faurecia also takes part in work carried out alongside that protect species becoming or already endangered automakers and various industry federations or associations in (leopards, ground squirrels, terrestrial squirrels, etc.), and order to anticipate possible restrictions on the use of natural water area (rivers and streams) protection zones. substances in the coming years and coordinate efforts to propose alternatives where necessary. The federations and associations involved include the French Vehicle Equipment Industries Alliance (FIEV), the French Automotive Industry Cluster (PFA), the German Automotive Industry Association (VDA), and the European Association of Automotive Suppliers (CLEPA). In this context, Faurecia leads the REACH and GADSL (Global Automotive Declarable Substance List) working groups. (1) For more information, see Section 4.3.5.3. Calculation methodology for volatile organic compound emissions. / Universal Registration Document 2019 305 CSR Environmental performance 4.3.3. Innovation of products and services promoting air quality and reduced carbon footprint The need to reconcile mobility and reduction of technology will assume a significant place in the energy mix environmental impacts has given rise to ever tighter for powering engines. regulations worldwide, with the aim of reducing vehicle In this context, in November 2019, Faurecia and Michelin emissions. Air quality and energy efficiency are at the heart of group formalized the creation of Symbio, a joint venture the innovations that Faurecia has brought to the area of bringing together all of their activities dedicated to hydrogen sustainable mobility for over 15 years. fuel cell technologies, with the aim of becoming the world In this context, Faurecia invests massively in new technologies leader in hydrogen mobility. Michelin and Faurecia will commit for electric battery and fuel cell vehicles and continues to to an initial investment of €140 million in the joint venture to develop weight-reduction solutions and other systems to accelerate the development of new generation fuel cells, reduce fuel consumption. launch mass production and grow the business in Europe, China and the United States. As a world leader in clean technologies, Faurecia is committed to promoting emission-free mobility and industry, and to offering innovative solutions in three domains: zero BATTERY SYSTEMS emissions mobility; solutions for improving urban air quality and Faurecia is working to develop a range of battery packs and reduction of emissions from all types of vehicles. comprehensive battery housing solutions for electric and rechargeable hybrid vehicles. The Group is currently expanding its offer to allow the integration of thermal 4.3.3.1. Developing solutions for zero management functions for batteries and battery modules. emission mobility Faurecia’s goal is to offer innovative solutions for battery systems by using its skills and know-how in systems integration, Faurecia’s technologies for zero emission sustainable mobility composite materials and thermal management. are a key component of the Group’s worldwide solutions for an emission-free world. Faurecia plans to extend its initiatives for tomorrow’s mobility and invests massively in technologies 4.3.3.2. Developing solutions for cleaner for electric and fuel cell vehicles. Faurecia also continues to focus on weight-reduction solutions and systems to reduce fuel urban mobility and improving air consumption. quality Faurecia’s technologies for sustainable mobility are STATE-OF-THE-ART FUEL CELL SYSTEMS contributing to significantly reducing emissions in urban Fuel cell technology offers an attractive and complementary settings. In order to meet the challenge of improving air alternative to electric battery cars. The range and recharging quality, especially in cities where the issue is ever more critical, time of electric cars with fuel cells approaches that of a the industry must continue to improve the performance of gasoline-powered car, the difference being that they are traditional vehicles and accelerate their electrification. emission-free. By 2030, the Group estimates that at least Faurecia is proposing solutions for clean mobility adapted to 2 million new premium vehicles and trucks will be equipped all types of vehicles and is developing a range of digital with fuel cell technology. services in order to consolidate its position as a leader in Faurecia is utilizing its experience in integrating systems and its technological solutions for cleaner and more intelligent partnerships with the French Alternative Energies and Atomic mobility, particularly in cities. Energy Commission (CEA), to combine hydrogen tank and fuel cell technologies into a comprehensive solution for DIGITAL SOLUTIONS FOR CITIES light-duty and utility vehicles. Faurecia signed an agreement with the CEA for the development, mass production and Backed by strong technological expertise in post-treatment commercialization of a high-performance fuel cell. Faurecia’s and real-time monitoring systems for NOx emissions, Faurecia first goal is to at least halve the cost of a fuel cell so that this designed a Clean Drive application that can analyze driver solution becomes more attractive to automakers and they behavior and offer personalized advice to reduce one’s equip their vehicles as technology evolves and recharging ecological footprint with regard to mobility. The application infrastructure grows. can coach drivers and offer alternative directions to avoid the most polluted areas. For Faurecia, hydrogen is at the heart of tomorrow’s energy The Group also developed a digital dashboard that maps air systems. Produced from a multitude of energy sources, it is a quality in cities and interacts with users of the “Clean Drive” storable energy carrier that generates no CO2 emissions. Faurecia is convinced that within 10 to 15 years fuel cell application. 306 / Universal Registration Document 2019 CSR Environmental performance These two solutions make up a digital ecosystem intended to ■ the exhaust gas heat recovery compact system (EHRS): This help cities and residents to adopt more sustainable practices solution makes it possible to improve a vehicle’s energy in mobility. performance by recovering up to 75% of exhaust heat to heat the passenger cabin or the engine, and thus reduce ASIA fuel consumption by 5-6% in cold weather on all types of hybrid vehicles; At the start of 2019, following a call for innovation by the Singapore National Environment Agency on real-time ■ the gas particle filter: This system allows for the reduction of monitoring of nitrogen oxide (NOx) emissions and particles particulate emissions from hybrid gas engines by a factor of emitted by diesel vehicles, Faurecia was entrusted with a 10 in order to comply with regulatory standards. Faurecia two-year pilot project for the real-time monitoring of emissions was the first on the market in 2014; from a utility vehicle fleet. ■ the EHC electrically heated catalyst: Faurecia developed In addition to real-time emissions monitoring, Faurecia will this key technology so that vehicles would comply with new supply a digital dashboard of real-time information on the regulations and optimize the removal of pollutants emitted level of vehicle emissions. The user will be able to interact with by internal combustion engines. EHC technology is a drivers, and provide customized recommendations with the state-of-the-art system that activates the low-temperature aim of reducing their ecological footprint through more catalyst and uses electric energy to raise the temperature responsible driving. of exhaust gases. This system optimizes post-treatment performance by heating gases and the ceramic catalyst Faurecia has also signed a partnership with Singapore’s main cells. research organization, the Agency for Science, Technology and Research (A*Star). This covers the in-depth analysis of the Making parts lighter with the use of bio-sourced data collected, in order to assess the potential for traffic materials management systems based on real emissions. Faurecia offers bio-sourced materials that can reduce the weight of parts. This innovation, whose environmental impact 4.3.3.3. Developing solutions for ultra-low was assessed by a life cycle analysis according to ISO 14040 and ISO 14044 international standards, makes it possible to vehicle emissions decrease scope 3 carbon emissions on both the products and A world leader in solutions for improving air quality and energy services purchased and at the use of products sold. The main efficiency of passenger vehicles for 15 years, Faurecia is characteristic of these materials is the use of vegetable fibers expanding this expertise to utility vehicles and high as reinforcement, mixed with a resin (which itself may be horsepower engines. bio-sourced or not). Natural hemp fibers used by Faurecia also make it possible to attain high performance in reducing environmental impact: the proportion of natural fibers in 4.3.3.3.1. PASSENGER VEHICLES AND LIGHT-DUTY plastics is renewable, the sustainability of plastics as well as the VEHICLES lesser weight of products allows for responsible consumption The regulations governing CO2 emissions have already and use of these materials. Plastic materials strengthened with imposed significant reductions on light-duty vehicles around hemp are recognized as compatible with industrial recycling the world: the goal of 180 g CO2/km in force ten years ago has processes already in place and are thus as of now yielded a new lower target of 95 g CO2 in Europe by 2020, 80 g recoverable. in 2025 and 59 g in 2030, with similar trends in China over the Three technologies patented by Faurecia utilize biomaterials. same time periods. In the United States, the situation is still Lignolight technology, using compressed fibers for between uncertain. 50% and 90% of the resin, applied to door panels, improves density by 40% compared with traditional components. Emission reduction systems NAFILean technology (Natural Fiber Injection), which Faurecia is providing systems to reduce emissions and noise combines natural hemp fibers with polypropylene resin, pollution that promote compliance with these new emissions reduces weight by 25% compared with talc-loaded standards. The Group supplies post-treatment systems for polypropylene. internal combustion and hybrid powered type engines, in Since their first mass application by PSA Group, biomaterials order to reduce their emissions and noise levels and recover are used in automotive components of six automakers. One of lost energy. In particular, we note: the latest to have done it is Byton for its electric SUV. To date, ■ recirculation of low-pressure exhaust for gas engines (EGR more than 17 vehicles are equipped with NAFILean BP): This technology re-injects a precise volume of cooled technology. exhaust into the engine for the purpose of improving combustion cycle efficiency, and thus reducing fuel consumption by up to 6% (WLTP procedure); / Universal Registration Document 2019 307 CSR Environmental performance NAFILITE, a second generation of this product, is currently concern, recyclability, the environmental impact and interior being manufactured. This technology can further reduce air quality– are checked by the designer using an eco-design weight by 10%. Faurecia’s portfolio includes natural fibers checklist. Therefore, the possibilities for recycling end-of-life combined with polypropylene fibers. products are studied with a view to integrating the best solutions, ensuring reduced environmental impact and taking Natural fibers currently account for 30.5% of the total amount into account all utilization cycles at the design stage. of fibers used by the Group. This percentage increased by 2.6% compared with 2017. Based on need, an in-depth study can be done, for example, by conducting a Life Cycle Analysis (LCA). 4.3.3.3.2. UTILITY AND TRANSPORT VEHICLES Defined by the international standards ISO 14040 and Powered by diesel for the most part, utility vehicles will have to ISO 14044, the LCA consists of assessing the environmental reduce their emissions levels in the years to come in order to impact of products that Faurecia designs and manufactures adapt to strict regulations. Faurecia is developing new for automotive use: taking into account the extraction of raw architectures for post-treatment of habitual pollutants like materials, product manufacturing, delivery to manufacturers, nitrogen oxide (NOx), in order to comply with ultra-low consumer use, up to and including the end of the life cycle. It international emission standards such as CARB and Euro 7. involves the fullest possible impact assessment, including climate change (including CO2), the consumption of In 2018, Faurecia offered an innovative solution to an non-renewable resources (oil and coal) and eutrophication. important General Motors program to save fuel and reduce CO2 emissions. Called “Resonance Free Pipe™” (RFP™), this Faurecia is an active participant in developing LCA with innovation reduces the weight and the architectural automakers and partners in the automotive sector in order to complexity of exhaust by eliminating resonance. have a shared understanding of the environmental issues. In 2019, Faurecia received Automotive News magazine’s 2019 As environmental regulations tighten, especially for the PACE award for this innovation. automotive industry, the Life Cycle Assessment working group led by the collective industry organization Plateforme de la Filière Automobile (PFA) endeavors to share assumptions on 4.3.3.3.3. EXTREMELY HIGH-POWERED ENGINES the methodology of life cycle assessment in the automotive With the goal of extending its expertise in the sustainable industry and engage in dialogue on the main assessment mobility of passenger and light-duty vehicles to extremely results that are available. Through its active involvement in this high-powered vehicles, Faurecia strengthened its Group, which will continue its work in 2020, Faurecia has technological offerings for clean mobility with its acquisition of gained a holistic approach in partnership with its customers Hug Engineering in 2018. Hug Engineering is a leader in whole and in anticipation of possible future regulatory requirements. systems for exhaust gas purification of extremely high-powered Under the auspices of the Verband der Automobilindustrie(1) engines (more than 750 CV), which are used in marine (VDA), Faurecia also participates in the Eco-design working propulsion, production of electricity, the rail industry, group, which aims to stimulate dialogue and deepen agriculture and other industrial sectors. knowledge on this topic for the automotive industry. The As for marine propulsion, only vessels built after 2014 and subjects addressed include the different LCA methodologies, operating within the United States must have a post-treatment the impact of environmental issues on business, and the system (around 1% of an estimated fleet of 250,000 vessels). exchange of information on eco-design. Over the course of the coming years, Europe and China will follow suit with similar regulations and will apply stricter REDUCING EMISSIONS OF VOLATILE ORGANIC emissions standards concerning polluting emissions (NOx, PM, COMPOUNDS CO, HC). For several years Faurecia has been studying VOC (Volatile Therefore, Faurecia, through Hug Engineering, can help Organic Compound) emissions that impact vehicle interior air shipyards and manufacturers to develop cleaner vessels with quality (VIAQ). As part of its commitment to reducing these its Clean4Marine & NautiClean technologies. emissions, the Group is developing or designing low-emission materials or products for Faurecia Interiors and Faurecia Seating. In collaboration with its suppliers, the Faurecia 4.3.3.4. Making tools available for Composite Technologies division, within Faurecia Clean environmental innovation Mobility, is developing new polyester resin or styrene-free vinyl ester-based materials with the aim of reducing VOC For each innovation and development project, the different associated emissions both in its plants during part components of eco-design –the presence of substances of manufacturing and in vehicle interiors. (1) German Automotive Industry Union. 308 / Universal Registration Document 2019 CSR Environmental performance In this context, Faurecia also participates in working groups on autonomous vehicles, and consequently has imagined VIAQ at the United Nations, in collaboration with automaker solutions to adapt seat belts and airbags to the new seat representatives. This approach aims to monitor the health of positions within the cockpit. Faurecia’s major innovation in people on-board and continuously improve Faurecia’s and partnership with ZF is the design of a seat integrating all safety the automotive industry’s knowledge in measurement elements (airbags, new generation pretensioners, etc.) able to methodologies and the impact of Group products present move to positions to improve comfort or offer new user inside vehicles. experiences whilst guaranteeing a high level of safety. COMPETITIVENESS AND PARTNERSHIPS 4.3.3.5. Responsible innovation and Faurecia is convinced that its innovation ecosystem is a key competitiveness component in the success of its transformation and a crucial CHALLENGES RELATED TO RESPONSIBLE INNOVATION innovation and competitiveness driver. In 2019, the Group continued to develop its technological platforms, strategic AND COMPETITIVENESS partnerships, its Faurecia Ventures program and its university In an environment with significant technological change and partnerships. faced with the challenges of today and the future, innovation In this context, in 2019, Faurecia inaugurated a new is a key development vector for Faurecia, both to differentiate technological platform in Tel Aviv that will enable it to itself from competitors, and to offer products and services that accelerate the rollout of its cyber security strategy. As vehicles meet new uses and have a positive impact on society. are increasingly connected, it is currently essential to improve Faurecia has committed to designing innovation responsibly, passenger safety. Faurecia has also invested in GuardKnox, an by developing innovative solutions and products that benefit Israeli automotive cyber security provider, that offers a both the Group and all its stakeholders. Faurecia has comprehensive cyber defense (hardware and software) implemented a cutting-edge global ecosystem, enabling it to system for connected and autonomous vehicles. develop partnerships with leading players worldwide, in order In 2018, Faurecia strengthened new technology development to extend its technological expertise and improve its by opening a new tech center in Yokohama, to be more innovation ability. customer centered and form new partnerships in Japan. Faurecia continues to expand in Japan with the acquisition of RESPONSIBLE INNOVATION Clarion Electronics. With this strategic and complementary Faurecia’s strategy priorities –Sustainable Mobility and the acquisition in terms of technology, geographic presence and Cockpit of the Future– are the result of the Group’s customer portfolios, Faurecia is positioned as a leading player interpretation of major global and sectorial trends. Faurecia for the integration of electronic systems in the cockpit. develops innovations for a better world and offers responsible Faurecia group has also signed a partnership with Japan value creation to all its stakeholders. Display Inc. to meet new autonomous driving trends and The Sustainable Mobility approach symbolizes Faurecia’s develop a screen that will adapt to all new well-being contribution for over 10 years to reducing emissions worldwide scenarios that passengers will experience, feel and through its products. In 2018, the Group became a partner of appreciate onboard tomorrow’s vehicles. Clean Air Asia to accelerate the adoption of air quality To meet these new requirements, Faurecia has also improvement solutions in Asia, based on the networks and announced that it has acquired a majority interest in the programs of this organization. Swedish company Creo Dynamics, which provides innovative The Group’s expertise and innovation ability work every day to acoustics and Active Noise Control (ANC) solutions, to allow it improve air quality and energy efficiency worldwide. to improve user comfort and the user experience. Against this background, Faurecia has positioned itself as a Improving acoustic comfort is also at the heart of the world leader in solutions to improve air quality and energy partnership with Devialet, a French designer of innovations in efficiency for passenger vehicles, and extends this expertise to acoustic engineering (expertise in acoustic architecture, utility vehicles and high horsepower engines. speaker design, signal processing and with a high-end reputation). Faurecia has accelerated its strategy as part of the growing electrification of vehicles by developing lightweight battery With the aim of continuing to improve life onboard, Faurecia packs with integrated thermal management, efficient fuel cell has announced the creation of a joint venture with Aptoide, systems and lightweight hydrogen tanks. one of the major independent Android app stores. The aim of this joint venture is to develop and operate Android app store Within the Cockpit of the Future approach, Faurecia continues solutions for the global automotive industry covering different to develop technologies to make today’s and tomorrow’s uses such as games, navigation, download services or parking. vehicles safer. The Group expects radical change, notably in / Universal Registration Document 2019 309 CSR Environmental performance The partnership signed recently with Microsoft will enable the Management Development network, an international company to develop more digital services. not-for-profit association of business schools and companies, bringing together 900 university, commercial, public service In addition to the existing partnerships with recognized and consulting organizations via the CLIP certification issued to institutions, including the Collège de France and the CEA, the Faurecia University. Group has also developed new academic partnerships, in particular by joining the European Foundation for 4.3.4. Circular economy The circular economy designates an economic model whose recovering future end-of-life products. Selective trials overseen goal is to produce goods and services in a sustainable by Faurecia comprise the first phase of a comprehensive manner, by limiting consumption and the waste of resources approach by the automotive sector in partnership with (raw materials, water, energy) as well as production of waste. industrial firms, academia and auto “clusters”, to forecasting It means breaking with the linear economic model (extract, volumes of materials available for recycling in the future. produce, consume, toss) in favor of a “circular” economic Faurecia Interiors Business Group, after performing tests on the model(1). The automotive industry, dependent on natural recycling and recovery of complex products via disassembly, resources, is facing a scarcity of resources. Committed to the has begun similar operations after shredding vehicles. circular economy, Faurecia is using natural and processed Industrial-scale recyclability studies and tests have been resources in its production by optimizing: undertaken with certain car-shredding plants, both on existing ■ supply sources and production processes; products and materials being developed, including agro-composites. For example, the NAFCORECY (NAtural Fiber ■ the use of by-products and waste treatment methods COmposites RECYcling) project was able to demonstrate, with (reuse, recycling and recovery); the help of European companies specialized in recycling, that ■ end-of-life product recyclability. parts made of NAFILean (polypropylene with natural fibers) can be processed with post-shredding technologies for end-of-life vehicles or recycling technologies used for industrial 4.3.4.3. Product recyclability waste. Faurecia incorporates recyclability in its ecodesign approach by anticipating the end-of-life phase and optimization of production waste recovery. 4.3.4.4. Waste reclamation In order to best preserve the resources needed for their European Directive 2000/53/EC of September 18, 2000 on production process (energy and raw materials), Faurecia’s end-of-life vehicles stipulates inter alia that vehicles will have industrial sites try to recycle and recover a maximum amount to be 95% recoverable by weight, of which 85% will have to be of the waste generated throughout the production chain. actually reusable or recyclable, by January 1, 2015. In 2019, Faurecia sites recorded the following waste Given such regulatory requirements, automakers are placing reprocessing rates: ever-greater demands on their suppliers in terms of end-of-life product recyclability. ■ 59% of waste is recycled(2) externally (an increase of 1% at constant scope compared to 2018); All of Faurecia’s Business Groups are affected by these obligations and, depending on the characteristics of the ■ 13% of waste is reclaimed through energy recovery(3) (stable component in question, have implemented plans and at constant scope compared to 2018); solutions to ensure that end-of-life products are processed as ■ 2% of waste is reused externally, without transformation, efficiently as possible in the future. stable at constant scope. As regards current solutions, an innovative product must be In total, 74% of waste from Faurecia sites was recycled, measurable both in terms of improved technical and recovered or reused externally in 2019. economic performance and its environmental impact. Faurecia is committed to a process of forecasting and (1) Extract from the Official Source of the Ministry of Ecological Transition and Solidarity. (2) Waste recycled off-site must be retreated/retransformed by an outside company. (3) Energy recovery involves using the waste’s calorific value by burning it and recovering this energy in the form of heat or electricity. 310 / Universal Registration Document 2019 CSR Environmental performance Breakdown by% of generated waste by treatment method and by continent where Faurecia sites were located in 2019 North South Other Europe America America Asia countries Externally recycled 51.5% 71.5% 78.9% 69.0% 37.5% Incinerated with energy recovery 18.5% 2.1% 0.0% 5.2% 38.1% Reused externally, without transformation 2.1% 1.1% 0.0% 5.3% 0% SUB-TOTAL OF RECYCLED AND RECOVERED WASTE 72.1% 74.7% 78.9% 79.5% 75.6% Disposed of in landfill 16.3% 24.1% 15.6% 16.6% 21.0% Incinerated without energy recovery 1.1% 0.3% 3.3% 3.3% 0.1% Eliminated by other treatments 4.8% 0.9% 2.2% 0.4% 3.3% Unknown treatment sector 5.7% 0.1% 0% 0.2% 0% SUB-TOTAL OF NON-RECOVERED WASTE 27.9% 25.4% 21.1% 20.5% 24.4% Distribution of Faurecia’s production plants by continent 42% 17% 4% 33% 4% * Faurecia Clarion Electronics Business Group is outside of the scope. Sites are implementing local initiatives that improve the sorting The following examples can be noted: of waste, recovery of waste as energy or material, and in the area of energy recovery: the Brières site in France of the reincorporating production scraps into processes or reusing Faurecia Seating Business Group has organic waste collected waste. In 2019, 43 sites (including 31 production plants, six by a contracted company that produces, through assembly sites and six research and development sites) have methanization, thermal energy and electricity; implemented waste management actions. in the area of reuse: the Nelas site of the Faurecia Seating Business Group in Portugal delivers its waste from wood packaging to a wood plant in the same industrial park, which reuses it in its production process. 4.3.5. Reporting process 4.3.5.1. Scope and dates of systems and HMI (Human Machine Interface) digital audio solutions, advanced driver assistance systems, connectivity environmental reporting solutions and cloud-based services for customers worldwide. The scope of this reporting covers 161 production plants This new Business Group is included in the reporting scope and (technological plants), 53 assembly sites (called “Just in Time” has one site, Yichun, for this year. Given the weight of this sites) and 19 R&D sites, i.e., a total of 233 sites. Compared entity, the Business Group’s results have not been reported in to 2019, 16 new sites(1) were included in the reporting scope the graphs and key performance indicators of this report. and 20 sites were removed. Reporting covers the period from November 1st 2018 to The new Faurecia Clarion Electronics (FCE) Business Group, October 31th 2019, to allow sites to collect, validate and bringing together Clarion, Parrot Automotive and Coagent provide data within the allotted time to PSA group, the Electronics, develops and produces in-vehicle-infotainment primary shareholder of Faurecia. (1) This inclusion corresponds to site openings, the addition of employees at some sites or Faurecia’s becoming the majority partner in some joint ventures. / Universal Registration Document 2019 311 CSR Environmental performance Distribution of Faurecia’s production plants by 4.3.5.2. Carbon emissions calculation continent (2019 scope)* methodologies Scopes 1 and 2: 4% 4% South Rest of the World Direct greenhouse gas emissions are calculated in CO2 America equivalent. Emissions from fuel consumption are calculated using the international emission factors recommended by the French Administration (Decree of October 31, 2012 and 17% European Decision No. 2012/601 for CO2 and Circular of North April 15, 2002 for other gases). America 42% Europe Fugitive emissions are calculated using emission factors from the 5th report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). Indirect electricity-related emissions are calculated from emission factors published by the IEA (International Energy Agency® version 2016) via the Carbon Database and take into account regional values for the United States. 33% Asia Scope 3: * Faurecia Clarion Electronics Business Group is outside of the scope. The values are calculated according to the GHG protocol (Green House Gas Protocol: international standard for Coverage rates(1) for environmental indicators from accounting for greenhouse gas emissions for businesses). They November 1, 2018, to October 31, 2019* include all categories except downstream leasing and franchises which do not concern the Group’s activity. 98% The uncertainties in the calculation of CO2 emissions were Water assessed taking into account the accuracy of the input data 100% and the uncertainties about the emission factors. 90% 80% 96% 98% CO2 70% 4.3.5.3. Calculation methodology for VOC Energy emissions 60% emissions (Volatile Organic 50% Compounds) The annual reference emissions on Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) is calculated using the Solvent Management Plan (SMP) required by the European Council Directive No. 1999/13/EC of March 11, 1999 on the reduction 98% 100% of volatile organic compounds emissions caused by the use of VOCs Waste organic solvents in certain activities and facilities. The SMP is a * Faurecia Clarion Electronics Business Group is outside of the scope. mass balance for quantifying the inputs and outputs of solvents in an installation. (1) The coverage rate corresponds to the number of sites that have provided numerical data compared to the number of sites affected by the subject. 312 / Universal Registration Document 2019 CSR Societal performance 4.4. Societal performance Faurecia is committed to adopting responsible business ethics presented by investment in responsible innovation and while guaranteeing the safety and quality of all of its products value-added partnerships. Lastly, the commitment to local and services. The Group has also implemented procedures to populations and dialogue with stakeholders are at the core of prevent the failure of suppliers and apply its duty of care. Faurecia’s operations. Beyond this, the Group is convinced of the opportunity The table below presents Faurecia’s main societal risks and opportunities and the associated results: Societal risks and opportunities Indicators 2017 2018 2019 2022 Goal Business ethics Percentage of employees 93% having received training on the Code of Ethics Product quality and safety Customer satisfaction index NA NA 4/5 Ranking 4 out of 5 Rate of sites at risk (based on 5.8% 5% an internal analysis of (15 sites operational risks)/total sites among 259 sites) Duty of care and responsible Share of direct purchasing NA NA 80% purchasing volume assessed for CSR performance (representing around 2,000 direct suppliers) Supplier satisfaction index NA NA 2.88 2.95 (assessment of 1,000 suppliers, representing 70% of the volume of direct industrial purchases) Commitment to communities Number of societal actions 1,000 Over carried out by Faurecia sites 1,100 projects with local communities per year / Universal Registration Document 2019 313 CSR Societal performance 4.4.1. EFPD Business ethics 4.4.1.1. Ethics commitment issues The selection of suppliers must be based on quality, need, performance and cost. As stated in the current Purchasing Faurecia has committed to responsible business ethics. As a procedures, agreements between the Group and its signatory to the UN Global Compact since 2004, the Group authorized representatives, agents and consultants or any has committed to aligning its operations and strategy with ten other contractor must clearly state the actual universally accepted principles including the fight against products/services to be supplied, the basis for corruption. compensation or price and all other terms and conditions. This commitment is reaffirmed in Faurecia’s Code of Ethics. This This rule also prohibits any investment in suppliers and any Code, created in 2005 and revised several times, includes purchase of property or service from providers or customers updates in Faurecia’s compliance systems and tools as a result for personal use. of the requirements of the Sapin II Law. ■ Conflicts of interest The Code is intended to strengthen the Group’s ethics culture Employees shall not draw any personal advantage from a and contribute to the creation of long-term value. The transaction carried out on behalf of a Group company, Management Code and the other systems, such as the notably with customers and suppliers. anti-corruption Code of Conduct and the best practices guide in the fight against anti-competitive practices, translate An employee must also not attempt to select or organize many of the principles set out in the Code of Ethics into the selection of a company, in particular as a supplier, in operations. which either the employee, an associate or a family member has, directly or indirectly, a financial interest. An annual online statement is required from employees with 4.4.1.2. Acting to prevent corruption a higher risk of finding themselves in a conflict of interest situation. A statement and processing system for potential or CODE OF ETHICS real conflicts of interest is available to all employees. The Code of Ethics is structured around four topics, including ethics and rules of conduct. It also includes a whistle-blowing WHISTLE-BLOWING PROCEDURE procedure if one of the values in the Code is breached. The Code of Ethics provides a mechanism for the purpose of The ethical principles and rules of conduct apply to: managing violations of the above rules. Anyone who ■ Use of funds, services or Group assets becomes aware of a breach of the rules set out in the Code, the rules issued to implement this Code or a regulation to Any funding of political activity is forbidden, as are any which the Group is subject, may use the whistle-blowing unlawful payments to public authorities or officials. procedure. Assets, liabilities, expenses and other transactions made by For this, employees are encouraged to seek the assistance of Group entities must be recorded in the books and financial their hierarchical manager, HR manager or a Compliance statements of these entities, and should be kept truthfully manager (including the Compliance Leaders chosen within and accurately, in accordance with the applicable each Business Group), orally or in writing. principles, rules and laws. There is another whistle-blowing method, in particular for the ■ Relationships with customers, providers or suppliers most serious cases: the dedicated alert line via an interactive link (http://faurecia.ethicspoint.com/) directs the employee to Gifts and entertainment accepted from/given to customers an online questionnaire, which is then reviewed by the and/or service providers are subject to limits. It is prohibited compliance team so that it is treated according to a specific to accept or give any gift or gratuity to or from customers or procedure. suppliers worth over €100 per year, regardless of the type; this is managed by an internal monitoring and control Depending on the nature and importance of the events system. reported, additional investigations may be launched, an inquiry may be set up or an Internal Audit decided upon. Furthermore, the payment of any amount in cash, in kind or otherwise to any customer or supplier representative in The identity of any person using the alert line and all the details order to obtain either a contract or a business or financial enabling him/her to be identified are protected and kept advantage is prohibited. confidential by the people responsible for it within Faurecia and the supplier operating the tool. These represent a limited number of people, specially trained to receive and investigate this type of alert, and subject to strict confidentiality obligations. 314 / Universal Registration Document 2019 CSR Societal performance TRAINING, IDENTIFICATION AND RISK MONITORING maintains all tax records and performs tax reporting as required by any law in countries in which the Group operates. The Compliance department, the organization of which is described in Chapter 2 of this Universal Registration Document Faurecia is committed to acting with integrity in all tax matters. (see Section 2.1 “Participants and systems”), is responsible for It seeks to operate under a policy of full transparency and improving the understanding of the Group’s Code of Ethics endeavors to maintain constructive partnerships with the tax and Management Code. authorities, as this can result in the more timely resolution of any disputes. The Group recognizes, however, that tax The Compliance department continues to deploy online legislation and procedures are complex areas. When it is not training (MOOC) on Ethics and Antitrust targeting the Group’s possible to quickly and professionally resolve a disagreement community of managers & professionals. For the past three with the tax authorities, Faurecia is ready to refer the matter to years, 26,099 Faurecia employees have followed the MOOC the competent courts in order to defend the Group’s position, and 93% of managers & professionals have followed the if necessary, using the full extent of our resources to test the MOOC in 2019. Along with the Human Resources, Internal Group’s interpretation of the law. Audit and Control teams, the Compliance department ensures that all the identified people are effectively trained in Faurecia manages tax affairs in a pro-active manner and the internal rules, in order to maintain a strong ethics and does not use contrived or abnormal tax structures that are compliance culture in the Group. intended for tax avoidance, have no commercial substance and do not meet the spirit of local or international law. Employees also have access to practical guides on Faurecia does not use secrecy jurisdictions or so-called “tax anti-competitive practices, reporting and managing conflicts havens” for tax avoidance. of interest and the internal whistle-blowing procedure on allegations of non-compliance with the Code of Ethics. When the Group assesses taxes legally due for all its activities Significant communication efforts have ensured that these worldwide, it has two important objectives: to protect value guides are widely distributed. for its shareholders and to fully comply with all legal and regulatory obligations, in line with its stakeholders’ Reminder training sessions are regularly organized at the expectations. industrial sites and at the level of Business Group divisions, in particular on the risks of failure to comply with best practices in The aim is to pay an appropriate amount of tax according to terms of the fight against anti-competitive practices. where value is created within the normal course of industrial or commercial activity. Consequently, all transfers of goods and In addition to these actions, and in the context of the Sapin II services between companies within the Group are conducted Law in particular, the non-compliance risk mapping and the on an arm’s length basis. The pricing of such transactions risk of corruption in particular was updated based on interviews between Group companies is based on fair market terms and and questionnaires sent to people exposed to the identified reflects the commercial nature of the transactions. corruption risks. The non-compliance risk mapping takes into account various numerical data to prepare remediation plans Within this governance framework, the conduct of the Group’s suited to the level of residual risk. Identification of these risks is tax affairs and the management of tax risk are delegated to a incorporated into Faurecia’s overall risk mapping process (see global team of tax professionals. Chapter 2 of this Universal Registration Document). The Compliance department works closely with the legal experts in antitrust practices and the permanent and periodic 4.4.1.4. Commitments to respect control functions to ensure an effective control of the Faurecia has adhered to the UN Global Compact since 2004. identified risks. By doing so, the Group committed to abiding by and promoting, in its business practices, a set of values and principles drawn from international texts and conventions 4.4.1.3. Acting to prevent tax evasion relating to human rights, labor standards and the environment. Faurecia’s Code of Ethics meets the International Labour In support of its overall business strategy and objectives, the Organization’s (ILO) fundamental treaties. Faurecia’s Faurecia group has established the following principles Management Code guides the day-to-day management of governing its tax policy. A tax strategy that is aligned with our teams, customers and also suppliers, and translates many of business strategy, transparent, sustainable in the long term and the principles set out in the Code of Ethics into operational conforms with our Code of Ethics. terms. Faurecia always acts in accordance with all applicable laws Faurecia developed two Compliance e-learning modules that and regulations and is guided by relevant international let employees test their knowledge of the Group’s applicable standards (for example OECD Guidelines). The Group aims to Code of Ethics and Management Code. The pedagogical rigorously comply with the essence of the law. approach promotes interactive training using short videos and Faurecia ensures that tax filings and payments are made in animations. Additional practical guides have been accordance with all local regulations. The Group also developed. / Universal Registration Document 2019 315 CSR Societal performance Faurecia’s Code of Ethics covers the following issues: undertakes to protect union members and leaders and not to make any discrimination based on the offices held. PROHIBITION OF CHILD LABOR The Group is also committed to promoting a policy of faurecia complies with national laws and regulations relating dialogue and negotiation. given its decentralized legal and to child labor. The Group refuses to employ children under the managerial structure, this policy is implemented through age of 16, under any circumstances, and complies with the collective bargaining agreements signed with the sites, on the provisions of the ilo regarding the health, safety and morality one hand, and companies, on the other. of young people aged between 15 and 18. The Group ensures that its suppliers and partners adhere to the same principles. ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED LABOR The Group is committed not to discriminate against anyone, faurecia is committed to the free choice of employment and notably on the basis of age, sex, skin color, nationality, religion, the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. it health status or disability, sexual orientation, political, ensures that its suppliers and/or partners adhere to the same philosophical or union-related opinion in its recruitment and principles. career development initiatives. Every employee has the right to work in a healthy environment, free from any form of hostility or harassment qualified as unlawful under the FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND RECOGNITION OF regulations and practices in force in the countries where the THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Faurecia group operates. faurecia recognizes the existence of trade unions worldwide In particular, Faurecia forbids any unlawful conduct construed and the right of workers to form the union organization of their as sexual or moral harassment, including in the absence of choice and/or to organize workers’ representation in any hierarchical or subordination relationship. accordance with the laws and regulations in force. The Group 4.4.2. EFPD Product Quality and Safety 4.4.2.1. Product quality and safety issues Over the years, Faurecia has become a key partner for automakers in this area, by placing safety at the core of its Product quality and safety have become major issues for innovation strategy and by developing products and expertise automotive suppliers. The upswing in connected and that currently allow it to effectively anticipate coming autonomous vehicles and their related new uses, identified by changes. Each part that enters into the safety chain is Faurecia as part of the major trends in the automotive sector, associated with design rules that guarantee the system’s also involve new challenges to guarantee the protection and performance and its longevity. safety of users. Faurecia has developed strong expertise in the “interior The globalization of the automotive market requires architecture” and “safety and comfort” segments, which automakers’ suppliers to guarantee the same level of quality have become key components in the Cockpit of the Future, and service throughout the world. and continues to build an ecosystem that allows it to continue Faurecia puts these concerns at the core of its strategic to innovate in this direction. In 2017, Faurecia notably signed a thinking. The Group is committed to ensuring that its products partnership with the German automotive equipment have impeccable quality and safety. It also considers safety to manufacturer, ZF, to work on integrating interior safety in be an integral part of its Smart Life on Board approach and vehicles and on developing the technological building blocks sees quality through its ability to meet and exceed its direct needed for new use scenarios, specifically through the and final customers’ expectations, throughout the product Advanced Versatile Structure (AVS) that integrates the safety lifecycle. systems into the seat with the increasing perspective of vehicle automation. Faurecia and ZF have thus developed an active safety 4.4.2.2. Measures taken for products management system connecting the seat structures, safety safety and electronic components. A central control unit monitors the occupants and analyzes the situation in order to propose The Group has a leading role to play within the automotive and implement an optimal seating position, including an sector, as it is a supplier of components that play an important automatic emergency action to bring seats back to the safest role in passive safety, and thus help save lives or limit injuries to position in the event of an accident. drivers and passengers. 316 / Universal Registration Document 2019 CSR Societal performance At the IAA 2018, Faurecia presented Active Wellness Express™, share and accelerate profitable growth for the benefit of all a revolutionary innovation designed to provide increased concerned stakeholders. safety and comfort to professional drivers. This connected seat Faurecia translates this ambition into its Total Customer cover integrates sensors that analyze the data on the driver’s Satisfaction (TCS) strategy and its commercial signature to physical and psychological state. The system can detect support, promote and affirm its competitive position in terms of fatigue or stress upstream and apply counter-measures for quality and customer loyalty. increased safety, comfort and well-being behind the wheel. Faurecia group’s Quality Policy is based on: Autonomous driving will broaden the field of uses within the vehicle interior. As seats may no longer be fixed facing forward and upright, new solutions for seat-belts and air bags A ZERO-DEFECT CULTURE will be needed. Faurecia is working on adapting and At Faurecia, building quality is far more important than simply developing safety systems that enable passengers to continue monitoring quality. Thus, the Faurecia Excellence System or to travel in complete safety whatever the seat position, in FES, the Program Management Core System and the Total driving, work or relaxation mode. Customer Satisfaction strategy are Faurecia’s key focuses. Faurecia’s commitment to safety is also shown by its They are enshrined in the quality management manual which participation in working groups on VIAQ (Vehicle Interior Air builds on solid supplier management and the promotion of Quality) at the United Nations level, in collaboration with employee autonomy. manufacturer representatives. These groups aim to monitor the health of people on-board and continuously improve FAURECIA EXCELLENCE SYSTEM (FES) Faurecia’s and the automotive industry’s knowledge in The FES governs the organization of Faurecia’s production and measurement methodologies and the impact of Group operations systems. It is designed to continuously improve the products present inside vehicles. health and safety, quality, cost and delivery performance of Besides safety, Faurecia is concerned to use responsible the Group. sourcing, in particular through its activities linked to the leather The FES complies with automotive industry requirements for seating products. On this activity, the Group works only with (ISO 9001, IATF 16949, OHSAS 18001, specific customer direct suppliers imposed and assessed by the manufacturer. In requirements, etc.). The FES benefits from over 20 years’ its own process, these suppliers are also screened via EcoVadis experience within Faurecia, and has been constantly like the others. These suppliers who market by-products of the enhanced with the best internal and external practices of food chain, represent less than ten suppliers for Faurecia. lean manufacturing. The FES makes it possible to ensure an appropriate operational 4.4.2.3. Measures taken for products performance of Faurecia’s production plants, irrespective of where they are located and their activity, thanks to common quality working methods and language. On a daily basis, Faurecia monitors the quality of the management of customer programs by its sites (one program FAURECIA’S PROGRAM MANAGEMENT CORE SYSTEM corresponds to the manufacture of products for car models to be released on the market). This monitoring by the Operations Faurecia maintains close relationships with all of the world’s and Sales department is based on an indicator index for leading automakers, with whom the Group works to design evaluating potential sites at risk. Thus, on more than and develop the products suited to each brand’s specific 500 ongoing programs around the world, in 2019 Faurecia requirements. Once in the production phase, the new identified 16 potential sites at risk among 259 sites in total (5.8% program managers supervise their teams to ensure that the of the sites concerned), according to 16 criteria which assess expected schedule, costs and level of quality are met. the maturity of the site, the human resource management, This is carried out using Faurecia’s PMCS (Program number of programs managed, sales, and customer Management Core System), which includes five phases, each satisfaction. Actions to mitigate risks are defined and monitor subject to periodic interim reviews, so that its progress can be continuously. validated: Faurecia has set itself the goal of meeting as best it can or ■ acquisition and verification of the customer’s needs; exceeding customer satisfaction. Under the management of Faurecia group’s Risk Committee, the organization monitors ■ product development; strict compliance with the automotive quality management ■ product validation and development of the manufacturing standard IATF 16949 and constantly reflects on the market’s process; risks and opportunities. This enables it to strengthen its market / Universal Registration Document 2019 317 CSR Societal performance ■ industrialization and validation of the means of production; Risk prevention has also been included by strengthening the Production Part and Approval Process (PPAP); eight basic production quality principles to support the ultimate goal of zero defects at any time, and updating ■ acceleration and start of series production. program management tools, such as AMDEC. Faurecia has also implemented the concept of program A supplier quality convention was organized to reinforce the management excellence, to track quality throughout the relationship between Faurecia and its suppliers. development process. This new approach involves the following: A quality academy was launched in 2019 to ensure knowledge and solid application by all employees. This quality ■ based on risk; academy started in the production scope and will be ■ review of FES audits in the programs to qualify process extended to other areas in 2020 and beyond (program, compliance; purchasing, engineering, etc.). ■ program Risk Committee to anticipate risks and/or provide appropriate support to achieve customer satisfaction. 4.4.2.4. Indicators to monitor results QUALITY ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2019 The key indicators of total customer satisfaction are based on a combination of performance and perception: During the year, Faurecia rolled out its new TCS-Quality strategy worldwide, by implementing quality agreements, ■ Performance (complaint): Main indicator of the customer sharing its new vision in all regions and including local needs. and number of incidents, i.e. 503 complaints in 2019 (down 25% compared to 2018); In 2019, the organization revised its problem resolution strategy, which now includes seven types of problem-solving ■ Perception (5 stars): indicator based on the “comments” approaches based on recognized methodologies, divided score (score of 4/5 in 2019 in the context of integrating new into three sections: customers) and “feelings” (score of +0.46 in 2019) of customers. ■ employee conduct; This customer-focused performance is constantly improving, in ■ production process conduct; line with the goal set by the Group. ■ acceleration. 4.4.3. EFPD Duty of care and responsible purchasing in the supply chain 4.4.3.1. Issues related to the duty of care In accordance with the law, this section presents a summary of Faurecia’s duty of care plan, and its implementation, in five In order to meet the requirements of Law No. 2017-399 of separate areas: March 27, 2017, Faurecia has implemented a duty of care plan to identify risks and prevent serious breaches in human ■ risk identification and mapping; rights and fundamental freedoms, the health and safety of ■ subsidiary, sub-contractor and supplier assessment people and the environment resulting from the activities of the procedures; Group, and those of its subcontractors and suppliers with which it has an established commercial relationship. ■ actions to mitigate risks or prevent serious breaches; The aspects of this Duty of Care plan relating to Faurecia’s ■ implementation of a whistle-blowing system and receipt of own activities are described in Section 4.2 for the social alerts; aspect, in Section 4.3 for the environmental aspect, and ■ monitoring system for implemented measures. Section 4.4 on business ethics and supplier risk management. This plan applies to the entire Group as Faurecia operates in a number of countries and uses a large number of suppliers 4.4.3.2. Subsidiary, sub-contractor and located in different countries for its raw materials and basic supplier assessment procedures parts supplies. RISK MANAGEMENT PROCEDURE Faurecia has a Group Purchasing department, which has implemented a sustainable purchasing policy, reflecting Management of the supplier life cycle includes an assessment Faurecia’s commitment to comply with the Universal process of the risk applicable to all of Faurecia’s major Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour suppliers. This process is described in the supplier risk Organization’s (ILO) Declaration on fundamental principles management procedure (Group purchasing policy available and rights at work, the Rio Declaration on Environment and on Faurecia’s website at: www.faurecia.com). All Faurecia’s Development and the United Nations’ Convention against buyers build on four quantitative criteria to which they add a Corruption. qualitative assessment based on their own experience or view of the supplier. All these criteria enable the buyers to build a detailed action plan. The Group relies on this assessment and the related documentary audit to enact Law No. 2017-399 of 318 / Universal Registration Document 2019 CSR Societal performance March 27, 2017, on the duty of care by parent companies and This assessment is incorporated into the purchasing process instructing companies. and is systematically taken into account in the award of contracts. It is also included in the criteria for performance 1. Overall Assessment: This assessment takes into account the evaluation of suppliers. general business environment in the concerned country (World Economic Forum publications) as well as historical exchange rate and inflation data. 4.4.3.4. Actions to mitigate risks or prevent 2. Financial Screening: Assessment based on the financial performance of the company in question (via a general serious breaches screening or more in-depth ad hoc studies); An alert Faurecia has implemented processes to guarantee the proper procedure has been set up for all major events concerning operation of the risk management systems at all levels: financial risk. ■ referencing on the supplier panel: the comprehensive 3. CSR Assessment, with the partner EcoVadis covering: assessment of risks, including the CSR assessment, is part of the entry process for suppliers to Faurecia’s panel; ■ Ethical Business Practices: Assessment of the organization’s ability to implement tangible actions to ■ management of the relationship between Faurecia and its ensure data protection, fight against corruption, fraud, suppliers: a supplier’s qualification level depends on its final anti-competitive practices, money laundering and avoid risk level, throughout its life cycle. For suppliers at risk, on all conflicts of interest, criteria, an action plan has been requested since 2018. The goal will be to ensure that these action plans are effective. ■ Labor Practices: Assessment of the organization’s level of The allocation of new projects is subject to obtaining an maturity in terms of the actions on employee health and analysis by EcoVadis; safety, working conditions, social relations, forced labor and child labor, discrimination and respect for ■ risk analysis of materials used by suppliers: Precise fundamental rights, management of substances via the systematic participation in the International Material Data System (IMDS) from the ■ Environment and Sustainable Procurement: assessment of design stage enables Faurecia and its customers to avoid the formalized policy, verification mechanisms and all unauthorized uses. certification obtained. Since 2013, Faurecia requires its suppliers to comply with its 4. Economic Dependency Assessment: Assessment of the sustainable purchasing policy, as monitored with its partner, level of mutual dependency with suppliers, allowing the EcoVadis. level of the action plan to be implemented to be weighted. CSR EVALUATION PROCEDURES FOR SUPPLIERS 4.4.3.5. Implementation of a whistle-blowing system and Supplier quality audits, which are a prerequisite to joining Faurecia’s panel of “direct” suppliers, include CSR issues. receipt of alerts Against this backdrop, Faurecia’s purchasing teams are Faurecia’s whistle-blowing system was reviewed as part of assisted by an external CSR specialist partner, EcoVadis, in compliance with the Sapin II Law. It may be used by Group order to better understand, verify and optimize the practices of employees to report breaches of human rights and its suppliers in this area. This external assessment of CSR fundamental freedoms, health and safety of people and the compliance by suppliers and the related documentary audit environment. This alert procedure was opened to all Group are in line with the organization and requirements set out in the suppliers via the website: www.faurecia.com Code of Conduct sent to suppliers. Supplemented by specific documentation for each project, Faurecia ensures compliance with REACH and conflict minerals regulations. In addition to the 4.4.3.6. Monitoring system for partnership with EcoVadis, Faurecia has implemented a implemented measures screening process to assess the level of protection against fire, as well as the level of risk associated with natural disasters. The procedure, officially implemented in November 2018, was gradually deployed throughout 2019 to reach an assessment At the end of 2019, Faurecia have assessed the CSR of over 1,100 out of 1,987 direct suppliers. Deployment will performance of 1,948 suppliers, which represents around 80% continue in 2020 and will be supplemented by monitoring of of the suppliers. supplier risk reduction action plans. / Universal Registration Document 2019 319 CSR Societal performance 4.4.3.7. Monitoring of supplier quality internal reporting process enables Faurecia to provide a suitable level of support to the supplier to help resolve the From an operational point of view, poor quality of supplier problem. services is measured using two main indicators: For the first time during the second half of 2019, the Group ■ PF4 (“quality” incidents detected at the Customer) as well launched a satisfaction survey of around 1,000 direct suppliers, as the other types of incidents are monitored and representing 70% of the Group’s direct industrial purchases, in consolidated; order to measure the level of satisfaction in the relationship ■ the quantities of non-compliant products entering between Faurecia and its suppliers. The satisfaction index production plants: parts per million. achieved was 2.88 on a scale of 1 to 4. The index measures supplier satisfaction in four areas: strategy, innovation, Suppliers generating poor quality incidents must implement operational excellence and business ethics. This survey will be safeguarding actions and actions to resolve the problem. An carried out each year. 320 / Universal Registration Document 2019 CSR Report by the independent third party on the consolidated non-financial statement presented in the management report 4.5. Report by the independent third party on the consolidated non-financial statement presented in the management report For the year ended December the 31th 2019 This is a free translation into English of the independent third party’s report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders In our capacity as independent third party, accredited by COFRAC number 3-1058 (scope available at www.cofrac.fr), and member of the Mazars network of one of the Company’s Statutory Auditors, we hereby report to you on the non-financial statement1 for the year ended December the 31th 2019 (hereinafter the “Statement”), included in the Group management report pursuant to the requirements of Articles L. 225-102-1, R. 225-105 and R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce). The entity’s responsibility The Board of Directors is responsible for preparing the Statement, including a presentation of the business model, a description of the principal non-financial risks, a presentation of the policies implemented considering those risks and the outcomes of said policies, including key performance indicators. The Statement has been prepared in accordance with the entity’s procedures (hereinafter the “Guidelines”), the main elements of which are presented in the Statement and which are available on request from the entity’s head office. Independence and quality control Our independence is defined by the requirements of Article L. 822-11-3 of the French Commercial Code and the French Code of Ethics (Code de déontologie) of our profession. In addition, we have implemented a system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements, the ethical requirements and French professional guidance. Responsibility of the independent third party On the basis of our work, our responsibility is to provide a report expressing a limited assurance conclusion on: ■ the compliance of the Statement with the requirements of Article R. 225-105 of the French Commercial Code; ■ the fairness of the information provided in accordance with Article R. 225-105 I, 3° and II of the French Commercial Code, i.e., the outcomes, including key performance indicators, and the measures implemented considering the principal risks (hereinafter the “Information”). However, it is not our responsibility to comment on the entity’s compliance with other applicable legal and regulatory requirements, in particular the French duty of care law and anti-corruption and tax avoidance legislation nor on the compliance of products and services with the applicable regulations. Nature and scope of our work The work described below was performed in accordance with the provisions of Articles A. 225-1 et seq. of the French Commercial Code, as well as with the professional guidance of the French Institute of Statutory Auditors (“CNCC”) applicable to such engagements and with ISAE 3000(1): ■ we obtained an understanding of all the consolidated entities’ activities and the description of the principal risks associated; ■ we assessed the suitability of the criteria of the Guidelines with respect to their relevance, completeness, reliability, neutrality and understandability, with due consideration of industry best practices, where appropriate; (1) ISA 3000 – Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial information. / Universal Registration Document 2019 321 CSR Report by the independent third party on the consolidated non-financial statement presented in the management report ■ we verified that the Statement includes each category of social and environmental information set out in Article L. 225-102-1 III as well as information regarding compliance with human rights and anti-corruption and tax avoidance legislation]; ■ we verified that the Statement provides the information required under Article R. 225-105 II of the French Commercial Code, where relevant with respect to the principal risks, and includes, where applicable, an explanation for the absence of the information required under Article L. 225-102-1 III, paragraph 2 of the French Commercial Code; ■ we verified that the Statement presents the business model and a description of principal risks associated with all the consolidated entities’ activities, including where relevant and proportionate, the risks associated with their business relationships, their products or services, as well as their policies, measures and the outcomes thereof, including key performance indicators associated to the principal risks; ■ we referred to documentary sources and conducted interviews to: ■ assess the process used to identify and confirm the principal risks as well as the consistency of the outcomes, including the key performance indicators used, with respect to the principal risks and the policies presented, and ■ corroborate the qualitative information (measures and outcomes) that we considered to be the most important presented in Appendix 1; concerning certain risks (relating to social dialogue, business ethics, duty of vigilance and responsible purchasing policy and the quality and safety of products), our work was carried out on the consolidating entity, for the others risks, our work was carried out on the consolidating entity and on a selection of entities(1); ■ we verified that the Statement covers the scope of consolidation, i.e. all the consolidated entities in accordance with Article L. 233-16 of the French Commercial Code within the limitations set out in the Statement; ■ we obtained an understanding of internal control and risk management procedures the entity has put in place and assessed the data collection process to ensure the completeness and fairness of the Information; ■ for the key performance indicators and other quantitative outcomes that we considered to be the most important presented in Appendix 1, we implemented: ■ analytical procedures to verify the proper consolidation of the data collected and the consistency of any changes in those data, ■ tests of details, using sampling techniques, in order to verify the proper application of the definitions and procedures and reconcile the data with the supporting documents. This work was carried out on a selection of contributing entities and covers between 11% and 100% of the consolidated data relating to the key performance indicators and outcomes selected for these tests; ■ we assessed the overall consistency of the Statement based on our knowledge of the consolidated entities. We believe that the work carried out, based on our professional judgement, is sufficient to provide a basis for our limited assurance conclusion; a higher level of assurance would have required us to carry out more extensive procedures. Means and resources Our work was carried out by a team of 7 people between November 2019 and February 2020 and took a total of 5 weeks. We conducted around thirty interviews with the people responsible for preparing the Statement, representing in particular CSR, Compliance, Human Resources, Labor Relations, Quality, HSE and Purchasing departments. Conclusion Based on the procedures performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the consolidated non-financial statement is not presented in accordance with the applicable regulatory requirements and that the Information, taken as a whole, is not presented fairly in accordance with the Guidelines, in all material respects. Paris-La Défense, February the 19th 2020 French original signed by: Independent Verifier Mazars SAS Edwige REY Partner, CSR & Sustainable Development (1) FAS: sub-consolidation FAS China, YANGCHENG, WUXI. FIS: sub-consolidation FIS Northern Europe, Gorzow I & II, Pitesti (for KPI waste only). FCM: Braganca, Pamplona. 322 / Universal Registration Document 2019 CSR Report by the independent third party on the consolidated non-financial statement presented in the management report Appendix 1: Information considered most important QUALITATIVE INFORMATION (ACTIONS AND RESULTS) ■ Health and safety conditions at work; ■ The duty of vigilance and the responsible purchasing policy; ■ Talent acquisition and retention; ■ Measures implemented for product quality and safety; ■ Social dialogue; ■ The environmental impact of production sites and the fight against climate change. ■ Business ethics; QUANTITATIVE INDICATORS (INCLUDING KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS) Social responsability Percentage of resignations of managers and professionals Percentage of newly graduated managers and junior professionals in hiring Number of establishment or enterprise agreements signed during the year Lost time injury frequency rate (FR0t) Frequency rate of accidents at work with and without lost time (FR1t) Total number of employees recorded and breakdown by contract Number of training hours per employee per year Environmental responsability Percentage of ISO 14001-certified production sites Tonnes of waste and their ratio per unit of sales Energy consumption and its ratio per unit of sales Greenhouse gas emissions (scopes 1, 2) as well as their ratio per unit of sales Percentage distribution of waste quantities by treatment channel by continent, waste recycling rate (external) Emissions of volatile organic compounds Societal responsability Customer Satisfaction Index Number of suppliers having undergone a CSR performance evaluation over the year and percentage of their purchasing volume in relation to overall purchasing volume Supplier Satisfaction Index Percentage of employees trained in the Code of Ethics / Universal Registration Document 2019 323 CSR Report by the independent third party on the consolidated non-financial statement presented in the management report 324 / Universal Registration Document 2019 5 Capital stock and shareholding structure 5.1. Shareholding 326 5.1.1. Changes in capital stock 326 5.1.2. Crossing of legal thresholds 327 5.2. Capital stock 328 5.2.1. Authorized capital stock 328 5.2.2 Potential capital stock 329 5.2.3. Change in capital stock over five years 333 5.3. Transactions carried out by the Company in its own shares 334 5.4. Share price 336 5.4.1. Share price and trading volume (source: Euronext) 336 5.4.2. Stock market data 337 5.4.3. Dividends 337 5.4.4. Dividend payment policy 337 5.4.5. Per share figures 337 5.4.6. 2020 financial calendar 338 / Universal Registration Document 2019 325 Capital stock and shareholding structure Shareholding 5.1. Shareholding 5.1.1. Changes in capital stock All issued shares are representing the Company’s capital stock. As of December 31, 2019, the Company’s capital stock amounted to €966,250,607, divided into 138,035,801 fully paid-up shares with a par value of €7 each, all in the same class. The breakdown of Faurecia’s capital stock and voting rights over the last three years is as follows: Voting rights % voting rights Theoretical % exercisable at exercisable at % capital voting theoretical General General Shareholders at 12/31/2019 Shares stock rights (1) * voting rights Meetings (2) * Meetings Peugeot S.A. 63,960,006 46.34 127,920,012 62.99 127,920,012(3) 63.34 Faurecia Actionnariat Corporate Mutual fund 388,152 0.28 695,270 0.34 695,270(3) 0.34 Corporate officers 52,462 0.04 56,907 0.03 56,907 0.03 Treasury stock 1,149,994 0.83 1,149,994 0.57 0 0 o/w liquidity contract 19,000 0.01 19,000 0.01 0 0 Other shareholders (registered and bearer) 72,485,187 52.51 73,273,444 36.08 73,273,444 36.28 TOTAL 138,035,801 100% 203,095,627 100% 201,945,633 100% * Calculations based on information from the Caceis Corporate Trust Register on December 31, 2019. (1) Theoretical voting rights = total number of voting rights attached to the total number of shares, including shares without voting rights (including treasury stocks). It is reminded that, in accordance with applicable regulations on the crossing of thresholds, the thresholds related to voting rights are calculated on the basis of theoretical voting rights (and not on the basis of exercisable voting rights). (2) Exercisable voting rights = number of voting rights attached to the shares not deprived from voting rights. (3) The difference between the number of shares held by the shareholder and the number of exercisable voting rights is the result of the double voting rights held by the shareholder. Voting rights % voting rights Theoretical % exercisable at exercisable at % capital voting theoretical General General Shareholders at 12/31/2018 Shares stock rights (1) * voting rights Meetings (2) * Meetings Peugeot S.A. 63,960,006 46.34 127,920,012 63.11 127,920,012(3) 63.39 Faurecia Actionnariat Corporate Mutual fund 333,480 0.24 640,598 0.32 640,598(3) 0.32 Corporate officers 70,285 0.05 87,581 0.04 87,581 0.04 Treasury stock 917,160 0.66 917,160 0.45 0 0 o/w liquidity contract 191,500 0.14 191,500 0.09 0 0 Other shareholders (registered and bearer) 72,754,870 52.71 73,135,293 36.08 73,135,293 36.24 TOTAL 138,035,801 100% 202,700,644 100% 201,783,484 100% * Calculations based on information from the Caceis Corporate Trust Register on December 31, 2018. (1) Theoretical voting rights = total number of voting rights attached to the total number of shares, including shares without voting rights (including treasury stocks). It is reminded that, in accordance with applicable regulations on the crossing of thresholds, the thresholds related to voting rights are calculated on the basis of theoretical voting rights (and not on the basis of exercisable voting rights). (2) Exercisable voting rights = number of voting rights attached to the shares not deprived from voting rights. (3) The difference between the number of shares held by the shareholder and the number of exercisable voting rights is the result of the double voting rights held by the shareholder. 326 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Capital stock and shareholding structure Shareholding Voting rights % voting rights Theoretical % of exercisable at exercisable at % capital voting theoretical General General Shareholders as of December 31, 2017 Shares stock rights (1)* voting rights Meetings (2)* Meetings Peugeot S.A. 63,960,006 46.34 127,920,012 63.09 127,920,012(3) 63.34 Faurecia Actionnariat Corporate Mutual fund 318,394 0.23 636,788 0.31 636,788(3) 0.32 Corporate officers 49,525 0.03 66,905 0.03 66,905 0.03 Treasury stock 814,320 0.59 814,320 0.40 0 0 o/w liquidity contract 0 0 0 0 0 0 Other shareholders (registered and bearer) 72,893,556 52.81 73,320,842 36.16 73,320,842 36.31 TOTAL 138,035,801 100% 202,758,867 100% 201,944,547 100% * Calculations based on information from the Caceis Corporate Trust Register on December 31, 2017. (1) Theoretical voting rights = total number of voting rights attached to the total number of shares, including shares without voting rights (including treasury stocks). It is reminded that, in accordance with applicable regulations on the crossing of thresholds, the thresholds related to voting rights are calculated on the basis of theoretical voting rights (and not on the basis of exercisable voting rights). (2) Exercisable voting rights = number of voting rights attached to the shares not deprived from voting rights. (3) The difference between the number of shares held by the shareholder and the number of exercisable voting rights is the result of the double voting rights held by the shareholder. 5.1.2. Crossing of legal thresholds In 2019, the following disclosures were made concerning the crossing of legal thresholds. It is reminded that, in accordance with applicable regulations on the crossing of thresholds, the investment thresholds related to voting rights are calculated on the basis of theoretical voting rights (not on the basis of exercisable voting rights). Information provided below is based on thresholds crossing notices published by the Autorité des Marchés Financiers: References and date of Number of % capital % theoretical the AMF Date of the Threshold Upwards/ shares stock voting rights Shareholder’s name decision/notice crossing crossed downwards afterwards (1) afterwards (1) afterwards (1) 219C0235/ 5% of February 7, February 6, capital BlackRock, Inc. 2019 2019 stock Downward 6,826,967 4.95% 3.37% 219C0325/ 5% of February 22, February 20, capital BlackRock, Inc. 2019 2019 stock Upward 7,137,252 5.17% 3.52% 219C0359/ 5% of February 28, February 26, capital BlackRock, Inc. 2019 2019 stock Downward 6,805,510 4.93% 3.36% To the Company’s knowledge, as of December 31, 2019 and General Meetings, such as for example, the identity, number at the date of this Universal Registration Document, no of securities held by each of them, the postal address and, if shareholder directly or indirectly, individually or in concert, applicable, email address, in addition to details of any holds more than 5% of the Company’s capital stock or voting restrictions applicable to the securities, if applicable. rights with the exception of Peugeot S.A. To the Company’s knowledge, no shareholder made a In accordance with applicable regulations, the Company is pledge on the Faurecia securities that he holds. entitled to ask at any time either the central depository that To the Company’s knowledge, there are no agreements manages the share issuance account or directly one or referred to in Article L. 233-11 of the French Code of several registered intermediaries for information on the holders commerce. of securities carrying immediate or future voting rights at its / Universal Registration Document 2019 327 Capital stock and shareholding structure Capital stock 5.2. Capital stock 5.2.1. Authorized capital stock The table below summarizes the status of the current financial authorizations and delegations in terms of capital increases granted by the General Meeting of May 28, 2019 and how they were used during the 2019 fiscal year. Type of authorization Maximum amount/par value Term Use in 2019 General Meeting of May 28, 2019 Resolution No. 19 ■ Capital p stock: €145 million 26 months No Delegation of authority to the Board of Directors to (total capital stock ceiling) issue shares and/or securities giving access to shares ■ Debt securities: €1 billion (total debt ceiling) and/or the allocation of debt securities (of the Company or a subsidiary) with preferential subscription rights (including capital increases through the capitalization of profits, premiums and reserves) (not usable during public offering periods) Resolution No. 20 ■ Capital p stock: €95 million 26 months No Delegation of authority to the Board of Directors to (ceiling common to the resolution No. 21; issue shares and/or securities giving access to shares deducted from the total capital stock and/or the allocation of debt securities (of the ceiling) Company or a subsidiary) without preferential ■ Debt securities: €1 billion (deducted from subscription rights by means of a public offering (not the total debt ceiling) usable during public offering periods) Resolution No. 21 ■ Capital p stock: €95 million 26 months No Delegation of authority to the Board of Directors to (ceiling common to the resolution No. 20; issue shares and/or securities giving access to shares deducted from the total capital stock and/or the allocation of debt securities (of the ceiling); up to an annual limit of 20% of the Company or a subsidiary) without preferential capital stock assessed on the day on which subscription rights by means of a private placement the Board of Directors’ decides to use the (not usable during public offering periods) delegation ■ Debt securities: €1 billion (deducted from the total debt ceiling) Resolution No. 22 Up to a limit of 15% of the initial issue and at the 26 months No Authorization to the Board of Directors to increase the same price as that for the initial issue number of securities to be issued in the event of a (applicable to issuances made under capital increase, with or without preferential resolutions No. 19 to 21) subscription rights (not usable during public offering periods) Resolution No. 23 Number of shares: 2,000,000 26 months Authorization used by Authorization to the Board of Directors to award free Sub-ceiling g for executive and non-executive the Board of Directors of shares, entailing the waiver by shareholders of their corporate p officers: October 9, 2019 which preferential subscription rights 10% of the above-mentioned ceiling awarded a maximum of 1,180,500 shares Resolution No. 24 Capital p stock: 2% 26 months No Delegation of authority to the Board of Directors to (assessed on the day of the General Meeting decide upon the issue of shares and/or securities giving of May 28, 2019) access to shares in the Company for the benefit of employees under the conditions stipulated in Article L. 3332-19 of the French Labor Code, without preferential subscription rights 328 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Capital stock and shareholding structure Capital stock 5.2.2 Potential capital stock As of December 31, 2019, the potential capital stock was ■ an external performance condition, i.e., growth of the comprised only of performance shares(1). Company’s net earnings per share assessed between the last fiscal year before the grant date of the shares and the The Company’s policy on the allocation of performance third fiscal year ended after the grant date of the shares. shares, which aims to benefit the Chief Executive Officer and This growth is assessed against the weighted growth of a the Group Leadership Committee comprising 263 members, is reference group made up of twelve comparable described in the Chief Executive Officer’s compensation international automotive suppliers over the same period. policy (Chapter 3, Section 3.3.4.1.3 Compensation policy for The number of shares that will be definitively granted in the Chief Executive Officer of this Universal Registration respect of this criterion varies according to achievement of Document). the set targets (minimum, target, maximum) according to The tables below summarize the current or expired the methods described below: performance share plans during the fiscal year ended ■ minimum: (i) if the reference group’s weighted growth in December 31, 2019. It is reminded that, for information net earnings per share is below or equal to -20%, purposes and to allow a consolidated reading of the data on therefore negative, the minimum external condition will the performance conditions selected and their rate of be fulfilled if the growth in Faurecia’s net earnings per achievement, the definitive vesting of the performance shares share is equal to 125% of this weighted growth; (ii) if the is subject to fulfillment of the following performance reference group’s weighted growth in net earnings per conditions: share is between -20% and +20%, the minimum external ■ an internal performance condition related since 2016 to the condition will be fulfilled if the growth in Faurecia’s net Group net income after tax (before 2016, it was related to earnings per share is 5% below this weighted growth; (iii) if the Group net income before tax), before taking into the reference group’s weighted growth in net earnings account capital gains from disposal of assets and changes per share is above or equal to +20%, therefore positive, in the Group's structure. This internal condition is assessed by the minimum external condition will be fulfilled if the comparing the net income of the third fiscal year after the growth in Faurecia’s net earnings per share is equal to grant date of the performance shares against the one as 75% of this weighted growth, forecasted in the strategic plan reviewed and approved by ■ target: if the reference group’s weighted growth in net the Board of Directors on the grant date of the earnings per share is in line with the growth in Faurecia’s performance shares. The number of shares that will be net earnings per share, the target external condition is definitively granted in respect of this criterion varies fulfilled, according to achievement of the set targets, with a range around the target (minimum, target, maximum); ■ maximum: (i) if the reference group’s weighted growth in net earnings per share is below or equal to -20%, ■ from 2019, a second internal condition on corporate and therefore negative, the maximum external condition will social responsibility related to gender diversity, and more be fulfilled if the growth in Faurecia’s net earnings per precisely, the percentage of women within the “Managers share is above or equal to 75% of this weighted growth; & Professionals” category of the Group for the third fiscal (ii) if the reference group’s weighted growth in net year ending after the date on which the performance earnings per share is between -20% and +20%, the shares are granted, compared to the targets set by the maximum external condition will be fulfilled if the growth Board of Directors at the date on which the performance in Faurecia’s net earnings per share is 5% above or equal shares are granted. The number of shares that will be to this weighted growth; (iii) If the reference group’s definitively granted in respect of this criterion varies weighted growth in net earnings per share is above or according to achievement of the set targets, with a range equal to +20%, therefore positive, the maximum external around the target (minimum, target, maximum); condition will be fulfilled if the growth in Faurecia’s net earnings per share is above or equal to 125% of this weighted growth. (1) No stock subscription options plans have been in force since April 16, 2017. Consequently, tables No. 8 of the AFEP-MEDEF Code and AMF recommendation No. 2009-16 (“History of allocations of stock options”) and No. 9 of the AMF recommendation No. 2009-16 (“Stock subscription or purchase options granted during the fiscal year to the top ten non-corporate officer employees and options exercised by them during the year”) are not applicable. / Universal Registration Document 2019 329 Capital stock and shareholding structure Capital stock DETAILED HISTORY OF PERFORMANCE SHARE PLANS (1) Table No. 9 of the AFEP-MEDEF Code and table No. 10 of AMF recommendation No. 2009-16 Information on the allocation of performance shares Plan No. 7 of July 23, 2015* Plan No. 8 of July 25, 2016* GM date May 27, 2015 May 27, 2016 Board of Directors date July 23, 2015 July 25, 2016 Total number of shares allocated during Min.: 342,201 Min.: 380,480 the relevant fiscal year by threshold, g Target: 684,674 Target: g 760,961 of which: Max.: 889,981 Max.: 989,945 To corporate officers ■ Yann DELABRIÈRE Min.: 21,461 0 Target: g 42,921 Max.: 55,798 ■ Michel de ROSEN Non applicable Non applicable ■ Patrick KOLLER Min.: 10,147 Min.: 21,190 Target: g 20,295 Target: g 42,381 Max.: 26,383 Max.: 55,095 Number of beneficiaries 330 326 Acquisition date July 23, 2019 for all the beneficiaries July 25, 2020 for all the beneficiaries of the plan, working and tax residents of the plan, working and tax residents in France and abroad in France and abroad Availibility date July 23, 2019 for all the beneficiaries of July 25, 2020 for all the beneficiaries the plan, working and tax residents in of the plan, working and tax residents France and abroad in France and abroad Performance conditions Internal condition on Group net Internal condition on Group net income (before tax) (weighting of income (after tax) (weighting of 60%), 60%), with a required achievement with a required achievement rate rate between 75% and 125%, the between 75% and 125%, the target target being 100% being 100% External condition on net earnings per External condition on net earnings per share (weighting of 40%), according share (weighting of 40%), according to the assessment methods described to the assessment methods described in the introductory section in the introductory section Achievement rate of performance Internal condition on Group net Internal condition on Group net conditions income (before tax): 107.5% income (after tax): 93% External condition on net earnings External condition on net earnings per share: 130% per share: 130% Overall achievement of conditions: Overall achievement of conditions: 116.5% 108% Number of shares vested 595,897 at December 31, 2019 Accumulated number 202,884 179,002 of shares canceled or forfeited as of December 31, 2019 Shares being vested 0 642,747 at December 31, 2019 * As the performance conditions for plans No. 7 and 8 are known, the effective number of shares vested, canceled or forfeited and outstanding are indicated in this table. (1) The tables below present the current or expired plans during the 2019 financial year. Plans No. 1 to No. 6, which have expired, have not been recalled in this Universal Registration Document. For more information on these plans (including performance conditions, objectives set and achievements of these objectives), please refer to the 2018 Registration Document of the Company, page 209. For information, it is however recalled that for plans No. 1 to No. 6 subject to performance condition(s), performance condition(s) (i) were met for three plans (plans No. 1, No. 5 and No. 6), each time and at the maximum and (ii) were not met for three plans (plans No. 2, No. 3 and No. 4) and therefore no share was definitely vested by the beneficiaries of these three plans. 330 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Capital stock and shareholding structure Capital stock Information on the allocation of performance shares Plan No. 9 of July 20, 2017 Plan No. 10 of July 19, 2018** GM date May 27, 2016 May 29, 2018 Board of Directors date July 20, 2017 July 19, 2018 Number of shares allocated during the Min.: 313,962 Min.: 209,136 relevant fiscal year by threshold, of g Target: 627,924 Target: g 418,272 which: Max.: 816,300 Max.: 543,760 Corporate officers ■ Michel de ROSEN 0 0 ■ Patrick KOLLER Min.: 15,154 Min.: 10,385 Target: g 30,308 Target: g 20,770 Max.: 39,400 Max.: 27,000 Number of beneficiaries 336 269 Acquisition date July 20, 2021 July 19, 2022 Availibility date July 20, 2021 July 19, 2022 Performance conditions Internal condition on Group net Internal condition on Group net income (after tax) (weighting of 60%), income (after tax) (weighting of 60%), with a required achievement rate with a required achievement rate between 91% and 110%, the target between 91% and 110%, the target being 100%. being 100%***. External condition on net earnings per External condition on net earnings per share (weighting of 40%), according share (weighting of 40%), according to the assessment methods described to the assessment methods described in the introductory section. in the introductory section. Achievement rate of performance Internal condition on Group net Plan being vested conditions income (after tax): 62% External condition on net earnings per share: 130% Overall achievement of conditions: 89% Number of shares vested at December 31, 2019 Accumulated number 107,743 39,754 of shares canceled or forfeited as of December 31, 2019* Shares being vested 520,181 378,698 at December 31, 2019 * Plan based on the target threshold. ** The Board of Directors of July 19, 2018, based on the authorization given by the General Meeting of May 29, 2018, decided to grant a complementary plan (plan No. 10b) to four beneficiaries (who are not corporate officers of the Company) in relation to a geographical zone of the Group, for a maximum number of shares of 12,830 and subject to specific performance conditions in relation with the said geographical zone. The other characteristics of this complementary plan and the acquisition date are the same as the ones of plan No. 10. *** The Board of Directors’ meeting of October 9, 2019 provided for an adjustment in the event of (i) the Group’s sales for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2020 would be lower or higher (in value) that +/-5% compared to the forecasted sales target set for the relevant fiscal year in the strategic plan by the Board of Directors meeting of July 19, 2018 and (ii) this variation would be resulting from exogenous factors such as the change in production volumes of vehicles on a global level or exchange rates. In such a case, and in the context of the plan of the fiscal year ended in December 31, 2020, the level of the internal condition on Group net income (after tax) target to achieve would remain unchanged, but the difference between the performance threshold and the maximum target would be doubled. / Universal Registration Document 2019 331 Capital stock and shareholding structure Capital stock Information on the allocation of performance shares Plan No. 11 of October 9, 2019** GM date May 28, 2019 Board of Directors date October 9, 2019 Number of shares allocated during the Min.: 439,930 relevant fiscal year by threshold, of which: Target: g 881,930 Max.: 1,147,260 Corporate officers ■ Michel de ROSEN 0 ■ Patrick KOLLER Min.: 21,620 Target: g 43,250 Max.: 56,220 Number of beneficiaries 274 Acquisition date October 9, 2023 Availibility date October 9, 2023 Performance conditions Internal condition on Group net income (after tax) (weighting of 60%), with a required achievement rate between 90% and 110%, the target being 100%***. Internal CSR condition related to diversity (weighting of 10%) with an achievement rate between -1 pt and +2 pts, the target being 100% External condition on net earnings per share (weighting of 30%), according to the assessment methods described in the introductory section Achievement rate of performance conditions Plan being vested Number of shares vested at December 31, 2019 Accumulated number of shares canceled 8,150 or forfeited as of December 31, 2019* Shares being vested at December 31, 2019 873,780 * Plan based on the target threshold. ** The Board of Directors’ meeting of October 9, 2019, based on the authorization given by the General Meeting of May 28, 2019, decided to grant a complementary plan (plan No. 11b) to six beneficiaries (who are not corporate officers of the Company) in relation to a geographical zone of the Group, for a maximum number of shares of 33,240 and subject to specific performance conditions in relation with the said geographical zone. The other characteristics of this complementary plan and the acquisition date are the same as the ones of plan No. 11. *** The plan provides for an adjustment in the event of (i) the Group’s sales at December 31, 2021 would be lower or higher (in value) than +/-5% of the forecasted sales for the relevant fiscal year in the strategic plan decided by the Board of Directors meeting of October 9, 2019, and (ii) this variation would be resulting from exogenous factors such as the change in production volumes of vehicles on a global level or exchange rates. In such a case, and in the context of the plan of the fiscal year ended in December 31, 2021, the level of the internal condition on Group net income (after tax) target to achieve would remain unchanged, but the difference between the performance threshold and the maximum target would be doubled. All shares allocated free of change being acquired at December 31, 2019 (2,990,587 shares) represent 2.15% of the Company’s capital stock at this date. (1) (1) This amount corresponds to the number of shares for plan No. 8 calculated on the basis of performance achieved and to the maximum number of shares granted under plans No. 9, No. 10, No. 10b, No. 11 and No. 11b. 332 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Capital stock and shareholding structure Capital stock 5.2.3. Change in capital stock over five years Amount of the capital stock Resulting increase/decrease (in €) amounts of capital stock Resulting share New number Year and type of transaction Nominal amount Premium (in €) premium (in €) of shares 06/2015 6,935,677 28,224,379 874,412,147 921,235,268 124,916,021 Capital increase resulting from the creation of 800,251 shares in connection with the payment of the 2014 dividend in shares, the creation of 96,960 shares in response to requests for the conversion of OCEANE bonds, and the creation of 93,600 shares following the exercise of stock subscription options under Plan No. 18 11/2015 30,392,691 52,527,572 904,804,838 973,762,840 129,257,834 Capital increase resulting from the creation of 4,341,813 shares in response to requests for the conversion of OCEANE bonds 12/2015 55,544,608 96,008,745 960,349,446 1,069,771,585 137,192,778 Capital increase resulting from the creation of 7,933,744 shares in response to requests for the conversion of OCEANE bonds on January 1, 2018 and the creation of 1,200 shares following the exercise of stock subscription options under Plan No. 18 01/2016 4,830,861 8,349,171 965,180,307 1,078,120,756 137,882,901 Capital increase resulting from the creation of 690,123 shares in response to requests for the conversion of OCEANE bonds on January 1, 2018 07/2016 1,070,300 3,269,002 966,250,607 1,081,389,758 138,035,801 Capital increase resulting from the creation of 152,900 shares following the exercise of stock subscription options under Plan No. 18 / Universal Registration Document 2019 333 Capital stock and shareholding structure Transactions carried out by the Company in its own shares 5.3. Transactions carried out by the Company in its own shares The General Meeting of May 28, 2019, authorized the The contract may be terminated at any time by the implementation of a share buy-back program, superseding Company, without notice and with notice of one month for that authorized in the twelfth resolution of the General the investment services provider. Meeting of May 29, 2018. Implementation in 2019 LIQUIDITY AGREEMENT In 2019, under the liquidity contract, 1,978,587 shares were Description of the agreement purchased, i.e., 1.4% of the Company’s capital stock, for a total of €83,386,370, while 2,151,087 shares were sold for a total Since April 27, 2009, Faurecia has been implementing a of €90,612,402. In 2019, the capital loss made through the liquidity contract that complies with the AMAFI Charter. liquidity contract amounted to €3,063,046. Management fees The current liquidity contract was signed on November 18, for the liquidity contract came to €150,000 in 2019. As of 2019 between Faurecia and Rothschild Martin Maurel. This December 31, 2019, assets in the liquidity account relating to contract, which complies with the AMF decision No. 2018-01 of the liquidity account comprised 19,000 shares and July 2, 2018 covering the implementation of liquidity contracts €9,970,893.71 in cash. on equity securities in respect of accepted market practices, replaced the previous contract of December 1, 2015, as SHARES ACQUIRED BY THE COMPANY (EXCLUDING amended on May 24, 2018. THE LIQUIDITY CONTRACT) The liquidity contract was signed for 12 months, from On December 20, 2018, the Company announced that it had November 18, 2019 and is thereafter renewed by tacit entrusted a mandate to an investment services provider for renewal for successive 12-month periods. The amount of the purchase of a maximum of 1,000,000 shares as part of its €10,837,505.31 was recorded as credit in the liquidity account buy-back program authorized by the General Meeting of on November 15, 2019. May 29, 2018, in order to cover the future performance share The liquidity contract covers Company shares, and the trading plans set up by Faurecia. These purchases must have taken platform on which the transactions are carried out is the place at an average price not exceeding the limits imposed Euronext regulated market in Paris. by the twelfth resolution adopted by the General Meeting of May 29, 2018, during the period from January 7 to February 8, The contract stipulates that its execution shall be suspended 2019. under the conditions indicated in Article 5 of the AMF decision No. 2018-01 of July 2, 2018 indicated above, i.e., (i) while the As part of this buy-back, the Company acquired stabilization measures are being carried out under the 1,000,000 shares at an average price of €36.00 (weighted gross meaning of (EU) Regulation No. 596/2014 of the European price). The amount of trading fees was €107,995 excluding tax. Parliament and Council of April 16, 2014 on market abuse, with The value of these shares, measured at their purchase price, the suspension of the liquidity contract taking place from the totals €36,580,988. admission to trading of the securities concerned by the stabilization measures up to the publication of the information USE OF TREASURY SHARES DURING THE FISCAL YEAR indicated in Article 6 Paragraph 3 of the Delegated (EU) During the 2019 fiscal year, the Company used Regulation No. 2016/1052 and (ii) during a public offering 594,666 treasury shares for the purpose of delivering period or pre-offering period and until the offer is closed, when performance shares to the beneficiaries of plan No. 7. the issuer initiates the public offering or when the issuer’s securities are targeted by the offering. NUMBER OF TREASURY SHARES HELD AT DECEMBER 31, The contract may also be suspended on the Company’s 2019 request for technical reasons, such as the counting of shares with voting rights before General Meetings or the counting of At December 31, 2019, the Company held 1,149,994 treasury shares giving rights to dividends before the ex-dividend date shares (including 19,000 under the liquidity contract) i.e., 0.83% and for a period that it shall specify. of the Company’s capital stock on that same date. It is stipulated that 1,130,994 treasury shares are allocated to the objective of covering performance share plans and 19,000 are held as part of the liquidity contract. 334 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Capital stock and shareholding structure Transactions carried out by the Company in its own shares DESCRIPTION OF THE BUY-BACK PROGRAM Maximum number of shares to be acquired The program description presented below will not be subject The maximum number of shares that may be purchased may to a specific publication, in accordance with the provisions of not at any time exceed 10% of the total number of shares Article 241-3 of the Autorité des Marchés Financiers (AMF) comprising the capital stock (for information purposes General Regulation. 13,803,580 shares at the date of December 31, 2019), it being specified that (i) this cap applies to an amount of the The General Meeting of June 26, 2020 (seventeenth resolution) Company’s capital stock that may, if applicable, be adjusted will be asked to authorize the Board of Directors to once again to take into account the transactions affecting the capital trade in Company shares under the conditions described stock after this Meeting and (ii) in accordance with the below. It is stipulated that the Board of Directors may not, applicable provisions, when the shares are purchased for throughout the duration of the authorization and without the liquidity purposes, the number of shares taken into account to prior authorization of the General Meeting, use this new calculate the aforementioned cap of 10% corresponds to the authorization during a public offering launched by a third number of shares purchased less the number of shares resold party, involving Company shares, until the end of the offering. during the duration of the authorization. The acquisitions made This new authorization cancels the authorization granted to by the Company may not, under any circumstances, lead it to the Board of Directors by the General Meeting of May 28, 2019 hold, directly or indirectly through subsidiaries, over 10% of its to trade in Company shares (sixteenth resolution). capital stock. Moreover, the number of shares acquired by the Company for the purpose of retaining and using them for Program objectives exchange or payment at a later stage, as part of any possible external growth transactions may not exceed 5% of its capital Acquisitions are authorized in order to: stock. ■ hedge stock option plans and/or free grant of shares plans The shares may, in all or part, depending on the case, be (or similar plans) to the benefit of employees and/or Group acquired, sold, exchanged or transferred, in one or several corporate officers, as well as all allocations of shares as part installments, by all means, on all markets, including on of a group or company savings plan (or similar plan), under multilateral trading facilities or through a systematic a profit-sharing plan and or any other form of allocation of internalizer, or over the counter, including through the shares to the benefit of the Group employees and/or acquisition or disposal of blocks of shares (without limiting the corporate officers; part of the buy-back program that may be completed ■ hedge securities giving access to the allocation of through this means), in all cases, either directly or indirectly, Company shares; notably through an investment service provider. These means include the use of optional mechanisms or derivatives subject ■ retain the shares purchased and use these shares for to the applicable regulations. exchange or payment at a later stage, as part of any possible external growth transactions; Maximum price per share and maximum amount ■ cancel shares; allocated to the program ■ support the secondary market or the liquidity of Faurecia The maximum purchase price is set at €110 per share shares, through an investment service provider under a (excluding acquisition costs). In the event of capital increase liquidity contract in accordance with the practices through the capitalization of premiums, reserves or profits by permitted by the Autorité des Marchés Financiers (AMF). allocations of free shares as well as in the event of a division of shares, reverse stock split or any other transaction affecting This program is also designed to allow the implementation of the capital stock, the aforementioned price will be adjusted all market practices that may be permitted by the market by a multiplication coefficient equal to the ratio of the number authorities, and more generally, the completion of all other of Company shares prior to the transaction and the number of transactions in accordance with legislation or regulations that shares after the transaction. On this basis, and for information are or may become applicable. In such an event, the only, based on the capital stock at December 31, 2019 Company shall inform its shareholders through a press release. comprising 138,035,801 shares, and without taking into account the shares already held by the Company, the theoretical maximum purchase amount for the program (excluding acquisition costs) would amount to €1,518,393,800. Program term 18 months from the General Meeting of June 26, 2020. It is reminded, where necessary, that the breakdown by objective for the equity securities held at December 31, 2019 is indicated above. / Universal Registration Document 2019 335 Capital stock and shareholding structure Share price 5.4. Share price Faurecia’s share (EO:FP) is listed on compartment A of the Thus, the annual increase of 45.24% in 2019 outperformed the Euronext Paris market. It is on the CAC Next20 index (since generalist indicators such as the CAC 40 (+26.37%) or the December 18, 2017) and the MSCI France (since SBF 120 (+25.24%) and also the Stoxx600 Auto & Parts (+15.09%) November 30, 2017). or other French (Plastic Omnium +23.45% and Valeo +23.13%) and foreign (Adient +40.10%, Continental -4.55% or Tenneco At the end of 2019, it was valued at €48.03 (December 31, -52.17%) automotive suppliers. 2019 closing quotation), compared with €33.07 at the 2018 closing (December 31, 2018 closing quotation). The average price of Faurecia’s share over 2019 was €41.37. The price peaked at €50.64 on December 17, 2019, and hit its It increased by 45.24% over the last year, which is one of the lowest point of the year, €30.32, on January 3, 2019. largest increases in the automaker and automotive supplier sector, without, however, reaching its highest levels of The average number of monthly trades was 12.47 million mid-2018, before worldwide automotive production began to shares, representing €512.4 million. slow down. 5.4.1. Share price and trading volume (source: Euronext) Price (in €) Trading volume Capital 2019 share price and trading volume High Average Low Close Equities (in € millions) January 40.09 35.73 30.12 38.16 14,895,324 532,219 February 42.83 39.10 34.10 41.94 12,635,934 494,118 March 44.87 40.08 36.32 37.48 12,384,011 496,374 April 49.43 44.93 38.20 45.28 11,884,622 534,002 May 46.41 38.36 32.33 33.07 14,139,217 542,371 June 40.95 36.90 32.19 40.81 11,031,763 407,020 July 47.80 40.81 35.47 43.00 15,101,174 616,226 August 43.38 37.99 34.90 39.75 11,601,803 440,698 September 47.91 44.21 38.96 43.52 11,188,056 494,621 October 46.72 42.91 38.71 41.78 14,055,104 603,073 November 50.70 47.60 41.73 48.14 11,696,360 556,777 December 53.02 48.51 45.83 48.03 9,000,134 436,627 Price (in €) Trading volume Capital 2018 share price and trading volume High Average Low Close Equities (in € millions) January 74.50 70.85 63.72 72.38 9,304,422 659.24 February 74.32 69.63 66.26 69.28 10,117,892 704.56 March 69.26 65.58 62.72 65.72 9,400,982 616.46 April 69.96 67.02 62.32 67.80 7,713,275 516.92 May 76.98 72.17 67.82 72.50 7,732,282 556.76 June 74.68 68.36 60.44 61.12 8,198,913 560.48 July 65.20 60.13 57.54 58.14 10,857,757 652.89 August 58.56 53.94 50.34 52.78 10,030,512 541.09 September 57.68 52.61 50.00 51.84 12,026,430 633.13 October 52.78 44.94 37.72 42.91 19,633,321 882.40 November 47.17 40.53 33.76 34.42 14,509,904 588.09 December 37.45 32.36 30.06 33.07 14,607,878 476.56 336 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Capital stock and shareholding structure Share price 5.4.2. Stock market data 12/31/2019 12/31/2018 Stock market capitalization at end of period (in € millions) 6,629.9 4,564.8 Share price (in €): ■ High 53.02 76.98 ■ Low 30.12 30.06 Share price at end of period (in €) 48.03 33.07 Shareholders’ equity per share (in €) 29.96 26.87 Number of shares in circulation 138,035,801 138,035,801 5.4.3. Dividends Fiscal year Gross dividend per share (in €) (1) Total (in €) (2) 2016 0.90 124,232,220.90 2017 1.10 151,839,381.10 2018 1.25 172,544,751.25 (1) Dividend fully eligible for the 40% tax allowance for private individuals resident for tax purposes in France as provided by Article 158, 3 2° of the French General Tax Code. (2) Figure including the amount of the dividend corresponding to treasury shares held by the Company not paid and allocated to the retained earnings account. For the 2019 financial year, the Company announced in its industry. In this context and given the lack of visibility on the press release dated February 17, 2020 related to the 2019 exit from the crisis, the Board of Directors resolved to postpone annual results, its intention to propose to the shareholders the for one month the General Meeting of shareholders (from May payment of a dividend of €1.30 euro per share. This 29, 2020 initially scheduled to June 26, 2020) and to decide on announcement was made before the Covid-19 health crisis the content of the resolutions submitted to shareholders, was considered by the World Health Organization to be a including on dividends for the 2019 financial year, at its pandemic and led to a global crisis which had a major impact meeting which will convene the General Meeting of June 26, on all sectors of the economy, including the automobile 2020. 5.4.4. Dividend payment policy The Company pays dividends in line with the practices of other similar companies, based on the Group’s results for the year. 5.4.5. Per share figures (in €) 12/31/2019 12/31/2018 Non-diluted earnings (loss) per share – Attributable to equity holders of the parent 4.31 5.11 Cash flow per share from operating activities 12.92 11.90 The method used to calculate the weighted average number of shares before dilution to determine per share data is explained in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements. / Universal Registration Document 2019 337 Capital stock and shareholding structure Share price 5.4.6. 2020 financial calendar February 17, 2020 Before market 2019 annual results announcement April 20, 2020 Before market First-quarter 2020 sales announcement June 26, 2020 General Meeting of shareholders July 27, 2020 Before market First-half 2020 interim results announcement October 23, 2020 Before market Third-quarter 2020 sales announcement Relations between Faurecia and the financial community are described in Section 4.1.5. 338 / Universal Registration Document 2019 6 Other information 6.1. Legal information 340 6.2. Organizational structure as of December 31, 2019 344 6.3. Background 346 6.4. Additional information on audits of financial statements 351 6.5. Declaration by the person responsible for the Universal Registration Document and the information officer 352 6.6. Cross-reference tables 353 / Universal Registration Document 2019 339 Other information Legal information 6.1. Legal information COMPANY NAME AND HEADQUARTERS b. The Group’s annual and biannual presentations of the results and outlook, as well as the quarterly financial Company name: Faurecia information. Registered office: 23-27, avenue des Champs-Pierreux – 92000 Nanterre – France The documents indicated above may be consulted at the Telephone: +33 (0) 1 72 36 70 00 addresses indicated below. Fax: +33 (0) 1 72 36 70 07 Website: www.faurecia.com CONTACT DETAILS The information provided on the website is not part of the Faurecia Universal Registration Document, unless it is incorporated by Legal department reference into it. 23-27, avenue des Champs-Pierreux 92000 Nanterre LEGAL FORM The said documents may also be viewed on the Company’s On December 26, 2018, Faurecia became a European website at www.faurecia.com. Company with shares admitted to trading on Euronext Paris. The Company is governed by the provisions of (EC) Regulation CORPORATE PURPOSE No. 2157/2001 of the Council of October 8, 2001 on European companies, by the French Code of commerce and by the Under Article 3 of the bylaws, the Company’s corporate texts applicable to it; it refers to the corporate governance purpose is: standards provided for by the AFEP-MEDEF Code. ■ to create, acquire, run, directly or indirectly manage, by Faurecia abides by the legal and regulatory provisions that acquisition of holdings, by rental or by any other means, in apply to the governing bodies of listed companies and reports Europe and internationally, all forms of industrial companies, in this Universal Registration Document on the application of trading companies, and tertiary sector companies; the recommendations made in relation to AFEP-MEDEF Code. ■ to research, obtain, acquire and use patents, licenses, processes and trademarks; STATUTORY AUDITORS ■ to rent all types of real estate, bare or constructed; The Company’s financial statements are audited by two ■ to provide administrative, financial and technical assistance Statutory Auditors appointed in accordance with to subsidiaries and affiliates; Article L. 225-228 of the French Code of commerce. ■ to run plants and establishments which it owns or may DATE OF INCORPORATION AND TERM acquire in the future; Incorporated on July 1, 1929. ■ to manufacture, use and/or sell, regardless of form, its own products or those of affiliated enterprises; Company term expiry date: May 28, 2117. ■ to manufacture and commercialize, by direct or indirect means, all products, accessories or equipment, regardless INCORPORATION DETAILS of their nature, intended for industrial use, and in particular The Company is registered with the Nanterre Trade and the automobile industry; Companies Registry under number 542 005 376. ■ to directly or indirectly participate in all financial, industrial APE (business identifier code) is: 7010Z. or commercial operations that may relate, directly or indirectly, to any one of the above-mentioned purposes, including but not limited to setting up new companies, CONSULTATION OF CORPORATE DOCUMENTS making asset contributions, subscribing to or purchasing During the period of validity of this Universal Registration shares or voting rights, acquiring an interest or holding, Document, the following documents (or copies thereof) may mergers, or in any other way; be consulted, if required: and, more generally, to conduct any industrial, commercial a. the issuer’s articles of incorporation and bylaws; and financial operations, and operations relating to fixed or unfixed assets, that may relate, directly or indirectly, to any b. all reports, letters and other documents, valuations and one of the above-mentioned purposes, totally or partially, or statements prepared by any expert at the Company’s to any similar or related purposes, and even to other purposes request, any part of which is included or referred to in the of a nature to promote the Company’s business. Universal Registration Document. In addition, the following documents and information may ROLE OF THE COMPANY IN RELATION also be consulted: TO ITS SUBSIDIARIES a. The registration documents (including the annual financial Faurecia is a holding company, whose assets are primarily reports) and interim financial reports filed with the French made up of equity interests. The Company’s industrial assets Financial Market Authority for each of the past 10 years; are held by the operating subsidiaries. 340 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Other information Legal information Faurecia provides directly and indirectly financial, accounting, GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS management, administrative and other services to Group The rules governing the participation of shareholders in companies. General Meetings are described in Articles 24 and 25 of the The list of consolidated companies at December 31, 2019 is Company’s bylaws and are available on the governance provided in Chapter 1, Section 1.1. The Faurecia group page of the Company’s website (www.faurecia.com). business review and financial statements This information is General Meetings are held at the Company’s registered office usefully supplemented by an organization chart of the or at any other venue specified in the notice of meeting. operational companies in the Faurecia group, provided in Section 6.2 Oraanizational structure as of December 31, 2019 Holders of registered shares are notified by mail; the other of this Universal Registration Document. shareholders are notified via the relevant banks and brokers through the financial notices provided for by the applicable FISCAL YEAR regulations. The Company’s fiscal year covers the 12-month period from A continually updated schedule of all the Group’s financial January 1 to December 31. events, including the date of the General Meetings, is available on Faurecia’s website at www.faurecia.com. DISTRIBUTION OF PROFITS The right to participate in General Meetings shall be substantiated in accordance with the current statutory Income available for distribution corresponds to net income provisions. for the year, less any losses carried forward from prior years and any amounts appropriated to reserves in compliance with The rights of shareholders, which may only be amended in the law or the bylaws, plus any retained earnings. accordance with the conditions laid down by applicable laws and regulations, are not affected by any other provision of the Out of this income, the General Meeting determines the bylaws. portion attributed to shareholders in the form of dividends and deducts the amounts it considers appropriate to allocate to any reserve funds or to carry forward. VOTING RIGHTS However, except in the case of a capital stock reduction, no The Company’s bylaws do not provide for any restrictions on distributions may be made to shareholders if the Company’s voting rights. Voting rights at Ordinary, Extraordinary and shareholders’ equity represents – or would represent after the Special General Meetings are exercisable by the beneficial planned distribution – less than its capital stock plus any owner of the shares. reserves which, according to the law or the bylaws, are not The bylaws (Article 24) assign double voting rights to all fully available for distribution. paid-up shares that have been registered in the name of the The General Meeting may also decide to distribute amounts same holder for at least two (2) years. In the case of a bonus deducted from optional reserves in order to pay or increase a share issue paid up by capitalizing retained earnings, income dividend or pay a special dividend. or additional paid-in capital, the bonus shares allotted in respect of registered shares carrying double voting rights will The Company’s bylaws provide that the Ordinary General also carry double voting rights as from the date of issue. This Meeting approving the financial statements for the year may double voting right may be canceled following a decision of also decide to offer each shareholder, for all or part of the the Extraordinary General Meeting and after having informed dividend to be paid or interim dividend, the option between a special meeting of the beneficiary shareholders. the payment of the dividend or the interim dividend in cash or in shares. Shares that are transferred or converted to bearer form are stripped of double voting rights. However, double voting rights are not lost and the above-mentioned two-year period DIVIDENDS – STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS continues to run when shares are transferred following the Dividends not collected within five years of the payment date liquidation of a marital estate, or by way of an inheritance or will be time-barred and paid over to the French Treasury. in the form of an inter vivos gift to a spouse or a relative in the direct line of succession. REGISTRAR AND PAYING AGENT EQUITY THRESHOLDS THAT MUST BE DISCLOSED The registrar and paying agent for Faurecia shares is Caceis Corporate Trust, 14, rue Rouget-de-Lisle, 92862 TO THE COMPANY Issy-les-Moulineaux Cedex 9, France. Under Article 31 of the bylaws, when any natural person or legal entity, acting alone or with others as defined in FAURECIA STOCK MARKET DATA Article L. 233-10 of the French Code of commerce, owns or ceases to own a number of shares so that the capital stock or Faurecia’s share (EO. PA) is listed on compartment A of the voting rights held cross a threshold equal or higher than 2% or Euronext Paris market (ISIN code FR0000121147). It is on the any multiple of this percentage (or when the holding crosses CAC Next20 index (since December 18, 2017) and the MSCI the thresholds defined in the laws and regulations) that person France (since November 30, 2017). must notify the Company by registered letter with The LEI code is: 969500F0VMZLK2IULV85. acknowledgement of receipt of the total number of shares and voting rights he or she holds, within four (4) trading days of the threshold being crossed. This applies in addition to the obligations relating to crossing legally-defined thresholds. / Universal Registration Document 2019 341 Other information Legal information In the case of failure to comply, at the request of one or Direct or indirect investments in the Company’s several shareholders present or represented at the Meeting capital stock referred to in Articles L. 233-7 and with combined holdings representing at least 2% of the capital L. 233-12 of the French Code of commerce that stock or voting rights, the undisclosed shares will be stripped of the Company has knowledge of voting rights. Said request must be recorded in the minutes of the General Meeting. The direct or indirect investments in the Company’s capital stock referred to in Articles L. 233-7 and L. 233-12 of the French This provision supplements the statutory requirements Code of commerce that the Company has knowledge of are concerning disclosure thresholds in Article L. 233-7 of the presented in Chapter 5, Section 5.1.2. Crossing of legal French Code of commerce. thresholds . In the context of the potential change in the Company’s shareholder structure related to the contemplated distribution Owners of any stock with special rights of control of Company shares by PSA to its shareholders and in order to Article 24 of the bylaws stipulates that double voting rights are enable the Company to more precisely monitor changes in its allocated to all shares that have been registered in the name shareholder structure, the General Meeting of June 26, 2020 of the same holder for at least two years. Subject to this will be asked to approve an amendment to the bylaws in reserve, no securities carry special control rights referred to in order to decrease the disclosure threshold to 1% and to Article L. 225-37-5, 4 of the French Code of commerce. provide that the calculation of the disclosure thresholds must be carried out according to the same methods as the crossing of statutory thresholds. Statutory restrictions on the exercise of voting rights EXISTENCE OF AN AGREEMENT THAT, IF IMPLEMENTED, As indicated above, the bylaws stipulate in Article 31 that COULD CHANGE THE CONTROL OF THE COMPANY OR shareholders who do not declare crossings of the legal THAT COULD DELAY, POSTPONE, DEFER OR PREVENT A thresholds in accordance with the specified methods will be stripped of voting rights for the shares exceeding the CHANGE IN CONTROL undeclared portion if one or several shareholders present or To the Company’s knowledge there are no arrangements in represented at the Meeting with combined holdings place whose implementation could result in a change in accounting for at least 2% of the capital stock or voting rights control of the Company at a future date, subject to the made the request, with said request recorded in the minutes combination agreement on the 50/50 merger signed between of the General Meeting. Fiat Chrysler Automobiles N.V. (hereinafter “FCA”) and PSA which will have, if the transation is completed, an impact on Powers of the Board of Directors the Company's shareholding base. On December 18, 2019, the two companies announced in a shared press release In accordance with the resolutions approved by the available on PSA’s website that they had signed a binding shareholders during the General Meeting of May 28, 2019, the combination agreement committing to the 50/50 merger of Board of Directors cannot, without prior authorization of the their activities. This agreement notably provides that before General Meeting, implement the Company share buy-back the completion of the merger transaction, PSA will distribute its program nor issue shares and securities giving access to shares 46% stake in Faurecia’s share capital to its shareholders. with or without preferential subscription rights, with the According to the information contained in the press release, exception of free performance share grants and the issue of the merger should be completed within 12 to 15 months and is shares or securities giving access to shares reserved for subject to usual conditions, notably the vote by shareholders employees. of both groups in their respective Extraordinary General Meetings and in compliance with regulatory requirements Agreements stipulating payments for members of (antitrust and other laws). the Board of Directors or employees if they resign or are dismissed without real and serious cause or There are currently no provisions in any Company deeds, bylaws, charters, regulations or provisions in place that could if their employment is terminated due to a public delay, postpone or prevent such a change in control. takeover bid or exchange offer There are no agreements of the type referred to in FACTORS LIKELY TO HAVE AN IMPACT ON A PUBLIC Article L. 225-37-5, 10 of the French Code of commerce in TAKEOVER BID OR EXCHANGE OFFER favor of members of the Board of Directors or employees. For commitments made for the benefit of the Chief Executive Company’s capital structure Officer in the event of forced departure, please refer to The capital structure is presented in Chapter 5, Chapter 3, Sections 3.3.1.2.2.5 Termination payment and Section 5.1.1. Changes in capital stock . 3.3.4.1.3. Compensation policy of the Chief Executive Officer . 342 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Other information Legal information Agreements entered into by the Company which DEPENDENCE are amended or terminated in the event of a See Chapter 2, “Internal Controls & Risk Management”, and change in control of the Company especially risks associated with the automotive supplier The syndicated loan agreement entered into by the business, supplier default risk and intellectual property risk. Company on December 15, 2014 includes an acceleration clause under which – subject to certain conditions – each SIGNIFICANT PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT bank may require immediate payment of outstanding sums in the event of a change of ownership of the Company. With nearly 300 sites (including 37 R&D centers) and 115,500 employees in 37 countries worldwide, Faurecia is a This is also the case for the private placement issued under global leader in its four areas of business: Seating, Interiors, German law (Schuldscheindarlehen) of €700 million (see Clarion Electronics and Clean Mobility. None of its Note 26.3 to the consolidated financial statements). manufacturing equipment taken on an individual basis The bonds issued in March 2018, March 2019 and represents a material value in relation to the property, plant November 2019 provide for early repayment in the event of a and equipment of the Group as a whole. They are mostly change of control. dedicated to client programs. As a result, utilization rates are largely dependent on business levels. With very few None of the above transactions include a minimum exceptions, utilization rates for equipment and facilities are not Peugeot S.A. shareholding clause. monitored centrally or systematically. Note 12 A to the consolidated financial statements provides MEASURES TAKEN BY THE COMPANY TO ENSURE THAT further information. CONTROL IS NOT EXERCISED IN AN ABUSIVE MANNER The Company is controlled under the meaning of INCORPORATION BY REFERENCE Article L. 233-3 of the French Code of commerce, as shown in In accordance with Article 19 of European Commission the table breaking down ownership in Chapter 5, Regulation No. 2017/1129, the following information is Section 5.1.1. Changes in capital stock . incorporated by reference in this Universal Registration The measures taken by the Company to avoid abuse of Document: control are described in this Universal Registration Document: ■ the consolidated financial statements, the annual financial ■ Chapter 2, Section 2.1. Participants and systems with statements, the corresponding Statutory Auditors’ reports, regard to risk control; the comments on the consolidated financial statements ■ Chapter 3, Section 3.1.2. Composition of the Board of and significant events of the year by business and at Company level, set out respectively on pages 43 to 102, 111 Directors and more specifically Section 3.1.2.6. to 129, 103 to 106, 130 to 132, 32 to 42 and 107 to 111 of the Independence of members of the Board of Directors ; 2018 Registration Document filed with the AMF on April 26, ■ Chapter 3, Section 3.1.3. Organization and functioning of 2019 under number D. 19.0415. the Board of Directors . (https://www.faurecia.com/sites/groupe/files/pages/ DDR%202018%20VA%2013052019_0.pdf) MAJOR CONTRACTS ■ the consolidated financial statements, the annual financial To date, Faurecia has not entered into any major contracts statements, the corresponding Statutory Auditors’ reports, that would entail a significant obligation or commitment for the comments on the consolidated financial statements the Group, other than those that fall within the ordinary course and significant events of the year by business and at of business. Company level, set out respectively on pages 34 to 91, 99 to 117, 92 to 95, 118 to 120, 24 to 33 and 96 to 98 of the 2017 Registration Document filed with the AMF on April 26, 2018 under number D. 18.0391 (https://www.faurecia.com/sites/groupe/files/investisseurs/ ddr_2017_faurecia_veng.pdf) / Universal Registration Document 2019 343 Other information Organizational structure as of December 31, 2019 6.2. Organizational structure as of December 31, 2019 FAURECIA 100% 100% 100% 50% 85.03% Faurecia Faurecia Automotive Tecnoconfort Servicios Corporativos de 100% Services Groupe Seating India (Spain) Personal Especializado, S.A. (France) Belgium (Belgium) Private Ltd (India) de CV (Mexico) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Faurecia Madison Faurecia North Faurecia Mexico Faurecia Exhaust Faurecia Emissions Faurecia Emissions Control 14.97% Hug Engineering, Faurecia USA Holdings, Automotive Seating, America, LLC. Holdings, LLC Systems, LLC Control Systems N.A., Inc. (United States) Technologies, USA, LLC. (United States) Inc. (United States) (United States) (United States) (United States) LLC. (United States) (United States) 42.95% 100% 60.59% 14.66% Valencia Modulos Faurecia Interior Faurecia Interior Faurecia Holdings Systems Espana, Asientos de Galicia, Asientos del Norte, S.L. Asientos de Castilla de Puerta, S.L. Systems SALC Espana, S.L. (Spain) Espana, S.L. (Spain) S.L. (Spain) S.L. (Spain) (Spain) Leon, S.L. (Spain) (Spain) 100% 50.05% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 24.75% Faurecia Automotive Faurecia Automotive Faurecia Emissions Faurecia Sistemas de Czech Republic s.r.o. Faurecia Romania s.r.l. Incalplas, S.L. Control Technologies, Escape Espana, S.L. Slovakia (Spain) (Czech Republic) (Slovakia) (Romania) Pamplona, S.L. (Spain) (Spain) 45% 45% 45% 100% 100% 100% 100% Détroit Manufacturingg Détroit Manufacturing Faurecia Interior Systems Faurecia Interiors Faurecia Interior Systems y Toledo and DMS Leverage Lender Faurecia DMS, LLC Louisville, LLC. (LLC) (United States) Systems, LLC. (United States) Saline, LLC. Systems, Inc. Non-Automotive,, LLC (United States) (United States) (United States) (United States) ( (United States)) 4% 4% 4% 44% 100% 100% 59.97% 50% Total Network FNK North Faurecia Automotive 6.03% Faurecia Honghu Exhaust Faurecia Tongda Exhaust Faurecia Hicom Emissions Manufacturing, LLC. America, LLC. Seating, LLC. Systems Shanghai Co. Ltd System (Wuhan) Control Technologies (M) (United States) (United States) (United States) (China) Co., Ltd (China) Sdn. Bhd (Malaysia) 5% 65% 100% 100% 100% 100% Faurecia Exhaust Faurecia Emissions 50% Exhaust Services Mexicana, Control Technologies Symbio S.A. de C.V. (Mexico) Systems s.r.o. Canada Ltd (France) International (France) (Czech Republic) (Canada) 83.65% 100% 100% 100% 91.5% 70% 100% Faurecia Sistemas de Faurecia Systèmes Amminex Faurecia OOO Faurecia Escape Argentina SA d'Echappement Hug Engineering AG Hug Engineering Italia Emissions Technology A/S Metalloprodukcia Metalloprodukcia Exhaust (Argentina) (France) (Switzerland) S.r.l. (Italy) (Denmark) Holding (France) Systems (Russia) 100% 16.31% 100% 100% 100% 100% 49% Hug Engineering B.V. Faurecia Emissions Control Faurecia Emissions Control Faurecia Emissions Control ET Dutch Holdings BV Technologies, Hungary Kft Technologies, Italy SRL Technologies, Thaïland Co. Ltd GMD Stamping Mexico, (Netherlands) (Netherlands) S.A. de C.V. (Mexico) (Hungary) (Italy) (Thaïland) 61.43% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 51% 19.92% Faurecia Emissions Control ET Mexico Holdings II, S. Faurecia Emissions Faurecia Emissions Faurecia Automotive FMM Pernambuco Componentes Faurecia Sistemas Automotrices Technologies UK Ltd de R.L. de C.V. Control Technologies, Control Technologies, do Brasil Ltda Automotivos Ltda de Mexico, S.A. de CV (Great Britain) (Mexico) Netherlands B.V. Mlada Boleslav, s.r.o. (Brazil) (Mexico) (Netherlands) (Brazil) (Czech Republic) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Clarion Co., Clarion Europa Clarion Hungary Clarion Clarion Clarion Sales and Clarion Manufacturing Hennape Six Clarion Europe SAS and Service Co., Ltd Ltd (Japan) (France) GmbH Electronics Kft Australia Pty. India Pvt, Marketing Co., Ltd (France) (Hungary) Ltd (Australia) Ltd (India) (Japan) (Japan) JP09 (Germany) 18.65% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Crystal Precision Electronica Clarion Hitachi Automotive Systems Clarion Rus Clarion (Taiwan) Clarion Asia Faurecia Aptoide (M) Sdn. Bhd S.A. de C.V. S.A. de C.V. San Juan Del Rio, S.A. de C.V. LLC Manufacturing Co., (Thailand) Co., Ltd Automotive (Malaysia) (Mexico) (Mexico) (Mexico) (Russia) Ltd (Taiwan) (Thailand) (Portugal) 20% 50% 100% 100% 45% 33.3% 25% Clarion Corporation Clarion Clarion Canada, Clarion (H.K.) Faurecia Clarion Xiamen Clarion Clarion Carebot Wuhan Clarion Kotei (Malaysia) Corporation Software Technology of America do Brasil Ltda Inc. Industries Co., Ltd Electronics (Dongguan) Electrical Enterprise Co., Sdn BhD (United States) (Brazil) (Canada) (China) Co.,Ltd (China) Ltd (China) (Malaysia) (Japan) Co., Ltd (China) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Parrot Automotive Asia Parrot Automotive Faurecia Faurecia Holdings Faurecia Faurecia AST 97.9% Faurecia Investments Parrot Faurecia Application Products Automotive Paciﬁc Limited (Shenzhen) Co. Limited Switzerland GmbH AST Luxembourg S.à.r.l. Luxembourg S.A. (France) (Hong Kong China) (Switzerland) (Luxembourg) (Luxembourg) (France) (China) (Luxembourg) 2.1% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 50% Faurecia Faurecia Sièges Ecsa Siedoubs Siemar Faurecia Faurecia Automotive Faurecia Automotive Faurecia Ventures d'Automobile Sielest Seating Flers Seating UK Ltd Teknik Malzeme (France) (France) (France) (France) Composites Midlands Ltd (France) (France) (France) (France) (Great Britain) (Turkey) (Great Britain) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Faurecia (China) Holding Faurecia Emissions Faurecia (Shanghaï) Faurecia (Qingdao) Exhaust Faurecia (Guangzhou) Faurecia Emissions Control Faurecia (Nanjing) Faurecia (Shenyang) Control Technologies Automotive Systems Co., Systems Co., Ltd Automotive Systems Co., Ltd Technologies (Yantaï) Co., Ltd Automotive Systems Co., Automotive Systems Co., Co., Ltd Developement (Shanghaï) (China) Co. Ltd (China) Ltd (China) (China) (China) (China) Ltd (China) Ltd (China) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Faurecia PowerGreen Changsha Faurecia Faurecia Exhaust Systems Faurecia (Jimo) Emissions Faurecia Clarion Electronics Faurecia (Haining) HUG Engineering Emissions Control Emissions Control Faurecia Coagent Electronics Technologies Co., Ltd (Shanghaî) Co., Ltd Control Technologies Co., S&T Co., Ltd (China) (Foshan) Co., Ltd Automotive Systems Co., (Shanghai) Co., Technologies Co. Ltd (China) Ltd (China) (China) Ltd (China) Ltd (China) (China) (China) 50% 50% 50% 51% 51% 51% 60% Xiantan Faurecia Jinan Jidao Auto Parts CSM Faurecia Automotive Faurecia NHK (Xiangyang) Faurecia Emissions Control Faurecia Emissions Control Foshan Faurecia Xuyang Interior Limin Interior Company Limited Parts Co., Ltd Automotive Seating, Co., Ltd Technologies (Nanchang) Technologies (Foshan) Co., Ltd Systems Company Limited & Exterior Systems Co., (China) (China) (China) Co., Ltd (China) (China) (China) Ltd (China) 55% 100% 50% 50% 50% 51% 40% 51% Shanghaï Faurecia Shanghaï Faurecia Dongfeng Faurecia Dongfeng Faurecia Qinhuangdao WKW-FAD Faurecia (Tianjin) Automotive Faurecia (Chongqing) Faurecia (Tianjin) Emissions Automotive Seating Co., Automotive Seating Automotive Interior Co., Ltd (Wuhan) Automotive Parts Automotive Interior Parts Systems Co., Ltd Automotive Parts Co., Ltd Control Technologies Co. Ltd Components Co., Ltd Ltd (China) (China) (China) Sales Co., Ltd (China) Co., Ltd (China) (China) (China) (China) 45% 50% 50% 70% 50% 50% 100% 50% Faurecia (Changshu) Faurecia Liuzhou Automotive Faurecia (Liuzhou) Shenzhen Faurecia Chongqing Guangneng Faurecia Faurecia Liuzhou Automotive Chongqing Zhuotong Hontai Faurecia Composite Automotive System Co., Ltd Seating Co., Ltd Automotive Seating Sales Automotive Parts Co., Ltd Interior Systems Company Interior Systems Co., Ltd Automotive Interior Systems (Wuhan) Co., Ltd (China) (China) Co., Ltd (China) (China) Limited (China) (China) (China) Co., Ltd (China) 344 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Other information Organizational structure as of December 31, 2019 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Faurecia Automotive Faurecia Automotive Faurecia Intérieur Faurecia Smart Faurecia Intérieurs Faurecia Intérieurs Hambach Automotive Faurecia Industries TRECIA Industrie Industrie Holdings (France) Technologies Saint-Quentin Mornac Exteriors (France) (France) (France) (France) (France) (France) (France) (France) 75% 99.99% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 50% Faurecia India PFP Acoustic Faurecia Faurecia Interior Systems Faurecia Interior Faurecia Faurecia Interior Faurecia & Summit Interior and Soft Trims India Industrie, N.V. Bohemia s.r.o. Pardubice s.r.o. Argentina S.A. Systems Thaïland Co., Systems (Thailand) Co. Ltd Pvt Ltd (India) Pvt Ltd (India) (Belgium) (Czech Republic) (Czech Republic) (Argentina) Ltd (Thaïland) (Thaïland) 25% 0.01% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% SAI Automotive SAI Automotive Faurecia Interior Faurecia Interior Systems Faurecia Interior Systems Faurecia Emissions Systems (Vietnam) South Africa (Pty) Ltd Pretoria (Pty) Ltd Control Technologies Fradley Ltd Washington Ltd Luga (Russia) Company Limited (Cape Town) (Pty) Ltd (Great Britain) (Great Britain) (Vietnam) (South Africa) (South Africa) (South Africa) 82% 100% 51% 50% 50% 50% 50% 38% Chang Ming CovaTech, Inc. Faurecia Howa Faurecia Howa Euro Auto Plastic Ligneos, S.r.l. Automotive Performance Company Limited Interior Mexico, Interiors Co., Ltd Systems s.r.l. Materials Basis Mold India Pvt Ltd (Taiwan) (Italy) (India) (China) S.A. de C.V. (Mexico) (Japan) (Romania) (France) 63.88% Faurecia Automotive Espana, S.A. (Spain) 10.66% 43.33% 28.77% 25.81% 55.02% 25.46% 100% Faurecia Automotive Faurecia Automotive FCM Yeongcheon FAS Yeongcheon Faurecia Emissions Industrie Spain, S.L. Faurecia Korea Ltd Co. Ltd Co. Ltd Control Technologies, GmbH (South Korea) (Germany) (Spain) (South Korea) (South Korea) India Pvt Ltd (India) 27.9% 100% 100% 74% 19.17% 100% 100% 50% 100% 50% Faurecia Asientos Faurecia (Wuxi) Faurecia (Changchun) Changchun Faurecia 10% Seating Components Copo Iberica, S.A. Automotive Systems Xuyang Interior Systems Para Automovil Espana, S.A. (Spain) Co., Ltd (China) (Spain) Co., Ltd (China) Company Limited (China) 100% 100% 100% 100% 72.10% 100% 50% Faurecia Angell-Demmel Faurecia Innenraum Faurecia Interior Systems Faurecia Creo AB Faurecia Poliﬂeks Componentes de Faurecia Autositze GmbH GmbH Systeme GmbH Sweden AB Otomotiv Sanayi Ve Ticaret Vehiculos de Galicia S.A. (Germany) (Sweden) (Germany) (Germany) (Sweden) A.S. (Turkey) (Spain) 100% 100% 100% 51% Faurecia Emissions Control Faurecia Faurecia Exhaust SAS Automotive SAS Automotive Hug Engineering GmbH Systems Changchun Technologies, Germany GmbH (Germany) Automobiltechnik GmbH Systems (Shanghai) Systems & Services S.A. (Germany) (Germany) Co Ltd (China) Co., Ltd (China) de CV (Mexico) 100% 100% 50% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 99.99% SAS Autosystemtechnik SAS Autosystemtechnik SAS Auttomotive de SAS Automotive SAS Automotive SAS Autosystemtechnik USA, Inc. SAS Logistics France GmbH & Co. KG Verwaltungs GmbH Portugal, Unipessoal Lda (France) Systems & Services S.A. S.A. (Spain) (United States) de CV (Mexico) (Germany) (Germany) (Portugal) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% SAS Autosystemtechnik SAS Automotriz SAS Automotive SAS Otosistem Teknik SAS Automotive SAS Automotive SAS Automotive Cockpit Automotive s.r.o. (Czech Republic) Argentina S.A. do Brasil LTDA Ticaret ve Limited Sirketi s.r.o. N.V. France Systems Rennes S.A.S.U. (Argentina) (Brazil) (Turkey) (Slovakia) (Belgium) (France) (France) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Société Tunisienne Faurecia Informatique Faurecia Equipements Faurecia Automotive Faurecia Automotive Faurecia Automotive del Faurecia Security d'Equipements Automobiles Maroc Systems Technologies Industries Morocco, Sarl Uruguay., Ltd Technologies Ltd d'Automobile Tunisie (Tunisia) (Tunisia) (Marocco) (Marocco) (Marocco) (Uruguay) (Israël) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 50% Faurecia Components Faurecia Plzen, Faurecia-Assentos de Faurecia Sistemas de EDA Estofagem de Faurecia Sistemas de Interior SASAL de Portugal. g Componentesp Vanpro Assentos Lda. Pisek s.r.o. s.r.o. Automovel, Limitada (Portugal) Escape Portugal, Lda Assentos, Lda Para Automovel S.A. (Portugal) (Czech Republic) (Czech Republic) (Portugal) (Portugal) (Portugal) ( (Portugal)g ) 100% 100% 100% 99% 1% Faurecia Automotive Faurecia Faurecia R&D Faurecia Faurecia Gorzow S.A. Faurecia Japan KK Faurecia Automotive Faurecia Automotive Polska S.A. Walbrzych S.A. Center S. A. Legnica S.A. Developmentp Solutions (Poland) (Japan) (Russia) (Russia) (Poland) (Poland) (Poland) (Poland) 100% 100% 100% 100% 50% 19% 19% 19% Faurecia-NHK Co., Ltd Faurecia-NHK Kyushu NHK F. Krishna India PT. NHK F. KBU Indonesia (FNK) (Japan) Co., Ltd Automotive Seating Pvt Automotive Seating (FNQ) (Japan) Ltd (India) (Indonesia) 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Faurecia (Wuhan) Automotive Faurecia (Zhejiang) Chengdu Faurecia Faurecia (Yancheng) Faurecia Emissions Faurecia Emissions Control Components Systems Co., Ltd Automotive Systems Co., Automotive Systems Automotive Systems Co., Ltd Control Technologies Technologies (Ningbo) Co., (China) Ltd (China) Company Limited (China) (China) (Beijing) Co., Ltd (China) Ltd (China) 60% 100% 51% 72.5% 51% 40% Changchun Faurecia Xuyang Tianjin Faurecia Xuyang Faurecia GSK (Wuhan) Faurecia Emissions Control Faurecia Emissions Changchun Xuyang Automotive Seat Co., Ltd Automotive Seat Co., Ltd Automotive Seating Co., Technologies (Chongqing) Co., Control Technologies Faurecia Acoustic & Soft (China) (China) Ltd (China) Ltd (China) (Chengdu) Co., Ltd (China) Trim Co., Ltd (China) 45% 66% Changchun Faurecia Xuyang Faurecia Emissions Control Technologies Automotive Components Technologies (Ningbo Hangzhou Bay New District) Co., R&D Company Limited (China) Ltd (China) 52% 50% 50% Faurecia Yinlun (Weifang) Dongfeng Faurecia (Xiangyang) Dongfeng Faurecia Emissions Emissions Control Emissions Systems Control Technologies Europe Technologies Co. Ltd (China) Co. Ltd (China) Co. Ltd (China) South America, Africa, rest of the world 50% Faurecia (Liuzhou) Emissions Asia Control Technologies Co., Ltd (China) North America / Universal Registration Document 2019 345 Other information Background 6.3. Background 1891. The first automobiles, in the modern sense, are made, Spain and Canada and gains a toehold in Germany, but the powered by gasoline engines. The first steel tubes follow, Company’s international expansion enters a new phase patented by Peugeot. They are produced mainly at in 1990 when it acquires the Rentrop group in Germany. Audincourt, in the Doubs region of eastern France. Epeda Bertrand Faure then became the European leader in automotive seating. Throughout the 1990s until 1998, the 1914. Bertrand Faure opens his first workshop, making seats for Company concentrated its expertise in automotive Paris trams and underground trains, at Levallois-Perret. equipment, selling off its other businesses in bedding (Epeda 1929. Bertrand Faure acquires the license for the Epeda and Mérinos), aeronautics (Ratier-Figeac) and luggage process, enabling the Company to improve its seats for the (Delsey). automotive industry and develop a new product: the spring 1992. Ecia sells its cycle business, then its tool business the mattress. Both businesses took off significantly after the Second following year and makes significant acquisitions in companies World War. Bertrand Faure clients include Renault, Peugeot, specializing in exhaust, with Tubauto and Eli Échappement in Citroën, Talbot, Panhard-Levassor, Berliet and Simca. France, Leistritz Abgastechnik in Germany and Silenciadores 1950. Bernard Deconinck, the son-in-law of Joseph Allibert, PCG in Spain. Ecia then becomes the European leader in who formed the Allibert company in Isère in 1910, decides to exhaust systems. At the same time, its Automotive Seating invest in an enormous injection press from the United States. Division joins forces with the Spanish automotive equipment He could use this equipment to mold large plastic parts from a supplier Irausa to form Ardasa. The Company supplies exhaust single clamping unit. He changes his customer base from systems, seats, interior fittings and front ends to Volkswagen, refrigerator manufacturers to the automotive industry. Renault, Daimler Chrysler, Opel, Honda and Mitsubishi. 1955. The Frères Peugeot company, with subsidiaries including December 11, 1997. Ecia makes a friendly takeover bid for Peugeot et Cie, starts producing automotive equipment. The Bertrand Faure, bringing its direct and indirect stake in the companies diversify over the years, making seats, exhaust Group to 99%. While Bertrand Faure sold its luggage (Delsey) systems, and steering columns. They extend operations outside and aeronautics (Ratier-Figeac) businesses, Ecia sold its France, dropping some products to concentrate on new lines. motorcycle business (Peugeot Motocycles) to the PSA Peugeot Citroën group in 1998. 1972. François Sommer, grandson of Alfred Sommer, merges his automotive floor coverings company with that of Bernard June 1, 1999. Ecia and Bertrand Faure merged giving birth to Deconinck’s company, Allibert. They combine their know-how the Faurecia company, resulting in the PSA Peugeot Citroën in textiles and plastics to found the Sommer Allibert group. group holding a 52.6% stake in Faurecia by the end of 1999. Faurecia then reports sales of over €4 billion, with a workforce In the early 1980s, Sommer Allibert invests heavily to meet the of 32,000. Apart from boosting its size and its global position in needs of the automotive industry and becomes a leading automotive seating, Bertrand Faure also provides Ecia with a specialist in interior vehicle fittings for all of the major broader geographical and commercial presence, especially automakers. International expansion follows, with the in Germany, where the Company has strong links with acquisition of Spain-based Lignotock, and an extended automakers such as Volkswagen and BMW. presence in Germany from 1993. Late 1999. The Faurecia group develops its exhaust systems 1987. Cycles Peugeot merges with Aciers & Outillages Peugeot business in North America by acquiring the US company AP to form Ecia (Équipements et Composants pour l’Industrie Automotive Systems. Automobile), the PSA Peugeot Citroën group’s specialist automotive equipment subsidiary. Over the next ten years, October 2000. Faurecia purchases Sommer Allibert. The PSA Ecia undergoes concentrated industrial and geographical Peugeot Citroën group finances the transaction, thus development. increasing its shareholding in Faurecia to 71.5%. Well established in Germany and Spain, the Group commanded a 1990. The company Epeda Bertrand Faure, which started out significant European market share for vehicle interior fittings, as a manufacturer of seats and benches for transport vehicles, especially door and instrument panels and acoustic modules. such as automobiles, railroad passenger cars and streetcars, gradually diversifies into other business segments: first bedding 2001. The acquisition of Sommer Allibert is completed with a with the Epeda and Mérinos brands, then luggage under the public offer to buy out Sommer Allibert’s minority shareholders. Delsey name in 1982, and finally aeronautics with The resulting group has sales of €9.6 billion. Faurecia then buys Ratier-Figeac in 1987. Nevertheless, its core business is still out the remaining minority shares held by external manufacturing components for car seats, particularly for the shareholders in Sommer Allibert’s German subsidiary SAI French market. From 1977, it acquires businesses in Portugal, Automotive AG. 346 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Other information Background 2002. The Faurecia group acquires 49% of the South Korean In the fourth quarter of 2010, Faurecia Automotive Seating catalytic converter maker Daeki Industrial, number two in its bought the “seat comfort technology” business of the market. The same year, Faurecia forms a joint venture with the German company Hoerbiger Automotive Taiwanese automotive equipment company GSK, with a view Komfortsysteme GmbH, and diversified its technological offer to making seats at Wuhan, in China. in complete seats. 2003. Faurecia follows up these acquisitions by buying the Finally, to strengthen the technological prowess of Faurecia South Korean exhaust systems company Chang Heung Interior Systems, the Group acquired Angell-Demmel Precision, which has market share of over 20%. This gives Europe GmbH, the world leader in decorative metal parts for Faurecia’s exhaust systems business a manufacturing automobile interiors. presence in all continents. In Europe, the Group signs an 2011. In January, Faurecia takes a 21.2% stake in the Danish agreement with Siemens-VDO, which strengthens and company, Amminex A/S, thus strengthening its diesel emission expands their joint venture (SAS): this company assembles control technology. cockpits for BMW, Daimler Chrysler, the Ford group, Renault-Nissan and the Volkswagen group. Faurecia also strengthens its presence in China by signing, in January, a new joint venture agreement with Ningbo 2005. The Group strengthens its presence in Korea by Huazhong Plastic Products Co. Ltd to make exterior increasing its shareholding in Daeki (specializing in exhaust automobile parts; and, in June, by enlarging the scope of its systems for Hyundai) to 100%, and signs a joint-venture cooperation with the Changchun Xuyang group. This allows it agreement with the South Korean company Kwang Jin Sang to develop locally, specifically with the FAW group. In July, it Gong (specializing in door modules for Hyundai Motors and signs an agreement with the Economic and Technological Kia Motors). Development Zone of Yancheng for an investment project 2007. The Group takes over the bumper activity of Cadence allowing Faurecia to develop its seat-mechanism activity. Innovation France, thus strengthening its market position in this In November, Faurecia launches a €350 million bond issue sector in France. maturing in December 2016 (the issue is supplemented by 2009. Faurecia acquires Emcon Technologies (formerly Arvin another €140 million issue in February 2012 with the same Industries), and becomes the world leader in exhaust systems. maturity date) and a syndicated line of credit is arranged for This business combination strengthens Faurecia’s position with €1,150 billion, in two tranches: A (€690 million) and B automakers in Germany (as Arvin Industries acquired Zeuna (€460 million) maturing in November 2014 and November 2016 Stärker in 1998), in the USA (particularly Ford), in South respectively. America, in India and in Thailand. It gives Faurecia a route into 2012. On May 3, Faurecia announces its acquisition of the Ford the niche commercial-vehicles market (trucks and off road). ACH interior components plant in Saline, Michigan (USA). This With this all-equity acquisition, One Equity Partners (JP Morgan plant supplies cockpit modules, instrument panels, door panels Chase & Co.’s private equity arm), holds a 17.3% stake in and center consoles for 12 automotive programs assembled in Faurecia and PSA Peugeot Citroën’s interest is reduced to 8 Ford plants across North America. 57.4%. In parallel with this acquisition, Faurecia signs a joint venture Faurecia buys out its joint-venture partner Tata to become the agreement with Rush group Ltd, a Rush group company. The sole owner of Taco Faurecia Design Center. The company is joint venture, called Detroit Manufacturing Systems (DMS), renamed Faurecia Automotive Engineering India and takes over activities such as the assembly and sequencing of becomes Faurecia’s development center in India. interior parts at a new plant in Detroit. 2010. Faurecia becomes European leader in exterior On February 14, Faurecia announces that in addition to its automotive parts by acquiring the German activities of Plastal €350 million bond issue in November 2011, it has placed along with the acquisition of the activities of Plastal Spain S.A. another issue with a nominal value of €140 million. With these transactions, Faurecia Automotive Exteriors broadens its customer base, notably with Ford and the four On April 27, Faurecia announces that it has placed a new German premium brands, but also enriches its product bond issue with a nominal value of €250 million, maturing in offering and reinforces its industrial presence along with its June 2019. research and development capabilities. It was able to expand On August 30, Faurecia announces that with effect from that internationally, setting up a joint venture in China with date, it has acquired Plastal France (Plastal SAS), a supplier of Huaxiang, supplier of exterior parts to FAW-Volkswagen. plastic body parts for Smart branded vehicles (Daimler group). After taking an 18.75% stake in Xuyang group, in China, the The transaction follows the previous acquisitions of Plastal Group is able to expand the line of products and services Allemagne and Plastal Espagne in 2010, and includes the offered in the strategic areas of complete seats, interior manufacturing and assembly plant and the operational systems, acoustic modules, and interior covers. A strategic headquarters in Hambach (France). alliance with the Geely and Limin groups marks a significant new development stage for Faurecia Interior Systems and Faurecia Automotive Exteriors in China. / Universal Registration Document 2019 347 Other information Background On September 10, Faurecia issues convertible bonds On September 24, Faurecia and Beijing WKW Automotive Parts (OCEANE), maturing on January 1, 2018. After exercising an Co., Ltd, one of China’s leading manufacturers of automotive over-allotment option on September 12, 2012, it raises interior and exterior decorative parts, sign a joint venture €249,999,989.00 (12,833,675 bonds). agreement. Together, the two partners aim to unlock synergies in the area of aluminum interior decorative parts for light On November 29, Faurecia launches a level 1 ADR program vehicles. listed on the “over-the-counter” (OTC) market in the USA. Each Faurecia ordinary share (listed on the NYSE Euronext Paris On December 7, Faurecia announces the early redemption, market) comprises two ADR shares. effective January 15, 2016, of the OCEANE bonds convertible into or exchangeable for new or existing shares issued in 2013. On April 10, Faurecia Interior Systems signs a joint venture September 2012. agreement with the Thai component manufacturer Summit Auto Seats to support Ford in its development in South-East On December 14, Faurecia signs a Memorandum of Asia, particularly in Thailand. Understanding (MoU) for the sale of its worldwide Automotive Exteriors business to Compagnie Plastic Omnium. The business On April 22, Faurecia and Chang’an Automobile group, one that would be sold, which is comprised of bumpers and of the largest automakers in China, sign a joint-venture front-end modules, has sales of €2 billion in 2014 and employs agreement. 7,700 people in 22 industrial sites. The Automotive Composites On November 19, Faurecia and Magneti Marelli announce business, the Faurecia plant supplying components to Smart in their agreement to cooperate in designing, developing and Hambach (France), and two joint ventures in Brazil and China manufacturing HMI products for vehicle interiors. The are not included in the deal. The transaction is based on an agreement will enhance the added value of interior solutions enterprise value of €665 million. The transaction is expected to for the vehicles that Faurecia and Magneti Marelli supply to close during 2016. automakers and end customers. 2016. On July 27, Faurecia and Italian company Tabu S.p.A., On December 30, Faurecia redeems early the OCEANE bonds which specializes in the production of flexible wood trim, sign a maturing on January 1, 2015 (ISIN FR0010827055). Bondholders partnership agreement which results in the set-up of the joint opt virtually unanimously to convert their bonds into Faurecia venture Ligneos, S.r.l. on September 5. With Tabu’s unique shares: 11,284,793 shares (99.83% of the total outstanding) expertise in the selection, cutting and treatment of wood, the were converted into 11,736,190 new Faurecia shares. two partners have developed patented technology aimed at extending the use of decorative wood in cars, covering a 2014. On January 29, Faurecia announces the establishment, wider range of surfaces. with the Japanese automotive equipment manufacturer Howa, of a joint venture called Faurecia Howa Interiors, for the On July 29, in keeping with the memorandum of production in Mexico of interior systems for Renault-Nissan. The understanding signed on December 14, 2015, Faurecia sells its agreement signed opens up new commercial prospects for Automotive Exteriors business to Plastic Omnium. The Faurecia: with Nissan in Mexico, Thailand, Spain, Brazil and in transaction had been authorized by the European South Africa. Commission on the condition that Plastic Omnium commit to selling the French sites and one Spanish site focused on the On October 3, Faurecia announced the establishment of bumper business, along with the front-end module assembly 50:50 joint venture with Interval, a major French agricultural business in Germany. cooperative. On October 2, Faurecia and Azin Khodro sign a partnership This agreement results in the establishment of Automotive agreement for the set-up of a joint venture in Iran (Azin Performance Materials (APM) which aims to develop and Faurecia Interior Systems Company), to develop and produce produce biosourced raw materials in order to continue instrument panels, door panels, center consoles and acoustic Faurecia’s drive to reduce vehicle weight while respecting the modules, with production due to be launched in early 2018. environment. On November 29, Faurecia and German premium automaker Note that in 2014 Faurecia celebrates 20 years of presence in Borgward sign a partnership agreement for the set-up of a China. It is also the year in which Faurecia returns to the Paris joint venture (Borgward Faurecia Auto Systems Co., Ltd) in Motor Show after an absence of 12 years. Tianjin, China, to jointly develop and produce complete 2015. On March 27, Faurecia and Dongfeng Hongtai, a automotive seats for the new Borgward vehicles. subsidiary majority owned by Dongfeng Motor Corporation, On December 2, Faurecia signs a partnership agreement with one of the largest automotive groups in China, enter into a MAAD, an Iranian joint venture between the Iranian groups broad partnership agreement covering all of the Faurecia Crouse and Avrand, for the purpose of setting up another joint group’s business activities. The first result of this partnership is venture, Faurecia Crouse Advanced Exhaust System Co. to the formation, in May 2015, of two joint ventures, one with a develop and produce emission control systems for the Iranian view to the development, manufacture and delivery of automobile market. The start of production is scheduled for automotive interior components (Dongfeng Faurecia the beginning of 2017. Automotive Interior Co., Ltd) and the other with a view to the development, manufacture and delivery of automotive exterior components (Dongfeng Faurecia Automotive Exteriors Co., Ltd). 348 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Other information Background On December 6, Faurecia announces that it has entered into On December 22, Faurecia announces it has agreed to exclusive talks with Parrot Automotive, one of the leaders in acquire 100% of the Swiss company Hug Engineering, which is connectivity and infotainment solutions for the automotive held by the German group ElringKlinger, a leader in the industry, in view of developing applications and platforms for European market in complete exhaust gas purification systems connected vehicles. The first step will consist in acquiring a 20% for engines greater than 750 HP and one of the main global stake in Parrot Automotive. Faurecia could increase its stake to players in its segment. 50.01% as from 2019 and acquire all Parrot Automotive shares 2018. On January 5, Faurecia and Accenture – a global leader by 2022. If the talks are successful, the project will be launched in technology consulting – announce a five-year partnership in the first half of 2017. agreement intended to speed up innovation in mobility On December 13, Faurecia, who has been working in close services. Faurecia and Accenture will combine their collaboration with Danish company Amminex since mid-2009 innovation expertise and co-invest to create products and and held 42% of its capital stock, announces that it has services for connected and autonomous vehicles. increased its stake in this company to 91.5%. The remaining On February 15, Faurecia’s Board of Directors decides to seek shares are held by the Danish foundation Nordea-fonden. the approval of shareholders to transform the Company into a Amminex has developed an ammonia storage and delivery European Company. system (ASDS™) which has shown its efficiency in eliminating nitrogen oxides (NOx) in diesel engines. By increasing its stake On March 1, Faurecia announces the completion of its in this company, Faurecia intends to step up the development acquisition of 100% of Swiss company Hug Engineering, a of this technology for utility vehicles and trucks but also for market leader in exhaust gas purification systems for high passenger vehicles. Faurecia is also examining other horsepower engines (above 750 hp). applications for ASDS™, such as for agricultural vehicles, On March 16, Faurecia announces an investment in the earthmoving machinery and the high-power engines used in French start-up Enogia in order to enhance its expertise in boats and ships. energy recovery technology. 2017. On February 21, Faurecia announces that it has entered On May 9, Faurecia announces an investment in Powersphyr into a partnership agreement with TactoTek, a Finnish (a start-up based in the Silicon Valley) intended to accelerate company providing solutions for Injection Molded Structural its solutions designed for a connected, intuitive Cockpit of the Electronics (IMSE): integrating printed circuitry and electronic Future. components into 3D injection molded plastics. This investment in TactoTek strengthens Faurecia’s capabilities for the On May 23, Faurecia announces an investment in American development and production of intelligent surfaces which are start-up Promethient, thus strengthening the Group ecosystem necessary for the Cockpit of the Future. dedicated to thermal management technologies for tomorrow’s mobility solutions. On March 27, Faurecia announces that it has finalized and signed its strategic partnership with Parrot Automotive. This On June 11, Faurecia announces the signing of a framework partnership will allow Faurecia to accelerate development of agreement for a strategic partnership with one of China’s electronic solutions for the connected vehicle. leading automakers, FAW group. This agreement concerns Cockpit of the Future technologies and sustainable mobility On May 4, Faurecia and ZF announce a strategic partnership solutions. to work on developing disruptive and differentiating interior and safety technologies for autonomous cars. On July 6, Faurecia and Parrot finalized a framework agreement to acquire as expected 100% of Parrot Automotive On May 15, Faurecia announces the acquisition of exclusive by Faurecia. access to the intellectual property and manufacturing know-how of STELIA Aerospace Composites in composite On July 24, Faurecia announces an investment in start-up hydrogen tanks. This acquisition supplements Faurecia’s SUBPAC, thus strengthening the Group ecosystem dedicated investment in Ad-venta, which invented a valve that makes it to a customized, adaptable and connected Cockpit of the easier to power fuel cells. Future. On October 10, Faurecia and MAHLE, an automotive supplier, On October 1, Faurecia announces the completion of the full announce a partnership that will focus on the development of acquisition of Parrot Faurecia Automotive. innovative interior heat management technologies for the On October 25, Faurecia announces the creation of a new mobility solutions of the future. joint venture with Liuzhou Wuling Automotive Industry Co., Ltd, On November 6, Faurecia acquires a majority interest in the China’s leading car parts manufacturer. Chinese company Jiangxi Coagent Electronics Co., Ltd, which On October 26, Faurecia announces the signing of is renamed Faurecia Coagent Electronics S&T Co., Ltd. The agreements with Clarion and Hitachi, which holds a controlling new joint venture will develop embedded and innovative interest of 63.8% in Clarion, for a public offer aimed at infotainment solutions in vehicles. acquiring 100% of Clarion. On November 21, Faurecia announces the signing of a strategic partnership with electronics and lighting specialist HELLA, for the development of innovative interior lighting solutions. / Universal Registration Document 2019 349 Other information Background On December 19, Faurecia announces an investment in ESP research and development center in Bavans, France. Consulting, an innovative French laboratory using cognitive Faurecia aims to invest in research and development in sciences to optimize human performance and well-being in a new-generation high-pressure tanks that are more efficient variety of situations. and lighter, as well as in a test center to characterize these tanks. On December 26, Faurecia changes its corporate form to become a European Company. On July 22, Faurecia announces a partnership with Microsoft to create innovative, connected and customized services 2019. On February 26, Faurecia announces a partnership with within the Cockpit of the Future. Japan Display Inc. to enhance the digital user experience inside the cockpits by collaborating in the development and On October 14, Faurecia announces the signature of a integration of large screens within the passenger Memorandum of Understanding with Continental to acquire compartment. the remaining 50% in its joint venture SAS. This joint venture, created in 1996, has become a major player in the assembly On March 13, Faurecia successfully issues €500 million of senior and logistics of complex modules for vehicle interiors. This bonds at 3.125% maturing in 2026 intended to refinance the project enables Faurecia to extend its offering of system bridge loan of €500 million set up to finance the Clarion integration to all interior modules, as well as to its new product acquisition, as well as the related acquisition costs. lines such as screens, electronics, sensors and thermal comfort. On April 1, Faurecia announces the creation of its fourth On October 28, Faurecia announces that it successfully Business Group “Faurecia Clarion Electronics”, based in placed an additional issue of €250 million in bonds treated as Saitama, Japan. This activity has the ambition to become a senior bonds at 3.125% maturing in 2026, issued on March 27, global leader in cockpit electronics and low-speed ADAS 2019 for a nominal value of €500 million. The net income from (Advanced Driver Assistance Systems). On October 26, 2018, this issue is allocated to financing the acquisition of 50% of the Faurecia announces its proposed acquisition of the Japanese shares in the joint venture SAS for €225 million. company Clarion and on March 1, 2019 the success of its takeover bid launched on January 30, 2019. On March 28, On November 5, Faurecia announces the creation of a joint 2019, Clarion becomes a company wholly-owned by venture, held equally with Aptoide, one of the largest Faurecia. The new Business Group, Faurecia Clarion independent Android app stores, with the aim of developing Electronics, combines Clarion with Faurecia’s previous and operating Android app store solutions for the global acquisitions of Parrot Automotive and Coagent Electronics. automotive market. On April 10, Faurecia announces that it acquired a majority On November 13, Faurecia successfully placed €700 million in interest in the Swedish company Creo Dynamics which senior bonds at 2.375% maturing in 2027 to refinance its bonds provides innovative acoustics and Active Noise Control (ANC) at 3.625% maturing in June 2023. solutions. Creo Dynamics technologies fully complement After the signature on March 11 of a Memorandum of Faurecia Clarion Electronics’ audio expertise, enabling an Understanding, on November 21 Faurecia and Michelin immersive sound experience and personalized sound bubble. formalized the creation of Symbio, their joint venture bringing On May 27, Faurecia announces an investment in GuardKnox, together all of Michelin and Faurecia’s fuel cell activities. an Israeli automotive cybersecurity provider, to reinforce Symbio is held equally by Faurecia and Michelin. passenger safety and data security in the connected car and On December 4, Faurecia announces its partnership with for new user experiences. Devialet, a French designer of remarkable innovations in On June 28, Faurecia announced the creation of a global acoustic engineering, with the aim of offering high-quality center of expertise for hydrogen storage systems at its audio solutions to automakers. 350 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Other information Additional information on audits of financial statements 6.4. Additional information on audits of financial statements THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In 2019, ERNST & YOUNG Audit and MAZARS received €4.8 million and €3.9 million respectively for their audit In accordance with French company law, Faurecia’s Statutory assignments. Auditors certify the parent company and Group financial statements and review the situation of its significant The table in Note 33 to the consolidated financial statements consolidated subsidiaries through members of their networks. shows the fees that Faurecia and its fully consolidated subsidiaries recognized in their 2019 financial statements for work assigned to the Statutory Auditors. PERSONS RESPONSIBLE FOR AUDITING THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Start date of first Date of expiry of term of office term of office STATUTORY AUDITORS ERNST & YOUNG Audit June 17, 1983 2025 AGM represented by Mr. Jean-Roch Varon member of the Versailles Regional Association of Statutory Auditors Tour First TSA 14444 92037 Paris-La Défense Cedex France MAZARS May 28, 2019 2025 AGM Represented by Mr. David Chaudat member of the Versailles Regional Association of Statutory Auditors Tour Exaltis 61, rue Henri Regnault 92400 Courbevoie France / Universal Registration Document 2019 351 Other information Declaration by the person responsible for the Universal Registration Document and the information officer 6.5. Declaration by the person responsible for the Universal Registration Document and the information officer Person responsible for the Universal Information officer Registration Document Michel Favre Patrick Koller Executive Vice-President, Group Chief Financial Officer Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Faurecia I hereby declare that, having taken all reasonable care to 23-27, avenue des Champs-Pierreux ensure that such is the case, the information contained in the 92000 Nanterre Universal Registration Document is, to the best of my France knowledge, in accordance with the facts and contains no Telephone: +33 (1) 72 36 70 00 omission likely to affect its import. Fax: +33 (1) 72 36 70 07 I further declare that, to the best of my knowledge, the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the applicable accounting standards and give a true and fair view of the assets and liabilities, the financial position and the results of the Company and the consolidated companies making up the Group, and that the management report, for which the cross-reference table is shown on page 357, provides a true and fair picture of the change in business, results and financial position of the Company and its consolidated companies, as well as a description of the main risks and uncertainties they face. Patrick Koller Drawn up in Nanterre, on April 30, 2020 352 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Other information Cross-reference tables 6.6. Cross-reference tables Cross-reference table with Annexes 1 and 2 of Delegated Regulation (EU) No. 2019/980 of the European Commission of March 14, 2019 In order to make this Universal Registration Document easier to understand the cross-reference table below makes it possible to identify the key items of information required by Annexes 1 and 2 of Delegated Regulation No. 2019/980 of March 14, 2019. Information Headings Sections PERSONS RESPONSIBLE, THIRD PARTY INFORMATION, EXPERTS’ 1 REPORTS AND COMPETENT AUTHORITY APPROVAL 1.1 Persons responsible for the information 6.5 1.2 Statement by the persons responsible for the document 6.5 1.3 Expert statement NA 1.4 Other statements if information comes from third parties NA 1.5 Statement on the document’s approval NA 2 STATUTORY AUDITORS 6.4 3 RISK FACTORS 6.4 4 INFORMATION ABOUT THE ISSUER 4.1 Legal and commercial name 6.1 Registration with the trade and companies register (RCS) and 4.2 legal entity identifier (LEI) 6.1 4.3 Date of incorporation and term 6.1 Registered office – legal form – applicable legislation – 4.4 website – other 6.1 5 BUSINESS OVERVIEW Introductory Chapter ; 5.1 Principal activities 1.1.1.1 ; 1.2.1 5.2 Principal markets Introductory Chapter Introductory Chapter ; 5.3 Important events 1.1.1 ; 1.2.1 Introductory Chapter ; 1.1.1.2 ; 1.1.1.3 ; 1.1.1.7 ; 1.2.2.3, note 2 ; 4.1.2 ; 4.2 (introductory paragraph) ; 4.2.6 ; 4.3 (introductory paragraph) ; 4.3.2.7 ; 4.4. 5.4 Financial and non-financial strategy and objectives (introductory paragraph) ; Chapter 4, annex 1 5.5 Level of dependence 6.1 5.6 Competitive position Introductory Chapter 5.7 Investments Introductory Chapter, 1.1.1.6.2 ; 1.1.2.5, notes 4, 10 5.7.1 Material investments made A, 11, 12 A and 26.3 ; 1.2.1 ; 1.2.2.3, note 17 ; 6.3 5.7.2 Ongoing material investments or firm commitments 1.1.1.6.2 ; 1.1.2.3 ;1.1.2.5, notes 4, 11 and 12A 5.7.3 Joint ventures and significant interests 1.1.2.6 ; 1.2.3 ; 6.2 Environmental impact of the use of property, plant and 5.7.4 equipment 4.3 6 ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE 6.1 Brief description of the Group/Organizational chart 1.1.2.6 ;1.2.3 ; 6.2 6.2 List of significant subsidiaries 1.1.2.6 ;1.2.3 ; 6.2 / Universal Registration Document 2019 353 Other information Cross-reference tables Information Headings Sections 7 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 7.1 Financial position Introductory Chapter, Chapter 1 7.1.1 Presentation of the development and performance of the business Introductory Chapter, 1.1.1.3 to 1.1.1.5 ; 1.1.2.5, note 4 7.1.2 Future changes and activities in research and development 1.1.1.1.3 ; 1.1.1.7 ; Introductory Chapter ; 1.1.2.5, note 5.4 7.2 Net operating income Introductory Chapter ; 1.1.1.4 7.2.1 Significant factors 1.1.1.1 ; 1.1.2.5 note 2 ; 1.2.1 7.2.2 Significant changes in sales or net income Section 1.1.2.5 note 2 8 CAPITAL RESOURCES 8.1 Issuer’s capital 1.1.2.4 ; 1.1.2.5 note 22 ; 1.2.2.3 note 15 Introductory Chapter (figures) ; 1.1.1.6.2 ; 8.2 Cash flows 1.1.2.3 ; 1.1.2.5 note 21 1.1.1.6 ; 1.1.2.5 note 26 ; 1.2.1 (financial structure and 8.3 Borrowing requirements and funding structure net debt) ; 1.2.2.3, note 17 8.4 Restriction on the use of capital 1.2.1 ; 1.1.2.5 note 26 ; 1.2.2.3 note 17 8.5 Anticipated sources of funds 1.1.1.1.3 ; 1.1.2.5 note 26 ; 1.2.2.3 note 17 9 REGULATORY ENVIRONMENT 2.2.1.10 ; 2.2.3.1 Description of the regulatory environment and influencing 9.1 exterior factors 10 TREND INFORMATION 10.1 a) Most significant recent trends Introductory Chapter b) Significant change in the Group’s financial performance since the closing or a negative statement 1.1.1.1.3 ; 1.1.1.7 10.2 Factor likely to have a material effect on the outlook Introductory Chapter ;1.1.1.1.3 ; 1.1.1.7 11 PROFIT FORECASTS OR ESTIMATES NA ADMINISTRATIVE, MANAGEMENT AND SUPERVISORY BODIES 12 AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT Information on members of the Company’s administrative 12.1 and management bodies 3.1.2.2 ; 3.6 12.2 Conflicts of interest or negative statement 3.6 13 COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS 13.1 Compensation and benefits paid or granted 3.3 13.2 Provisions for pensions and other benefits 1.1.2.5, note 25 14 BOARD PRACTICES 14.1 Terms of office 3.1.2.1 ; 3.1.2.2 14.2 Service contracts or appropriate statement 3.8.3 14.3 Committees 3.1.3.1 ; 3.1.4 14.4 Compliance with corporate governance rules 3.4 Potential material impacts on and future changes in 14.5 corporate governance 3.1.2.5 15 EMPLOYEES 15.1 Breakdown of employees Introductory Chapter ; 4.2.6 15.2 Equity investments and stock options 3.1.2.1 ; 3.1.2.2 ; 3.3.1.2.2.3 ; 3.3.1.2.3 ; 3.3.1.4.2 15.3 Employee profit-sharing agreements 3.3.3 ; 4.2.3.6 354 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Other information Cross-reference tables Information Headings Sections 16 MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS 16.1 Breakdown of capital or appropriate declaration 5.1.1 ; 5.1.2 16.2 Different voting rights or appropriate statement 5.1.1 ; 6.1 16.3 Control of the issuer 5.1.1. ; 5.1.2 ; 6.1 16.4 Shareholders’ agreement 6.1 17 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 17.1 Details of transactions 1.1.2.5, note 32 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE ISSUER’S ASSETS AND LIABILITIES, 18 FINANCIAL POSITION AND PROFITS AND LOSSES 18.1 Historical financial information 18.1.1 Audited historical financial information 1.1.2 ; 1.1.3 ; 1.2.2. ; 1.2.4 ; 6.1 18.1.2 Change of accounting reference date NA 18.1.3 Accounting standards 1.1.2.5, note 1 ; 1.2.2.3, note 1 18.1.4 Change of accounting framework 1.1.2.5, note 1 18.1.5 Minimum content of audited financial information 1.1.2 ; 1.2.2. ; 6.1 18.1.6 Consolidated financial statements 1.1.2 18.1.7 Date of latest financial information December 31, 2019 18.2 Interim and other financial information 18.2.1 Quarterly or half-yearly financial information 1.1.1.1.3 18.3 Audit of historical annual financial information 18.3.1 Audit report 1.1.3 ; 1.2.4 ; 6.1 18.3.2 Other audited information 3.8.4 ; 1.2.4 ; 4.5 18.3.3 Unaudited financial information NA 18.4 Pro forma financial information 18.4.1 Significant change in gross values NA 18.5 Dividend policy 18.5.1 Description or negative statement 5.4.4 ; 6.1 18.5.2 Amount of dividend per share 5.4.3 18.6 Legal and arbitration proceedings 1.1.2.5, note 24.2 ; 2.2.3.2 18.7 Significant change in the issuer’s financial position 1.1.1.1.3 ; 1.1.1.7 ; 1.2.2.3, note 2 19 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 19.1 Capital stock 19.1.1 Amount of capital issued 5.1.1 19.1.2 Shares not representing the capital NA 19.1.3 Treasury shares 5.1.1 ; 5.3 19.1.4 Securities NA 19.1.5 Vesting conditions and/or any obligations NA 19.1.6 Option or agreement NA 19.1.7 History of the capital stock 5.2.3 19.2 Memorandum and bylaws 19.2.1 Registration and corporate purpose 6.1 19.2.2 Existing share categories 5.1.1 19.2.3 Provisions affecting a change in control 6.1 / Universal Registration Document 2019 355 Other information Cross-reference tables Information Headings Sections 20 MAJOR CONTRACTS 20.1 Summary of each contract 6.1 21 DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE 21.1 Statement on documents available for consultation 6.1 Cross-reference table on information required in the annual financial report For ease of reading, the cross-reference table below identifies information in this Universal Registration Document that also appears in the annual financial report that listed companies are required to publish under Article L. 451-1-2 of the French Monetary and Financial Code and Article 222-3 of the AMF’s General Regulation. Sections STATEMENT BY THE PERSON RESPONSIBLE FOR THE DOCUMENT 6.5 MANAGEMENT REPORT (FRENCH MONETARY AND FINANCIAL CODE) Analysis of the change in business activity, results and financial position (especially the debt situation) of the parent company and the Group Introductory Chapter ; 1.1.1. ; 1.2.1 ; 6.3 Key financial and, where applicable, non-financial performance Introductory Chapter ; 1.1.1 ; 1.2.1 ; 4.1.2 ; indicators of the parent company and the Group 4.2 (introductory paragraph) ; 4.2.6 ; 4.3 (introductory paragraph) ; 4.3.2.7 ; 4.4. (introductory paragraph) ; Chapter 4, annex 1 Main risks and uncertainties and internal control and risk management procedures 2.1. ; 2.2 ; 2.3 Financial risks associated with the effects of climate change and presentation of measures taken by the parent company and the Group to reduce them (low-carbon strategy) 2.2.1.10 ; 4.3.2 Hedging goals and policy, exposure to price, credit, liquidity and treasury risks and use of financial instruments by the Company and Group 1.1.2.5, note 30 ; 1.2.2.3, note 21 ; 2.2.2 Information on share buy-backs 5.3 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Financial statements 1.2.2 Statutory Auditors’ report on the financial statements 1.2.4 Consolidated financial statements 1.1.2 Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements 1.1.3 Report on corporate governance (see details below) Statutory Auditors’ report on the report on corporate governance 1.2.4 356 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Other information Cross-reference tables Cross-reference table information required in the management report For ease of reading, the cross-reference table below identifies information in this Universal Registration Document that makes up the management report, especially pursuant to Article L. 225.100 of the French Code of commerce. Information Sections Parent company and Group position, business and results by Business Group, Introductory Chapter ; foreseeable changes and material post–balance sheet events 1.1.1. ; 1.2.1 ; 6.3 ; 1.2.2.3, note 2 Analysis of the change in business activity, results and financial position Introductory Chapter, 1.1.1 ; 1.2.1 ; 1.1.2.5 (especially the debt situation) of the Company and the Group notes 26 to 28 and 31 ; 1.2.2.3, notes 17 to 20 Key financial and, where applicable, non-financial performance indicators Introductory Chapter ; 1.1.1 ; 1.2.1 ; 4.1.2 ; 4.2 of the parent company and the Group (introductory paragraph) ; 4.2.6 ; 4.3 (introductory paragraph) ; 4.3.2.7 ; 4.4. (introductory paragraph) ; Chapter4, annex 1 Main risks and uncertainties of the parent company and the Group and internal control and risk management procedures 2.1 ; 2.2 ; 2.3 Objective and policy of hedging transactions for which the parent company and Group’s hedge accounting is used 1.1.2.5, note 30 ; 1.2.2.3, note 21 Parent company and Group exposure to price, credit, liquidity and treasury risks 2.2.2 Use of parent company and Group financial instruments 1.1.2.5, note 29 ; 1.2.2.3, note 21 Financial risks associated with the effects of climate change and presentation of measures taken by the parent company and the Group to reduce them (low-carbon strategy) 2.2.1.10 ; 4.3.2 Research and development activities and existing branches Introductory Chapter ; 1.1.2.5, notes 5.4 and 11 Crossing of thresholds, controlled companies and equity investments 5.1.2 Changes to the Company’s capital stock 5.1.1 ; 5.2.3 Report on employee profit-sharing 5.1.1 Purchases and sales of treasury shares 5.3 Dividends paid out by the Company over the last three fiscal years 5.4.3 Non deductible expenses and costs 1.2.1 Terms of payment 1.2.1 Amount of intra-group loans granted by the Company and Statutory Auditors’ statement NA Company duty of care plan 2.2.3.3 ; 4.1.7 ; 4.4.3 Stock transactions by persons with managerial responsibilities 3.5.2 Board’s choices regarding terms and conditions of retention by corporate officers 3.3.1.2.2.3, 3.3.1.2.3 ; of shares allocated free of charge and/or shares from exercised stock options 3.3.1.4.2 ; 3.3.4.1.3 Table of five-year financial summary 1.2.2.4 Notice of ownership of more than 10% of the capital stock of another joint stock company, disposal of cross-shareholdings NA Calculation methods and results of adjustments of accrual bases of marketable securities and options NA Injunctions or financial penalties handed down by the competition authority NA Report on payments made to governments NA Extra-Financial Performance Declaration (see details below) and independent third-party verifier’s opinion Opinion in 4.5 Seveso information NA Report on corporate governance (see details below) / Universal Registration Document 2019 357 Other information Cross-reference tables Cross-reference table on information contained in the Board of Directors’ report on corporate governance For ease of reading, the cross-reference table below identifies information in this Universal Registration Document that makes up the report on corporate governance, especially pursuant to Article L. 225-37 of the French Code of commerce. Information Sections INFORMATION ON COMPENSATION OF CORPORATE OFFICERS Compensation policy for corporate officers 3.3 Compensation and all benefits in kind paid in respect of the term of office during the fiscal year or allocated in respect of the fiscal year to each corporate officer 3.3.1 ; 3.3.2 Restitution of variable compensation NA Commitments of all types made by the Company during the fiscal year 3.3.1. ; 3.8.4 ; 3.3.4.1.3 Compensation from a company included in the scope of consolidation NA Equity ratio and annual change in compensation over the last five fiscal years 3.3.1.3 Compliance with the compensation policy / Difference and exemptions to the compensation policy implementation procedure 3.3.1 Consideration of the vote of the latest Ordinary General Meeting on the compensation policy 3.3.4 Suspension and reinstatement of Board members’ compensation (diversity) NA INFORMATION ON OTHER ASPECTS OF THE COMPANY’S BOARD AND MANAGEMENT BODIES PRACTICES Corporate office and duties of the corporate officers 3.1.2.2 Agreements signed, directly or through a third party between one of the corporate officers or one of the shareholders owning a fraction of voting rights greater than 10% of a company and another company controlled by the first one under the meaning of Article L. 233-3 of the French Code of commerce with the exception of agreements relating to day-to-day operations and signed under normal terms NA Summary table of currently valid delegations of authority 5.2.1 Modalities of the Executive management 3.1.2.4 Members, conditions for the preparation and organization of the work of the Board of Directors 3.1.3 Balanced representation of men and women on the Board of Directors 3.1.2.5 Limitations to the powers of the Chief Executive Officer 3.1.2.4 ; 3.1.3.3.1 Chapter 3 (introductory Reference to a corporate governance code paragraph) ; 3.4 Procedures for shareholder participation in the General Meeting 6.1 Assessment of current agreements 3.8.2 FACTORS LIKELY TO HAVE AN IMPACT ON A PUBLIC TAKEOVER BID Capital structure 6.1 Bylaw restrictions on the exercise of voting rights and on share transfers or agreement clauses brought to the attention of the Company in accordance with Article L. 233-11 of the French Code of commerce 6.1 Direct or indirect equity investments in the Company’s capital stock 6.1 Owners of any stock with special rights of control 6.1 Control mechanisms stipulated in a potential employee shareholding system NA Agreements between shareholders that, if the Company becomes aware of them, may give rise to 6.1 restrictions on share transfer and the exercise of voting rights Rules on the appointment and replacement of members of the Board of Directors and the amendment of the Company’s bylaws NA Powers of the Board of Directors, especially regarding share issues or buybacks 6.1 Agreements entered into by the Company which are amended or terminated in the event of a change in control of the Company 6.1 Agreements stipulating payments for members of the Board of Directors or employees if they resign or are dismissed without real and serious cause or if their employment is terminated due to a public takeover bid or exchange offer 6.1 358 / Universal Registration Document 2019 Other information Cross-reference tables Cross-reference table on information constituting the Group’s non-financial performance report required by the Article L. 225-102-1 of the French Code of commerce, the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards and the Principles of the Global Compact Topic Policies and Governance Results of operations Chapters GRI Global Compact Business model ■ Three Business Groups to drive ■ NA Introductory profitable growth chapter ■ Achieving sustainable value creation through customer focus and operational excellence ■ An efficient risk management system ■ A value-creating model Corporate Social ■ 6 convictions, the foundation for GRI 102-14 7. Applying the Responsibility Faurecia’s sustainable precautionary approach Strategy development strategy to environmental ■ Quantitative targets challenges ■ Governance 8. Undertaking initiatives ■ CSR roadmap (6 projects) to promote greater ■ Commitment within the major environmental international frameworks (Global responsibility Compact and Sustainable 9. Promoting the Development Goals (SDG), French development and Business Climate Pledge, EcoVadis, diffusion of TCFD application) environmentally friendly ■ Summary of the various levels on technologies which climate challenges are integrated into the Group’s strategy and governance on the basis of the eleven key recommendations made by the TCFD ■ Dialog with stakeholders Methodology to NA Chapter 2 identify CSR Chapter 4. extra-financial 4.1.7 risks and opportunities Main extra Chapter 2 financial risks CSR Chapter 4. 4.1.7 Safety in the ■ Existence of an HSE network at all ■ FR0t CSR Chapter 4. GRI 403-2 workplace levels of the organization ■ FR1t 4.2.1 GRI 403-3 ■ Systematic analysis of accidents ■ Mandatory training in HSE rules ■ Regular audit of all sites and systematic in the event of an alert ■ Ergonomic analysis of all workstations Talents attraction ■ Partnerships with more than 100 ■ Turnover rate of Chapter GRI 202-2 and retention post-secondary institutions managers and CSR 4. GRI 401-1 ■ Integration program directed professionals 4.2.3 GRI 401-2 specifically at new hires ■ Percentage of recently GRI 404-1 ■ Internal mobility policy (including recruited employees in GRI 404-2 abroad) GRI 404-3 the Group ■ Regular review of compensation policy ■ Quantitative indicators through dedicated reporting Social dialog ■ Existence of a European ■ Number of establishment CSR Chapter 4. GRI 102-41 3. Respect for freedom of Committee or company agreements 4.2.4. association and the right ■ Integral part of the duties of the signed during the fiscal to collective bargaining site HR manager year ■ Annual survey of employee satisfaction, including social climate Business ethics ■ Global network of “Compliance ■ Percentage of managers Chapter GRI 102-16 2. Ensuring that their own Officers” and professionals having CSR 4. GRI 102-17 companies are not ■ Employee training & awareness received training on the 4.4.1. GRI 205 complicit in human rights raising Code of Ethics violations. ■ Code of Ethics/internal procedures 10. Acting against all ■ Existence of a whistle-blowing types of corruption, system including extortion and bribery / Universal Registration Document 2019 359 Other information Cross-reference tables Topic Policies and Governance Results of operations Chapters GRI Global Compact Duty of care and ■ “Buy Beyond” sustainable ■ Rate of suppliers whose CSR Chapter 4. GRI 102-16 Concerns the principles 1 responsible purchasing policy CSR performance was 4.1.7 GRI 102-17 to 9 purchasing policy ■ Systematic CSR analysis of new evaluated GRI 308-1 programs of our suppliers ■ Supplier satisfaction CSR Chapter 4. GRI 308-2 ■ Required minimum level score index 4.4.3 GRI 406-1 ■ Quality Audit of our suppliers GRI 407-1 covering all CSR aspects GRI 408-1 ■ Existence of a whistle-blowing GRI 409-1 GRI 412-1 system GRI 412-2 GRI 414-1 GRI 414-2 Product Quality ■ ATF 16949 Certification ■ Customer satisfaction CSR Chapter 4. GRI 416-1 and Safety ■ Existence of a designated Quality index 4.4.2 Control department at all levels of ■ % of sites at risk (based the organization on an internal analysis of ■ Measuring customer satisfaction operational risks)/total ■ Whistle-blowing procedure and sites culture of documentation and conflict resolution (QRCI, etc.) ■ World Quality Day ■ Specialized and independent auditors Environmental ■ Analysis and control of local ■ Percentage of CSR Chapter 4. GRI 307 7. Applying the impact of environmental risks based on ISO 14001-certified 4.3.2 GRI 302-1 precautionary approach production plants ISO 14001 production plants GRI 305-1 to environmental and climate ■ Monthly HSE committees ■ Tons of CO2 equivalent GRI 305-2 challenges change ■ Network of HSE managers at all scopes 1 & 2 GRI 305-7 8. Undertaking initiatives levels including at each Faurecia GRI 306-1 (production)/€m of sales GRI 306-2 to promote greater site ■ Energy use in MWh/€m of GRI 306-3 environmental ■ HSE requirements integrated into sales GRI 306-4 responsibility the Faurecia Excellence System ■ Tons of waste/€m of sales GRI 304-1 9. Promoting the (FES) development and ■ Regular internal and FES audit of diffusion of sites environmentally friendly technologies Principle Comply Given the nature of our activities, we or Explain consider that the following themes: food waste, the fight against food poverty and responsible, fair and sustainable nutrition are not major CSR risks and so do not justify a detailed presentation in this management report. Opportunities Promotion of ■ % of women/total CSR Chapter 4. GRI 405-1 6. Companies are invited diversity managers and skilled 4.2.5 GRI 406-1 to eliminate discrimination professionals in employment and ■ % of women managers occupation and skilled professionals within top management ■ % of non-Europeans within top management Employee ■ Employee engagement CSR Chapter 4. commitment index 4.2.2 Employability ■ Number of hours of CSR Chapter 4. GRI 404-1 training per employee 4.2.2.2 per year Innovation of ■ Scope 3 of GHG CSR Chapter 4. 9. Promoting the products to emissions (including 4.3.3 development and improve air those generated via the diffusion of quality and use of products sold) environmentally friendly reduce the CO2 ■ Number of new patents technologies footprint ■ Launch of the definition of an EcoDesign methodology (simplified product life cycle analysis) 360 / Universal Registration Document 2019
