City West Water Acknowledgement of Country City West Water respectfully acknowledges the Traditional Custodians of the lands and waters upon which we work and operate, the Bunurong, Boon Wurrung, Wurundjeri/ Woiwurrung, and Wadawurrung people of the Kulin Nations. We pay our deepest respects to the Traditional Custodians past, present and emerging. We acknowledge the continued cultural and spiritual connections to the land and water, and we recognise and value their continued knowledge and values in protecting country. We value and continue to strengthen our partnership with the Traditional Custodians and the First Nations Community, and we hope to share our journey together in water management and implementing First Nations values. This document is available as a PDF or Word document on our website: c itywestwater.com.au/publications Annual Report 2020 1 Contents Our Year in Review 2 Our People 33 About Us 4 Who we are 34 Our vision 5 Our People Strategy 35 Key initiatives and projects 2020 7 Health, safety and wellbeing 39 Advancing sustainability 10 Our Business 41 Our Customers 11 Organisational structure 41 Customer service results 11 Governance 43 Putting customers first 12 Members of the Board 43 Trade waste 14 Board committees 45 Social sustainability 14 Financial overview 47 Water consumption 16 Other information 50 Annual reporting of major non-residential water users 17 C  ity West Water Financial Management Total residential water bill 18 Compliance Attestation56 Our Communities 19 Financial Report 57 Sustainable water use 19 Independent Auditor’s Report 136 S ustainable and resilient water and Appendices 140 wastewater service systems 21 Appendix 1. Disclosure Index 140 Sustainable water strategies 24 A  ppendix 2. Disclosure of Information Drought preparedness 24 on Letter of Expectations MRD07 142 Our Environment 26 Appendix 3: The United Nations Global Compact 148 Environmental management 26 Appendix 4: Bulk water entitlement reporting 150 Other statutory obligations 32 2 City West Water Our Year in Review David Middleton Maree Lang Chair Managing Director Message from the Chair and We launched our MyAccount customer portal in May, with 21,000 registrations completed in the first six weeks. Managing Director Online options for change of tenancy applications and notices of acquisition have reduced backlogs and sped City West Water is proud to serve the people, up process times. households, businesses and industries of Since the onset of the coronavirus pandemic, we have Melbourne’s CBD, inner-city and western been mindful of the impact it has and will continue to suburbs, providing them with safe, reliable have on our customers. We have established a hardship and affordable water and sewerage services. team to assist customers and we are increasing our support through additional grants, tailored payment This year, more than ever, we are drawing on the extensions and flexible payment plans for households strengths of our people and our communities. We and businesses. We are also supporting businesses are living in difficult times. Coronavirus (COVID-19) is by increasing the turnaround of payments so that changing the environment we operate in each day and, contractors are paid for their services within a week. in response, we’ve changed the way we work, live and deliver services. Our community We are proud of our people who are stepping up to meet Our vision commits us to always explore the many ways the challenges presented by the pandemic. We know our we can benefit our community and improve liveability customers are feeling these challenges too, and we’re and wellbeing. with them. Resilient, liveable cities, towns and suburbs need Our customers quality public open space the community can enjoy. We continue to partner with other organisations to Our customers are our reason for being and we are incorporate open spaces into community assets through setting a pathway to become a truly customer-driven integrated water and greening initiatives. By joining with business through the implementation of our Customers local councils to fund stormwater harvesting projects First strategy. Our strategy commits us to deliver initiatives we are providing water for irrigating our parklands and consistent with our guiding principles – safe, reliable and recreation reserves, while reducing our reliance on affordable service delivery, by a workforce that is easy to precious drinking water. Our participation in projects such deal with and accessible. as Greening the West, Greening the Pipeline and Living This year, we have taken great steps in improving the Melbourne is helping create a greener, more liveable city experience of our customers, while continuing to offer and region. the lowest average residential water bill in Melbourne. We are also continuing to invest in our community’s Our service offerings have improved significantly with future through significant asset management, including the introduction of estimated call wait times, position in our major capital works program. Our work on the Carlton queue announcements and customer call back capability. Annual Report 2020 3 Water Main Renewal project is nearing completion and is We continued to focus on achieving diversity and delivering excellent community outcomes, such as more inclusion and gender equity across our organisation. trees, bike hoops and drinking fountains. The Lonsdale This year we launched our Accessibility Inclusion Plan, Street sewer upgrade is progressing well and is expected which reinforces our commitment to create an accessible to be completed late 2020. It is the second stage of a workplace, products and services. We continued our four-stage strategy to replace Melbourne CBD’s 120-yearactive involvement in the Pride in Water Network, which old sewer network and cater for the growing inner-city is connecting LGBTIQ+ employees and allies across the population. These projects are essential to continue to industry. supply Melbourne with water and sewerage services, and we continued to safely progress these projects during Our response to the pandemic is aligned with our the coronavirus pandemic. Our capital works program achievement culture, and we have held safety and delivers consistent work across our service area, which wellbeing for our customers and our people at the heart will contribute to economic recovery and employment of our response. We asked our people leaders to establish during and after the pandemic. new operating rhythms within their teams and engage in new ways of working. We encouraged all our people A changing climate and growing city drive us to seek to rise to this challenge. Mobilising around 400 people to efficiencies in water use and alternative sources of water. work from home was a major organisational achievement. To support our community to take positive action, we delivered water efficiency campaigns and community We are very proud and appreciative of the effort we awareness programs, from Make Every Drop Count and see being applied across the business every day by a Target 155 to National Water Week. Our digital metering team of talented people – people who are dedicated to proof of concept trial is continuing to save millions of delivering exceptional services for our customers. We also litres of water while informing us of the potential of digital thank our partners in government and the private sector systems in creating an intelligent water network. who we work with every day. We are proud to continue to safely deliver essential services to our customers even City West Water continues to support the United in the most difficult circumstances. And we are learning, Nations (UN) Global Compact – the world’s largest growing and shifting into a more connected business and corporate sustainability initiative. As a signatory to the more resilient team. Compact, we continued our commitment to embed the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) into We also acknowledge and thank departing Board our operations, with a focus on six priority goals: Clean Directors Elizabeth Parkin and Constantina Dertimanis, Water and Sanitation, Good Health and Wellbeing, and former Managing Director David Ryan. Each have Climate Action, Gender Equality, Sustainable Cities and made a significant contribution to the organisation and Communities, and Partnerships for the Goals. In 2019, to achieving our goals for our people, customers and we launched our own Sustainable Development Goals community. handbook to outline our key initiatives toward sustainable development and identify the measures and targets that will help us get there. David Middleton Maree Lang Our people Chair Managing Director 25 August 2020 25 August 2020 This year we launched our People Strategy. The strategy sets out a plan of action for the next three years to become an organisation where our people thrive, that is prepared for tomorrow, and that actively contributes to In accordance with the Financial Management Act 1994, our community. I am pleased to present City West Water’s Annual Report for the year ending 30 June 2020. Choose Exceptional, our personal leadership development program, continues to guide our efforts to set expectations for our achievement culture. It is now an integral part of employee orientation, setting David Middleton an expectation of achievement from day one. Chair City West Water 4 City West Water About Us City West Water provides water, sewerage, trade waste and recycled water services to residential, commercial and industrial customers across Melbourne’s CBD, inner-city areas and the growing western suburbs. We service approximately 446,000 residential properties, We operate under Statements of Obligations issued 42,000 non-residential properties (including schools, by the Minister for Water under section 4l of the Water councils and industrial, commercial and small businesses), Industry Act 1994. The statements impose obligations and a population of more than one million people. We on us regarding the performance of our functions manage $2 billion of infrastructure across a service area and exercise of powers. We are required to monitor of more than 700km2. compliance with the obligations set out in the statements, report on non-compliance and take In 2019–20, we supplied approximately 103 billion litres remedial action as required. of drinking water, 2.8 billion litres of recycled water and collected 96 billion litres of wastewater. We continued The Essential Services Commission is our economic to support growth in the city, established suburbs and regulator. It approves the prices we charge our customers, western growth corridor through the construction of as well as the standards of service we deliver. We are 105 kilometres of water mains, 106 kilometres of sewer required to submit a five-year Pricing Submission to the and 91 kilometres of recycled water mains. We assisted Essential Services Commission which details outcomes in creating 6,349 greenfield lots and 6,919 brownfield we intend to achieve, as well as proposed prices. The lots, in preparation for future suburbs and communities. commission undertakes a public review of our Pricing Submission in consultation with all stakeholders. Our City West Water is one of 19 water corporations current Pricing Determination took effect from 1 July 2018 established by the State Government of Victoria under and is effective for five years. the Water Act 1989, that provide a range of services to customers and communities across the state, and Our drinking water quality is regulated by the one of three retail water corporations in metropolitan Department of Health and Human Services under the Melbourne. The Minister for Water for the period Safe Drinking Water Act 2003. Our recycled water quality 1 July 2019 to 30 June 2020 was the Hon. Lisa Neville MP. is regulated by the Environment Protection Authority under the Environment Protection Act 1970. The operation of our sewage treatment plant is also regulated by the Environment Protection Authority. Annual Report 2020 5 City West Water 1 service area Hume Key suburbs: Moonee 1 Tullamarine (Hume) Valley 2 2 Caroline Springs (Melton) Brimbank 3 Sunshine (Brimbank) Melton 3 4 4 Footscray (Maribyrnong) Maribyrnong 5 Yar ra 5 CBD (Melbourne) Melbourne 6 Altona (Hobsons Bay) 7 Werribee (Wyndham) Hobson Bay 6 Wyndham 7 Port Phillip Bay Our vision To be an exceptional service provider that puts customers first and benefits the community. Our ambition Our people Customer value is at the heart of all we do. Our ambition is enabled by our people. We are driven to: Our people are: • deliver exceptional services that are affordable, • agile – responsive to customer needs safe and reliable and a changing world • be accessible and easy to deal with • diverse – reflect the community we serve • make all decisions in our customers’ best interests • trusted – make evidence-driven judgements, and with future generations in mind. exercised with integrity. We are passionate about community liveability and wellbeing. We are driven to: • care for, and where possible, to enhance the environment – with an eye to the future and the challenges imposed by a changing climate • be vibrant partners in the life of our community • anticipate community needs and to take the lead We service approximately 446,000 residential within our areas of influence properties, 42,000 non-residential properties and • provide a fair return to our shareholder, the State a population of more than one million people. Government of Victoria, to support it to meet its objectives to improve the lives of all Victorians. 6 City West Water Successful achievement of our ambition is built on six strong foundations Achievement culture Dynamic technology We value people, learn and grow, and drive performance. We leverage technology to enhance service safety, security and reliability. Streamlined delivery Great partnerships We aim to deliver services that are efficient, relevant to We partner with our stakeholders to positively contribute our customers’ needs and represent best value. to the lives of our customers, the communities we serve and our industry. Purposeful leadership Extensive knowledge of the water cycle We are prepared to take the lead – providing insights, We use our knowledge to assist our partners and engage marshalling resources and offering timely solutions.. in purposeful industry leadership. Annual Report 2020 7 Key initiatives and projects 2020 Achievement culture Dynamic technology 400 37 3 million People mobilised to work Our employees come from Almost three million litres of water saved through quick from home, providing a safe 37 countries, with 42 per leak detection and repair in the Digital Metering proof of and supported environment cent speaking a language concept trial other than English • Launched our People Strategy, which provides a three• Conducted the first field trials of our Augmented Reality year plan to becoming an employer of choice. – Remote Assist proof of concept allowing staff to ‘virtually’ attend and assist with commissioning works. • Launched our Accessibility Inclusion Plan 2019–21 to improve access for our people, customers and • Continued the Digital Metering proof of concept trial – communities. saving almost three million litres of water through quick leak detection and repair. • Reflecting the diversity of our community, our employees • Introduced online options for change of tenancy come from 37 countries, with 42 per cent speaking a applications and notices of acquisition, reducing language other than English, well above our 2020 target backlogs and speeding up process times. of 25 per cent. • Introduced integration and automation technology, • Redesigned our employee reward and recognition improving connectivity and enabling digital processes. program to better build workplace engagement, satisfaction and motivation. • Mobilised around 400 people to work from home, providing a safe and supported environment. • Launched H2GROW, our new onboarding and induction program, to provide an exceptional introduction for new employees and improve long-term engagement. • Achieved improved scores in our Culture and Engagement survey, reflecting a more connected and empowered workforce – Culture (79 per cent, up from 71 per cent in June 2019 and above our target of 62 per cent) and Engagement (69 per cent, up from 60 per cent in June 2019 and above our target of 66 per cent). Conducted our first contractor survey, which achieved scores of Culture (80 per cent) and Engagement (89 per cent). 8 City West Water Streamlined delivery Great partnerships 21,000 Online Hub MyAccount customer portal registrations in the Launched to support our delivery partners, sharing first six weeks information and resources • Improved Customer Service Centre response by • Worked with Melbourne Water, South East Water and Yarra providing estimated wait times, position in queue Valley Water on the Make Every Drop Count campaign, announcements and customer call back capability. increasing household action to reduce water use. • Delivered better service response and resolution times • Worked with the community, City of Yarra and City of for sewer works through improvements to service vans. Melbourne to identify community projects as part of • Partnered with Maribyrnong City Council to deliver the Carlton Water Main renewal project. a pilot service offering face-to-face billing, account, • Worked with our delivery partners to continue to residential and business services. deliver essential services in a safe manner during the • Launched the MyAccount customer portal, with pandemic, including a focus on maintaining community 21,000 registrations in the first six weeks. confidence and mental wellbeing. • Supported local businesses through reduced trade • Launched an online hub to support our delivery waste fees and reduced paperwork. partners, sharing information and resources. • Improved the trade waste agreement and consent • Developed our first Social Procurement Strategic Plan and application process through electronic signature partnered with social enterprises including the Asylum capabilities and an enhanced website. Seeker Resource Centre and Outlook Environmental and purchased advertising from the Koori Mail and Wan Place. • Supported major government infrastructure projects, including the Metro Tunnel Project, West Gate Tunnel, Western Roads Upgrade, Level Crossing Removal Project, Melbourne Airport Rail, Nicholson Street Tram Upgrade, Streamlining Hoddle Street, and Australian Rail Track Corporation Inland Rail. Annual Report 2020 9 Purposeful leadership Extensive knowledge of the water cycle 900m 6 217MWh New sewer line under Lonsdale Street Additional stormwater Renewable energy in Melbourne’s CBD harvesting partnership generated from our solar projects progressed across array on the Altona Salt our service area Reduction Plant • Continued to lead in delivering our services with safety • Commissioned the recycled water plant at West as a priority. Worked with delivery partners on critical Werribee to collect, store and deliver recycled water risk reduction and launched safety leadership program and reduce reliance on drinking water supplies. to further develop safe practices across the business. • Continued to deliver on our greenhouse pledge, • Began work to install 900 metres of new sewer line generating 217MWh of renewable energy from our under Lonsdale Street in Melbourne’s CBD and led a roof-mounted solar array on the Altona Salt Reduction community and stakeholder engagement program Plant, and supporting the development of Zero working with the City of Melbourne, State Government, Emissions Water to deliver renewable energy in 2020/21. transport agencies and operators, traders, residents and • Progressed an additional six stormwater harvesting commuters. partnership projects across our service area. • Celebrated First Nations art through a project that • Participated in a partnership to develop a wetlands transforms electrical cabinets into works of art. centre on Laverton Creek to increase community Appointed a First Nations Advisor to work with education and help to preserve the environment. Traditional Owner and Registered Aboriginal parties and the First Nations community. • Partnered with Traditional Elder Trevor Abrahams to learn about traditional ecological knowledge practices. • Participated in the Pride in Water Network, connecting LGBTIQ+ employees and allies across the industry. • General Manager Infrastructure and Delivery, Amanda Smith, was recognised for her achievements as one of Victoria’s Top 50 Public Sector Women for 2019. 10 City West Water Advancing sustainability principles are used to guide actions to meet fundamental responsibilities in the areas of human rights, labour, At City West Water, we recognise the value that water environment and anti-corruption. and sewerage services bring to the health, prosperity and liveability of communities. As custodians of urban The UN SDGs provide a lens through which we can view water resources and infrastructure, we contribute to our operations, to lift our gaze and broaden our reach enhancing the environment within our service area. to tackle important issues facing organisations across We also understand that local action can translate into the globe – issues such as equality, health, justice and far-reaching, global outcomes. education. Because of this, we are a proud signatory to the United Our Sustainable Development Goals handbook, available Nations Global Compact – a network dedicated to on our website, outlines our six focus goals and key advancing sustainable development to realise a world initiatives towards helping create a sustainable future for free from poverty, where communities enjoy peace and our communities. environments prosper. Icons are used throughout this report to indicate where The Global Compact supports organisations to operate our activities are contributing to the SDGs. Appendix 3 responsibly and advance societal goals, such as the lists our commitments and actions in embedding the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Ten 17 goals in our work every day and describes our actions against the 10 Global Compact Principles. Our vision To be an exceptional service provider that puts customers first and benefits the community. Our Our Our Wellbeing environment people community Our business SDGs reported on: Annual Report 2020 11 Our Customers At City West Water, we choose to be an exceptional service provider that adopts a ‘customers first’ approach to everything we do. Being exceptional means we always strive to deliver services that are affordable, safe and reliable; to be accessible and easy to deal with; and to make decisions in our customers’ best interests. 103 billion 2.8 billion 96 billion Litres of drinking water delivered Litres of high-quality recycled Litres of wastewater collected to approximately 446,000 homes water delivered, saving precious for treatment and 42,400 businesses drinking water 1.8 million 7,600 Meter readings completed Trade waste customers served Customer service results speed to answer a customer’s call shortened from 222 seconds in 2018–19 to just 36 seconds in 2019–20, despite In 2019–20, our customer operations centres responded an overall increase in total calls. The percentage of calls to more than 395,000 calls and approximately abandoned by customers declined from 13 per cent in 400,000 emails or customer applications, assisting with 2018–19 to 3.5 per cent in 2019–20. This was achieved enquiries including faults and emergencies, moving while providing high first point of contact resolution. house, setting up payment plans, connecting to our assets, and information on usage and network charges. We also delivered our Voice of the Customer program, implementing a customer feedback post-call program Our Customer Service Centre responded to emails in that asks customers for feedback about their experience. one business day and, in line with our Customers First strategy, we improved telephone responses by providing In March 2020, we enhanced our capability to better customers with estimated wait times, position in queue support customers experiencing financial hardship due to announcements and call back capability. Our average the coronavirus pandemic. We provided special payment 12 City West Water extension capability and established a specialist team Support for customers affected by a data security to support our most vulnerable customers. incident We continued to help customers through In February 2020, City West Water was notified of a thirdimplementation of our financial hardship and family party cyber security incident impacting our customer violence policies. We provide information about these information. The third-party company was engaged to policies in our Customer Charter Summary 2018–2023 given help us understand the type of services our customers to new customers and available on our website. would like from us in the future, in a research project collaboration with several other water utilities. The Our field staff continued to provide essential network information compromised by the incident included services throughout the year to maintain water and approximately 4,000 City West Water customer records wastewater service reliability. In 2019–20, we attended including billing account, account name and address. No to more than 27,300 service requests to repair disrupted financial details, credit card or driver licence information water or sewer services and carried out 5,300 preventative was accessed. As soon as we were notified, we prioritised activities that ensured our assets would continue to a team to investigate the issue, notify authorities and provide appropriate levels of service. support all impacted customers. To improve our responsiveness, we have invested in We take our responsibility to protect our customers’ new sewer first response vans with new technology personal information seriously. Impacted customers and equipment which better supports a quick response were identified and contacted as quickly as possible, and first-time repairs. This helps to ensure we meet our with a dedicated support line established. Following a customer service obligations, resolve customer issues in thorough independent review of this incident, additional a timely manner and keep our costs down. security measures were put in place and we developed Customer satisfaction research communication to help educate our customers how to stay safe online. Following this incident, several Annual customer satisfaction for 2019–20 shows an improvements were initiated. For example, we increase in satisfaction levels amongst our residential heightened awareness on secure data sharing practices, customers, with an overall satisfaction score of 93 per developed secure file sharing systems, audited our cent for 2019–20, up from 87 per cent in 2018–19. The external data sharing practices, and developed an action uplift in satisfaction is due in part to initiatives introduced plan to increase data security. across our business, including the launch of the ‘MyAccount’ customer portal, targeted customer service Putting customers first centre training, interactive voice recognition services, and robotic processes that have reduced our turnaround City West Water exists to provide exceptional water times for several transactions. supply and wastewater services, all day, every day for our customers in their homes, businesses, places and spaces Non-residential customer satisfaction was 82 per cent, – now and for the future. down from 91 per cent in 2018–19, indicating that we have work to do to improve the experience of our nonOur Customers First strategy has been guided by what our residential customers. Initiatives being developed include customers want and value. It commits us to delivering non-residential e-billing and continued support during services that are safe, affordable and reliable, while being the coronavirus pandemic. accessible and easy to deal with. In 2019–20, we independently measured ‘Reputation in Piloting face-to-face services in the community the Community’. The result of 74.8 per cent fell just short Over four weeks in 2019 (23 September to 18 October), of our 75 per cent target; however, it was an improvement we partnered with Maribyrnong City Council to deliver on last year’s result of 73 per cent. Survey scores during a pilot face-to-face service from the council’s customer the coronavirus period (March to June 2020) have service centre in Footscray. Customer service officers averaged almost 80 per cent, showing a strong customer provided billing, account, residential and business endorsement of our response to the situation and the services. The aim was to address the needs of customers assistance measures in place to support our customers who prefer face-to-face interaction, such as those who during this time. speak a language other than English, have limited or no access to digital channels, or have complex enquiries. Annual Report 2020 13 A total of 116 customers engaged with the service with properties and visible locations for days and often enquiries about development plans and bills (72 per cent), months at a time. This work can be complex and has the concessions (8.6 per cent), bill payments (6.9 per cent) and potential to be highly impactful on residents, businesses change of tenancy (six per cent). and commuters. The pilot proved the service was highly valued with: We have designed a new approach to delivery of these works to improve safety and maximise customer value. • 97 per cent of customers scoring City West Water Continuous improvement and adaptability are key 100 per cent in satisfaction rating objectives of the new model, which entails entering • 87 per cent of enquiries resolved first time into partnerships with two delivery partners to deliver • 99 per cent of customers saying they would use the the programs for a minimum term of three years. This service again. approach also supports a consistent works program that delivers employment opportunities from the works in our This pilot acknowledged that our customer needs are service area. We have begun procurement for this new diverse and one size does not fit all in customer service. delivery approach. City West Water will continue to build and leverage partnerships with councils to enhance customer service. Integrated and automated technology Tenancy and ownership applications online Integrated and automated technologies are giving us the capability to evolve into an effective and efficient During the year we introduced online avenues that are digital utility. making change of tenancy and ownership seamless and quick. Since July 2019, real estate agents, aggregators and In 2019–20, we implemented technologies that enable us tenants have been able to submit change of tenancy to interconnect our systems and our partners’ systems in updates online and, since November 2019, solicitors and a flexible, secure and adaptable way. This simplifies data conveyancers have had the option to provide electronic entry, improves data integrity, improves access to data lodgement records for changes of ownership. Customers to support customer service, and gives customers online can now complete an online change of tenancy form options for information and transactions. application which is automatically processed within The technologies enable: 24 hours and most new customers receive a welcome email within 10 minutes of applying. • online self-service options for customers to maintain their details, check bills and make direct debit requests MyAccount launched • customer, place and asset insights, such as our outage Our customer portal, MyAccount, was launched on 13 mapping, which helps customers see current and May 2020 to provide eligible residential customers with a planned outages in their areas self-serve option for a range of transactions. Since then, • real time collection of data and metrics to support more than 21,000 customers have registered and more analytical and evidence-based approaches and than 2,000 digital transactions that otherwise would decision making, and give us information as things have been completed via the phone, email or post, have happen, so we can respond quickly been completed online. MyAccount provides a flexible and user-friendly portal for customers. We continue to • optimised business processes that support a mobile listen to our customers and make improvements to the workforce and direct customer service engagement in MyAccount experience. the field • automation of repetitive tasks, which frees our people New water and sewer network renewals delivery to focus on more complex work and customer facing approach services, for example automating notices of acquisition Our Network Renewals Program supports delivery of our (sale forms) has saved significant data entry time. asset management objectives and our network service These technologies enable us to communicate and share level commitments to customers. The work includes the insights with ourselves, our customers and our partners abandonment, replacement or rehabilitation of existing and provide the flexibility to adapt as needed. water and sewer reticulation mains. The nature of the work frequently requires us to occupy streets, private 14 City West Water New water meter assemblies website. Customers can now securely and efficiently apply for a trade waste agreement or consent online. After consultation with the local plumbing and construction industry, City West Water changed the We also reached out to food business operators who way water meter meters are installed on new residential have been impacted by coronavirus restrictions, advising properties. Under the changes, the installation of tap them that their trade waste agreement fee can be waived upstands and associated plumbing is now managed by for the March to June quarter if they haven’t been trading. builders closer to completion of construction. The new process was designed to reduce theft of brass and copper City West Water is participating in a partnered PhD fittings and meters – a common issue on construction program with RMIT University to examine opportunities sites that results in builders and owners carrying high to reduce trade waste costs to customers and identify reinstatement costs – and to provide customers with higher value uses such as resource recovery and options for locating their front garden taps. The changes energy generation. were applied to both drinking water and recycled water meter assemblies. For properties with recycled water, the Social sustainability changes also helped reduce the already low possibility Community service obligations of cross contamination between drinking water and recycled water supplies. City West Water provided the following community service obligations. To help plumbers and builders understand the changes, a standard meter assembly drawing is provided with an 2019–20 Community 2020 2019 2018 Approval to Connect letter. service obligations $’000 $’000 $’000 Provision of concessions 23,159 22,901 21,252 Trade waste to customers City West Water provides a reliable and affordable Rebates paid to not570 559 403 sewer network that accepts trade waste from business for-profit organisations and industry. under the water and sewerage rebate scheme Our Commercial Customer team helps food businesses minimise the risk of fat blockages in our network by Utility relief grant 562 382 334 tracking grease trap pump out compliance and making scheme sure that businesses that need a grease trap have one. Water concessions 22 10 13 Our Industrial Customer team monitors wastewater and to those on life audits site activities so that the sewer network functions support machines effectively, ensuring our people, assets and environment (haemodialysis) are protected, while enabling recycled water and biosolid reuse opportunities to be realised. During 2019–20, City West Water provided hardship grants to 213 customers, Utility Relief Grant Scheme In 2019–20, our customer base included 5,624 businesses assistance to 1,024 customers and had 24,825 customers that serve food, including takeaway shops, cafes and on instalment plans. restaurants; and 2,221 industrial customers, including food and beverage manufacturers, chemical manufacturers, Concessions to pensioners and cardholders car washes, hospitals and laundries. We recorded just Customers who hold a pension concession card, a over 10,000 grease trap pump outs, a reduction on last Department of Veterans Affairs gold card or a health care year due to coronavirus restrictions impacting on our card are entitled to a 50 per cent concession on water and customers’ ability to trade. Our industrial customers sewerage charges, up to an annual maximum. The 2019–20 continued to be compliant, with less than one per cent maximum was $337.10. If a customer is receiving one service non-compliant in 2019–20. only, they are entitled to a concession of up to half the This year we improved the trade waste agreement and annual maximum. We invoice the Department of Health consent application process for our customers using and Human Services for the value of those concessions. secure electronic agreement capabilities and an enhanced Annual Report 2020 15 Rebates paid to not-for-profit organisations under Improving hardship assistance access the Water and Sewerage Rebate Scheme during pandemic The State Revenue Office defines certain organisations as City West Water has changed its hardship and not-for-profit. Such organisations serve the community vulnerability service model to improve the experience in the fields of education, health or nursing care, religious for customers and to identify vulnerable customers at risk worship, charity, outdoor sporting or recreation activities of falling into financial hardship. Our needs-based case or war veterans’ organisations. These organisations are management approach supports customers through entitled to claim a concession on the service charge challenging circumstances with tailored options. portion of their bills. We invoice the State Revenue Office for the value of those concessions. Using insights gained from the data and analytics team and our understanding of the challenges for vulnerable Utility Relief Grant Scheme customers, a more proactive service has been developed that focuses on customer needs and challenges. For The Utility Relief Grant Scheme assists residential example, advanced analytical work is showing us that the customers and people experiencing family violence, impacts of the coronavirus restrictions are changing the who are unable to pay their electricity, gas and water demographic groups falling into hardship. Householdbills and may be at risk of disconnection of supply due level demographic and transactional data informed to a temporary financial crisis (in the last 12 months). the creation of a machine learning model using cloud Applicants must meet certain criteria to obtain the computing to identify vulnerable customer cohorts and grant, for example: family violence, a decrease in income, drive early interaction. unexpected costs for essential goods and services, cost of shelter being 30 per cent or more of household income We have proactively engaged with all our customers and, more recently, customers who have been impacted through bill inserts, a Melbourne metropolitan-wide by the coronavirus. A customer can apply for the grant print advertisement and additional communication multiple times within a two-year period, for up to a to 86,000 customers via email, outlining the support maximum amount of $650 for each utility. options available during the pandemic. Since May 2020, we proactively contacted high risk customers to Water concessions for people on life support explain available hardship support. We are continuing machines (haemodialysis) to support and communicate with our customers as All residential customers who hold a valid Victorian needed. We have enabled customers to access support concession card and require in-home haemodialysis through convenient online services such as the payment are entitled to a rebate on water usage and sewage extensions application and MyAccount for payment plans disposal charges. The Department of Health and Human and concession applications. Services determines the rebate amount based on the average annual water usage of an in-home haemodialysis machine of 168,000 litres a year. The rebate is in addition to any other pension or concession to which a customer may be entitled. Customers who hold a pension concession card, a Department of Veterans Affairs gold card or a health care card are entitled to the rebate. We invoice the Department of Health and Human Services for the value of those concessions. The number of concessions paid increased from last year. 16 City West Water Water consumption City West Water provides different types of water to customers in our service area. The table below details water use by residential and non-residential customers in 2019–20. 2019–20 2018–19 Total water consumption data Number Volume (ML)12 Number Volume (ML) Residential customers Drinking water 445,754 64,6161 431,574 62,703 Recycled wastewater 9,4422 2753 7,630 212 Recycled stormwater Non-residential customers Drinking water 42,437 38,5044 41,561 42,599 Recycled wastewater 802 2,4675 75 2,527 Recycled stormwater 8 95 7 113 Total customers 6 488,191 473,135 Total drinking water volume 103,120 105,302 Total recycled water volume 2,837 2,852 Total consumption 105,957 108,154 Average annual consumption7 102,875 101,649 Weekly residential drinking water consumption8 1,243 1,206 Non-revenue water Leakage9 4,672 6,743 Firefighting10 553 575 Other11 2,173 2,226 Total non-revenue water 7,398 9,544 Total water all sources 113,355 117,698 2019–20 2018–19 Average residential consumption Litres per person per day (L/pp/day) Average per capita daily residential drinking water consumption 15413 154 Notes: 9. Balance of non-revenue water, known as real losses, which includes bursts, 1. Includes drinking water supplied to customers with recycled meters but not leaks and background losses. connected to the recycled water network. 10. Firefighting is part of a category called Authorised Unbilled Usage which 2. Only includes recycled water customers who are connected and able to includes firefighting, fire service usage, water haulers’ usage, water main receive recycled water. In areas where it is available, recycled water is used flushing and sewer cleaning. for various activities at residential and non-residential customer properties, 11. Other non-revenue water is known as apparent losses which includes including garden watering, car washing, toilet flushing and laundry. unauthorised usage such as theft, misuse, illegal tampering and incorrect 3. Includes 0.43ML of drinking water used in blend or back up to the recycled meter reads. supply system and used in the determination of non-revenue water. 12. ML = million litres 4. Includes potable water supplied to customers with recycled meters but not 13. Disclaimer: This figure is preliminary only and uses an estimate for Q4 (April– connected to the recycled water network June 2020) as actuals were not yet available at the time of printing this report. 5. Includes 18.82ML of drinking water used in blend or backup to the recycled Customers are billed three months in arrears and therefore Q4 customer supply system and used in the determination of non-revenue water. usage is not available until early October. There is significant uncertainty around estimates this year due to substantial but not yet fully quantified 6. Customers that receive recycled wastewater or stormwater also receive changes in non-residential and residential consumption due to changes in drinking water. behaviour and the imposition of restrictions on households and businesses 7. Five-year average annual consumption from 2016 to 2020 reporting periods. during the coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic during most of Q4. 8. Weekly residential water consumption. Annual Report 2020 17 Corporate water consumption This table shows water use at our Footscray Head Office. The decrease in water use for this financial year is largely due to the significant reduction in the number of employees working in the office from March 2020. 2020 2019 Water consumed 1,449kL Water consumed 2,008kL 3.5kL per full time equivalent employee 4.8kL per full time equivalent employee 235 litres per m of office space 2 326 litres per m2 of office space Annual reporting of major non-residential water users Names of major customers and their participation in water efficiency programs The Water Act 1989 requires water corporations to publish the number (by volumetric range) and names of customers who are not farming, irrigators or domestic consumers, using 100ML or more water per year (see the tables below). Farmers, irrigators and domestic users may decline or opt out of the requirement to have their name published. The Water Act 1989 also requires water corporations to indicate if these customers have participated in water efficiency programs. These customers have participated in water efficiency programs: Name of Customer1 AMP Capital Investors Department of Justice and Nufarm Australia Limited Asahi Premium Beverages – Laverton Regulation – Ravenhall Prison Orica Australia Pty Ltd Asahi Premium Beverages – Diamond Valley Pork Pty Ltd Peerless Holdings Pty Ltd Tullamarine Essendon Fields Airport Qenos Pty Ltd2 (Combined all 3 sites) Australian Pacific Airports Corporation GPT Funds Management Limited Seqirus Pty Ltd – Melbourne Airport (Combined 2 sites) Integro Foods Australia Pty Ltd Swancomb Pty Ltd Baybrick Landco Pty Ltd Ixom Operations Pty Ltd The Australian Steel Company Campari Australia Pty Ltd Jeskan Nominees Pty Ltd (Operations) Pty Ltd Carlton & United Breweries Ltd Melbourne & Olympic Parks Trust The Royal Childrens Hospital Choldame Nominees Melbourne Central Pty Ltd Department of Transport CSF Proteins Proprietary Limited Melbourne Health University of Melbourne CSR Building Products Limited Melbourne Water – Brooklyn Victoria Racing Club Limited Department of Health and Human Pumping Station Wadren Pty Ltd & QIC Werribee Pty Ltd Services – VCCC Melbourne Water – Hoppers Western Health Department of Justice – Crossing Pumping Station Port Phillip Prison Wilmar Sugar Pty Ltd Mobil Refining Australia Pty Ltd Zoos Victoria – Melbourne Zoo Mr P G Song Notes: 1. One customer, classified as an irrigator, has elected not to be named in this table. Irrigators may opt out of the requirement to have their name published. 2. Includes recycled water use 18 City West Water Customers by volume range (ML per year) Number of Customers Equal to or greater than 100ML and less than 200ML 27 Equal to or greater than 200ML and less than 300ML 5 Equal to or greater than 300ML and less than 400ML 3 Equal to or greater than 400ML and less than 500ML 1 Equal to or greater than 500ML and less than 750ML 1 Equal to or greater than 750ML and less than 1,000ML 3 Greater than 1,000ML 2 Total number of customers 42 Total residential water bill In 2019–20, City West Water customers had the lowest average residential water bills in Melbourne. We understand that affordability is a key priority for our customers, and we will continue to look for ways to provide exceptional services at the lowest possible prices. 2019–20 Total residential water bill for a City West Water 150kL 200kL customer based on consumption during the year annual usage annual usage Water network charge $231.44 $231.44 Water usage charges $404.52 $555.53 Sewerage network charge $254.32 $254.32 Sewage disposal charge $93.28 $124.37 TOTAL $983.56 $1,165.66 • For the current price determination, which sets out our prices from 1 July 2018 and the process we use to update our prices annually to 30 June 2023, City West Water price changes will be limited to changes in financing costs, inflation, changes in bulk charges, and the cost of any desalination water orders. • The actual change in a customer’s bill will depend on their water usage. In 2019–20, City West Water customers had the lowest average residential water bills in Melbourne. We understand that affordability is a key priority for our customers and we will continue to look for ways to provide exceptional services at the lowest possible prices. SDGs reported on: Annual Report 2020 19 Our Communities Melbourne is Australia’s fastest growing city and Greater Melbourne’s population is expected to grow from five million in 2019 to nine million in 2056. This, along with the effects of a changing environment, is creating greater pressure on our water supplies. This year we continued to explore and implement alternative, sustainable water sources and to inform efficient water use amongst our customers and communities. Sustainable water use Reduction Plant to collect and store excess recycled water during low demand periods for use in summer Water recycling peak demand periods. From July 2017 to March 2020, an operational trial was conducted involving various cycles Stormwater harvesting of injection, storage and recovery of recycled water. Data collection, processing and analysis will determine City West Water continues to co-fund projects to improve the feasibility of the scheme. If viable, the scheme could community health and wellbeing, create green open provide an alternative source of recycled water for spaces, and reduce our reliance on drinking water residents of Werribee and other parts of the Wyndham resources for irrigating parklands and sporting reserves. City Council area. These projects – Woodlands Park, Balmoral Park, Arndell Park, Edinburgh Gardens, Victorian Baseball and Softball West Werribee recycled water scheme expansion Centre and the Melbourne Tennis Centre – are scheduled to be delivered by April 2021. City West Water is exploring the feasibility of expanding its recycled water network to service key customers in the We have invested $4.6 million in stormwater harvesting Werribee Parks Precinct, including Werribee Open Range over the past two years, with project partners including Zoo, and key open spaces in Werribee City Centre. local councils and Melbourne Water contributing $5.1 million. These projects are expected to reduce This $5.4 million expansion project has the potential to demands on drinking water by over 100ML/year, secure a reliable, low salt, fit-for-purpose alternative water improve waterway and wetland health and habitat, source for local customers, substituting over 210ML per minimise flooding and erosion, improve water quality, year of river water extractions with recycled water. and create greener open spaces for the community. Ultimately, the project could return river water to the Amid a changing climate and fast-growing population, environment and increase the volume of recycled water stormwater harvesting is an important part of managing supplied by City West Water by around 477ML per year. ​ our resources for long-term water security. This project supports the long-term resilience of Aquifer storage and recovery trial Victoria’s water system by reducing reliance on river water extractions and the discharge of wastewater City West Water is trialling an Aquifer Storage and to Port Phillip Bay. Recovery Scheme adjacent to the Werribee Salt 20 City West Water West Werribee passive irrigation trial • Step 3: Change behaviour – The percentage of people who have taken some action to reduce the In 2019, we produced a landscape masterplan to amount of water they use increased from 43 per cent transform West Werribee Salt Reduction Plant into a pre-campaign to 52 per cent mid-campaign; above the centre of excellence for integrated water management. KPI target pf 46 per cent. In June 2020, a green infrastructure project was implemented to plant 50 new trees at the site entrance. Planning has begun to build on these results and Ten of those trees are to be watered via agricultural pipe continue the campaign into next year. buried below their root zone to demonstrate ‘passive irrigation’ with stormwater, diverted from the swale drain. Choose Tap The project is an example of ‘passive’ Water Sensitive Choose Tap is a national program that promotes the Urban Design to demonstrate the watering of trees benefits of drinking tap water to improve the health and without pumping or manual irrigation. After project wellbeing of communities and the environment through completion, The University of Melbourne will collect data the reduction of single use plastics. To date, the program to determine the feasibility of this method of irrigation. has served more than 1.5 million litres of water through permanent water refill stations and portable water refill This project was co-funded by Wyndham City Council stations at events – saving around 2.4 million single use and City West Water, and the trees were donated by plastic bottles. Ecodynamics Nursery. Community events and sponsorship Water efficiency and conservation We are an active participant in the local communities Encouraging water efficiency in a drying climate we serve, supporting a diverse calendar of community events, programs and groups. From February 2020, many This year we partnered with Melbourne Water, South East planned events were cancelled due to coronavirus. The Water and Yarra Valley Water on the Make Every Drop following events and programs were supported: Count campaign, which promotes water conservation and mindful water use. • Mobile water fountains – we provided mobile water fountains to 13 events that reached more than Launched in summer 2019, the campaign encourages 147,000 people. These included festivals and events run Melburnians to think about how they use water in the by groups such as Clifton Hill Primary School, Cancer bathroom, laundry, kitchen and outdoors. This supports Council Victoria, Western Bulldogs AFLW, the Japanese the Victorian Government’s Target 155 objective and our Society of Melbourne and Wyndham City Council. commitment to efficient use of water across the community. Target 155 is a water efficiency program encouraging • Community sponsorship – we provided sponsorship Melbourne households to limit water consumption to funds to community organisations hosting events, 155 litres per person per day. including Christmas at the Lake, Africa Day Music Festival, Diwali Festival, North Melbourne Fling Street The Make Every Drop Count campaign exceeded its Festival, Laverton Traders Festival, Japanese Summer key performance indicator (KPI) targets, achieving the Festival, Inflatable Regatta, St Albans Language School, following results: Diversity Week and the Spanish Language Festival. • Step 1: Raise awareness – The percentage of Melburnians • Strategic sponsorship – we provided financial and inwho have heard something about water conservation in kind assistance to seven partner organisations (Wyndham the past 12 months increased from 40 per cent before the City Council, IMG, Victoria University, Footscray campaign to 52 per cent mid-campaign; significantly above Community Arts Centre, AFLW Western Bulldogs, the KPI target of 43 per cent. Western Health and Water Aid) to support initiatives in strategic alignment with our business priorities. • Step 2: Considering changing behaviour – The percentage of people who are willing to adopt water Day at the soccer efficient behaviours in the next 12 months increased from 58 per cent pre-campaign to 64 per cent midFor the past 11 years, we have worked with stakeholders, campaign; above the KPI target of 61 per cent. including Victoria Police, Melbourne Fire Brigade, South East Water and Yarra Valley Water, to deliver a largescale event that supports recently arrived migrants and Annual Report 2020 21 refugees to learn about and engage with government National Water Week poster competition agencies. The event was planned to be held in March 2020; however, it did not proceed this year due to the National Water Week was held from 21–27 October 2019 coronavirus pandemic. In its place we are working closely with the theme ‘It’s time to change the world’. The week with community partners to establish events to support inspires individuals, communities and organisations to recently arrived migrants through other programs. work together to build awareness and understanding around water-related topics and challenges. City West Water awareness programs in schools Water participates in a primary school poster competition. This year we received around 200 posters from students Educational programs with schools help raise across five schools in our service area. understanding and awareness of the water cycle and water efficiency. This year we participated in Sustainable and resilient water and the following activities. wastewater service systems School incursions Carlton Water Main Renewal Our education incursions are delivered to children in early learning, Foundation to Year 8 students, and culturally This project is installing 2.3 kilometres of new water main and linguistically diverse students. Our programs focus along Canning Street and decommissioning an existing on valuing water as a resource, saving water around the main in Nicholson Street. Scheduled to complete in home, and how we manage water and sewage. During September 2020, the project replaces the 140-year-old the year we presented to approximately 2,200 students at pipeline with a larger diameter pipe to ensure safe and 20 schools. In response to the coronavirus restrictions, we secure water supply for Carlton, Carlton North and the created an ‘Education at home’ section on our website inner city for years to come. with downloadable lesson plans and activities. We are Several new initiatives were introduced on this project developing more digital activities and videos to add to to deliver on our strategy to engage with customers the website. and focus on wellbeing. We established a dedicated Kids Teaching Kids on-the-ground engagement advisor who was located at our drop-in Community Project Information Centre, This national program empowers children and young we facilitated a Community Reference Group to share people to drive action on environmental issues. information and consult on community projects, and We have supported the program for more than five we minimised traffic and congestion through the use of years. This year’s theme was ‘Cities, Energy, Waste, project bikes to and from the Centre to the worksite. The Biodiversity – Water’. project is also delivering outcomes to improve liveability through a community project that focuses on urban • Kids Teaching Kids Conference – 53 schools were greening, urban design and access to water. Actions represented at the conference in October 2019. include tree plantings and installation of bike hoops and Students from Year 5 to Year 10 participated in a variety drinking fountains. of activities. City West Water hosted the ‘Water cycle in a jar’ activity with students creating terrariums and As part of a social procurement focus, Jaydo (construction learning about the water cycle. partner) engaged Outlook, a not-for-profit disability • Kids Teaching Kids Week event – more than 350 service provider specialising in waste transfer station schools participated in over 40 events during Kids management, recycled goods stores and environmental Teaching Kids Week (9–13 September 2019). The week services. All material not separated on site is sorted, with provides an opportunity to get involved and share 70–95 per cent of construction materials recovered. By knowledge with other local students. This year we recovering and recycling waste, Outlook reduces waste facilitated the Embodied Water activity at Collingwood to landfill, provides low cost recycled goods to the Children’s Farm, exploring the hidden cost of water in community, and creates employment for their workforce. manufacturing of everyday items. 22 City West Water Lonsdale Street Sewer Upgrade City West Water and Western Water have developed a servicing plan for the area, which allows for sewage from In October 2019, work began to install 900 metres of land east of the proposed Outer Metropolitan Ring Road new sewer line under Lonsdale Street in Melbourne’s to be directed to Melbourne Water’s Western Treatment CBD. The sewer line is being constructed using a tunnel Plant through City West Water’s existing and future boring machine that is being launched and retrieved via sewerage network. shafts to be excavated at three locations along Lonsdale Street. It is stage two of a four-stage strategy to replace City West Water agreed to fast-track delivery of the the 120-year-old sewer network and cater for the growing Mt Atkinson Outlet Sewer from 2026 to June 2021 to inner-city population. service Western Water’s customers. City West Water has led a significant community and West Werribee Pumping Station stakeholder engagement program as part of the planning and delivery of the Lonsdale Street Sewer Upgrade, This station is being upgraded to service the growing which impacts on city residents, businesses, commuters Werribee West sewerage catchment, including up to and visitors. We have worked closely with the City of 60,000 new dwellings, and to relocate the station away Melbourne, State Government, transport agencies from new houses to reduce potential noise, odour and and operators as well as many of the traders and other disruption during maintenance activities. businesses along the project alignment. The project will construct 380 metres of 1200 millimetre The project is expected to be completed late 2020. gravity sewer under the Princes Freeway, and install six maintenance holes and two wet wells. Innovative Mt Atkinson Outlet Sewer construction methods have been developed to connect to Melbourne Water’s Western Trunk Sewer in semi-live The Mt Atkinson Outlet Sewer will provide sewerage conditions. At completion of the project in early 2021, the services into the expanding urban growth area in old pump station will be decommissioned and the site Melbourne’s west, including the Werribee North will be restored to parkland. sewerage catchment. Augmented reality remote assist The project, which began in May 2018, will construct approximately four kilometres of 600-millimetre sewer City West Water used augmented reality technology through six private properties along Derrimut and to safely assist with stormwater site commissioning works Hopkins Roads in Tarneit. at Woodlands Park and Laverton Recreation Reserve in June 2020. Five sections will be constructed using trenchless construction to cross key infrastructure, including a These were the first field trials under the Augmented transmission gas main, transfer water main, Melbourne to Reality – Remote Assist proof of concept. Microsoft Teams Adelaide fibreoptic communications cables and a high was used to cast vision from the staff member on site voltage power transmission easement. using a hands-free wearable headset built for industrial work environments. The technology enabled staff Given the sewer is located in a greenfield area, we liaised working both remotely and at our Altona Treatment Plant with several stakeholders (VicRoads, Victorian Planning to ‘virtually’ attend and assist with commissioning works. Authority, Wyndham City Council, Melton City Council, APA Group, Vocus Group, DELWP, Melbourne Water and Digital metering proof of concept trial Aboriginal Victoria) to obtain land access agreements, planning permits, cultural heritage approvals and other Technologies like digital metering are integral to our regulatory consents and approvals. We also worked with vision to create an intelligent water network. Digital four major developers to design, plan and coordinate metering has the potential to provide greater insights construction of service infrastructure to ensure delivery in on water use across our network, enable leaks to be line with community servicing requirements and ahead identified and repaired quickly, and allow customers of their adjacent development works. to understand and adapt their water use behaviour. The digital metering proof of concept trial began in June 2019 and will be completed in April 2021. Annual Report 2020 23 In 2019–20, work on the trial continued. We: Major government projects • installed 1,393 digital metering devices at the Richmond We supported and facilitated the following important and Docklands trial areas infrastructure projects, while ensuring the protection of • used four different metering device types and three vital water and sewer services for our community and different communications technologies to capture data future generations: • implemented a leak detection and customer • Metro Tunnel Project notification system based on digital metering hourly • West Gate Tunnel data • Western Roads Upgrade • integrated hourly reads for more than 4,500 remote meters in high rise buildings • Level Crossing Removal Project • uplifted our information and communications • Melbourne Airport Rail technology (ICT) system to receive and process data • Nicholson Street Tram Upgrade from multiple sources – almost 150,000 hourly reads • Streamlining Hoddle Street per day • Australian Rail Track Corporation (ARTC) Inland Rail. • collaborated with internal customer experience, customer service and IT departments to simplify the More than $7.8 million of water and sewer asset user experience and prepare the portal to deploy to relocations were commissioned through our trial customers collaboration with major government projects, with many • continued involvement in the Digital Metering Joint others substantially completed and to be commissioned Program with South East Water and Yarra Valley Water in the coming months. • used data from the trial meters to help the business We worked with government departments, project understand the impact on water use due to coronavirus owners and delivery partners to advise on water and • gained significant quantitative and qualitative learnings sewerage assets along project alignments, provide that will inform and guide us beyond the trial. water and sewer connections for temporary works and permanent installations, review design and construction To date, almost three million litres of water have been methodologies, relocate assets to accommodate project saved through timely leak detection and repair. infrastructure, and establish trade waste agreements for safe discharge to sewer from construction activities such Technical forum with local council as tunnelling works. City West Water and Wyndham City Council continued We coordinated efforts across our teams to provide direct to participate in a technical forum program that supports contacts and deliver timely responses. We also worked delivery of projects and services. Representatives from with other utility owners, including councils, Melbourne Project Delivery, Urban Development, Service Delivery, Water, power, gas and telecommunications and road and Service Planning and Customer Experience meet with rail providers, to deliver the best possible outcomes for council representatives quarterly to identify challenges the projects and for customers and communities. In one and opportunities, share works programs and resolve example, we contributed to Melbourne’s coronavirus issues. Outcomes from the technical forum program response by facilitating rapid new water and sewer include developing an improved backfill approach connections to temporary Ambulance Victoria facilities for newly constructed assets, improving capital works in Parkville. planning to avoid excavating newly constructed roads, and establishing an open channel of communications to resolve issues promptly. 24 City West Water Sustainable water strategies • supporting 105 vulnerable customers through the Community Rebates Program to make home plumbing Urban Water Strategy improvements to avoid inefficient water use Our Urban Water Strategy helps prepare our service area • working with Integrated Water Management Forums to for a challenging water future, as we navigate the impacts progress projects, including stormwater harvesting and of climate change and population growth. It outlines the water recycling forecast increase in our service area residential population, • partnering to deliver green infrastructure projects from just over 1.1 million in June 2019 to an estimated 2.3 through Greening the West million by 2066. • developing an infrastructure plan to supply alternative The strategy sets a benchmark for service provision and water to the Arden Macaulay precinct will help us understand, adapt to and provide for growing • continuing work on the joint digital metering project demand for water. It includes our actions to work with our to understand the benefits that could be delivered customers and stakeholders to plan for and manage the through water efficiency, leak detection and informing supply and demand for water over the next 50 years. behaviour change. The Urban Water Strategy also includes our Drought During the year we also commenced a dry conditions Preparedness Plan for the next five years. This sets out program to develop initiatives that allow for a quick our adaptive management framework and the actions we response to changing supply and demand. A Dry will take with our customers and stakeholders to ensure Conditions Taskforce has been established and five focus we can maintain reliable water supply under dry and areas confirmed: residential, non-residential, alternative drought conditions. water, leaks and bursts, and restrictions. Drought preparedness Drought Preparedness Plan and by-law Metropolitan water retailers are required to prepare Developed in accordance with the Guidelines for Assessing Drought Preparedness Plans, which set out actions to the Impact of Climate Change on Water Supplies in Victoria, prepare for, and respond to, periods of water shortage. the Drought Preparedness Plan has been in place since June 2012, with the Permanent Water Use Plan in place Annual Water Outlook since November 2011. Under Permanent Water Use Rules, playing fields and other open spaces can be watered all In accordance with the Drought Preparedness Plan, each year round. The water restrictions schedule (City West year we collaborate with South East Water, Yarra Valley Water Corporation Water Restrictions By-law 001/2012 Water and Melbourne Water to publish Melbourne’s as enacted by the Drought Preparedness Plan) also allows Annual Water Outlook, which sets out our water security for an approved Water Use Plan at all four stages of position and actions over the coming year. restrictions. This is designed to allow watering during water restrictions to maintain open spaces and playing Permanent Water Use Rules are in place for metropolitan fields all year round. Melbourne. For 2019–20, Melbourne is being supplied with 125 billion litres of desalinated water, the largest annual Integrated Water Management volume to date. With these actions, Melbourne’s Water Outlook 2020, released in November 2019, assessed that Through integrated water management (IWM) we Melbourne’s water availability is secure for the coming year. consider all aspects of the water cycle as we plan for the delivery of services to our customers and community. City West Water is progressing several programs and IWM often requires collaborative planning and projects to improve our drought preparedness, including: partnerships with agencies or stakeholders responsible for different parts of the water cycle. Through these • developing schemes to supply recycled water to partnerships, we plan for and manage water and land commercial, industrial and residential customers and resources to maximise their economic, social and for the irrigation of open spaces – supplied more than ecological benefits to the community. 2,800ML of recycled water in 2019–20 • delivering water efficiency awareness campaigns, including Make Every Drop Count and Target 155 Annual Report 2020 25 IWM guides our service planning and plays an important role in meeting the challenges of supplying our rapidly growing population. Water for a Future-Thriving Melbourne Integrated Water Management guides our identifies IWM as an essential component of helping Melbourne become a water sensitive city. service planning playing an important role in meeting the challenges of supplying our rapidly City West Water supports the Department of Environment, Land, Water and Planning (DELWP) to form growing population. and deliver IWM forums and develop place-based IWM plans. The forums bring together water corporations, local government and catchment management authorities to identify opportunities to create shared value through collaborative planning. Of Melbourne’s five IWM forums, we are a key contributor to the Werribee River, Maribyrnong and Yarra River forums. Over the past year, we have sought to improve planning outcomes to provide solutions through the IWM forums and development of IWM plans, including: • partnering with Hobsons Bay City Council and Melbourne Water to create ‘The Precinct 15 IWM Plan’ for a large infill development in Altona North • contributing to development of the Arden Macaulay IWM Plan that explores opportunities for stormwater and recycled water use • working with Hobsons Bay City Council and Maribyrnong City Council to develop stormwater harvesting schemes to leverage works underway as part of the West Gate Tunnel project • developing a Mutual Sewage Transfer Agreement with Western Water to transfer across regional or service area boundaries • working with Melbourne Water, South East Water, Yarra Valley Water and Western Water on the Sewerage Strategy Implementation Plan • collaborating with key stakeholders in the IWM Forums to support Water for Victoria’s recreational values of water. We continue to collaborate with the Melbourne water corporations and DELWP through processes including the Long-Term Water Resource Assessment, Sustainable Water Strategy review and development, and other Water for Victoria initiatives to ensure water supply security for our region. 26 City West Water SDGs reported on: Our Environment City West Water aspires to be an excellent service provider that puts customers first and benefits the community. We are passionate about community liveability and wellbeing. This year we continued our strong focus on streamlined delivery, delivering positive environmental outcomes, benefiting communities and businesses. Environmental management In 2019–20, City West Water continued to focus on: Community liveability and wellbeing Streamlined delivery Positive environmental outcomes Benefitting communities and businesses Climate Resilience Strategy We developed the 12 Month Action Plan: Climate Resilience and Emission Reduction Pledge (July 2020– Our vision is to become a leader in climate mitigation June 2021), which provides a roadmap for how our and adaptation, and respond to the impacts of climate Climate Resilience Strategy and the Emission Reduction change on our services, customers and the broader Pledge work together to address climate change. The community. action plan drives greater integration of climate change Our Climate Resilience Strategy outlines our actions to risk management considerations into our day-to-day achieve this vision. The strategy aligns with our support planning and analysis, ultimately driving progress. of the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals, In line with our climate resilience objectives, this year we: in particular Goal 13: Climate Action, and supports our Emission Reduction Pledge, which commits us to mitigate • developed scopes and technical specifications for climate change through an 80 per cent reduction in solar installations at Altona Treatment Plant, Werribee carbon dioxide equivalents (CO2 -e) by 2025 (relative to a Recycled Water Plant, Ballan Road Tank Site and Little 2011–16 baseline). River Booster Station Annual Report 2020 27 • neared completion of a micro-hydro turbine at the reporting these to our Board Terror Street Pressure Reducing Station, with the • respectfully incorporating First Nations values and installation to be completed early 2020–21 cultural heritage considerations into our work though • collaborated with other water corporations to invest in actions identified in our Reconciliation Action Plan renewable energy through the Zero Emissions Water • responding to the challenges of climate change, such Power Purchasing Agreement as through our involvement in the Zero Emissions • implemented an energy monitoring platform at the Water Power Purchasing Agreement Altona Treatment Plant facility, offering real time view • publicly reporting on our environmental performance of energy consumption, allowing us to locate energy on our website and in our Annual Report. efficiency opportunities • invested in water efficiency through the residential Environmental Management System advertising campaign, Make Every Drop Count, and the Our Environmental Management System provides Dry Conditions Taskforce a framework to identify, monitor and manage • partnered with Greening the West and the Living environmental risks and opportunities in a ‘whole of life’ Melbourne initiative to identify opportunities to approach following the ‘plan, do, check, act’ cycle. increase tree canopy cover across our service area Certification to the ISO 14001:2015 standard was retained • collaborated in the Integrated Water Management for the system in 2020. Our Operational Risk Register is Forums integrated with health and safety and product quality • invested in stormwater harvesting projects in our risks, and is designed to ensure we have effective service region controls in place to manage environmental risks and • entered a collaboration with DELWP, Monash University opportunities, while meeting statutory obligations. and a range of utility service providers on the Net Zero The Environmental Management System is supported Partnership. by business strategies that contribute to the broader We are also collaborating across the industry on climate environmental outcomes through delivery of our resilience projects from the Water Sector Pilot Adaptation Environmental Sustainability Plan. Cultural heritage Action Plan, developed by DELWP under the Climate is intertwined in our Environmental Management Change Act 2017. These projects include impacts of climate System business practices and throughout the year we change on water resources, cost of doing business, and worked with Traditional Owner groups to incorporate sewerage systems. The Water Sector Adaptation Action traditional ecological knowledge into water planning and Plan to be developed by DELWP by October 2020 will management. guide our climate resilience actions. Environment Policy City West Water’s Environment Policy provides guidance on meeting our obligations and strategic objectives to protect the environment in light of the challenges posed by climate change, while driving continual improvement. City West Water is committed to: • maintaining an ISO 14001:2015 certified Environmental Management System to manage its aspects and impacts • aligning the Environmental Sustainability Plan to Our vision is to become a leader in climate our strategic objectives and targets to address mitigation and adaptation, and respond to significant risks and continually improve environmental the impacts of climate change on our services, performance customers and the broader community. • regularly reviewing targets, progress and actions set out in the Environmental Sustainability Plan and 28 City West Water Environmental targets Protecting and caring for the environment is a fundamental part of what we do, and we aim to reduce impacts to the environment as much as possible, particularly from our sewerage services. The following table outlines our environmental performance against targets. Environmental targets Essential Services Commission regulated standards 2020 Actual 2020 Target Interruptions to sewerage services restored within five hours (%) 0.99 0.98 Unaccounted for water (%) 6.7 9.3 Average time to attend sewer spills and blockages (minutes) 24.8 31.0 Other targets Response to sewer spills within 5 hours (%) 100 100 Spills due to pump station equipment failure (no.) 0 0 Non-food waste customers non-compliant with trade waste agreements (%) 1 0.9 ≤ 2.0 Compliance with Environment Protection Authority licence at Altona Treatment plant (%) 862 100 ISO 14001:2015 (Environmental Management) Retained Retain ISO22000:2005 (Sewage Quality) Retained Retain HACCP (Water Quality) Retained Retain Notes: 1. We recorded just over 10,000 grease trap pump outs, a reduction on last year due to coronavirus restrictions impacting on our customers’ ability to trade. The percentage of non-compliant industrial customers is 0.9 per cent. 2. An odour enquiry was received in December 2019. The odour investigation following the enquiry was deemed not reportable. After subsequent investigations, it was verified that the Altona Treatment Plant was the source of the odour. As a licence condition, City West Water is required to immediately notify noncompliances. As immediate notification did not take place City West Water reported two non-compliances, which will be reported in the Annual Performance Statement due in September 2020. Annual Report 2020 29 Greenhouse gas and energy reporting The table below presents our corporate energy performance. Corporate energy performance 2019–201 Tonnes CO2 -e Variance % 2019–20 Result (2019–20) 2019–20 Projected Performance Projected Scope 1 Scope 2 Total vs. 2019–20 Indicator emissions emissions emissions emissions Result Commentary Ballan Road Tanks has seen an Water increase in supply due to higher treatment customer demand attributed to the and supply2 524 612.71 613 14% expansion of growth in the area. Energy consumption at West Werribee Salt Reduction Plant has increased to service the demand at Sewage Ballan Road Tanks. The demand in collection, supply from Ballan Road Tanks has treatment and also increased due to the expansion recycling3 10,046 1,041 10, 664 11,705 14% of growth. There has been a change in accounting methodology whereby City West Water has not included its Transport 478 462 462 -4% contractor fleet emissions. There has been a change in the accounting methodology whereby City West Water has not included its contractor’s electricity emissions for the Brooklyn Depot, which is a base site. Data does not include City West Water’s solid waste emissions as it is considered Scope Other 981 638 -5.4% 3 emissions5. Total 12,029 12,9804 Notes: 1. 2019–20 emissions only include Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, except for Scope 3 emissions from waste. This is to meet the requirements of Ministerial Directions to align reporting with Essential Services Commission indicators which include only Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions. 2. Water treatment and supply includes energy expended from stormwater harvesting schemes. 3. Wastewater treatment volumes are supplied only for sewage treated at City West Water sewage treatment plants. The majority of sewage is conveyed to Melbourne Water’s Western Treatment Plant. Energy expended by City West Water in this conveyance is included in the energy use figure. 4. City West Water purchased 437MW of green energy primarily due to the delay of the Power Purchasing Agreement (PPA) which was predicted to provide 1,642 t CO2 -e of emissions abatement in 2019–20. However, City West Water is on track to deliver significant savings in 2020–21 with the PPA coming online in October 2020 and the construction of several renewable energy generation assets on track for delivery by early 2021. 5. Scope 3 emissions are indirect emissions other than Scope 2 emissions which are generated in the wider economy, occurring because of the activities of a facility. Scope 3 emissions occur from sources that are not controlled or owned by the facility’s business, such as staff travelling to and from work or energy consumed during production and supply of a plastic pipe. 30 City West Water Reducing energy use and emissions projects are Melbourne Tennis Centre (Melbourne & Olympic Park Trust), Balmoral Reserve (Brimbank Council), City West Water is working across various fronts to reduce Woodlands Park (Moonee Valley Council), Edinburgh energy use and emissions, and to increase renewable Gardens (Yarra Council), Arndell Park (Wyndham Council) energy reliance. and the Victorian Baseball and Softball Centre (Hobsons Zero Emissions Water Power Purchasing Agreement Bay Council). The projects will be completed by April 2021 and are expected to reduce reliance on drinking water by We are a joint venture partner in Zero Emissions Water. over 100ML/year. Through this partnership we will purchase power from a large-scale solar project to abate approximately With the completion of these projects we will bring 25 per cent of our total emissions. The project has been our total number of stormwater partnerships to 13. We delayed due to network grid constraints and is due to are looking at further opportunities to collaborate with come online in October 2020. partners on new projects. Solar installations at City West Water facilities Greening the West Preliminary designs have been completed for four new This regional initiative is enriching Melbourne’s west solar installations at Altona Treatment Plant, West Werribee through the development of green spaces. Fifteen Recycled Water Plant, Ballan Road tank site and Little River government and community organisations have funded booster pump. These systems will be constructed in early this project which has planted more than one million trees 2020–21 and will generate over 1,000MWh annually over three years. Last year, Greening the West received the (10 per cent of City West Water’s emissions). Environmental Protection Award at the Victorian Premier’s Sustainability Awards. Greening the West is an alliance of Micro-hydro turbine green space advocates including City West Water and the municipalities of Brimbank, Hobsons Bay, Maribyrnong, A 75kW micro-hydro turbine has been purchased and will Melton, Moonee Valley, Wyndham and Hume. be installed at the Terror Street Pressure Reducing Station. The turbine is expected to generate 270MWh each year Greening the West provides opportunities to partner with (2.7 per cent of City West Water’s emissions). universities, for example, Monash University is researching climate heat mapping, the University of Melbourne is Sub-metering working with us and Melbourne Water on stormwater water sensitive urban design for passive irrigation of street Meters have been installed at our top 15 electricitytrees, and RMIT University is conducting habitat research consuming sites and integrated into Supervisory Central on the Upper Stony Creek project. And Data Acquisition (SCADA) to assist in identifying opportunities for electricity efficiency projects. Greening the Pipeline Electric vehicle This project is transforming a 27-kilometre disused sewer into a multi-recreational green space for the community. In 2019 we purchased an electric vehicle and installed Spanning from Werribee to Brooklyn, and via a veloway a charging station at our Footscray office to capitalise trail as part of the West Gate Tunnel Project, the project on the renewable energy generated by new solar will link communities to Melbourne’s CBD. Project installations. partners are Melbourne Water, Wyndham City Council, Collaborating for the environment VicRoads and Greening the West. Current work includes upgrading the Federation bike path, reducing urban heat Environmental management requires a collaborative by increasing the tree canopy, and incorporating efficient approach that involves organisations and communities. integrated water management for recycled water and City West Water is involved in several partnerships that stormwater harvesting. City West Water co-funds the are delivering excellent outcomes for the environment. project manager position for Greening the Pipeline. Stormwater harvesting partnerships Moonee Ponds Creek Chain of Ponds Since 2018, we have co-invested $4.6 million in projects City West Water joined 14 other organisations, including that will provide stormwater for greener spaces. These local and state governments, community groups, notAnnual Report 2020 31 for-profits, water corporations and universities, to sign The educational session forms part of our Biodiversity a Memorandum of Understanding to commit to this Plan for Action focus area one: Valuing biodiversity – as project for two more years. The project will transform the a cornerstone of healthy ecosystems. Awareness of Moonee Ponds Creek and surrounding areas into an iconic biodiversity value was increased through discussion of waterway providing social and environmental benefits. traditional ecological knowledge practices being used City West Water will host the Project Manager’s position at the Wurdi Youang site in Mt Rothwell (Little River). within the Strategic Projects Team for a two-year term. The site, which has high archaeological and cultural heritage significance, is being ecologically restored Living Melbourne: our urban forest to its natural state through the use of traditional land City West Water is one of 41 organisations, including local management practices. and state governments, water corporations, statutory Collaborative sustainable land management practices agencies and industry bodies, to endorse this strategy to create a greener, more liveable Melbourne. Living City West Water celebrates and protects the cultural Melbourne was developed by Resilient Melbourne and spiritual connections of First Nations people and (auspiced by the City of Melbourne with Greater incorporates these values into water planning and Melbourne councils and partners) and the Nature management. We are working towards more sustainable Conservancy Australia. We have committed $60,000 in land management practices in cooperation with First support of Living Melbourne for the next 12 months. Nations stakeholders by investigating how we can incorporate traditional fire management practices Hobsons Bay wetlands centre (ecological burns) using the five principles of the First A wetlands centre is being developed on Laverton Creek Nations approach to fire: using rotating mosaic to to increase community education and participation in control intensity, allowing plants and animals to survive the preservation of the environment. The centre is being in refuges, timing of the fires to be dependent on the funded through a partnership involving Deakin University, prevailing condition of the land, neighbouring clans to City West Water, Hobsons Bay City Council, Melbourne be advised of all fire activity, and fire events to avoid the Water, DELWP, Parks Victoria and associated community growing season of particular plants. groups. The centre, to be located on the lower Laverton Our First Nations Advisor has undertaken preliminary Creek and adjoin the nearby Ramsar Wetlands, will consultation with Traditional Owner and First Nations support community, conservation and community health Groups with a view to develop engagement protocols and liveability. and strategy and collaborate on biodiversity initiatives to Creating a butterfly habitat integrate traditional ecological practices on sites that we own or manage. Our staff and 130 schoolchildren volunteered to help create a butterfly habitat at Altona Treatment Plant. By planting By incorporating these principles in our land the Gahnia Filum plant (Thatching Grass), we created a management practices and using traditional ecological habitat for the endangered Altona Skipper Butterfly and knowledge in the maintenance of sites, traditional linked into a larger landscape conservation plan to protect bush species will be able to recolonise – a key initiative the species through healthy connected habitats. At the of the Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP) Operational first planting day in July 2019, our staff planted more than Working Group. 700 Gahnia Filum plants. In August 2019, we partnered with Celebrating First Nations art and culture Melbourne Water and Queen of Peace Primary School. One hundred and thirty Year 4 and 5 students participated, City West Water is sharing First Nations art with the helping to plant a further 500 plants. broader community through a project that transforms electrical cabinets into beautiful works of art. Biodiversity and cultural heritage values We engaged local SALT Studio to turn five cabinets into As part of Biodiversity Week in September 2019, we visual stories that share First Nations culture. Three First partnered with Trevor (‘Uncle Reg’) Abrahams, Traditional Nation female artists developed the story concept of the Elder for the Wathaurong Co-Operative and Manager Water Warrior themed around water, land, ceremony, Indigenous Protected Area for ‘Wurdi Youang’, an totems and community. The Water Warrior appears in astronomical stone arrangement in Western Victoria, to different forms on each cabinet depending on which coordinate a lunch and learn session. 32 City West Water story she is telling. As many cultural knowledge keepers improving waterways across our region and improving in tribes were women, it is fitting that the Water Warrior community liveability. Our stormwater harvesting was created by the all-woman team from Salt Studio. projects directly support the Healthy Waterway Strategy by slowing stream flows and improving general water This project raises community awareness of our quality. The harvested water is also used to irrigate our commitment to building cultural values into water local parks and open spaces during summer. Greener care, creates culturally safe and welcoming spaces, and open spaces connecting along our waterways help to starts conversations on the reconciliation journey and motivate the community to engage in regular outdoor engagement with First Nations Communities. activities, such as active exercise, and produce long-term benefits that can lead to the improvement of our mental Other statutory obligations health and general wellbeing. Victorian Biodiversity Strategy State Environment Protection Policy (Waters) In 2018, we launched our Biodiversity Plan for Action, The State Environment Protection Policy (Waters) (SEPP) which aligned with and completed national, state and established under the Environment Protection Act 1970 local government biodiversity plans, strategies and provides a framework that governs how City West Water management initiatives. We remain committed to and other agencies must work together to protect and meeting statutory biodiversity requirements, protecting manage surface water and groundwater in Victoria. The and improving the natural environment for the SEPP guides water quality management to improve community, and working with stakeholders to improve the protection of waterways, bays and coastal waters biodiversity. Implementation of the plan has allowed of Victoria. us to deliver improved environmental outcomes for Melbourne’s west. The Altona Sewage Treatment Plant has a discharge licence from the Environment Protection Authority The Biodiversity Plan for Action aims to: of Victoria. As a licence holder, City West Water is required to submit a statement of annual environmental • value biodiversity – as a cornerstone of healthy performance to the Environment Protection Authority. ecosystems Additionally, flow and water quality data is reported • protect ecosystems – creating and maintaining healthy annually in the National Pollution Inventory and to the connected ecosystems resilient to threats Essential Services Commission. • engage and work with stakeholders – creating City West Water meets the SEPP requirements through connections and collaborating on biodiversity activities including: conservation to achieve landscape level benefits. • complying with Environment Protection Authority Our native vegetation offset site at Ballan Road, Wyndham guidelines on environmental management for Vale, is home to endangered and rare flora and fauna. The managing wastewater recycling site is managed to offset native vegetation removed as part of our construction work. We are now into the eighth • monitoring the discharge of highly treated sewage year of a ten-year timeframe to improve and restore the from the Altona Treatment Plant to ensure protection site before maintaining it in perpetuity. of beneficial uses of the receiving waters in accordance with our EPA licence Victorian Waterway Management Strategy • asset renewal and preventative maintenance programs We continue to work in partnership with Melbourne to minimise seepage and spills of sewage via asset Water, state and local government, water corporations failures, leakage or overflows and the community to provide a flexible framework that • developing, implementing and improving a sewer maximises the use of water sources such as stormwater hydraulic compliance program to progressively bring and recycled water, while balancing use from traditional the sewerage system into compliance with the required catchments and dams. standards for preventing and managing risk from sewer overflows in rain events. Melbourne Water’s Healthy Waterways Strategy encompasses a shared vision and goals in protecting and SDGs reported on: Annual Report 2020 33 Our People We can only achieve our vision to be an exceptional service provider through our people: current and future employees, suppliers, business partners, our contractors and the Board. Our people are our highest priority as they deliver exceptional services and value for our customers and community, today and every day. Total employees Full-time Part-time Fixed term/casual 452 81% 14% 5% Male Female Aged between We also deliver our essential services working with delivery partners in 35-54 maintenance and capital delivery and consider our contractors an extension of our workforce. 54% 46% 62% As at 30 June 2020 34 City West Water Who we are Comparative workforce data The Comparative Workforce Data table provides a snapshot of our employees. Employees have been correctly classified in workforce data collections based on working arrangement and employee level. The table discloses the headcount and full-time staff equivalent (FTE) of all active employees of City West Water, employed at the last full pay period in June of the current reporting period (2020) and in the last full pay period in June of the previous reporting period (2019). Comparative workforce data All Employees Ongoing Fixed Term & Casual Number Full Time Part Time Full Time Part Time (Headcount) FTE (Headcount) (Headcount) FTE (Headcount) (Headcount) FTE June 2020 Gender Men 245 243.7 228 6 232.7 11 0 11.0 Demographic Data Women 207 188.3 137 58 177.9 8 <5 10.5 Age 15-24 <5 <5 <5 0 <5 <5 0 <5 25-34 88 86.9 76 <5 79.3 7 <5 7.6 35-44 153 143.8 121 26 138.6 <5 <5 5.2 45-54 128 122 103 21 118.0 <5 0 <5 55-64 73 69.3 59 12 67.7 <5 <5 <5 65+ 7 6.9 5 <5 5.9 <5 0 <5 Classification Classification Data Executive 7 7 7 7 Senior Managers 33 32.6 29 <5 30.6 <5 <5 Team Leaders 69 68.5 64 <5 66.5 <5 <5 Individual Contributors 343 323.9 265 59 306.4 15 <5 17.5 Total Employees 452 431.9 365 64 410.5 19 <5 21.4 June 2019 Gender Men 238 236.2 229 7 234.2 <5 0 <5 Demographic Data Women 209 186.4 132 71 181.6 <5 <5 <5 Age 15-24 <5 <5 <5 <5 <5 <5 <5 <5 25-34 92 89.8 82 8 87.8 <5 0 <5 35-44 146 134.3 107 36 132.1 <5 <5 <5 45-54 125 118.5 103 21 117.5 <5 0 <5 55-64 75 72 64 11 72 0 0 65+ 5 <5 <5 <5 <5 0 0 Classification Classification Data Executive 7 7 7 7 Senior Managers 36 35.3 31 <5 32.3 <5 <5 Team Leaders 66 64.1 57 8 63.1 <5 <5 Individual Contributors 338 316.2 267 65 312.4 <5 <5 <5 Total Employees 447 422.6 362 75 414.8 8 <5 7.8 Notes: • All figures reflect employment levels during the last full pay period in June of each year. • Women in leadership figure of 45% includes Managing Director level, Executive Leadership Team and Management. • External contractors/consultants are excluded. • From 2020–21, City West Water will include the option of ‘self-described’ when collecting and reporting on workforce gender. • Ongoing employees includes people engaged on an open-ended contract of employment and executives engaged on a standard executive contract who were active in the last full pay period of June. Annual Report 2020 35 Culture and engagement survey • Resilient and future ready – our people will be equipped to manage the challenges that a rapidly In June 2020, we conducted our annual Culture and changing environment brings, through innovative and Engagement survey. This year, with over 90 per cent collaborative ways of working. of our people working from home due to coronavirus restrictions, the survey included questions to gather data This strategy recognises delivery partners and contractors on flexible working and the future of work. For the first as part of our workforce. time, the survey was open to contingent workers (such as contractors and consultants employed by a third party), Examples of actions taken in 2019–20 within these focus who make up around 13 per cent of our workforce and areas are described below. are integral to delivering an exceptional service. Purposefully connected Our Culture score of 79 per cent is an improvement on When we provide a clear connection for our people, 2019 (71 per cent) and exceeds our target of 62 per cent. showing how their roles and efforts benefit people’s lives, This score is considered to be due to people feeling we create a workplace that is rewarding and offers a real valued and trusted, and aligns with the proof points we sense of achievement and satisfaction. reviewed prior to the survey results, which showed that empowerment, trust and connection are paramount for A new approach to induction and engagement our people. H2GROW began this year to deliver a consistent approach Our Engagement score of 69 per cent is an increase of nine to onboarding and induction, to create a great first per cent from 2019 and exceeds our target of 66 per cent. impression and improve longer-term engagement of staff. This result, particularly during these times of change and uncertainty, signals that we are focusing on the right things. Initial activities included: The first contingent worker survey results were Culture • creating a channel for virtual onboarding of new 80 per cent and Engagement 89 per cent. starters during remote working • producing onboarding guidelines for recruiting Our People Strategy managers and buddies to support new employees and manage and monitor the buddy relationship City West Water’s vision is to be an exceptional service provider that puts customers first and benefits the • conducting the first virtual ‘Meet the MD & ELT’ session community. To support that vision, we are developing via a Teams meeting for new employees and implementing key strategies in customer service, • piloting the new manager guidelines with frontline service delivery, finance, climate resilience, health and managers safety, and technology. • conducting quarterly surveys of new employees to This year we launched our People Strategy. The strategy gather data on their onboarding experience sets out a plan of action for the next three years and • hosting a lunch for new employees to provide identifies five areas of focus: opportunities for social connection, networks and support. The first lunch was attended by 12 employees • Purposefully connected – our people will feel and and the feedback received was positive. know that what they do matters. • Inclusive and thriving – our people will feel included, Connecting people to action safe, able to be themselves and be well. During the bushfire crisis we worked with our people and • Driving and valuing performance – our people will delivery partners to support impacted communities. This be recognised and rewarded for their efforts and included organising a fundraising day so staff and delivery performance. partners could support relief initiatives, including a silent • Learning and growing – our people will receive auction of items donated by individuals and our partners ongoing learning and development for their current that raised over $11,000. We also provided regular updates and future roles and will be supported to build a on the water sector’s response to the crisis and made growth mindset. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) available to our people for days of poor air quality. 36 City West Water New online delivery partner portal We unveiled a new online delivery partner portal in May 2020, making it easier for our contracted delivery partners to find the latest information and resources to support their work with us. Through this online hub we provide contractors with regular news updates on government announcements, information to support health and safety, and support resources for working with our community. We also conducted a survey to understand how our contractors thought we were responding to coronavirus, with 95 per cent of respondents confirming they felt supported. Inclusive and thriving Building a diverse, culturally safe and inclusive workplace will support our employees’ health and wellbeing and will create a high performing workforce that thrives. Targets 2020 Target 2020 Actual Our workforce will be gender balanced 50% women 46% women Women in leadership 50% 44% Employees identify as First Nations 2.5% 1% Employees speak a language other than English 25% 42% Employees identify as having caring responsibilities outside of City West Water 35% 59% Employees identify as person with disability 10% 5% Employees identify as LGBTIQ+ 7% 6% Employees utilise flexible work options 35% 93% (working from home in line with coronavirus requirements) We apply the employment principles of the Public Administration Act 2004. Employees are selected and promoted based on ability, knowledge and skills in fair and open competition that ensures equal opportunity. Employees receive fair and equitable treatment without regard to race, colour, sexual preference, age, physical or mental disability, pregnancy, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin. We work to meet our obligations under the Disability Act 2006, the Disability Discrimination Act 1992, the Equal Opportunity Act 1995, and the Charter of Human Rights and Responsibilities Act 2006 with the aim of eliminating barriers for people with a disability from accessing goods, services, facilities and employment. Our people have a right to work in an environment free from harassment, bullying and discrimination. We have policies for the prevention of harassment and bullying. Any behaviour to the contrary will result in disciplinary action up to, and including, dismissal. All employees are trained in equal opportunity and bullying prevention. Employee Support Officers are available to provide information to employees about rights and obligations in this area. Accessibility Inclusion Plan launched In October 2019, we reinforced our commitment to create an accessible workplace, products and services with the launch of our Accessibility Inclusion Plan. The Accessibility Inclusion Plan 2019–21 outlines our approach to improve access for our people, customers and communities through actions that: • ensure our goods, services and facilities are accessible for all • create an inclusive culture that builds confidence, enabling our people with disability or those who care for people with disability to feel supported and thrive, and • contribute to creating inclusive communities through accessibility. Annual Report 2020 37 Gender equity • supported participation in cultural awareness training, with 50 people leaders attending foundation courses City West Water is committed to gender equity and conducted by the Koorie Heritage Trust improving the representation of women in the water industry and other science, technology, engineering and • completed a First Nations Employment and Retention mathematics (STEM) industries. Plan and developed concepts and budgets for First Nations traineeships and scholarships to improve Actions in gender equity in 2019–20 include: pathways to employment • biannual reviews of gender pay equity and quarterly • met with our Traditional Owners three times to reporting on progress towards targets progress engagement and explore involvement in integrated water management projects • celebration of International Women’s Day • delivered a suite of online events for our people • participation in Celebrating Women in STEM during National Reconciliation Week sharing scholarship with Victoria University First Nations values • supporting women in leadership programs, including • delivered a proposal to the Board and Executive Peter Cullen Trust and Women in Leadership Leadership Team to conduct regular meetings with Development representatives from each of the four Traditional Owner • updating policies and procedures to seek gender groups that occupy land across our service area balance, for example committee membership, • explored potential collaborations to support and recruitment and position descriptions, and procurement engage with First Nations businesses • developing policy and procedures to support • completed a Draft First Nations Inclusion Framework, employees and customers facing family violence, underpinned by employment, cultural learning, cultural including adoption of family violence leave. safety and respect and recognition action plans. Supporting transition to retirement We continue to work towards our third RAP and take Our workforce covers multiple generations, with some steps to support reconciliation. Senior management and people starting their career and others considering their staff are committed to our RAP and to ensuring that First path to retirement. We work with consultants to deliver Nations cultural values are included in our planning, our the Changing Gears Program for employees aged 55 employment, our projects and our way of being. years and over. Thirty-eight employees participated in Pride in Water Network workshops held in October 2019 and June 2020, which explored financial, social and physical considerations in The Victorian water industry is providing leadership the lead up to life beyond work. We plan to continue in LGBTIQ+ inclusion and awareness through the this program, adding mentoring and volunteering establishment of the Pride in Water Network, which is components as a value-add to the program participants connecting LGBTIQ+ employees and allies across the and our broader community. industry. First Nations commitment and action The Network is creating a better practice model for LGBTIQ+ inclusion by building a strong culture of Since our Innovate Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP) respect, inclusion and connection, raising awareness of concluded in July 2019, we have been developing our LGBTIQ+ issues through education, sharing resources and Stretch RAP. We continue to build on the commitments experiences, and helping the industry become a leader in we made in our RAP. In 2019–20, we: valuing diverse thought. • recruited for and appointed a First Nations Advisor Pride in Water was launched on ‘Wear it Purple Day’ (30 to work across our organisation and service area with August 2019) with support from all 19 water corporations, Traditional Owner and Registered Aboriginal parties VicWater and DELWP. City West Water is actively involved and the First Nations community and sits on the committee of Pride in Water. • developed cultural engagement protocols and a cultural learning plan to support cultural awareness 38 City West Water Driving and valuing performance Resilient and future ready Our Achievement Culture requires every person to be We need to support our people to adapt to new ways of clear on what they need to deliver and why, and how working and continue to build personal resilience that will they are performing. allow them to bounce back from challenges so that they are better able to face the demands of the future. Our Capability Framework continues to identify the types of behaviour, skills and knowledge to promote New ways of working – response to the coronavirus and develop every employee to drive individual and pandemic organisational success. We continued to embed this framework and it is now part of the entire employee Our response to the pandemic was aligned with our journey. We have recently ensured our systems reflect our achievement culture. We asked our people leaders to framework and accommodate new ways of working. establish new operating rhythms within their teams and engage in new ways of working. We encouraged all our Our reward and recognition program, Bloom, has been people to rise to this challenge. redesigned following input from staff to better build employee engagement, satisfaction and motivation. We Key actions included the following: implemented a new employee communications strategy • Health and wellbeing – virtual mindfulness sessions to share employees’ stories that demonstrate our culture focused on managing the transition from working from in action. home to home life. We provided support in relation to Learning and growing mental health and family violence, as well as physical exercise sessions. As our operating environment continues to change, we • Connecting with employees – we communicated need to prepare our people with the knowledge, skills regularly through various channels (intranet, email, and experiences needed to deliver on current and future people leader sessions and a ‘single source of truth’ objectives. hub). We have developed a Leadership Development roadmap • Enabling work from home – we took a targeted that provides a clear expectation for people at all levels approach to manage system load and support of the organisation. Programs delivered this year included employees able to work at home. Our IT team enterprise-wide self-leadership, frontline leaders, senior provided a secure and stable response that made leader forums and coaching circles, and executive working remotely a good experience, and supported education. staff with hardware and software upgrades, information and training. We took more than 1,500 Choose Exceptional, our personal leadership calls in just over a week to help people get set up and development program, continues to guide our efforts resolve teething issues. to set expectations for our achievement culture. It is an integral part of employee orientation, setting an expectation of achievement from day one. We continue our commitment to delivering technical On 20 April 2020, over 90 per cent of the training, compliance leadership and professional workforce was regularly working from home. development with more than 6,800 hours of formal Business as usual activity has continued during training delivered this year. this time despite the significant change to workforce location. • Equipping people – all employees completed a home safety checklist and we arranged 140 deliveries of 175 office equipment items to employees’ homes to help our people set up an ergonomic workspace. Annual Report 2020 39 • Enhancing entitlements – we provided access to • continuing to integrate health and safety as a core two weeks of special leave for employees impacted deliverable as part of key delivery partner projects by coronavirus, in recognition of the demands on • updating our training needs analysis to enhance employees due to remote learning of schoolchildren. learning where health and safety is a core competency All employees received a one-off $100 allowance to within roles assist with home office set-up expenses. • implementing a health and safety leadership program • Supporting mental health and wellbeing – Mental for the Executive Leadership Team health awareness sessions were held to support our people’s mental health and outline the support • embedding use of The Bridge – our health, safety, resources available. environment, quality and risk system – through updated procedural references and automated forms • Supporting people leaders – we supported leaders through a people leader channel, weekly leader • updating incident management processes covering updates, coaching sessions on leading remote teams, the requirements of City West Water and our delivery and one-on-one check-ins with the People and partners Capability team. • enhancing health and safety management system • Working with our delivery partners – we continued processes for management of critical risks, such as to support essential service delivery through the confined spaces, in line with industry best practice pandemic, including establishing new engagement • aligning with our delivery partners through contractor channels, sharing information and reviewing and forums focused on critical risk reduction and learning adapting risk control measures, and supporting and sharing safety approaches community confidence and mental wellbeing. • redefining our health and safety consultation • Technology training – a dedicated channel and training approach through a review of designated work and ‘drop-in’ sessions are assisting staff with the groups, clarification of the role of the health and safety technology that is critical to our new ways of working. representative, and increased engagement with the Workplace Health and Safety Committee. We were pleased to achieve strong positive results from our annual Culture and Engagement Survey. Responses in We conducted a pulse survey to understand relation to City West Water’s performance on safety issues how we were meeting the challenges were positive with an overall satisfaction rating of 87 per of coronavirus. We achieved 77 per cent cent. The overall response in relation to wellbeing was 83 participation in the survey and results showed per cent. Both ratings were up from the previous year. a resounding positive response, with 94 per cent Delivery partnerships – safety and customer of respondents agreeing that City West Water is experience uplift supporting its employees. We continued to engage with our delivery partners to improve safety and customer outcomes across program delivery. The engagement strategy involved dedicated work with individual delivery partners to Health, safety and wellbeing increase alignment and develop targeted action plans. We organised engagement forums across our broader At City West Water, we foster an environment where delivery partner cohort, starting with the contractors’ everyone is responsible for safety and wellbeing. We are breakfast held in September with a focus on customers. committed to providing healthy and safe workplaces for We also held a renewals delivery partner forum to our employees, contractors, customers, and the wider facilitate conversations between our delivery partners, community who access and interact with us. enabling them to share and learn from each other’s experiences, with a focus on safety. This year we delivered on many initiatives outlined in our Annual Health and Safety Plan 2019–20, including: 40 City West Water Employee health and safety performance 2020 2019 2018 2017 Hazard reports per 100 full-time equivalent employees 3.9 3.0 7.9 7.9 Incident reports per 100 full-time equivalent employees 9.0 6.5 9.0 8.8 Lost time standard claims per 100 full-time equivalent employees 0 0.2 0 0 Average cost per claim (includes non-lost time claims or medical) 1 $22,923 $1,744 $12,533 $101,512 Total recordable injury frequency rate per million hours worked 6.1 7.7 3.6 5.9 1. City West Water experienced increased claims and associated costs over the three-year premium cycle to 2020 2. Workers’ compensation claims costs are incurred over a 2–3 year premium cycle, based on several inputs, such as wages and medical treatment costs from both current and previous claims. Therefore, regardless of zero-time lost claims in the current financial year, claims costs are incurred from the claims experience of previous financial years. The Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR) has ended the year at 6.1, against a target of less than 7.7, with nine (9) TRIFR impacting events incurred during the 2019–20 financial year. Our delivery partners continue to be the primary source of TRIFR impacting events, therefore partnerships will remain a key focus for the Annual Health, Safety and Wellbeing Plan 2020–21. The 2020–21 Plan will leverage the progress made over 2019–20, continuing and deepening our collaborative approach to management of critical risks and high potential events. SDGs reported on: Annual Report 2020 41 Our Business Organisational structure Board of Directors People, Diversity Health, Safety and Executive Strategic Futures Risk Management and Environment Remuneration Committee and Audit Committee Committee Committee Maree Lang Managing Director Nathan Louise Jennifer Amanda Richard Michael Bennett Meadows Rebeiro Smith Smith Wootten A/GM Customer GM People & Chief Information GM Infrastructure GM Strategy & Chief Financial Experience Capability Officer & Delivery Planning Officer See page 42 for details 42 City West Water Customer Experience Infrastructure and Delivery Nathan Bennett Amanda Smith • Customer service • Delivery of new infrastructure to support growth • Customer care • Enabling major government works • Business customer services • Asset reliability program delivery • Strategic business partnerships • Network and facilities operations and maintenance • Infrastructure quality programs • Asset information and operational technology (e.g SCADA) • Drinking water, recycled water and sewage quality management People and Capability Strategy and Planning Louise Meadows Richard Smith • Human resources • Business planning and regulation • Payroll • Strategy and policy • Employee communications • Service planning • Wellbeing • Communications and engagement • Learning and development • Customers first program office • Organisation development and change • Strategic projects • Culture and employee engagement CIO/Information Technology CFO/Corporate Services Jennifer Rebeiro Michael Wootten • IT operations • Secretariat to Board • Digital delivery • Health and safety • Business engagement • Finance • IT governance, assurance and architecture • Quality management systems • Insurance • Environmental • Emergency management • Risk management, compliance and audit, fleet management • Legal services • Contract management • Procurement • Business improvement • Information security and records management Annual Report 2020 43 Governance held various roles at Jacobs (previously CH2M Hill) and is currently Executive Director Water for the Middle East The Hon. Lisa Neville MP was appointed as the Minister Asia Pacific region. He is currently Chair at CH2M Beca for Environment, Climate Change and Water in December Limited, and serves on both CH2M Hill Australia Pty Ltd 2014, then as Minister for Water on 23 May 2016. As and Halcrow Pacific Pty Ltd boards. Mr Middleton has Minister for Water, the Hon. Lisa Neville is responsible extensive international experience in the water industry for urban water, irrigation water, groundwater, water and brings a background and experience in the design corporations and governance, allocation and trading, and construction of water and wastewater infrastructure. permanent water use rules and water restrictions. Committee membership: People, Diversity and The Minister for Water, in consultation with the Treasurer Executive Remuneration Committee; Health, Safety and appoints the directors of City West Water and sets Environment Committee; Ex-officio member of Risk the terms and conditions. Directors are eligible for Management and Audit Committee. reappointment for subsequent terms. The Board is responsible for setting and overseeing the policies, Mary Beth Bauer objectives and strategies of City West Water, and for Director, Deputy Chair ensuring that risk is appropriately managed. BA, FAICD, ACA, CPA (US) The Board met nine times in 2020. It is committed to Ms Bauer was appointed to the Board on 1 October performing its role in accordance with the highest 2015, and appointed as Deputy Chair 1 October 2019. Ms standards of corporate governance. There were four Bauer has over 20 years’ experience as a senior executive, committees of the Board for 2020. The Risk Management advising CEOs and boards across Australia in a diverse and Audit Committee met six times; the Health, Safety range of industries. Ms Bauer has a very strong focus on and Environment Committee met four times; the People, governance and her professional experience includes Diversity and Executive Remuneration Committee met four finance, audit and risk, business strategy development, times; and the Strategic Futures Committee met four times. financial markets, mergers and acquisitions and all aspects of investor and stakeholder relations and strategic The Board approves budgets and significant projects, communications. She also serves on the Fisher Leadership reviews corporate policies and strategies and oversees Board and is Treasurer of University College. progress on key issues affecting the corporation. The Board comprises eight non-executive directors and the Committee membership: People, Diversity and Managing Director. Each director brings specialist skills Executive Remuneration Committee (Chair), Risk to City West Water. All non-executive directors (including Management and Audit Committee. the Chair) are appointed by the Minister for Water. The Bruce Cohen Managing Director is appointed by the Board. The Board Director seeks independent review of its performance on an BComm, LLB (Hons), MComm, PhD (Pub. Pol.) annual basis and reports to the Minister for Water and the Treasurer of Victoria on the outcomes of these reviews. Dr Cohen was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2015. Dr Cohen is the principal at BKE Consulting. During his We operate under the Water Act 1989. The activities of our career he has been a Director at Melbourne Water, Snowy organisation are governed by the Water Act 1989 and the Hydro Ltd and Victorian Energy Networks Corporation, as Statement of Obligations issued by the Minister for Water well as the Chair of VicTrack and the Victorian Commission under Section 41 of the Water Industry Act 1994. for Gambling and Liquor Regulation. He is currently a Director at Austin Health. Members of the Board Committee membership: Risk Management and Audit David Middleton Committee; Strategic Futures Committee (Chair). Chair BEng, MEng, MBA, GAICD Mr Middleton was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2015. Mr Middleton was a Director at Yarra Valley Water from October 2011 to September 2015. Mr Middleton has 44 City West Water Bill Jaboor Committee membership: Health, Safety and Director Environment Committee; People, Diversity and Executive MBA, BA, Grad.Dip Local Government Management, Remuneration Committee; Strategic Futures Committee. Assoc. Dip. Business Studies Tania Fryer Mr Jaboor was appointed to the Board on 1 October Director 2015. Mr Jaboor has over 45 years’ experience working LLB (Hons), BA, MCommrclLaw, GAICD in different roles within local government across Victoria and Queensland. Over the past 20 years he has been Ms Fryer was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2017. CEO at the cities of Brimbank, Hobsons Bay, Greater Experienced in technology, telecommunications and Shepparton and Benalla. He is currently Chair of Victoria law, before becoming a professional company director, Legal Aid, a Member of the Department of Justice Ms Fryer was previously an executive at Telstra and prior and Regulation Independent Review Panel and Board to this was a lawyer at Allens Linklaters. Ms Fryer also Member of Community Chef. serves on the boards of Grey Innovation Group Pty Ltd, Potential(x) Holdings Pty Ltd, .au Domain Administration Committee membership: Health, Safety and Ltd and auDA Foundation Pty Ltd, and the State Environment Committee (Chair); People, Diversity Committee JDRF Australia (Juvenile Diabetes Research and Executive Remuneration Committee. Foundation). Freya Marsden Committee membership: Risk Management and Audit Director Committee; Health, Safety and Environment Committee. BAgResEcon (Hons), MComm., GAICD Christopher Lovell Ms Marsden was appointed to the Board on 1 October Director 2019. Ms Marsden is an experienced commercial and BA, LLM, FAICD government Non-Executive Director (NED). With over 20 prior and existing Chair and NED board and committee Mr Lovell was appointed to the Board on 1 October roles, Ms Marsden has utilised her experience in complex 2017. Mr Lovell was previously a Director of the Barwon organisational environments including in regulated Region Water Corporation and Deputy Chair. Mr sectors. She holds a Master of Commerce and a Bachelor Lovell is the Chair of Holding Redlich Lawyers and of Agriculture and Resource Economics. Ms Marsden has VicForests, a Director of Clemenger Group Limited and multisector finance, risk, audit and assurance experience the Victorian Managed Insurance Authority (VMIA). Mr in driving organisational value and is an Australian Lovell is also chair of the North Melbourne/Parkville Institute of Company Directors Graduate and Graduate of Community Reference Group for Metro Rail and the Mastering the Boardroom. current Independent Chair of Parkville Precinct Reference Group and the CBD Community Reference Group for the Committee membership: Risk Management and Audit Melbourne Metro Tunnel. Committee (Chair); Health, Safety and Environment Committee; Strategic Futures Committee. Committee membership: Health, Safety and Environment Committee, People, Diversity and Executive Sawsan Howard Remuneration Committee, Strategic Futures Committee. Director BAgSc., MEnvSt (Hons)., MBA (Hons)., Juris Doctor (Hons) Maree Lang Managing Director Ms Howard was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2019. MBA (Prof), B. Eng (Hons) (Chem), B.Comm Ms Howard is an Australian lawyer who also holds formal qualifications in agricultural and environmental science Ms Lang was appointed Managing Director in April and business. She brings multi-industry perspectives from 2020 and was appointed Acting Managing Director in financial services, infrastructure, sustainability, energy and November 2019. Prior to this Ms Lang was an executive the primary production sector. She is presently General with City West Water, leading the delivery of water Manager, Brand & Corporate Affairs with AustralianSuper, services to over one million Melbournians across the the nation’s largest superannuation fund. Ms Howard is Melbourne CBD, inner suburbs and the growing western also a non-executive director with the Banksia Foundation region, as well as the delivery of major new assets vital for and a member of the RMIT MBA Advisory Board. growth, urban renewal and government infrastructure. Annual Report 2020 45 She brings a passion to lead culture, safety and business David Ryan transformation in order to deliver exceptional outcomes Managing Director for customers and the communities we service. Ms Lang BEnvSc, MBA, MCorp Env & Sus Mgt, GAICD combines her water sector experience with a diverse and commercial driven background, and her leadership was Mr Ryan was appointed as Managing Director on 14 June also recognised by her inclusion as IPAA Top 50 Women 2016. Mr Ryan has over 17 years’ experience in the water in Public Sector (Victoria) 2018. sector. Mr Ryan is a graduate of the Australian Institute of Company Directors, was a Director of VicWater and is a Committee membership: Health, Safety and past President and past Director of the Institute of Water Environment Committee. Attends all committee Administration. meetings. Committee membership: Health, Safety and Constantina Dertimanis Environment Committee. Attends all committee Director meetings. GradDipIntSt, BA Ceased as Managing Director on 5 November 2019. Ms Dertimanis was appointed to the Board on 28 April 2016. Ms Dertimanis is a public policy and government Board committees relations professional who has extensive experience within federal and state governments and as a senior Strategic Futures Committee advisor to state and federal ministers. Her experience The Strategic Futures Committee assists the Board includes community engagement, policy and advocacy in ensuring the efficient and effective delivery of work in the multicultural, women’s health, domestic services in the growing west, including oversight of the violence and aged and disability space. She has worked development and implementation of City West Water’s on high profile United Nations projects advocating in strategy and plans, stakeholder liaison and customer partnership with global NGOs. Ms Dertimanis is a Trustee engagement. This includes the identification and of the Queen Victoria Women’s Centre Trust where she management of risks as well as the strategic oversight of provides advice to the government on the impact of shared services and corporate alignment activities. issues that affect women in the community. Risk Management and Audit Committee Committee membership: Health, Safety and Environment Committee People; Diversity and Executive The Risk Management and Audit Committee assists Remuneration Committee. the Board of Directors in fulfilling its governance responsibilities by providing financial reports and other Ceased as Director on 30 September 2019. financial information produced by City West Water. In Elizabeth Parkin addition, it provides oversight of, and direction to, City Director, Deputy Chair West Water’s internal control systems, legal and regulatory BBus, F Fin, ANZCA, FINSIA compliance processes, auditing and reporting processes, and risk management systems. All members of the Risk Ms Parkin was appointed to the Board on 1 October 2015. Management and Audit Committee are independent. Ms Parkin has held a number of executive management roles and is currently Group Manager – Business and Organisational Performance at Dairy Australia. She is a Trustee of the Northcote Trust Fund. Previous directorships include Yarra Valley Water, North East Region Water Authority, Port of Melbourne and First Samuel Ltd. Committee membership: Risk Management and Audit Committee (Chair); People, Diversity and Executive Remuneration Committee. Ceased as Director on 30 September 2019. 46 City West Water Health, Safety and Environment Committee People, Diversity and Executive Remuneration Committee The Health, Safety and Environment Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its governance responsibilities in The People, Diversity and Executive Remuneration relation to workplace health and safety and environment Committee is responsible for setting City West Water’s issues. It does this by providing oversight of, and direction policy on executive remuneration and individual to, City West Water’s occupational health and safety remuneration packages for senior executives. The and environment policies and procedures and related committee is also responsible for oversight of City audit and reporting processes. In addition, it ensures West Water’s People Strategy and Diversity Action the continuous improvement of City West Water’s Plan, reviewing the effectiveness of the corporation’s policies and procedures for health and safety and the organisational structure and monitoring the effectiveness environment. of the corporation’s people management activities. Attendance at board and committee meetings Risk Management Health, Safety People, Diversity & Audit & Environment & Executive Committee Committee Remuneration Strategic Futures Board Meeting Meeting Meeting Committee Committee Eligible Attended Eligible Attended Eligible Attended Eligible Attended Eligible Attended David Middleton 9 8 n/a 1 4 4 4 2 n/a n/a Mary Beth Bauer 9 8 6 6 n/a n/a 4 4 n/a n/a Bruce Cohen 9 9 6 6 n/a n/a n/a n/a 4 4 Bill Jaboor 9 9 n/a n/a 4 3 4 4 n/a n/a Freya Marsden 6 6 4 4 4 4 n/a n/a 4 4 Sawsan Howard 6 6 n/a 4 4 3 3 3 4 3 Tania Fryer 9 9 6 6 4 4 n/a n/a n/a n/a Christopher Lovell 9 9 n/a n/a 4 3 4 4 4 4 Maree Lang 5 5 n/a n/a 3 3 n/a n/a n/a n/a Constantina Dertimanis 3 3 n/a n/a n/a n/a 1 0 n/a n/a Elizabeth Parkin 3 3 2 2 n/a n/a 1 1 n/a n/a David Ryan 3 2 n/a n/a 1 1 n/a n/a n/a n/a Notes: • Chair David Middleton is an ex officio member of the Risk Management & Audit Committee and Strategic Futures Committee • Board members are eligible to attend all committee meetings Annual Report 2020 47 Financial overview 2020 highlights Profit Borrowings Full year profit before tax of $116.6 million was Total borrowings, excluding lease liabilities, $13 million (13 per cent) above our budgeted increased by $143.1 million during the year. target of $103.6 million. This was mainly driven The increase in borrowings was primarily for by favourable outcomes on trade waste and the purpose of funding growth-related capital water trading revenues, developer revenues, expenditure in our service area as well as continued miscellaneous fees and charges, labour costs, other investment in our information and communications operating expenses and net interest expenses as technology. Capital expenditure for the year was well as below budget bulk charges. The favourable $153.2 million. result was partly offset by lower than budget water usage revenues and gifted assets, higher responsive maintenance costs, depreciation, and abnormal expenses. Revenue Dividend Revenue increased by $52.3 million in 2020 During 2020 City West Water made total dividend compared to 2019. This was mainly driven by higher payments of $75.8 million and paid income usage and service charges, developer contributions tax equivalent of $28.6 million to the Victorian and miscellaneous fees and charges. Government. Equity Gearing Return on equity was 10.9 per cent Gearing, as measured by total debt / total assets, (2019 7.5 per cent) while cash interest cover increased to 57.5 per cent (2019 50.5 per cent). was 2.6 times (2019 3.0 times). 48 City West Water Summary of financial results 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 $m $m $m $m $m Revenue from customers 757.0 704.8 697.9 684.0 669.6 Other income 0.6 0.5 0.4 0.5 0.5 Total revenue 757.6 705.3 698.3 684.5 670.1 Bulk charges 364.7 349.2 341.6 337.0 355.1 Environmental Contribution 26.5 26.5 18.6 18.6 18.6 Employee benefits 42.4 41.9 45.1 42.5 40.4 Depreciation and amortisation 65.5 52.5 50.9 47.9 47.3 Finance expenses 68.8 66.4 64.9 63.5 63.3 Other operating expenses 73.3 73.1 64.5 64.8 79.6 Total expenses 641.0 609.6 585.5 574.2 604.4 Profit before tax 116.6 95.7 112.8 110.3 65.7 Summary of financial position 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 $m $m $m $m $m Current assets 116.7 111.5 114.9 119.9 113.5 Non-current assets 2,474.2 2,362.6 2,255.2 2,163.3 2,050.3 Total assets 2,590.8 2,474.1 2,370.1 2,283.2 2,163.8 Current liabilities 164.8 168.2 145.6 101.3 105.7 Non-current liabilities 1,641.9 1,455.1 1,388.2 1,342.1 1,315.4 Total liabilities 1,806.7 1,623.3 1,533.7 1,443.4 1,421.1 Net assets* 784.1 850.8 836.3 839.8 742.7 Net cash flows from operating activities 88.5 88.1 92.0 73.9 64.4 Payments for infrastructure, property, plant and equipment 155.0 126.6 101.8 83.4 82.9 *Net assets have been impacted by the asset revaluation adjustment (tax effected) of $90m. Annual Report 2020 49 Summary of capital expenditure 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 $m $m $m $m $m Total capital expenditure 153.2 124.3 109.8 90.6 88.3 Significant capex projects for 2020 include Lonsdale St Sewer Renewal $10.5 million, M205 Carlton Water Main Renewal $7.1 million, SPS44 Sewer Pump Station Upgrade $6.1 million, Greek Hill Potable Water Connection $2.9 million, and the Mt. Atkinson Outlet Sewer $2.4 million. Summary of financial performance 2020 2019 2018 2017 2016 Cash interest cover (times) 2.6 3.0 3.1 2.6 2.3 Gearing Ratio (%) 57.5 50.5 49.8 48.3 50.4 Internal financing ratio (%) 8.2 44.9 18.2 73.0 57.9 Current ratio (times) 0.8 0.9 0.8 1.3 1.2 Return on assets (%) 7.3 6.7 7.6 7.8 6.0 Return on equity (%) 10.9 7.5 9.4 9.3 5.9 EBITDA margin % 33.1 30.4 32.7 32.4 26.4 Information and Communications Technology (ICT) expenditure All operational ICT expenditure related to projects ICT expenditure to create or enhance ICT capabilities Non BAU ICT Business as expenditure usual (BAU) ICT (operating Operational Capital Total ICT expenditure and capital) expenditure expenditure expenditure Year $m $m $m $m $m 2020 13.7 17.9 0.0 17.9 31.6 2019 15.8 14.9 0.0 14.9 30.7 2018 15.8 14.9 0.0 14.9 30.7 2017 14.2 9.8 0.0 9.8 24.0 2016 16.7 9.8 0.0 9.8 26.5 2015 14.3 13.3 0.0 13.3 27.6 ICT expenditure refers to City West Water’s costs in providing business-enabling ICT services. It comprises Business as Usual (BAU) ICT expenditure, Non-Business as Usual (Non BAU) ICT expenditure and Operational Technology. Non-BAU ICT expenditure relates to extending or enhancing City West Water’s current ICT capabilities. Examples of projects worked on during 2020 include purchase of both hardware and software to enable transition to Office 365, cyber security uplift, improvements to customer experience, strategic integration and automation, and an electronic document and record management system implementation. BAU ICT expenditure is all remaining ICT expenditure which primarily relates to ongoing activities to operate and maintain current ICT capability. Examples of this include licence fees, external support, maintenance costs, and help desk services. 50 City West Water Matters subsequent to end of financial year Other information COVID-19 continues to change the landscape in which Social and sustainable procurement organisations operate. Since 30 June 2020, a number of major developments related to COVID-19 have taken In 2019–20, we prioritised the following Social place, including implementation of Stage 4 restrictions, Procurement Framework objectives, which align with City the extension of State of Emergency provisions, the West Water’s strategic direction and values: State of Disaster declaration, increases in community transmission, business closures, and the extension of • Social Procurement Objectives: JobKeeper and JobSeeker wage subsidies at lower rates. opportunities for Victorian First Nations people Management is of the view that the impacts of COVID-19 women’s equality and safety. have been adequately accounted for in the Financial Statements. • Sustainable Procurement Objectives: environmentally sustainable business outputs No other matter or circumstance has arisen since 30 June 2020 which has significantly affected, or implementation of the Climate Change Policy may significantly affect: objectives. • the corporation’s operations; We undertook capability and awareness activities to support our first Social Procurement Strategic Plan. • the results of those operations; and/or To improve capability, we appointed an executive • the corporation’s state of affairs in the financial year sponsor for social procurement, established a subsequent to 30 June 2020. Procurement Advisory Committee and reviewed key procurement policy and procedures to incorporate our Consultancies social procurement obligations and objectives. To raise During 2020, City West Water engaged no consultants on awareness, we developed and distributed procurement various engagements where the total fee payable to the communications to staff, and briefed business groups consultant was less than $10,000 (GST exclusive). and suppliers. During 2020, City West Water engaged 17 consultants Social and sustainable procurement highlights for the on various consultancies where the total fees payable to year included: the consultant were $10,000 or greater (GST exclusive). • engaging the Asylum Seeker Resource Centre (ASRC) The total expenditure during 2020 in relation to Catering these consultancies was $1,081,345 (GST exclusive). Details of individual consultancies can be viewed at • purchasing advertising space in Koori Mail, an citywestwater.com.au. indigenous newspaper, and on Wan Place, an online Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander employment These consultancies include arrangements where an service individual or organisation is engaged to provide expert • supporting a partnership between Jaydo, one of analysis to facilitate decision making and perform a our contractors, and Outlook Environmental, a social specific one-off task that involves skills or perspective enterprise provider, to provide waste management which would not normally be expected to reside within services to the Canning St water main project City West Water. • completing preliminary designs for four new solar Consulting engagements throughout 2020 included installations various strategy reviews, sewer asset optimisation and • installing sub-metering at our top 15 electricitytechnical advice and guidance. consuming sites City West Water engages a number of individuals and • purchasing an electric vehicle and installing a charging organisations to provide works or services on behalf of station at our Footscray office. the corporation. These contract services are not considered to be consultants and are not included in the above numbers. Annual Report 2020 51 Freedom of Information Request No. The Freedom of Information Act 1982 allows the public a Access in full 6 right of access to documents held by City West Water. Access in part 35 The purpose of the Act is to extend as far as possible the right of the community to access information held by Access denied 0 government departments, local councils, members of Other – invalid 8 Parliament and other bodies subject to the Act. Other – transferred 1 City West Water is subject to the Freedom of Information Other – withdrawn 3 Act 1982. An applicant has a right to apply for access to Other – outside the Act 1 documents held by City West Water. Other – no documents 4 The documents sought by an applicant may be created Not finalised 8 by City West Water or supplied to City West Water by an external organisation or individual, and could include Total 66 maps, films, microfiche, photographs, computer printouts, Of these 66 requests: computer discs, tape recordings and videotapes. Information about the type of material produced by City • 13 were from law firms West Water is available at citywestwater.com.au • nine were from insurance companies The Act allows City West Water to refuse access, either • the remainder were from the general public. fully or partially, to certain documents or information. Examples of documents that may not be accessed include: internal working documents, law enforcement documents, documents covered by legal professional privilege (such as legal advice), personal information about other people, and information provided to City West Water in confidence. The Act stipulates that agencies such as City West Water have 30 days to process FOI requests, and that in some instances this time may be extended. If an applicant is not satisfied by a decision made by City West Water, under section 49A of the Freedom of Information Act 1982 they have the right to seek a review by the Office of the Victorian Information Commissioner (OVIC) within 28 days of receiving a decision letter. During 2019-20, City West Water received 66 requests for access to documents under the Act. 52 City West Water City West Water made 53 FOI decisions during the Compliance with Building Act 1993 12 months ended 30 June 2020: City West Water owns or controls: • 22 decisions were made within the statutory 30-day time period • four buildings at 293 Queen St, Altona Meadows • 11 decisions were made within an extended statutory • two buildings at William Thwaites Drive, West Werribee 30 to 45 day time period • one building at 218 Kensington Road, West Melbourne • 20 decisions were made within 46 to 90 days. These • one building at 73 Old Geelong Road, Brooklyn. were also within the prescribed timeframes as clarification, payment of a deposit and/or consultation Consequently, City West Water is required to include with third parties was required. a statement on its compliance with the building and maintenance provisions of the Building Act 1993 in relation The average time taken to finalise requests in 2019–20 to these buildings. was 38.45 days. One request was subject to a complaint made to OVIC, which was dismissed following a To achieve this in 2020: preliminary investigation. • our buildings were inspected by a competent inspector FOI requests can be lodged online via the City West • occupancy permits were issued Water website at: • assets were maintained under the required standards c itywestwater.com.au/FOI and codes • an asset management system was used to maintain the An application fee of $29.60 applies. Access charges assets. comprising search charges and photocopying charges may also be payable. City West Water requires that appropriately qualified consultants and contractors are engaged for all proposed From 1 July 2020 works on land controlled by City West Water and that their work and services comply with current building Application fee $29.60 standards. All such consultants and contractors are Search charge $22.20 per hour expected to have appropriate mechanisms in place to Photocopying $0.20 per A4 page ensure compliance with the building and maintenance provisions of the Building Act 1993, Building Regulations Access to documents can also be sought through a 2018 and the National Construction Code. written request to City West Water’s FOI Officer, as detailed in s17 of the Freedom of Information Act 1982. In relation to our existing buildings in Altona Meadows and West Werribee, City West Water facility management When making an FOI request, applicants should ensure is responsible for: requests are in writing, and clearly identify what types of materials and/or documents are being sought. Requests • mandatory testing of emergency and exit lighting and for documents in the possession of City West Water lift equipment in accordance with relevant standards should be addressed to: • monthly, quarterly and bi-annual inspection and preventive maintenance Freedom of Information Officer City West Water • routine mechanical services and monthly and annual Locked Bag 350 fire service audits. Sunshine Vic 3020 Programmed Facility Management is responsible for the For further information about FOI, refer to the Freedom same works at the buildings at West Melbourne and of Information Act 1982 and regulations or go to the Brooklyn as they run the day-to-day operations at these government’s website at: sites. o vic.vic.gov.au The testing and inspections at these sites inform the works program which is delivered annually through existing maintenance contracts. Annual Report 2020 53 In 2019–20: City West Water or any of its employees and/or officers may be made directly to the Independent Broad-based Number of major works projects • 0 major projects Anti-corruption Commission. undertaken by City West Water (greater than $50,000) Independent Broad-based Anti-Corruption Commission (IBAC) Victoria Number of building permits, • 0 building permits Level 1, North Tower, 459 Collins Street occupancy permits or certificate • 8 occupancy permits Melbourne VIC 3000 of final inspection issued in relation to buildings owned by • 8 certificates of Phone: 1300 735 135 City West Water occupancy Internet: ibac.vic.gov.au Number of emergency orders • 0 emergency orders Email: check the IBAC website for the secure email and building orders issued in disclosure process, which also provides for anonymous • 0 building orders relation to buildings disclosures. Number of buildings that have • 0 buildings brought Competitive Neutrality Policy Victoria been brought into conformity into conformity with building standards during Competitive neutrality requires government businesses to the reporting period ensure where services compete, or potentially compete, with the private sector, any advantage arising solely from Compliance with the Public Interest Disclosures their government ownership be removed if it is not in Act 2012 the public interest. Government businesses are required to cost and price these services as if they were privately The Public Interest Disclosures Act 2012 encourages and owned. Competitive neutrality policy supports fair assists people in making disclosures of corrupt or competition between public and private businesses and improper conduct or detrimental action by a public provides government businesses with a tool to enhance officer or a public body. decisions on resource allocation. This policy does not The Act provides protection to people who make override other policy objectives of government and disclosures in accordance with the Act and establishes a focuses on efficiency in the provision of service. system for the matters disclosed to be investigated and City West Water has an independent Board of Directors rectification action to be taken. with independent and objective performance City West Water does not tolerate improper conduct by monitoring. City West Water pays income tax equivalent its employees, officers or members, nor the taking of and dividends to the Victorian Government, and pays reprisals against those who come forward to disclose a Financial Accommodation Levy to the Victorian such conduct. City West Water recognises the value of Government for its borrowings through Treasury transparency and accountability in its administrative and Corporation of Victoria. management practices, and supports the making of City West Water operates in an environment where the disclosures that reveal corrupt conduct, conduct involving Essential Services Commission regulates pricing and a substantial mismanagement of public resources or service standards. In 2017, City West Water lodged a Price conduct involving a substantial risk to public health and Submission to the Commission to enable it to make a safety or the environment. five-year Pricing Determination. The Commission made City West Water will take all reasonable steps to protect a final determination on prices in June 2018. These prices people who make such disclosures from any detrimental took effect from 1 July 2018. action in reprisal for making the disclosure. We will also City West Water’s processes continue to be consistent afford natural justice to the person who is the subject with the requirements of the Competitive Neutrality of the disclosure. Our Public Interest Disclosures Act 2012 Policy Victoria statement. Guidelines and Procedures are available on our website. City West Water is not able to receive disclosures under section 13 of the Public Interest Disclosures Act 2012. Disclosure of improper conduct or detrimental action by 54 City West Water Local Jobs First Policy Disclosure of major contracts The Local Jobs First Act 2003 enshrines the Victorian In 2019–20, City West Water entered into one major Industry Participation Policy (VIPP) and Major Projects contract with a value of over $10 million. The relevant Skills Guarantee (MPSG) requirements in legislation as contract is for Design and Construction of the Melbourne the Local Jobs First Policy. The Local Jobs First Policy CBD Sewer Augmentation Strategy Stage 2a – Lonsdale is mandatory and must be applied by all Victorian St. The contract was awarded to Rob Carr Pty. Ltd. government departments and agencies. The policy mandates that: Details about this contract are available at: • small and medium sized enterprises are given a full and citywestwater.com.au fair opportunity to compete for government contracts Government advertising expenditure • 10 per cent of total hours worked on government projects must go to our future workforce – apprentices, City West Water spent $374,857 on advertising for trainees and cadets. the Make Every Drop Count campaign (1 December 2019–30 March 2020) and $140,142 on other elements to Local Jobs First sets minimum requirements for local support the campaign, including research, website and content and the use of apprentices, trainees and cadets advertising materials. The total campaign spend was in all procurement activities valued at $3 million or more $515,000. in metropolitan Melbourne and statewide projects, and $1 million or more for procurement activities in regional Financial Management Act 1994 Victoria. Agencies can voluntarily apply the policy to Other information as required under the Financial projects valued at less than $3 million. Management Act 1994, but not specifically referred to, has During 2019–20, City West Water commenced three been retained by the Accountable Officer and is available contracts totalling $17,534,229 for which Local Industry on request by the Minister for Finance, Members of Development Plans (LIDPs) plans were required: Parliament, and the general public. • Design and Construct – CBD Sewer Augmentation Other information available on request Stage 2A – Lonsdale Street – $12,483,624 In compliance with the requirements of the Standing • Construction of Mt Atkinson Outlet Sewer – $4,450,605 Directions of the Assistant Treasurer, details in respect • West Werribee Sewer Pump Station – Construction of the items listed below have been retained by City Phase Services – $600,000 West Water and are available on request, subject to the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act 1982: These jobs occurred in metropolitan Melbourne, and 97.71 per cent of the goods and services employed for • a statement that declarations of pecuniary interests these projects were supplied, produced or carried out by have been duly completed by all relevant officers local industry. • details of shares held by a senior officer as nominee or held beneficially in a statutory authority or subsidiary The total LIDPs commitments achieved as a result of contracts commenced include: • details of publications produced by City West Water about itself and how these can be obtained • local content of 98 per cent of the total value of the • details of changes in prices, fees, charges, rates and contracts levies charged by City West Water • a total of 14 retained jobs (Annualised Employee • details of any major external reviews carried out on City Equivalent (AEE)) were committed West Water • one new and three retained apprenticeships/ • details of major research and development activities traineeships. undertaken by City West Water • details of overseas visits undertaken including a summary of the objectives and outcomes of each visit Annual Report 2020 55 • details of major promotional, public relations and marketing activities undertaken by City West Water to develop community awareness of City West Water and its services • details of assessments and measures undertaken to improve the occupational health and safety of employees • a general statement on industrial relations within the corporation and details of time lost through industrial accidents and disputes • a list of major committees sponsored by City West Water, the purpose of each committee, and the extent to which that purpose has been achieved, and • details of all consultancies and contractors including: consultants and contractors engaged services provided, and expenditure committed to for each engagement. Requests for documents in the possession of City West Water should be addressed to: Freedom of Information Officer City West Water Locked Bag 350 Sunshine VIC 3020 56 City West Water City West Water Financial Management Compliance Attestation I, David Middleton, on behalf of City West Water Corporation, certify that City West Water Corporation has no Material Compliance Deficiency with respect to the applicable Standing Directions under the Financial Management Act 1994 and Instructions. David Middleton Chair Melbourne 25 August 2020 Annual Report 2020 57 Financial Report Contents 5. Assets available to support the provision of services  89 Performance Report 58 5.1 Infrastructure, property, plant and equipment 90 Certification of Performance Report 61 5.2 Depreciation of infrastructure, property, plant and equipment93 Comprehensive Operating Statement 64 5.3 Impairment of infrastructure, property, Balance Sheet 65 plant and equipment93 5.4 Commitments for capital expenditure on Statement of Changes in Equity 66 infrastructure, property, plant and equipment 94 Statement of Cash Flows 67 5.5 Intangible assets 94 5.6 Amortisation of intangible assets  95 1 About this report 68 5.7 Impairment of intangible assets 96 1.1 Basis of preparation 68 5.8 Commitments for capital expenditure 1.2 Accounting policies 69 on intangible assets 96 1.3 Changes in accounting policies 69 5.9 Right-of-use assets 96 1.4 Compliance information 70 6. Other assets and liabilities 99 2 Funding delivery of services 71 6.1 Receivables 99 2.1 Summary of revenue from customers 71 6.2 Payables 101 2.2 Sales of goods and services 71 6.3 Advances and deposits 102 2.3 Developer contributions 72 6.4 Contract liabilities 102 2.4 Other revenue 73 6.5 Inventory 102 2.5 Timing of recognition of revenue from customers 73 6.6 Other non-financial assets 103 2.6 Other income 74 6.7 Other provisions 103 3 Cost of delivering services 75 7. Financing our operations 104 3.1 Summary of cost of delivering services 75 7.1 Borrowings 104 3.2 Bulk charges 75 7.2 Cash flow information and balances 105 3.3 Employee benefits 75 3.4 Remuneration of auditor 81 8  Risks, contingencies and valuation judgements 107 3.5 Other operating expenses 82 8.1 Financial instruments specific disclosures 107 3.6 Commitments for operating lease expenditure 83 8.2 Contingent assets and contingent liabilities 113 4. Statutory obligations 84 8.3 Fair value determination 114 4.1 Income tax expense 84 9 Other disclosure 122 4.2 Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities 85 9.1 Responsible persons and executives 122 4.3 Current tax liability 86 9.2 Related parties 124 4.4 Dividends 87 9.3 Equity 131 4.5 Environmental contribution 87 9.4 Ex-gratia expenses 132 9.5 Accounting standards issued that are not yet effective 133 9.6 Subsequent events 134 58 City West Water Performance Report As part of their annual reporting obligations, metropolitan water corporations are required to include a consolidated performance report comprising both financial and non-financial performance indicators. The objective of the report is to provide a consistent view of the current and ongoing performance of the corporation. Financial performance indicators % Variance % KPI 2019 2020 2020 to prior Variance Number Key performance indicator Result Result Target year Notes to target Notes F1 Cash interest cover Net operating cash flows before net interest and tax / net interest payments 3.0 2.6 2.4 -13.3% 1 8.3% F2 Gearing ratio Total debt (including finance leases) / total assets *100 50.5% 57.5% 55.4% 13.9% 2 3.8% F3 Internal financing ratio Net operating cash flow less dividends and capital repatriation / net capital expenditure * 100 44.9% 8.2% 5.4% -81.7% 3 51.9% 4 F4 Current ratio Current assets / current liabilities (excluding long term employee provisions, contract liabilities and deposits) 0.9 0.8 0.9 -11.1% 5 -14.3% 6 F5 Return on assets Earnings before net interest and tax / average assets * 100 6.7% 7.3% 6.9% 9.0% 5.8% F6 Return on equity Net profit after tax / average total equity *100 7.5% 10.9% 8.4% 45.3% 7 29.8% 8 F7 EBITDA Margin Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation / total revenue *100 30.4% 33.1% 32.3% 8.9% 2.4% 1. Cash interest cover for 2020 is lower than 2019 mainly as a result of lower net operating cash flows due to COVID-19 related impacts. Government incentives aimed at alleviating hardship to our customers and suppliers have resulted in delayed cash receipts and expedited payments to our suppliers. 2. The 2020 gearing ratio is unfavourable compared to 2019 mainly as a result of $95.9m worth of lease liabilities that have been recognised as borrowings due to the application of AASB16 Leases. 3. The internal financing ratio was lower in 2020 compared to 2019 mainly because of the 2019 interim dividend which was deferred into 2020 and the payment of a $25m special dividend made in 2020. The ratio is expected to smooth out in future years when the business returns to its traditional dividend regime. 4. The 2020 internal financing ratio was higher than the 2020 target of 5.4% due to more favourable operating cashflows. The ratio is expected to smooth out in future years when the business returns to its traditional dividend regime. 5. The current ratio was slightly lower in 2020 compared to 2019 mainly due to higher tax liability in 2020. The current ratio is expected to smooth out in future years. 6. The 2020 current ratio was slightly lower than the 2020 target mainly due to lower cash holdings. 7. Return on equity was higher in 2020 compared to 2019 due mainly to higher net profit after tax and decreased equity arising from devaluation of infrastructure assets reserve and higher dividend payments. 8. The 2020 return on equity compared to the 2020 target is favourable as a result of higher than expected net profit after tax and decreased equity arising from devaluation of infrastructure assets. Annual Report 2020 59 Water and sewerage service performance indicators % Variance % KPI 2019 2020 2020 to prior Variance Number Key performance indicator Result Result Target year Notes to target Notes WS1 Unplanned water supply 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% interruptions Number of customers receiving more than five unplanned water supply interruptions in the year / total number of water (domestic and non-domestic) customers *100 WS2 Interruption time 112.7 114.9 120.0 -2.0% -4.3% Average duration of unplanned water supply interruptions (minutes) WS3 Restoration of unplanned 97.9% 97.1% 97.0% -0.8% 0.1% water supply interruptions Unplanned water supply interruptions restored within five hours / total unplanned water supply interruptions *100 SS1 Containment of sewer spills 100.0% 100.0% 100.0% 0.0% 0.0% Sewer spills from reticulation and branch sewers contained within five hours / total sewer spills from reticulation and branch sewers *100 SS2 Sewer spills interruptions 99.7% 99.5% 98.0% -1.5% 1.5% Number of residential sewerage customers affected by sewerage interruptions restored within 5 hours Note: Only variances of more than 5% are explained 60 City West Water Performance Report (continued) Customer responsiveness performance indicators % Variance % KPI 2019 2020 2020 to prior Variance Number Key performance indicator Result Result Target year Notes to target Notes CR1 Water quality complaints Number of complaints per 1,000 customers 1.2 1.5 0.7 -25.0% 1 -114.3% 2 CR4 Billing complaints Number of complaints per 1,000 customers 1.0 1.18 1.2 18% 3 -1.7% 3 1. An unfavourable variance to prior year and sustained elevated numbers of discoloured water complaints since early 2019. This followed water having been unknowingly withdrawn and supplied by Melbourne Water over several weeks during early 2019 from lower depths of Greenvale Reservoir. Melbourne Water has since implemented processes and controls to prevent a similar occurrence. CWW has undertaken responsive flushing of water mains to individual complaints. However, due to the complaints being largely widespread and non-localised, broad-scale mains flushing (including air-scouring) has been restricted due to consideration of low remedial efficiency and water conservation. This posed no health risks to the community. 2. The target was first exceeded in December 2019. This was largely due to the residual effect of water having been withdrawn and supplied over several weeks in early 2019 from lower depths of Greenvale Reservoir. The immediate effect was a surge in complaints of discoloured water throughout most of CWW’s area. On-going, subsequent elevated complaint numbers of discoloured water are the result of sediments having been deposited in CWW’s pipe network during the Greenvale event. Responsive flushing of water mains has been undertaken in response to individual complaints. However, due to the complaints being largely widespread and non-localised, broad-scale mains flushing (including air-scouring) has been restricted due to consideration of low remedial efficiency and water conservation. This posed no health risks to the community. 3. City West Water has worked over the last year to better understand the needs of our customers and take action to address their issues proactively. There has been an increased focus on capturing complaints from across the business, including our contractors, and recording them on our system. The information is being used to provide valuable insights into what our customers are saying and identifying opportunities for improvement. This coupled with the impacts of the COVID-19 pandemic resulted in an increased result against 2019. Environmental performance indicators % Variance % KPI 2019 2020 2020 to prior Variance Number Key performance indicator Result Result Target year Notes to target Notes E1 Effluent reuse volume (end use) Effluent reuse volume (%) 40.0% 42.9% 40.0% 7.2% 1 7.2% 2 E2 Total net CO2 emissions Net tonnes CO2 equivalent 11,627.0 12,980.0 12,000.0 -11.6% 3 -8.2% 4 1. A favourable variance to prior year recycled water supplied is due to the commissioning of the Werribee Recycled Water Plant which started operation to produce and supply recycled water to the Werribee recycled water scheme customers from July 2019. The overall recycled water volumes in the calculation include the supply to the Sunshine, Altona and Werribee recycled water schemes. 2. A favourable variance to the target is due to the commissioning of the Werribee Recycled Water Plant which started operation to produce and supply recycled water to the Werribee recycled water scheme customers from July 2019. The overall recycled water volumes in the calculation include the supply to the Sunshine, Altona and Werribee recycled water schemes. 3. Energy consumption at West Werribee Salt Reduction Plant has gone up from 596,579 kWh in 2018-19 to 767,870 kWh in 2019-20, a rise of 22% year on year. Energy consumption at Ballan Road Tanks has also gone up from 77,195 kWh in 2018-19 to 93,911 kWh in 2019-20, a rise of 18% year on year. Contributing to 11.6% overall variance in net CO2 emissions from the previous year as there was a significantly higher energy requirement to produce recycled water at West Werribee Salt Reduction Plant after its commissioning on 1 July 2019. This resulted in cascading higher energy requirement to transport/pump supply to the Ballan Road tanks. 4. Emissions are slightly higher than predicted primarily due to the delay of the Power Purchasing Agreement (PPA) which was predicted to provide 1,642 t CO2 -e of emissions abatement in 2019-20. However, CWW is on track to deliver significant savings in 2020-21 with the infrastructure under the PPA scheduled to come online in October 2020 and the construction of several CWW-delivered renewable energy generation assets on track for delivery by early 2021. Annual Report 2020 61 Certification of Performance Report We certify that the accompanying Performance Report of City West Water Corporation in respect of the 2020 financial year is presented fairly and in accordance with the Financial Management Act 1994. The Performance Report outlines the relevant performance indicators for the financial year as determined by the Minister for Water and as set out in the corporation’s 2020 Corporate Plan. The actual and comparative results achieved for the financial year are measured against predetermined performance targets. Performance against these targets and subsequent explanation of any significant variance between the current year and prior year has been fairly presented. As at the date of signing, we are not aware of any circumstances which would render any particulars of the Performance Report to be misleading or inaccurate. David Middleton Maree Lang Michael Wootten Chair Managing Director Chief Financial Officer Melbourne 25 August 2020 62 City West Water Independent Auditor’s Report Independent Auditor’s Report To the Board of the City West Water Corporation Opinion I have audited the accompanying performance report of the City West Water Corporation (the corporation) for the year ended 30 June 2020, which comprises the: • financial performance indicators • water and sewerage service performance indicators • customer responsiveness performance indicators • environmental performance indicators • certification of performance report. In my opinion, the performance report of the City West Water Corporation in respect of the year ended 30 June 2020 presents fairly, in all material respects, in accordance with the performance reporting requirements of Part 7 of the Financial Management Act 1994. Basis for I have conducted my audit in accordance with the Audit Act 1994 which incorporates Opinion the Australian Standards on Assurance Engagements. I further describe my responsibilities under that Act and those standards in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the performance report section of my report. My independence is established by the Constitution Act 1975. My staff and I are independent of the corporation in accordance with the ethical requirements of the Accounting Professional and Ethical Standards Board’s APES 110 Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (the Code) that are relevant to my audit of the performance report in Victoria and have also fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the Code. I believe that the audit evidence I have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for my opinion. Board's The Board is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the responsibilities performance report in accordance with the performance reporting requirements of for the the Financial Management Act 1994, and for such internal control as the Board performance determines is necessary to enable the preparation and fair presentation of the report performance report that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Annual Report 2020 63 Auditor’s As required by the Audit Act 1994, my responsibility is to express an opinion on the responsibilities performance report based on the audit. My objectives for the audit are to obtain for the audit of reasonable assurance about whether the performance report as a whole is free from the performance material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report report that includes my opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with the Australian Standards on Assurance Engagements will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the decisions of users taken on the basis of this performance report. As part of an audit in accordance with the Australian Standards on Assurance Engagements, I exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. I also: • identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the performance report, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for my opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. • obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the corporation’s internal control • evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the performance report, including the disclosures, and whether the performance report represents the underlying events and results in a manner that achieves fair presentation. I communicate with the Board regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that I identify during my audit. MELBOURNE Paul Martin 4 September 2020 as delegate for the Auditor-General of Victoria 2 64 City West Water Comprehensive Operating Statement For the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 2019 Note $’000 $’000 Income Revenue from customers 2.1 757,011 704,800 Other income 2.6 568 498 Total income 757,579 705,298 Expenses Bulk charges 3.2 (364,660) (349,235) Environmental contribution 4.5.1 (26,457) (26,457) Employee benefits 3.3.1 (42,355) (41,884) Depreciation and amortisation 5.1, 5.5 (65,473) (52,510) Finance expenses 7.1.2 (68,769) (66,418) Other operating expenses 3.5 (73,276) (73,087) Total expenses (640,990) (609,591) Profit before income tax expense 116,589 95,707 Income tax expense 4.1 (27,548) (32,608) Profit after income tax expense 89,041 63,099 Other comprehensive income/(expense) Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss Increase/(decrease) in physical asset revaluation surplus due to revaluation of assets 5.1 (125,940) (11,655) Actuarial gain/(loss) on defined benefit superannuation plan 3.3.3 (132) 176 Deferred income tax relating to components of other comprehensive income 4.1 38,283 2,140 Other comprehensive income after tax (87,789) (9,339) Total comprehensive income after tax 1,252 53,760 The Comprehensive Operating Statement should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. Annual Report 2020 65 Balance Sheet As at 30 June 2020 2020 2019 Note $’000 $’000 ASSETS Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 7.2 547 1,327 Receivables 6.1 108,754 100,492 Inventory 6.5 2,789 2,474 Other non-financial assets 6.6 4,586 7,231 Total current assets 116,676 111,524 Non-current assets Infrastructure, property, plant and equipment 5.1 2,208,336 2,191,376 Intangible assets 5.5 169,751 167,148 Right-of-use assets 5.9 92,675 Defined benefit superannuation asset 3.3.3 3,394 4,085 Total non-current assets 2,474,156 2,362,609 TOTAL ASSETS 2,590,832 2,474,133 LIABILITIES Current liabilities Payables 6.2 87,521 96,240 Advances and deposits 6.3 8,650 7,172 Borrowings 7.1 25,068 19,900 Current tax liability 4.3 7,366 Provision for employee benefits 3.3.2 14,812 13,613 Contract liabilities 6.4 19,196 29,889 Other provisions 6.7 2,177 1,385 Total current liabilities 164,790 168,199 Non-current liabilities Borrowings 7.1 1,463,917 1,230,000 Deferred tax liabilities 4.2.2 176,754 223,432 Provision for employee benefits 3.3.2 1,240 1,686 Total non-current liabilities 1,641,911 1,455,118 TOTAL LIABILITIES 1,806,701 1,623,317 NET ASSETS 784,131 850,816 EQUITY Contributed equity 9.3.1 197,111 189,248 Physical asset revaluation surplus 9.3.2 83,559 171,256 Retained profits 9.3.3 503,461 490,312 TOTAL EQUITY 784,131 850,816 The Balance Sheet should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. 66 City West Water Statement of Changes in Equity For the year ended 30 June 2020 Physical asset Contributed revaluation Retained Total equity surplus profits equity Note $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 Opening balance at 1 July 2018 200,128 180,718 447,490 828,336 Comprehensive income for the year Profit after income tax expense 9.3.3 63,099 63,099 Other comprehensive income after tax 9.3.2, 9.3.3 (9,462) 123 (9,339) Total comprehensive income after tax (9,462) 63,222 53,760 Transactions with the State in its capacity as owner Dividends paid 4.4 (20,400) (20,400) Capital repatriation 9.3.1 (10,880) (10,880) Total transactions with the State in its capacity as owner (10,880) (20,400) (31,280) Closing balance at 30 June 2019 189,248 171,256 490,312 850,816 Opening balance at 1 July 2019 189,248 171,256 490,312 850,816 Comprehensive income for the year Profit after income tax expense 9.3.3 89,041 89,041 Other comprehensive income after tax 9.3.2, 9.3.3 (87,697) (92) (87,789) Total comprehensive income after tax (87,697) 88,949 1,252 Transactions with the State in its capacity as owner Dividends paid 4.4 (75,800) (75,800) Asset received as contributed equity 9.3.1 7,863 7,863 Total transactions with the State in its capacity as owner 7,863 (75,800) (67,937) Closing balance at 30 June 2020 197,111 83,559 503,461 784,131 The Statement of Changes in Equity should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. Annual Report 2020 67 Statement of Cash Flows For the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 2019 Note $’000 $’000 Cash flows from operating activities Receipts Receipts from customers, developers and others 690,323 676,384 Goods and Services Tax refunded by the Australian Tax Office 1 20,518 20,295 Interest received 217 198 Payments Payments to suppliers and employees2 (500,309) (477,453) Interest and other finance costs paid (70,102) (66,265) Income tax paid (25,756) (45,679) Environmental Contribution paid (26,457) (19,843) Government Water Rebate paid 27 473 Net cash inflow from operating activities 7.2.1 88,461 88,110 Cash flows from investing activities Payments for infrastructure, property, plant, equipment, and intangibles (155,020) (126,552) Proceeds from sale of infrastructure, property, plant, equipment and intangibles 387 603 Net cash outflow from investing activities (154,633) (125,949) Cash flows from financing activities Proceeds from borrowings (new and refinanced) 253,100 195,000 Repayment of borrowings (paid down and refinanced) (110,000) (125,300) Principal element of lease liability (1,908) Dividends paid (75,800) (20,400) Capital repatriation paid (10,880) Net cash inflow from financing activities 65,392 38,420 Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (780) 581 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the financial year 1,327 746 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the financial year 7.2 547 1,327 1. Goods and services tax refunded from the Australian Taxation Office is presented on a net basis. 2. Includes payment of $70,524 in respect of variable lease payments, $15,894 for short-term leases and $33,993 for low-value leases. The Statement of Cash Flows should be read in conjunction with the accompanying notes. 68 City West Water Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2020 1. About this report City West Water is a statutory water authority incorporated under the Water Act 1989. The principal address of the corporation is: City West Water Corporation 1 McNab Avenue Footscray 3011 1.1 Basis of preparation These financial statements are presented in Australian dollars. The historical cost convention is used unless a different measurement basis is specifically disclosed for the relevant item. All amounts in the financial statements have been rounded to the nearest thousand dollars unless otherwise stated. The accrual basis of accounting and going concern have been applied in preparing these financial statements. Assets, liabilities, equity, income and expenses are recognised in the reporting period to which they relate, regardless of when cash is received or paid. Judgements, estimates and assumptions are required to be made about financial information being presented. The significant judgements made in the preparation of these financial statements are disclosed in Section 8 of this report. Estimates and associated assumptions are based on professional judgements derived from historical experience and various other factors that are believed to be reasonable in the circumstances. Actual results may differ from these estimates. Areas involving a high degree of estimates and assumptions that can materially impact the financial statements include: • fair valuation of infrastructure, property, plant and equipment • actuarial assumptions used to determine the assets and liabilities of City West Water’s defined benefit superannuation fund • estimated useful lives of assets • impairment of assets • provisions • income tax • contract liabilities • accrued revenue (unbilled charges) • deferred tax recognition • the timing of satisfaction of performance obligations • determining transaction price and amounts allocated to performance obligation COVID-19 is a global health pandemic which has resulted in a number of government responses that include the declaration of “States of Emergency” at various stages, restrictions on the community and business groups, and the introduction of new policies such as JobKeeper and JobSeeker. The consequential effects of COVID-19 and government’s responses have had significant impacts on the economy, local businesses, customers and staff. Management have reviewed and revised future budgets and forecasts which reflect expectations about the future. The future budgets and forecasts confirm that the going concern basis, on which this financial report is predicated on, is appropriate. Further COVID-19 related disclosures have been added to this financial report to reflect management’s judgements and assessments. These can be found in notes 3.3.3 (Defined Benefits), 6.1.2 (Loss allowance for trade receivables), 8.3.2 (Fair value determination), and 9.6 (Subsequent Events). Annual Report 2020 69 Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and also in future periods that are affected by the revision. These financial statements cover City West Water as an individual reporting entity. 1.2 Accounting policies Accounting policies are selected and applied in a manner which ensures that the resulting financial information satisfies the concepts of relevance and reliability, thereby ensuring that the substance of the underlying transactions or other events is reported. Unless otherwise stated, all accounting policies applied are consistent with those of the prior year. 1.3 Changes in accounting policies The following standards have been adopted by the corporation during the financial year. AASB 16 Leases AASB 16 Leases was issued in February 2016 and replaces AASB 117 Leases. It will result in almost all leases being recognised on the balance sheet, as the distinction between operating and finance leases is removed for lessees. City West Water has transitioned to AASB 16 Leases from 1 July 2019. In accordance with the transition provisions in AASB 16 and as mandated by FRD 123 Transitional requirements on the application of AASB 16 Leases, the new rules have been adopted retrospectively (under the modified retrospective method). Accordingly, no third balance sheet is presented and comparatives for the 2019 financial year have not been restated. On adoption of AASB 16, City West Water recognised lease liabilities as borrowings in relation to leases which had previously been classified as ‘operating leases’ under the principles of AASB 117 Leases. These liabilities were measured at the present value of the remaining lease payments, discounted using the lessee’s incremental borrowing rate as of 1 July 2019. The weighted average lessee’s incremental borrowing rate applied to the lease liabilities on 1 July 2019 was 2.84%. On transition, DTF mandates measurement of Right-of-use (ROU) assets at the amount equal to the lease liability, adjusted by the amount of any prepaid or accrued lease payments relating to that lease recognised in the balance sheet as at 30 June 2019. Accordingly, there is no effect to the opening balance of retained earnings. As a result of the above changes in the corporation’s accounting policies, the following tables show the adjustments recognised for each line item. Line items that were not affected by the changes have not been included. As a result, the sub-totals and totals disclosed cannot be recalculated from the numbers provided. Impact on Balance Sheet of transitional adjustments made on 1 July 2019 Restated 2019 as as at reported Adjustment 1 July 2019 Note $’000 $’000 $’000 Right-of-use assets 5.9(i) 97,409 97,409 Borrowings – lease liabilities 5.9(i) 97,409 97,409 Retained profits 70 City West Water Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2020 1. About this report (continued) Impact on Comprehensive Operating Statement for the year ended 30 June 2020 2020 per 2020 per AASB 16 AASB 117 Movement Note $’000 $’000 $’000 Expenses Depreciation charge on right-of-use assets 5.9 5,219 5,219 Interest on leases 7.1.2 3,108 3,108 Operating lease rental 5,017 (5,017) Total expenses 8,327 5,017 3,310 Profit before income tax expense Income tax expense (2,498) (1,505) (993) Profit after income tax expense 5,829 3,512 2,317 Impact on Balance Sheet as at 30 June 2020 2020 per 2020 per AASB 16 AASB 117 Movement Note $’000 $’000 $’000 Non – current assets Right-of-use assets 5.9 92,675 92,675 Total current assets 92,675 92,675 Current liabilities Borrowings – lease liabilities 7.1 2,068 2,068 Total current liabilities 2,068 2,068 Non-current liabilities Borrowings – lease liabilities 7.1 93,917 93,917 Deferred tax liabilities 4.2.2 176,754 177,747 (993) Total non-current liabilities 270,671 177,747 92,924 Total liabilities 272,739 177,747 94,992 Net liabilities (180,064) (177,747) (2,317) Equity Retained profits 9.3.3 503,461 505,778 (2,317) Total equity 503,461 505,778 (2,317) 1.4 Compliance information These general purpose financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Financial Management Act 1994 and applicable Australian Accounting Standards, which include Interpretations issued by the Australian Accounting Standards Board. Accounting policies selected and applied in these financial statements ensure that the resulting financial information satisfies the concepts of relevance and reliability, thereby ensuring that the substance of the underlying transactions or other events is reported. These annual financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors of City West Water on 25 August 2020. Annual Report 2020 71 2. Funding delivery of services City West Water’s core business is the supply of water, sewerage, trade waste and, where available, recycled water services to customers in accordance with the corporation’s Customer Charter. City West Water collects revenue from residential and non-residential customers, developers and others in order to fulfil its vision to be an exceptional service provider that puts customers first and benefits the community. Revenue is measured as the fair value of consideration received or receivable. City West Water recognises revenue when the amount can be reliably measured, it is probable that the future economic benefits will flow to the corporation and specific criteria have been met for each of the corporation’s activities. Structure 2.1 Summary of revenue from customers 2.2 Sales of goods and services 2.3 Developer contributions 2.4 Other revenue 2.5 Timing of recognition of revenue from customers 2.6 Other income 2.1 Summary of revenue from customers 2020 2019 Note $’000 $’000 Sale of goods and services 2.2 635,537 609,388 Developer contributions 2.3 91,919 71,407 Other revenue 2.4 29,555 24,005 Total revenue with customers 757,011 704,800 2.2 Sales of goods and services 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 Service charges – water 112,026 106,996 Usage charges – water 284,986 268,601 Service charges – sewerage 124,743 121,018 Disposal charges – sewage 71,320 72,731 Trade waste charges 28,726 29,000 Recycled water charges 6,903 6,336 Water trading revenue 6,833 4,233 Government Water Rebate provided to customers 473 Total sales of goods and services revenue 635,537 609,388 Sales of goods and services are transactions that the corporation has determined to be in accordance with AASB 15 Revenue from contracts with customers. City West Water has an ongoing obligation to provide water and sewerage services to customers in its area. The corporation is obligated to provide a continuous supply of services across its network, so customers simultaneously receive and consume benefits in line with City West Water performing its obligation. Therefore, revenue is recognised over time. 72 City West Water Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2020 2. Funding delivery of services (continued) City West Water recognises revenue for water and sewerage services in the amount which it has a right to receive, as this amount is considered by management to correspond directly with the value to the customer of City West Water’s performance to date. Service charges represent charges for access to water and sewerage services provided to customers. This performance obligation is satisfied over time. At balance date, any portion of service charges that are billed in advance and the performance obligation is not satisfied, is recognised as contract liabilities (refer Note 6.4). Water usage charges, sewage disposal charges, trade waste charges and recycled water charges are all recognised as revenue over time as the performance obligation is satisfied. City West Water measures these charges based on the regulated prices and the volume of water consumed by customers, and sewage and trade waste disposed by customers. At balance date, the charges for fully satisfied performance obligations that are unbilled are estimated and contract assets are recognised (refer Note 6.1). Water trading revenue is recognised at a point in time when the trade occurs. This is when the performance obligation is satisfied. 2.3 Developer contributions 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 Developer contributed assets 46,947 47,315 Developer cash contributions 44,972 24,092 Total developer contributions 91,919 71,407 Developer contributed assets arise when developers pay for the cost of construction of new assets and subsequently ‘gift’ these assets to City West Water, which maintains them in perpetuity. In accordance with the requirements of AASB 15 – Revenue from Contracts with Customers, revenue is recognised at a point in time when City West Water has satisfied its performance obligation either: • when a Statement of Compliance is issued to the customer; or • when the customer is connected to City West Water’s network for the provision of water and sewerage services. Developer contributed assets are recognised at their fair value when the corporation obtains control over them. Fair value is determined as cost. Where actual cost is not available, City West Water deems cost by assessing the value of works using a schedule of rates determined by the corporation. Developer cash contributions represent charges levied on developers to recover the costs of augmenting or constructing infrastructure assets to meet the future demands of urban growth. Developers are required to make a fair and reasonable contribution towards the cost of developing City West Water’s water supply distribution systems and sewage disposal systems. In accordance with the requirements of AASB 15 – Revenue from Contracts with Customers, revenue is recognised at a point in time when City West Water has satisfied its performance obligation either: • when a Statement of Compliance is issued to the customer; • when the customer is connected to City West Water’s network for the provision of water and sewerage services; or • when the customer receives consent from City West Water to connect to the corporation’s network. The point in time when the corporation satisfies its performance obligation will vary depending on the type of application submitted by the customer. Rates applicable to developer cash contributions are regulated by the Essential Services Commission. Annual Report 2020 73 2.4 Other revenue 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 Fees and charges 19,392 15,129 Works and services provided to third parties 9,798 7,836 Other 365 1,040 Total other revenue 29,555 24,005 Fees and charges are recognised as revenue at a point in time when City West Water has completed its performance obligations. Fees and charges represent a variety of services provided by City West Water such as processing of application fees and making new connections or alterations to the corporation’s network. City West Water uses pricing principles to calculate the price of individual services rather than direct regulation by the Essential Services Commission. Revenue from works and services provided to third parties is recognised as revenue over time when City West Water has completed its contractual obligations. Revenue represents charges for services to third parties such as the collection of drainage and parks rates on behalf of Melbourne Water and the Department of Environment, Land, Water and Planning respectively. Other items are recognised as revenue at a point in time on completion of City West Water’s contractual obligations. Other items consist mainly of administration fees and one-off charges for services provided. 2.5 Timing of recognition of revenue from customers The corporation derives revenue from the transfer of goods and services over time and at a point in time for the following charges. Service Usage Service Disposal Trade Recycled Water Developer Total charges charges charges – charges – waste water trading contriOther revenue – water – water sewerage sewerage charges charges revenue butions revenue with $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 customers 2019 At a point in time 4,233 71,407 16,642 92,282 Over time 106,996 268,601 121,018 72,731 29,000 6,336 7,836 612,518 Total 106,996 268,601 121,018 72,731 29,000 6,336 4,233 71,407 24,478 704,800 2020 At a point in time 6,833 91,919 19,757 118,509 Over time 112,026 284,986 124,743 71,320 28,726 6,903 9,798 638,502 Total 112,026 284,986 124,743 71,320 28,726 6,903 6,833 91,919 29,555 757,011 74 City West Water Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2020 2. Funding delivery of services (continued) 2.6 Other income 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 Interest income 217 191 Rental income 216 185 Net gain on sale of non-current physical assets 135 122 Total other income 568 498 Interest income is recognised when earned. Rental income is billed in advance and recognised over the period to which the income relates. A gain on sale of non-current physical assets is recognised on disposal of an asset. It is measured as income from the sale of an asset less the asset’s book value and costs of disposal. Annual Report 2020 75 3 Cost of delivering services This section provides an account of the expenses incurred by City West Water in delivering services and the accounting policies that are relevant for an understanding of the items recognised in the financial statements. Structure 3.1 Summary of cost of delivering services 3.2 Bulk charges 3.3 Employee benefits 3.4 Remuneration of auditor 3.5 Other operating expenses 3.6 Commitments for operating lease expenditure 3.1 Summary of cost of delivering services 2020 2019 Note $’000 $’000 Bulk charges 3.2 364,660 349,235 Employee benefits in the Comprehensive Operating Statement 3.3.1 42,355 41,884 Other operating expenses 3.5 73,275 73,087 Total cost of delivering services 480,290 464,206 3.2 Bulk charges 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 Bulk water and sewerage charges 364,660 349,235 Total bulk charges 364,660 349,235 Bulk water and sewerage charges are levied by Melbourne Water Corporation for the cost of water City West Water purchases and for sewage treated at Melbourne Water’s Western Treatment Plant. Variable charges are levied in arrears and are payable on a weekly basis. Fixed charges are levied once a month and are payable on the 15th of the month to which they refer. Any variable charges that remain outstanding at period end are accrued. 3.3 Employee benefits 3.3.1 Employee benefits in the Comprehensive Operating Statement 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 Salaries and wages, annual leave and long service leave 37,370 36,797 Accumulation fund superannuation expense 4,084 3,390 Defined benefit superannuation expense 559 617 Termination benefits 342 1,080 Total employee benefits in the comprehensive operating statement 42,355 41,884 76 City West Water Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2020 3. Cost of delivering services (continued) Employee benefits refers to all payments made to employees during the year. It includes payments to all City West Water staff as well as contract and agency staff. Payments are made for ordinary time, overtime, allowances, on-costs, Fringe Benefits Tax, redundancy costs and Workcover. Any employee benefits outstanding at year end are accrued. A portion of employee benefits directly attributable to capital projects is capitalised and depreciated so as to apportion the cost of a capital project over the life of the asset created by the project. The amount recognised in the Comprehensive Operating Statement in relation to superannuation is employer contributions for members of both defined benefit and accumulation superannuation plans that are paid or payable during the reporting period. Contributions to accumulation superannuation funds are made in accordance with the Superannuation Guarantee (Administration) Act 1992. Termination benefits are payable when employment is terminated before normal retirement date, or when an employee accepts an offer of benefits in exchange for the termination of employment. Termination benefits are recognised when City West Water is demonstrably committed to terminating the employment of current employees according to a detailed formal plan without possibility of withdrawal or providing termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage voluntary redundancy. Benefits falling due more than 12 months after the end of the reporting period are discounted to present value. 3.3.2 Employee benefits in the Balance Sheet 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 Provision for employee benefits Current Annual leave unconditional and expected to be paid within 12 months 2,820 2,151 Annual leave unconditional and expected to be paid after 12 months 618 386 Long service leave unconditional and expected to be paid within 12 months 1,103 858 Long service leave unconditional and expected to be paid after 12 months 5,991 5,905 On costs unconditional and expected to be paid within 12 months 167 440 On costs unconditional and expected to be paid after 12 months 909 959 Other employee benefits 3,204 2,914 Provision for employee benefits – current 14,812 13,613 Non-current Long service leave conditional 1,076 1,462 On costs conditional 164 224 Provision for employee benefits – non-current 1,240 1,686 Total provision for employee benefits 16,052 15,299 Annual Report 2020 77 Reconciliation of movement in provision for employee benefits 2020 $’000 Opening balance 15,299 Additional provisions recognised 7,681 Movements due to transfers in/(out) (10) Reductions arising from payments/other sacrifices of economic benefits (6,918) Closing balance 16,052 Provision is made for benefits accruing to employees in respect of annual leave, long service leave (LSL), on-costs, termination benefits and bonuses for services rendered to reporting date. Liabilities for wages and salaries, including non-monetary benefits, and annual leave are all recognised in the provision for employee benefits as current liabilities as the corporation does not have an unconditional right to defer settlement of these liabilities. Depending on the expectation of the timing of settlement, liabilities for wages, salaries, and annual leave are measured at: • nominal value – component that the corporation expects to settle wholly within 12 months; and • present value – component that the corporation does not expect to settle wholly within 12 months. Unconditional LSL is disclosed as a current liability even when the corporation does not expect to wholly settle the liability within 12 months because it will not have the unconditional right to defer the settlement of the entitlement should an employee take leave within 12 months. The components of LSL liability are measured at: • nominal value – component that the corporation expects to settle wholly within 12 months; and • present value – component that the corporation does not expect to settle wholly within 12 months. Conditional LSL is disclosed as a non-current liability. In this case there is an unconditional right to defer the settlement of the entitlement until the employee has completed the requisite years of service. This non-current LSL liability is recognised at present value. Any gain or loss following revaluation of the present value of the non-current LSL liability is recognised as income or an expense. Performance bonuses are an element of other employee benefits. Performance bonuses for the corporation’s executive officers are based on a percentage of the annual salary package provided under their contract of employment. A liability is recognised and is measured as the aggregate of the amounts accrued under the terms of the contracts to balance date. 78 City West Water Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2020 3. Cost of delivering services (continued) 3.3.3 Superannuation All City West Water employees are members of either the Equipsuper defined benefit fund or an approved accumulation fund of their choice. The majority of employees of City West Water are members of either the Equipsuper fund or the Vision Super fund. All new City West Water employees who are not already members of the Equipsuper defined benefit fund must join an accumulation fund. Defined benefit fund Defined benefit fund members receive a lump sum benefit on retirement, death, disablement or withdrawal from the fund. Benefits are calculated on a multiple of an employee’s final salary. The multiple is dependent on an employee’s length of service and their contribution rate. The fund ceased including new members from September 1994. A liability or asset in respect of defined benefits superannuation is recognised and measured as the difference between the present value of employees’ accrued benefits at reporting date and the net market value of the superannuation plan’s assets at that date. City West Water is not the trustee of the defined benefit fund. The plan’s trustee (Togethr Trustees Pty Ltd) is responsible for the governance of the plan. The trustee has a legal obligation to act solely in the best interests of plan beneficiaries. The trustee has the following roles: • administration of the plan and payment to beneficiaries from plan assets when required in accordance with the plan rules; • management and investment of the plan assets; and • compliance with superannuation law and other applicable regulations. There are a number of risks to which the plan exposes the corporation. The more significant risks relating to the defined benefits are investment risk, salary growth risk, legislative risk and pension risk. City West Water’s plan assets are invested by the trustee in a pool of assets with assets from other employers’ plans. The assets have a benchmark weighting to equities of 50 per cent and therefore the plan has a significant concentration of equity market risk. However, within the equity investments the allocation both globally and across sectors is diversified. The Equipsuper Contribution and Funding Policy provides for a review of the financial position of the plan every six months as at 30 June and 31 December, with the contribution rate comprising a long-term contribution rate and an adjustment to meet the financing objective of a target funding ratio of 105 per cent. City West Water’s current funding ratio is 133.5 per cent. There were no plan amendments affecting the defined benefits payable, curtailments or settlements during the year. Annual Report 2020 79 Net defined Defined benefit Fair value of benefit liability/ plan assets obligation (asset) $’000 $’000 $’000 Opening balance at 1 July 2018 31,063 26,537 (4,526) Current service cost 723 723 Interest income 788 (788) Interest expense 682 682 Actuarial return on plan assets less interest income 819 (819) Contributions by plan participants 220 220 Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 1,048 1,048 Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from liability experience (405) (405) Benefits paid (4,942) (4,942) Taxes, premiums and expenses paid (110) (110) Closing balance at 30 June 2019 27,838 23,753 (4,085) Opening balance at 1 July 2019 27,838 23,753 (4,085) Current service cost 605 605 Interest income 338 (338) Interest expense 292 292 Actuarial return on plan assets less interest income 535 (535) Contributions by plan participants 190 190 Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from changes in demographic assumptions 376 376 Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from changes in financial assumptions 924 924 Actuarial (gains)/losses arising from liability experience (633) (633) Benefits paid (4,202) (4,202) Taxes, premiums and expenses paid (102) (102) Closing balance at 30 June 2020 24,597 21,203 (3,394) Fair value of plan assets Total Level 21 As at 30 June 2020 $’000 $’000 Investment funds 24,597 24,597 Total 24,597 24,597 1. Inputs based on observable market data (either directly using prices or indirectly derived from prices). 80 City West Water Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2020 3. Cost of delivering services (continued) Significant actuarial assumptions at reporting date 2020 2019 Assumptions to determine defined benefit cost Discount rate 1.3% p.a. 2.7% p.a. Expected salary increase rate 3.0% p.a. 4.0% p.a. Assumptions to determine defined benefit obligation Discount rate 0.8% p.a. 1.3% p.a. Expected salary increase rate 3.0% p.a. 3.0% p.a. The assumptions used to determine the defined benefit cost are based on the assumptions used to calculate the defined benefit obligation for the prior year. The assumptions used to calculate the defined benefit obligation are determined as follows: • discount rate – based on the yield on Commonwealth government bonds of the same duration as the liabilities that make up the defined benefit obligation; and • expected salary increase rate – determined by reference to City West Water’s expected salary increases under its enterprise agreement. In 2020, the discount rate has reduced significantly in comparison to prior year as a result of a number of market variables that have been impacted by COVID-19. Market variables include changes to government policies, higher unemployment, low inflation, changes in business productivity, and drops in business and consumer confidence. Sensitivity analysis The defined benefit obligation as at 30 June 2020 under several scenarios is presented below. Scenarios A and B relate to discount rate sensitivity. Scenarios C and D relate to salary increase rate sensitivity. Scenario A Scenario B Scenario C Scenario D -0.5% p.a. +0.5% p.a. -0.5% p.a. salary +0.5% p.a. salary Base case discount rate discount rate increase rate increase rate Discount rate 0.8% p.a. 0.3% p.a. 1.3% p.a. 0.8% p.a. 0.8% p.a. Salary increase rate 3.0% p.a. 3.0% p.a. 3.0% p.a. 2.5% p.a. 3.5% p.a. Defined benefit obligation1 ($’000) 21,203 22,191 20,279 20,468 21,971 1. includes contributions tax provision. The defined benefit obligation has been recalculated by changing the assumptions as outlined above while retaining all other assumptions. The Equipsuper Contribution and Funding Policy provides for a review of the financial position of the plan each six months, as at 30 June and 31 December, with the contribution rate comprising a long term contribution rate and an adjustment to meet the financing objective of a target funding ratio of 105 per cent. City West Water’s current funding ratio is 133.5 per cent. As such, City West Water is not currently required to contribute to the defined benefit superannuation plan. Annual Report 2020 81 Expected contributions City West Water does not expect to make any employer contributions for the year ending 30 June 2020. Maturity profile of defined benefit obligation The weighted average duration of the defined benefit obligation as at 30 June 2020 is eight years (30 June 2019, eight years). Expected benefit payments for each of the financial year ending on: ($’000) 30 June 2021 1,752 30 June 2022 1,722 30 June 2023 1,522 30 June 2024 1,903 30 June 2025 1,928 Following five years (per annum) 1,836 3.4 Remuneration of auditor 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 Amounts received, or due and receivable by the auditor of City West Water for the audit of the financial report: Victorian Auditor-General’s Office 148 145 Total auditor’s remuneration 148 145 82 City West Water Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2020 3. Cost of delivering services (continued) 3.5 Other operating expenses Other operating expenses are recognised as incurred if they can be reliably measured. Costs are measured at nominal value. 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 Operating contracts 39,088 33,972 Information technology 7,816 9,240 Billing and collection 7,592 7,038 Operating leases 1 3,581 Impaired receivables – refer Note 6 2,017 3,182 Energy 2,285 2,286 Facilities maintenance 2,085 2,112 Insurance 2,028 1,463 Licence fees 543 571 Grants and water conservation initiatives 345 414 Other lease expense 1 120 Other expenses 9,357 9,228 Total other operating expenses 73,276 73,087 Other operating expenses generally represent the day to day running costs incurred in normal operations. It also includes impaired receivables expense. Other operating expenses are recognised on an accrual basis in the reporting period in which they are incurred. Operating contracts are expenses related to City West Water’s maintenance contractor and the field work performed by it. Billing and collection costs are all costs relating to the issuing of bills and the collection of debt. Information technology expenditure relates to all operating expenses, maintenance contracts, licence fees and other costs associated with operating the information technology environment of the corporation. Routine maintenance, repair costs and minor asset renewal costs are expensed as incurred. Where the expenditure relates to the replacement of a component or the enhancement of an asset and the cost satisfies the requirements of an asset, the cost is capitalised and depreciated. 1 Prior to adopting AASB 16, operating lease payments are recognised on a straight line basis over the lease term. For practical expediency applied under AASB 16, expenses in respect of contracts assessed as leases but which did not qualify for recognition as right of use assets are $70,524 in respect of variable lease payments, $15,894 for short-term leases, and $33,993 for low-value leases. Annual Report 2020 83 3.6 Commitments for operating lease expenditure 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 Not later than one year 5,017 Later than one year but not later than five years 24,891 Later than five years 53,096 Total non-cancellable lease commitments 83,004 For 2019, City West Water operating lease commitments relate to its head office in Footscray, two maintenance depots in Brooklyn and West Melbourne, two land leases and two IT leases. Future expenditures ceased to be disclosed as commitments upon the adoption of AASB 16 and are recognised in the balance sheet as Right-of-use assets and lease liabilities. Lease payments for properties are renegotiated based on the terms in the contracts to reflect market rentals. The lease liabilities as at 1 July 2019 can be reconciled to the operating lease commitments as at 30 June 2019 as follows: $’000 Operating lease commitments previously disclosed as at 30 June 2019 83,004 Add: Option to renew for right-of-use assets under various contracts per AASB 16 63,359 Less: Lease liabilities discounted at incremental borrowing rate (48,954) Lease liabilities as at 1 July 2019 97,409 Analysed as: Current 1,909 Non – current 95,500 Lease liabilities recognised as at 1 July 2019 (Note 1.3) 97,409 Right-of use assets are presented in note 5.9 and lease liabilities are presented as borrowings in note 7.1. 84 City West Water Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2020 4. Statutory obligations This section provides an account of the statutory obligations of City West Water. Structure 4.1 Income tax expense 4.2 Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities 4.3 Current tax liability 4.4 Dividends 4.5 Environmental Contribution 4.1 Income tax expense 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 Income tax expense Current tax 35,943 32,428 Deferred tax relating to temporary differences (8,395) (1,645) Under/(over) provided in prior years 1,825 Total income tax expense 27,548 32,608 Income tax expense is attributable to: Profit from continuing operations 27,548 32,608 Total income tax expense 27,548 32,608 Deferred income tax expense/(benefit) included in income tax expense comprises: Decrease/(increase) in deferred tax assets (28,514) 3,852 Increase/(decrease) in deferred tax liabilities 20,119 (5,497) Total deferred income tax expense/(benefit) (8,395) (1,645) Reconciliation of income tax expense to prima facie tax payable Profit before income tax expense 116,590 95,707 Tax at the Australian tax rate of 30 per cent (2019 30 per cent) 34,977 28,711 Tax effect of amounts which are not deductible/(taxable) in calculating taxable income: Non-deductible expenses 102 90 Non-deductible depreciation 886 886 Additional deductible expenses/non-assessable income (8,417) 2,921 Total income tax expense 27,548 32,608 Deferred income tax recognised in other comprehensive income Gain/(loss) on revaluation of infrastructure (38,448) (1,930) Gain/(loss) on revaluation of land and buildings 205 (263) Actuarial gain/(loss) on defined benefit superannuation plan (40) 53 Total deferred income tax recognised in other comprehensive income (38,283) 2,140 Annual Report 2020 85 City West Water is subject to the National Tax Equivalent Regime (NTER) pursuant to section 88(1) of the State Owned Enterprises Act 1992. Under this regime City West Water is required to pay the Victorian government an amount equal to the tax liability applicable if City West Water was a private company. The tax equivalent rules are based on the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (as amended). Income tax expense or revenue for the period is the tax payable or receivable on the current period’s taxable income based on the applicable tax rate adjusted by changes in deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities attributable to temporary differences. 4.2 Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised for temporary differences at the tax rates expected to apply when the assets are recovered or liabilities are settled, based on those tax rates which are enacted or substantively enacted at balance date. The relevant tax rates are applied to the cumulative amounts of deductible and taxable temporary differences to measure the deferred tax asset or liability. No deferred tax asset or liability is recognised in relation to these temporary differences if they arose as the result of a transaction that at the time of the transaction did not affect either accounting profit or loss or taxable profit or loss. Deferred tax assets are recognised for deductible temporary differences and unused tax losses only if it is probable that future taxable amounts will be available to utilise those temporary differences and losses. 4.2.1 Deferred tax assets 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 The balance of deferred tax assets comprises temporary differences attributable to: Amounts recognised in the Comprehensive Operating Statement Accrued expenses 50 41 Provisions 6,875 6,051 Amortisation of intellectual property 7 10 Business related costs 100 26 Lease liabilities 28,795 Developer revenue not assessable (2,009) (824) Total deferred tax assets 33,818 5,304 Movements: Opening balance at the start of financial year 5,304 9,156 Credited/(charged) to the Comprehensive Operating Statement 28,514 (3,852) Credited/(charged) to equity Closing balance at the end of financial year 33,818 5,304 Deferred tax assets expected to be recovered within 12 months 5,859 5,227 Deferred tax assets expected to be recovered after more than 12 months 27,959 77 Total deferred tax assets 33,818 5,304 Set off of deferred tax assets pursuant to set off provisions (33,818) (5,304) Net deferred tax assets 86 City West Water Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2020 4. Statutory obligations (continued) 4.2.2 Deferred tax liabilities 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 The balance of deferred tax liabilities comprises temporary differences attributable to: Amounts recognised in the Comprehensive Operating Statement Fixed assets – depreciation 82,546 85,880 Developer contributed assets 57,942 58,828 Defined benefit superannuation fund asset (132) (132) Right-of-use assets 27,802 Amounts recognised in equity Defined benefits actuarial gain 1,342 1,381 Land and buildings revaluation 205 2,458 Infrastructure assets revaluation 40,867 80,321 Total deferred tax liabilities 210,572 228,736 Movements: Opening balance at the start of the financial year 228,736 234,548 (Credited)/charged to the Comprehensive Operating Statement 20,119 (5,497) (Credited)/charged to equity (38,283) (315) Closing balance at the end of financial year 210,572 228,736 Deferred tax liabilities expected to be settled after more than 12 months 210,572 228,736 Total deferred tax liabilities 210,572 228,736 Set off of deferred tax assets pursuant to set off provisions (33,818) (5,304) Net deferred tax liabilities 176,754 223,432 4.3 Current tax liability 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 Current tax liability 7,366 Total current tax liability 7,366 City West Water’s current tax liability is tax payable based on the current financial year’s taxable income less any instalments paid during the year. Annual Report 2020 87 4.4 Dividends 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 Final dividend paid during 2020 in respect of 2019 53,900 Final dividend paid during 2019 in respect of 2018 20,400 Interim dividend paid in respect of current year 21,900 Total dividends paid 75,800 20,400 As City West Water is a Public Non-financial Corporation, it is required to pay a dividend in accordance with a determination by the Treasurer of Victoria under the Water Act 1989. An obligation to pay a dividend only arises after a formal determination is made by the Treasurer following consultation between the Board, the relevant portfolio Minister and the Treasurer. As the 2020 final dividend has not been determined by the Treasurer, it has not been provided for at reporting date. The Board’s preliminary estimate of the 2020 final dividend is $13.6m. 4.5 Environmental Contribution Section 193 of the Water Industry (Environmental Contributions) Act 2004 (the Act) establishes an obligation for water corporations to pay into the consolidated fund environmental contributions in accordance with an Order issued by the Minister for Water. The Environmental Contributions Order 2016 to 2020 establishes a schedule of amounts payable by each corporation for the reporting periods 2017 to 2020. The new tranche of the amounts payable for reporting periods 2021 to 2024 has been provided and will be reported in subsequent years. The purpose of the Environmental Contribution is set out in the Act. Funds may be used for the purpose of funding various water related initiatives that seek to promote the sustainable management of water or are likely to address adverse water related environmental impacts. Consistent with the Environmental Contributions Order 2016 to 2020 made under Section 193 of the Water Industry Act 1994, City West Water pays an Environmental Contribution to the Victorian Government. These contributions are recognised as expenses when they occur. 4.5.1 Environmental Contribution expense 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 Environmental Contribution expense 26,457 26,457 Total Environmental Contribution expense 26,547 26,457 88 City West Water Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2020 4. Statutory obligations (continued) 4.5.2 Environmental Contribution commitment Consistent with the requirements of the Water Industry Act 1994, City West Water has a commitment to pay an Environmental Contribution of $29.8m for the next year to the Department of Environment, Land, Water and Planning. 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 Not later than one year 29,843 26,457 Later than one year but not later than five years 89,529 Total Environmental Contribution commitment 119,372 26,457 Annual Report 2020 89 5. Assets available to support the provision of services City West Water controls infrastructure and other assets that are utilised in fulfilling its objectives and conducting its activities. These assets represent the resources that are owned by City West Water for use in the delivery of services. Where the assets included in this section are carried at fair value, additional information is disclosed in Section 8 of this report regarding how fair value is determined. Structure 5.1 Infrastructure, property, plant and equipment 5.2 Depreciation of infrastructure, property, plant and equipment 5.3 Impairment of infrastructure, property, plant and equipment 5.4 Commitments for capital expenditure on infrastructure, property, plant and equipment 5.5 Intangible assets 5.6 Amortisation of intangible assets 5.7 Impairment of intangible assets 5.8 Commitments for capital expenditure on intangible assets 5.9 Right-of-use assets 90 5. Assets available to support the provision of services (continued) 5.1 Infrastructure, property, plant and equipment City West Water NonNonInfrastrLeasehold Specialised specialised specialised ucture Plant & Motor improveWorks in land land buildings assets equipment vehicles ments progress Total $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 2019 Fair value at 1 July 2018 34,279 3,054 7,678 1,788,261 36,254 4,412 6,987 240,549 2,121,474 Accumulated depreciation at 1 July 2018 (832) (30,855) (2,027) (1,545) (35,259) Carrying amount at 1 July 2018 34,279 3,054 6,846 1,788,261 5,399 2,385 5,442 240,549 2,086,215 Additions 159,878 159,878 Developer contributed assets 47,252 (47,252) Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements 1 Transfers (net) 1,366 104,806 1,137 1,349 (109,620) (962) Revaluation (decrement)/increment recognised in other comprehensive income (1,734) (134) (9,787) (11,655) Revaluation (decrement)/increment recognised in profit or loss (67) (67) Disposals (net) (80) (401) (481) Impairment (net) (37) (37) Depreciation expense (247) (37,853) (2,195) (796) (424) (41,515) Fair value at 30 June 2019 32,545 2,853 9,044 1,892,599 28,893 4,671 6,987 243,518 2,221,110 Accumulated depreciation at 30 June 2019 (1,079) (24,552) (2,134) (1,969) (29,734) Carrying amount at 30 June 2019 32,545 2,853 7,965 1,892,599 4,341 2,537 5,018 243,518 2,191,376 For the year ended 30 June 2020 1. Balance represents a transfer to/from intangible assets. This occurs upon capitalisation of a project that generates both tangible and intangible assets. NonNonInfrastrLeasehold Specialised specialised specialised ucture Plant & Motor improveWorks in land land buildings assets equipment vehicles ments progress Total $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 2020 Fair value at 1 July 2019 32,545 2,853 9,044 1,892,599 28,893 4,671 6,987 243,518 2,221,110 Accumulated depreciation at 1 July 2019 (1,079) (24,552) (2,134) (1,969) (29,734) Carrying amount at 1 July 2019 32,545 2,853 7,965 1,892,599 4,341 2,537 5,018 243,518 2,191,376 Additions 192,047 192,047 Developer contributed assets 54,811 (54,811) 1 Transfers (net) 3 225,033 2,313 364 (227,860) (147) Revaluation (decrement)/increment recognised in other comprehensive income2 2,087 134 (128,161) (125,940) Revaluation (decrement)/increment recognised in profit or loss 67 67 Disposals (net) (28) (1) (190) (219) Impairment (net) (1,051) (1,051) Depreciation expense (225) (45,254) (1,156) (739) (423) (47,797) Fair value at 30 June 2020 34,632 3,054 9,047 1,999,000 27,501 4,394 6,987 151,843 2,236,458 Accumulated depreciation at 30 June 2020 (1,304) (22,004) (2,422) (2,392) (28,122) Carrying amount at 30 June 2020 34,632 3,054 7,743 1,999,000 5,497 1,972 4,595 151,843 2,208,336 1. Balance represents a transfer to/from intangible assets. This occurs upon capitalisation of a project that generates both tangible and intangible assets. 2. Further information on fair value of non-financial assets is disclosed in note 8.3.2. Annual Report 2020 91 92 City West Water Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2020 5. Assets available to support the provision of services (continued) Initial recognition All assets are measured at cost on initial recognition. Cost is determined as cash paid or the fair value of other consideration given up at the date of acquisition plus any costs directly attributable to acquisition. Fair value at acquisition is equal to cost. The cost of non-current assets constructed by City West Water includes all costs directly attributable to their construction. City West Water has a policy of capitalising labour costs which are directly attributable to capital projects. In the case of developer contributed assets, where actual cost is not available, cost is calculated using a schedule of rates determined by the corporation based on historical cost information. An asset is capitalised when it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to City West Water and the item can be measured reliably. City West Water has a capitalisation threshold of greater than or equal to $100 inclusive of GST (2019 $100). Subsequent measurement Infrastructure, property, plant and equipment are subsequently measured at fair value less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses (if applicable). Fair value is determined with regard to an asset’s highest and best use considering legal or physical restrictions imposed on the asset, public announcements, or commitments made in relation to the intended use of the asset. Fair value determination of non-current physical assets is discussed further in Section 8 – Risks contingencies and valuation judgements. The carrying amount of a replaced or abandoned asset is written off in the Comprehensive Operating Statement as an expense. An asset’s carrying amount is written down immediately to its recoverable amount if the asset’s carrying amount is greater than its estimated recoverable amount. Revaluation increases or decreases arise from differences between an asset’s carrying value and fair value. Net revaluation increases are credited directly to equity in the physical asset revaluation surplus unless the increase reverses a previous decrease that was recognised in profit or loss. In this case, the increase is recognised in profit or loss. Net revaluation decreases are recognised immediately as expenses in profit or loss, unless there is an asset revaluation surplus. In this case the decrease is recognised against the physical asset revaluation surplus. There were no changes in valuation techniques throughout the year to 30 June 2020. Land and buildings An independent valuation of land and buildings is required every five years. Interim management valuations may occur in between independent valuations if fair value assessments indicate material changes in values. The last independent valuation was undertaken by a Certified Practicing Valuer, Peter Molloy AAPI of Property Dynamics Pty Ltd, on behalf of the Valuer-General Victoria (VGV) as at 30 June 2016. An interim management valuation of land was performed at 30 June 2017 using VGV indices. The interim valuation led to an increment of $2.0m which was recognised in the accounts at 30 June 2017. Another interim management valuation was performed on 30 June 2018, which led to an increment of $3.3m recognised in the accounts at 30 June 2018. A third interim valuation was performed on 30 June 2019 which led to a $1.9m decrement recognised in the accounts as at 30 June 2019. A fourth interim valuation was performed on 30 June 2020 which led to a $2.3m increment recognised in the accounts as at 30 June 2020. The carrying amount (cost less accumulated depreciation) of land and buildings exclusive of revaluations was $4.4m (2019 $4.4m) and $7.0m (2019 $7.2m) respectively. Annual Report 2020 93 Infrastructure The valuation of infrastructure assets has been determined in accordance with an independent valuation. KPMG was engaged by City West Water as experts for this purpose. The valuation is at fair value based on the income approach (discounted cash flow method). For the purpose of the fair value estimate provided, fair market value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The carrying amount (cost less accumulated depreciation) of infrastructure exclusive of revaluations was $1,954.3m (2019 $1,714.2m). Plant and equipment, motor vehicles and leasehold improvements Plant and equipment, motor vehicles and leasehold improvements are measured at carrying value (current replacement cost) which is fair value. Unless there is market evidence that carrying value is significantly different to market value no adjustment will be made to the existing carrying value. 5.2 Depreciation of infrastructure, property, plant and equipment All infrastructure assets, buildings, plant and equipment and other non-current physical assets (excluding items under operating leases and assets held for sale) that have a limited useful life are depreciated. Depreciation is calculated on a straight line basis at rates that allocate an asset’s value less any estimated residual value over its estimated useful life. The useful life and residual value of each group of assets is reviewed annually. Depreciation of a new infrastructure asset begins in the month following the practical completion of works. Depreciation of other new assets begins in the month following acquisition. Useful lives The estimated useful lives of infrastructure, property plant and equipment are listed below. Asset type Range Buildings 5 – 90 years Infrastructure assets 3 – 100 years Plant and equipment 3 – 50 years Motor vehicles 5 years Leasehold improvements 7 – 20 years Right-of-use-assets (note 5.9) 3-47 years 5.3 Impairment of infrastructure, property, plant and equipment Infrastructure, property plant and equipment are assessed annually for indicators of impairment. If there is an indication of impairment, the assets concerned are tested as to whether their carrying value exceeds their recoverable amount. Where an asset’s carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount the difference is written off by a charge to the Comprehensive Operating Statement, unless the write-down can be offset against an asset revaluation surplus amount applicable to that class of asset. Recoverable amounts for assets held primarily to generate net cash inflows are measured at the higher of the net present value of future cash flows expected to be obtained from the asset and fair value less costs to sell. It is deemed that, in the event of the loss of an asset, the future economic benefits arising from the use of the asset will be replaced unless a specific decision to the contrary has been made. A reversal of an impairment loss on a revalued asset is credited directly to equity unless an impairment loss on the same class of asset was previously recognised in the Comprehensive Operating Statement. In this case the reversal of that impairment loss is recognised in the Comprehensive Operating Statement. 94 City West Water Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2020 5. Assets available to support the provision of services (continued) 5.4 Commitments for capital expenditure on infrastructure, property, plant and equipment 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 Not later than one year 11,787 17,817 Later than one year but not later than five years 3,793 Total capital commitments 11,787 21,610 Commitments for future expenditure include capital commitments arising from contracts. These commitments are not recognised in the Balance Sheet. They are disclosed at nominal value inclusive of GST payable. These future expenditures cease to be disclosed as commitments once the related liabilities are recognised in the Balance Sheet. 5.5 Intangible assets Other Water intangible Works in Software entitlements assets progress Total $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 2019 Cost at 1 July 2018 130,069 96,916 26 5,382 232,393 Accumulated amortisation at 1 July 2018 (67,951) (67,951) Carrying amount at 1 July 2018 62,118 96,916 26 5,382 164,442 Additions 12,740 12,740 Transfers (net) 1 6,818 (5,856) 962 Impairment (net) Amortisation expense (10,996) (10,996) Cost at 30 June 2019 119,045 96,916 26 12,266 228,253 Accumulated amortisation at 30 June 2019 (61,105) (61,105) Carrying amount at 30 June 2019 57,940 96,916 26 12,266 167,148 2020 Cost at 1 July 2019 119,045 96,916 26 12,266 228,253 Accumulated amortisation at 1 July 2019 (61,105) (61,105) Carrying amount at 1 July 2019 57,940 96,916 26 12,266 167,148 Additions 15,201 15,201 Transfers (net) 1 11,781 (11,634) 147 Disposals (net) (33) (33) Impairment (net) (255) (255) Amortisation expense (12,457) (12,457) Cost at 30 June 2020 130,724 96,916 26 15,578 243,244 Accumulated amortisation at 30 June 2020 (73,493) (73,493) Carrying amount at 30 June 2020 57,231 96,916 26 15,578 169,751 1. Balance represents a transfer to/from infrastructure, property, plant and equipment. This occurs upon capitalisation of a project that generates both tangible and intangible assets. Annual Report 2020 95 Intangible assets are initially recognised at cost and subsequently at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses (if applicable). Intangible assets consist of software, water entitlement rights and other intangible assets. Software Software assets are initially recognised at cost and subsequently recognised at cost less accumulated amortisation and impairment losses (if applicable). Water entitlements Water entitlements have an indefinite useful life as they are held in perpetuity. As such they are not amortised. Instead they are tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that they might be impaired. Water entitlements represent City West Water’s bulk water entitlements held in Northern Victoria as a result of its investment in Stage 1 of the Goulburn-Murray Water Connections Project. The project was originally established in 2007 as the Northern Victoria Irrigation Renewal Project (NVIRP). On 1 July 2012 NVIRP was merged with Goulburn-Murray Water to form the Goulburn-Murray Water Connections Project. The metropolitan water retailers contributed $300m to the $1 billion Stage 1 investment, which was completed in 2013. City West Water contributed $100m to the Connections Project to fund 25GL in long-term average annual water savings. Water entitlement accrues to City West Water as long-term savings are made under the Project. The Project is scheduled for completion in 2020. The carrying amount at balance date represents City West Water’s share of contributions, net of the share of contributions from four regional urban water corporations with access to Melbourne’s pooled entitlement. Other intangible assets Other intangible assets have an indefinite useful life as they are held in perpetuity. As such they are not amortised. Instead they are tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that they might be impaired. 5.6 Amortisation of intangible assets All intangible assets with a useful life are amortised. Amortisation is generally calculated on a straight line basis at rates that allocate an asset’s value less any estimated residual value over its estimated useful life. The useful life and residual value of each group of assets is reviewed annually. Amortisation of new software and other intangible assets begins in the month following commissioning. Useful lives The estimated useful lives of intangible assets are listed below. Asset type Range Software 3 – 10 years Water entitlements Indefinite Other intangible assets Indefinite 96 City West Water Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2020 5. Assets available to support the provision of services (continued) 5.7 Impairment of intangible assets Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are tested annually for indicators of impairment. If there is an indication of impairment, the assets concerned are tested as to whether their carrying value exceeds their recoverable amount. Where an asset’s carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount the difference is written off by a charge to the Comprehensive Operating Statement, unless the write-down can be offset against an asset revaluation surplus amount applicable to that class of asset. The recoverable amount for most intangible assets is measured as the higher of current replacement cost and fair value less costs to sell. Recoverable amounts for assets held primarily to generate net cash inflows are measured at the higher of the present value of future cash flows expected to be obtained from the asset and fair value less costs to sell. It is deemed that in the event of the loss of an asset, the future economic benefits arising from the use of the asset will be replaced unless a specific decision to the contrary has been made. A reversal of an impairment loss on a revalued intangible asset is credited directly to equity, unless an impairment loss on the same class of asset was previously recognised in the Comprehensive Operating Statement. In this case a reversal of that impairment loss is also recognised in the Comprehensive Operating Statement. 5.8 Commitments for capital expenditure on intangible assets 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 Not later than one year 162 682 Later than one year but not later than five years 189 Total capital commitments 351 682 Commitments for future capital expenditure on intangible assets include capital commitments arising from contracts. These commitments are not recognised in the Balance Sheet. They are disclosed at nominal value inclusive of GST payable. These future expenditures cease to be disclosed as commitments once the related liabilities are recognised in the Balance Sheet. 5.9 Right-of-use assets This note provides information for leases where the corporation is a lessee. Buildings Land Equipmen Total $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 2020 As at 30 June 2019 Effects of adopting AASB 16 (note 1.3) 93,965 1,451 1,993 97,409 As at 1 July 2019 – Restated 93,965 1,451 1,993 97,409 Additions 485 485 Depreciation (4,389) (49) (781) (5,219) As at 30 June 2020 89,576 1,402 1,697 92,675 Cost 93,965 1,451 2,478 97,894 Accumulated depreciation (4,389) (49) (781) (5,219) Carrying amount at 30 June 2020 89,576 1,402 1,697 92,675 Information on lease properties is presented in note 3.6. Annual Report 2020 97 Other leases of properties with contract term of less than a year are either short-term and or/ leases of low-value items. City West Water has elected not to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for these leases. (i) The corporation’s leasing activities and how these are accounted for The corporation leases various properties and equipment. Rental contracts are typically made for fixed periods of 3 to 47 years, but may have extension options as described below. Contracts may contain both lease and non-lease components. The corporation allocates the consideration in the contract to the lease and non-lease components based on their relative stand-alone prices. Lease terms are negotiated on an individual basis and contain a wide range of different terms and conditions. The lease agreements do not impose any covenants, but leased assets may not be used as security for borrowing purposes. From 1 July 2019 leases are recognised as a right-of-use asset and a corresponding liability (borrowings) at the date at which the leased asset is available for use by the corporation. Assets and liabilities arising from a lease are initially measured on a present value basis. Lease liabilities Lease liabilities include the net present value of the following lease payments: • fixed payments (including in-substance fixed payments), less any lease incentives receivable • variable lease payments that are based on an index or a rate • amounts expected to be payable by the lessee under residual value guarantees • the exercise price of a purchase option if the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise that option, and • payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the lessee exercising that option. Each lease payment is allocated between the liability and finance cost. The finance cost is charged to comprehensive operating statement over the lease period to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period. Lease payments to be made under reasonably certain extension options are also included in the measurement of the liability. The lease payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease or the Corporation’s incremental borrowing rate. Treasury Corporation of Victoria (TCV)/Department of Treasury’s (DTF) calculator is used to determine incremental borrowing rate. Information on incremental borrowing rate is disclosed in note 7.1. Right-of-use assets Right-of-use assets are initially measured at cost comprising the following: • the amount of the initial measurement of lease liability; • any lease payments made at or before the commencement date, less any lease incentives received; • any initial direct costs; and • restoration costs. If the corporation is reasonably certain to exercise a purchase option, the right-of-use asset is depreciated over the underlying asset’s useful life. While the corporation revalues its land and buildings that are presented within property, plant and equipment, it has chosen not to do so for the right-of-use buildings held by the corporation. Right-of-use assets are generally depreciated over the shorter of the asset’s useful life and the lease term on a straightline basis. 98 City West Water Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2020 5. Assets available to support the provision of services (continued) Payments associated with short-term leases and leases of low-value assets are recognised on a straight-line basis as an expense in profit or loss. Short-term leases are leases with a lease term of 12 months or less. Low-value assets comprise IT-equipment and photo copiers with individual values less than $10,000 when new. The corporation is exposed to future cash outflows to which the lessee is potentially exposed that are not reflected in the measurement of lease liabilities. This includes exposure arising from: • variable lease payments; • extension options and termination options; • residual value guarantees; and • leases not yet commenced to which the lessee is committed. Variable lease payments Some property leases contain variable payment terms. Variable payment terms are used for a variety of reasons, including minimising the fixed costs base for newly established corporations. Variable lease payments that depend on a specific variable metric are recognised in the comprehensive operating statement in which the condition that triggers those payments occurs. (ii) Extension and termination options Extension and termination options are included in a number of property and equipment leases across the corporation. These terms are used to maximise operational flexibility in terms of managing contracts. The majority of extension and termination options held are exercisable only by the corporation and not by the respective lessor. Residual value guarantee To optimise lease costs during the contract period, the corporation sometimes provides residual value guarantees in relation to equipment leases. Critical judgements in determining the lease term In determining the lease term, the corporation considers all facts and circumstances that create an economic incentive to exercise an extension option, or not exercise a termination option. The assessment is reviewed if a significant event or a significant change in circumstances occurs which affects this assessment. During the current financial year, the financial effect to reflect the effect of exercising extension and termination options was an increase in recognised lease liabilities and right-of-use assets of $485,120. Annual Report 2020 99 6. Other assets and liabilities This section sets out the assets and liabilities that arose from City West Water’s operations. Structure 6.1 Receivables 6.2 Payables 6.3 Advances and deposits 6.4 Contract liabilities 6.5 Inventories 6.6 Other non-financial assets 6.7 Other provisions 6.1 Receivables 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 Contractual Contract assets 46,222 45,679 Trade receivables 65,096 55,822 Less: Expected credit loss allowance (4,688) (3,486) Total contractual receivables 106,630 98,015 Statutory Trade receivables 2,124 2,477 Total statutory receivables 2,124 2,477 Total receivables 108,754 100,492 Represented by Current receivables 108,754 100,492 Contractual receivables are classified as financial instruments. They are initially recognised at fair value and subsequently at amortised cost less provision for impairment. Contract assets are recognised for water and sewage usage as well as other works and services where performance obligations have been satisfied but not yet invoiced. An accrual is done to account for water and sewage usage and other works and services not billed at the end of the period. The accrual of water usage charges and sewage disposal charges is made by using the volume of water City West Water purchases from Melbourne Water less estimate of nonrevenue water. Trade receivables are due for settlement no later than 21 days from the date of recognition. Trade receivables consist of receivables for the provision of water, sewerage and trade waste services to residential and non-residential customers as well as billing and collection fees associated with these receivables. Statutory receivables are not classified as financial instruments as they do not arise from contracts. Statutory receivables are recognised and measured similarly to contractual receivables, except for impairment. Statutory trade receivables are GST receivables. 100 City West Water Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2020 6. Other assets and liabilities (Continued) 6.1.1 Movements in the expected credit loss allowance 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 Opening balance at the start of the year (3,486) (2,736) Remeasurement of opening balance on adoption of new accounting standards – AASB15 (410) Provision for expected credit loss recognised during the year (2,327) (3,072) Contractual receivables written off during the year as uncollectible 1,125 2,731 Closing balance at the end of the year (4,688) (3,486) City West Water applies the AASB 9 simplified approach to measuring expected credit losses which uses a lifetime expected loss allowance for contractual receivables. To measure expected credit losses, contract receivables have been grouped based on shared credit risk characteristics and days past due. The expected loss rates are based on the payment profiles of sales over a period of three years prior to 30 June 2020 (three years to 1 July 2019). The historical loss rates are adjusted to reflect current and forward-looking information on factors affecting the ability of customers to settle receivables. Receivables are written off when there is no reasonable expectation of recovery. Indicators of non-recovery include, amongst others, the failure of a debtor to engage in a repayment plan and failure to make contractual payments for a period of greater than 90 days past due. In 2020, City West Water has extended its hardship and vulnerability program to its customers as a result of the impact of COVID-19. Consequently, there have been lower write-offs in comparison to 2019. The new arrangements have resulted in an increase in the 90 plus day debt (see note 6.1.2). Due to the increase in 90 plus day debt, City West Water has provided for an additional loss allowance. 6.1.2 Loss allowance for contractual trade receivables Greater 30-59 60-89 than 90 Not Current days days days impaired Total $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 30 June 2019 Expected loss rate 0.5% 2.8% 14.8% 36.9% Gross carrying amount 38,383 5,086 2,316 7,286 2,751 55,822 Loss allowance (181) (140) (343) (2,822) (3,486) Net carrying amount 38,202 4,946 1,973 4,464 2,751 52,336 30 June 2020 Expected loss rate 0.3% 0.8% 5.3% 21.5% Gross carrying amount 33,299 11,561 3,787 13,601 2,848 65,096 Loss allowance (110) (92) (200) (4,286) (4,688) Net carrying amount 33,189 11,469 3,587 9,315 2,848 60,408 Annual Report 2020 101 6.2 Payables 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 Contractual Trade payables 46,285 52,919 Other payables 15,992 17,455 Deferred developer reimbursements 18,853 20,711 Sundry liabilities 277 270 Total contractual payables 81,407 91,355 Statutory Trade payables 1,413 313 Other payables 4,701 4,572 Total statutory payables 6,114 4,885 Total payables 87,521 96,240 Represented by Current payables 87,521 96,240 Contractual payables are classified as financial instruments. They are measured at amortised cost and recognised on an accrual basis in the period in which they are incurred. Trade payables represent liabilities for goods and services provided to City West Water prior to the end of the financial year that are unpaid at the end of the financial year. Other payables represent accrued loan interest. Statutory payables are recognised and measured similarly to contractual payables, but are not classified as financial instruments and are not included in the category of financial liabilities as they do not arise from contracts. Deferred developer reimbursements represent a liability to reimburse developers for their costs incurred in constructing water, sewerage and/or recycled water assets on behalf of City West Water. It is City West Water’s policy to settle all payables within 30 days of receipt of invoice or, in the event of a dispute, within 30 days of the resolution of the dispute. 6.2.1 Maturity analysis of contractual payables Carrying Nominal 1 Year Over amount amount or less 1 Year Total $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 2019 Payables 91,355 91,355 91,355 91,355 Total contractual payables 91,355 91,355 91,355 91,355 2020 Payables 81,407 81,407 81,407 81,407 Total contractual payables 81,407 81,407 81,407 81,407 102 City West Water Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2020 6. Other assets and liabilities (Continued) 6.3 Advances and deposits 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 Advances and deposits 8,650 7,172 Total advances and deposits 8,650 7,172 Advances and deposits represent deposits received as security for capital works. 6.4 Contract liabilities 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 Contract liabilities 19,196 29,889 Total contract liabilities 19,196 29,889 Movement in contract liabilities $’000 Carrying amounts as at 1 July 2019 29,889 Add: Developers contribution received for performance obligations yet to be completed during the year 81,226 Less: Revenue recognised for the completion of performance obligation (91,919) Carrying amounts as at 30 June 2020 19,196 Contract liabilities represent income received in advance of the corporation performing obligations required to recognise the income in the Comprehensive Operating Statement. City West Water has performance obligations relating to developer revenue from contracts with customers that are recognised either at a point in time or over time. Refer to Note 2.3 for details of these performance obligations. 6.5 Inventory 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 Inventory (at cost) 2,789 2,474 Total inventory 2,789 2,474 Inventory represents stock on hand at the end of the reporting period. Inventory is primarily used for the repair and maintenance of existing assets. Inventory is measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Annual Report 2020 103 6.6 Other non-financial assets 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 Prepayments 4,586 4,410 Income tax refundable 2,821 Total other non-financial assets 4,586 7,231 Prepayments represent payments made in advance of the receipt of goods or services or that part of expenditure made in one accounting period covering a term extending beyond that period. Amounts are recognised as an asset upon payment and subsequently expensed over the period the payment covers. 6.7 Other provisions 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 Current Insurance provision 865 509 Other sundry provisions 1,312 876 Total other provisions – current 2,177 1,385 Insurance Other Total $’000 $’000 $’000 Carrying amount as at 1 July 2019 509 876 1,385 Additional provisions recognised 1,199 436 1,635 Payments/other sacrifices of economic benefit (843) (843) Carrying amount as at 30 June 2020 865 1,312 2,177 Other provisions are recognised when the corporation has a present obligation, the future sacrifice of economic benefits is probable, and the amount of the provision can be measured reliably. The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at reporting date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation. When a provision is measured using the cash flows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash flows, using a discount rate that reflects the time value of money and the risks specific to the provision. When some or all of the economic benefits required to settle a provision are expected to be received from a third party, a receivable is recognised if it is virtually certain that the economic benefits will be received and their amount can be measured reliably. 104 City West Water Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2020 7. Financing our operations This section provides information on the sources of finance used by City West Water during its operations as well as interest expense (the cost of borrowings) and other information relating to the financing activities of the corporation. Structure 7.1 Borrowings 7.2 Cash flow information and balances 7.1 Borrowings 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 Current Treasury Corporation of Victoria 23,000 19,900 Lease liabilities 2,068 Total current borrowings 25,068 19,900 Non-current Treasury Corporation of Victoria 1,370,000 1,230,000 Lease liabilities 93,917 Total non-current borrowings 1,463,917 1,230,000 Total borrowings 1,488,985 1,249,900 Borrowings refers to interest bearing liabilities raised from public borrowings through the Treasury Corporation of Victoria and lease liabilities. Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred and subsequently measured at amortised cost. Borrowings include overnight (11am) borrowings, floating rate notes, fixed rate loans and flexi loans. Borrowings are used primarily to meet working capital requirements and fund capital expenditure. The accounting policy for lease liabilities is presented in note 5.9. Any difference between the initial amount recognised (net of transaction costs) and the redemption amount is recognised in the Comprehensive Operating Statement over the period of the interest bearing liabilities using the effective interest method. Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the corporation has an unconditional right to defer settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after balance date. City West Water has classified borrowings which mature within 12 months as non-current liabilities on the basis that the corporation has discretion to, and will refinance or roll over these loans with the Treasury Corporation of Victoria pursuant to section 8 of the Borrowings and Investment Powers Act 1987. 11am borrowings are classified as current borrowings. No security has been provided in respect of any existing liability. During the current and prior years there were no defaults or breaches of any loan. City West Water’s credit rating is BBB (2019 BBB). Annual Report 2020 105 7.1.1 Maturity analysis of borrowings Weighted Carrying Nominal 1 year average amount amount or less Over 1 year Total interest rate $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 2019 Borrowings – fixed1 3.88% 1,210,000 1,210,000 1,210,000 1,210,000 Borrowings – floating 1 1.58% 39,900 39,900 19,900 20,000 39,900 Total borrowings 1,249,900 1,249,900 19,900 1,230,000 1,249,900 2020 Borrowings – fixed1 3.42% 1,360,000 1,360,000 1,360,000 1,360,000 Borrowings – floating 1 0.42% 33,000 33,000 23,000 10,000 33,000 Borrowings – lease liabilities 2 2.84% 95,985 141,842 5,129 136,713 141,842 Total borrowings 1,488,985 1,534,842 28,129 1,506,713 1,534,842 1. Weighted average interest rate is exclusive of financial accommodation levy. 2. Based on TCV yield rate plus financial accommodation levy. 7.1.2 Finance expenses 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 Finance expenses Interest on leases liabilities 3,108 Interest on TCV borrowings 47,519 49,097 Financial accommodation levy 18,124 17,307 Bank charges 18 14 Total finance expenses 68,769 66,418 Finance expenses include costs incurred in connection with the borrowing of funds. Finance expenses include interest on bank overdrafts, short term and long-term borrowings and interest component of lease payments. Finance expense is recognised in the period in which it is incurred and measured at fair value. 7.2 Cash flow information and balances 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 Cash and cash equivalents Cash at bank 547 1,327 Total cash and cash equivalents 547 1,327 Cash and deposits, including cash equivalents, comprise cash on hand and cash at bank, deposits at call and highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less. They are held for the purpose of meeting short term cash commitments, are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value. For cash flow statement presentation purposes, cash and cash equivalents includes bank overdrafts, which are included as current borrowings on the Balance Sheet. 106 City West Water Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2020 7. Financing our operations (Continued) 7.2.1 Reconciliation of profit after income tax to net cash inflow from operating activities 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 Profit after income tax expense 89,041 63,099 Non-cash movements: Depreciation and amortisation of assets 65,473 52,511 Impaired receivables 2,327 3,482 Defined benefit superannuation fund expense 559 617 Asset impairments 1,306 104 Asset revaluation increment (67) Net gain on disposal of non-current physical assets (135) (122) Developer contributed assets (46,947) (47,315) Movements in assets and liabilities: Decrease/(increase) in receivables (10,588) 3,899 Decrease/(increase) in prepayments (176) 161 Decrease/(increase) in inventories (315) (776) Decrease/(increase) in deferred tax assets due to change in accounting standards 3,427 Increase/(decrease) in payables (6,070) 6,757 Increase/(decrease) in advances and deposits 1,477 1,037 Increase/(decrease) in contract liabilities 28,541 Increase/(decrease) in contract liabilities due to change in accounting standards (10,693) (11,425) Increase/(decrease) in current tax liability 10,186 (13,250) Increase/(decrease) in provision for employee benefits 753 895 Increase/(decrease) in other provisions 792 (284) Increase/(decrease) in deferred tax liabilities (8,462) (3,248) Net cash inflow from operating activities 88,461 88,110 Annual Report 2020 107 8. Risks, contingencies and valuation judgements City West Water is exposed to risk from its activities and outside factors. In addition, it is often necessary to make judgements and estimates associated with recognition and measurement of items in the financial statements. Structure 8.1 Financial instruments specific disclosures 8.2 Contingent assets and contingent liabilities 8.3 Fair value determination 8.1 Financial instruments specific disclosures Introduction Financial instruments arise out of contractual agreements that give rise to a financial asset of one entity and a financial liability or equity instrument of another entity. Due to the nature of City West Water’s activities, certain financial assets and financial liabilities arise under statute rather than a contract (for example, taxes, dividends and the Environmental Contribution). Such assets and liabilities do not meet the definition of financial instruments in AASB 132 – Financial Instruments: Presentation. Categories of financial instruments Financial assets are measured at amortised cost if both of the following criteria are met and the assets are not designated as fair value through net result: • the assets are held by the corporation to collect the contractual cash flows; and • the asset’s contractual terms give rise to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest. Receivables and cash are financial instrument assets with fixed and determinable payments that are not quoted on an active market. These assets are initially recognised at fair value plus any directly attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial measurement, receivables are measured at amortised cost less provision for impairment, using the effective interest method. Financial liabilities are initially recognised on the date of origin. They are initially measured at fair value plus any attributable transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost, with any difference between the initial recognised amount and the redemption value being recognised in profit and loss over the period of the interest bearing liability using the effective interest rate method. City West Water recognises the following liabilities in this category: • payables (excluding statutory payables); and • borrowings. Financial instrument assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount is presented in the balance sheet when the corporation has a right to offset the amounts and intends either to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. A financial asset is derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired. A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged, cancelled or expires. At the end of each reporting period, the corporation assesses whether there is objective evidence that a financial asset or group of assets is impaired. All financial instrument assets are subject to annual review for impairment. In assessing impairment of statutory (non-contractual) financial assets, which are not financial instruments, professional judgement is applied in assessing materiality using estimates, averages and other methods in accordance with AASB 136 – Impairment of Assets. 108 City West Water Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2020 8. Risks, contingencies and valuation judgements (continued) 8.1.1 Categorisation of financial instruments Contractual financial assets – loans and Contractual receivables at financial liabilities at amortised cost amortised cost Note $’000 $’000 2019 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 7.2 1,327 Receivables 1 6.1 98,015 Total financial assets 99,342 Financial liabilities Payables1 6.2 91,355 Borrowings – fixed 7.1.1 1,210,000 Borrowings – floating 7.1.1 39,900 Total financial liabilities 1,341,255 2020 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 7.2 547 Receivables 1 6.1 106,630 Total financial assets 107,177 Financial liabilities Payables1 6.2 81,407 Borrowings – fixed 7.1.1 1,360,000 Borrowings – floating 7.1.1 33,000 Borrowings – lease liabilities 7.1.1 95,985 Total financial liabilities 1,474,407 1. Does not include statutory receivables or payables. Annual Report 2020 109 8.1.2 Financial risk management objectives and policies City West Water’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks, principally market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of City West Water’s risk management framework. City West Water’s principal financial instruments comprise: • cash assets; • receivables (excluding statutory receivables); • payables (excluding statutory payables); and • borrowings. City West Water’s principal financial instruments are loans sourced from the Treasury Corporation of Victoria. These loans include overnight (11am) borrowings, floating rate notes and fixed rate loans. They are primarily used to meet working capital requirements and fund capital expenditure. The corporation has other financial assets and liabilities such as receivables and payables which arise directly from its operating activities. City West Water’s overall financial risk management strategy is to manage its financial risks within a range that is in accordance with the risk criteria established by the Board of Directors. The Chief Financial Officer evaluates and implements risk mitigation strategies in consultation with the corporation’s relevant departments. The main purpose in holding financial instruments is to prudently manage the corporation’s financial risks within Government policy parameters. City West Water uses different methods to measure different types of risk to which it is exposed. These methods include sensitivity analysis in the case of interest rate risk and ageing analysis for credit risk. All interest income earned by City West Water is generated by cash deposits with the Department of Treasury and Finance’s Central Banking System or 11am (short term) deposit with the Treasury Corporation of Victoria. City West Water manages its capital by maintaining a prudent level of gearing in order to provide the State with adequate returns and to ensure City West Water can fund its operations as a going concern. City West Water aims to maintain its gearing ratio within the Essential Services Commission’s benchmark ratio of 60 per cent. City West Water’s gearing ratio (debt which includes lease liabilities/total assets) for the year was 57.5 per cent compared to 50.5 per cent in 2019. The corporation’s debt to regulatory asset base (RAB) target (excluding lease liabilities) is 72.8 per cent. The target was achieved in 2020 with a debt to RAB of 70.8 per cent. City West Water has an interest coverage target (measured as net cash flow from operations less net interest expense/ net interest expense) of 1.8 times. This target was achieved in 2020 with interest coverage of 2.3 times. The only externally imposed capital requirements applying to City West Water are: • that the financial accommodation does not exceed the approval limits set by the Treasurer of Victoria pursuant to the Borrowing and Investment Powers Act 1987; and • that City West Water, with the exception of a trading account with overdraft facilities, is required to borrow exclusively with the Treasury Corporation of Victoria pursuant to the Borrowing and Investment Powers Act 1987. 110 City West Water Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2020 8. Risks, contingencies and valuation judgements (continued) 8.1.2.1 Financial instruments – credit risk Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to City West Water as the result of a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument failing to meet a contractual obligation. Credit risk arises principally in connection with City West Water’s receivables. City West Water’s exposure to credit risk is influenced by the individual characteristics of each customer. The corporation’s receivables balance consists of amounts due from a large number of residential customers as well as nonresidential customers spread across a diverse range of industries. Receivables balances are monitored on an ongoing basis. Where applicable, collection action is taken to ensure that exposure to bad debt is minimised. City West Water has in place a policy and a procedure for the collection of overdue receivables. City West Water’s maximum exposure to credit risk is the carrying amount of receivables. To assist customers experiencing financial hardship, during COVID-19, CWW’s traditional debt collection activities have been adjusted. There were no other material changes to City West Water’s credit risk profile during 2020. 8.1.2.2 Financial instruments – liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that City West Water will no longer meet its financial obligations as they fall due. City West Water’s policy is to pay its trade accounts payable liablilities within 30 days, or in the event of a dispute, within 30 days from the date of resolution. To assist suppliers during COVID-19, CWW implemented 10-day maximum settlement terms for suppliers from March 2020. City West Water manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate bank overdraft and Treasury Corporation of Victoria borrowing facilities, continuous monitoring of forecast inflows and outflows and matching the maturity profile of financial assets and financial liabilities where appropriate. City West Water’s borrowings are sourced from TCV while surplus funds are invested in the Central Banking System. The carrying amounts of contractual financial liabilities represent the corporation’s maximum exposure to liquidity risk. The fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities must be estimated for recognition and measurement and for disclosure purposes. The carrying values less any impairment provisions of trade receivables and payables are assumed to approximate their fair value due to their short term nature. The fair values of financial liabilities for disclosure purposes are estimated by discounting future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate that is available to City West Water for similar financial instruments. 8.1.2.3 Financial instruments – market risk Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices will affect the fair value of future cash flows of City West Water’s financial instruments. Market risk is comprised of interest rate risk, foreign exchange risk and other price risk. City West Water’s exposure to market risk is purely through interest rates. City West Water’s exposure to market interest rates relates to its floating rate debt, roll over of fixed rate debt and new borrowings. City West Water’s borrowings are sourced from the Treasury Corporation of Victoria and are managed within the range of Board and Treasurer approved limits. Interest rates and borrowing requirements are monitored regularly. City West Water manages its exposure to interest rate changes by holding a mixture of fixed and floating rate debt. City West Water’s Treasury Risk Management Policy requires the corporation to limit the proportion of floating rate debt to a maximum of 30 per cent of total debt. City West Water has minimal exposure to interest rate risk through cash holdings and manages its interest rate exposure on cash by investing its surplus funds with the Central Banking System. Annual Report 2020 111 Interest rate exposure and maturity analysis of financial instruments The carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities that are exposed to interest rates and the corporation’s sensitivity to interest rate risk is set out in the table below. NonWeighted 1 Year Over 1 interest average or less year bearing Total Note interest rate $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 2019 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 7.2 1.64% 1,327 1,327 Receivables1 6.1 98,015 98,015 Total financial assets 1,327 98,015 99,342 Financial liabilities Payables1 6.2 91,355 91,355 Borrowings – fixed 7.1.1 3.88% 1,210,000 1,210,000 Borrowings – floating 7.1.1 1.58% 19,900 20,000 39,900 Total financial liabilities 19,900 1,230,000 91,355 1,341,255 2020 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 7.2 0.17% 547 547 Receivables 1 6.1 106,630 106,630 Total financial assets 547 106,630 107,177 Financial liabilities Payables1 6.2 81,545 81,545 Borrowings – fixed 7.1.1 3.42% 1,360,000 1,360,000 Borrowings – floating 7.1.1 0.42% 23,000 10,000 33,000 Borrowings – lease liabilities 7.1.1 2.84% 2,068 93,917 95,985 Total financial liabilities 25,068 1,463,917 81,545 1,570,530 1. Does not include statutory receivables or payables. 112 City West Water Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2020 8. Risks, contingencies and valuation judgements (continued) Interest rate risk sensitivity The table below represents the sensitivity of City West Water’s financial assets and financial liabilities to interest rate risk. Interest rate risk -0.5% +0.5% Total Profit Equity Profit Equity Note $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 2019 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents1 7.2 1,327 (5) (5) 5 5 Receivables 2 6.1 98,015 Total financial assets 99,342 (5) (5) 5 5 Financial liabilities Payables2 6.2 91,355 Borrowings 3 7.1 1,249,900 1,032 1,032 (1,032) (1,032) Total financial liabilities 1,341,255 1,032 1,032 (1,032) (1,032) Total increase/(decrease) 1,027 1,027 (1,027) (1,027) 2020 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents1 7.2 547 (3) (3) 3 3 Receivables 2 6.1 106,630 Total financial assets 107,177 (3) (3) 3 3 Financial liabilities Payables2 6.2 81,545 Borrowings – TCV 3 7.1 1,393,000 1,373 1,373 (1,373) (1,373) Borrowings – lease liabilities 4 7.1 95,985 336 336 (336) (336) Total financial liabilities 1,570,530 1,709 1,709 (1,709) (1,709) Total increase/(decrease) 1,706 1,706 (1,706) (1,706) 1. Calculation is based on average cash holdings of $0.9m (2019 $1.0m). 2. Does not include statutory receivables and payables. 3. Calculation is based on new borrowings, loans refinanced, forward rate agreements struck during the year and average 11am balance during the year. 4. Calculation is based on outstanding lease and current incremental borrowing rate. Annual Report 2020 113 8.2 Contingent assets and contingent liabilities Contingent assets and liabilities are not recognised in the Balance Sheet but are disclosed and, if quantifiable, are measured at nominal value. Contingent assets and liabilities are presented inclusive of GST receivable or payable respectively where applicable. Contingent assets are assets that arise from past events, whose existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of uncertain future event(s) that are not within the control of the corporation. These are classified as either quantifiable where the potential economic benefit is known or non-quantifiable. Contingent liabilities are: • possible obligations that arise from past events, whose existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence or nonoccurrence of uncertain future event(s) that are not within the control of the corporation; or • present obligations that arise from past events but are not recognised because: it is not probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligations; or the amount of the obligations cannot be measured with sufficient reliability. Quantifiable contingent assets In the ordinary course of business, a developer will often provide a commitment to City West Water to construct water supply and sewerage assets as part of a development project. These assets are constructed within an agreed timeframe and upon completion, ownership is transferred to City West Water. Assets that service a particular development are paid for by the developer. Assets that are required to be upsized to service adjoining developments are paid for by City West Water. Upon completion of these assets they will be transferred to City West Water, which will maintain them in perpetuity. These assets will be recognised as developer contributions upon completion (refer Note 2.3). 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 Quantifiable contingent assets Water supply assets under construction 11,432 36,856 Sewerage assets under construction 32,784 27,885 Water supply assets committed to 27,436 64,397 Sewerage assets committed to 34,718 40,931 Total quantifiable contingent assets 106,730 170,069 114 City West Water Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2020 8. Risks, contingencies and valuation judgements (continued) Quantifiable contingent liabilities Contingent upon the completion of the above assets City West Water has a liability to reimburse developers for additional works constructed at City West Water’s request. These reimbursements will occur either immediately on completion of the assets or be deferred for an agreed period in accordance with the conditions of the agreement between City West Water and the developer. These reimbursements will be recovered through a combination of new customer contributions plus service and usage charges from all customers. This is consistent with the Essential Services Commission’s final determination for water and sewerage prices in June 2019 (for the 2020 reporting period). 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 Quantifiable contingent liabilities Reimbursement for water supply assets 13,842 25,862 Reimbursement for sewerage assets 40,291 64,720 Total quantifiable contingent liabilities 54,133 90,582 Non-quantifiable contingent assets and liabilities City West Water has legal claims pending arising out of a small number of disputes associated with its capital program and delivery of services. Due to the uncertainty inherent in litigation an accurate assessment of any outcome is not possible. City West Water is of the view that further disclosure of these disputes may prejudice the position of the corporation. City West Water is aware of an administrative decision that has directly impacted a water corporation. City West Water was not a party to the proceeding and the decision is not binding on City West Water. City West Water is reviewing the decision in detail and considering the potential implications of this non-quantifiable contingent liability. 8.3 Fair value determination Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The following assets and liabilities are carried at fair value: • land, buildings, infrastructure, property plant and equipment; and • defined benefit superannuation liability/(asset). In addition, the fair values of other assets and liabilities which are carred at amortised cost need to be determined for disclosure purposes. Fair value hierarchy In determining fair value a number of inputs are used. To increase consistency and comparability in the financial statements, these inputs are categorised into three levels, also known as the fair value hierarchy. These levels are as follows: • Level 1 – quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; • Level 2 – valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is directly or indirectly observable; and • Level 3 – valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement is unobservable. Annual Report 2020 115 City West Water determines whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by reassessing categorisation (based on the lowest level input that is significant to the fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of each reporting period. 8.3.1 Fair value determination of financial assets and liabilities The fair values of financial liabilities are determined as follows: • Level 1 – fair value of a financial instrument with standard terms and conditions and traded in active liquid markets are determined with reference to quoted market prices; • Level 2 – fair value is determined using inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the financial asset or liability, either directly or indirectly; and • Level 3 – fair value is determined in accordance with generally accepted pricing models based on discounted cash flow analysis using unobservable market inputs. Fair value of financial instruments measured at amortised cost and fair value hierarchy measurements Carrying Fair Fair value measurement using amount value Level 13 Level 24 Level 35 Note $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 2019 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 7.2 1,327 1,327 1,327 Receivables 1 6.1 98,015 98,015 98,015 Total financial assets 99,342 99,342 1,327 98,015 Financial liabilities Payables1 6.2 91,355 91,355 91,355 Borrowings 2 7.1 1,249,900 1,383,481 1,383,481 Total financial liabilities 1,341,255 1,474,836 1,474,836 2020 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents 7.2 547 547 547 Receivables 1 6.1 106,630 106,630 106,630 Total financial assets 107,117 107,117 547 106,630 Financial liabilities Payables1 6.2 81,407 81,407 81,407 Borrowings – TCV 2 7.1 1,393,000 1,383,481 1,383,481 Borrowings – lease liabilities 95,985 95,985 95,985 Total financial liabilities 1,570,392 1,560,873 1,560,873 1. Does not include statutory receivables or payables. 2. Fair value of borrowings is calculated by discounting expected future cash flows at the yield offered by the Treasury Corporation of Victoria as at 30 June each year. 3. Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets. 4. Inputs based on observable market data (either directly using prices or indirectly derived from prices). 5. Inputs not based on observable market data. 116 City West Water Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2020 8. Risks, contingencies and valuation judgements (continued) Net fair value of financial instruments is determined on the following bases: • cash, receivables, accounts payable and deposits are valued at their carrying amounts as this is considered to be fair value; • borrowings are valued by discounting the expected future cash flows at the yield offered by the Treasury Corporation of Victoria as at 30 June each year; and • lease liabilities are valued by discounting the expected lease payments at the incremental borrowing rate at the date of inception. There were no transfers between levels during the reporting period. 8.3.2 Fair value determination of non-financial physical assets Subsequent valuation of infrastructure, property, plant and equipment is at fair value. An asset’s fair value is determined with regard to the property’s highest and best use after due consideration is made for any legal or constructive restrictions imposed on the asset, public announcements, or commitments made in relation to the intended use of the asset. When an event or change in circumstances causes a transfer between input levels, City West Water deems the transfer to occur at the end of the reporting period in which the event takes place. Non-specialised land is valued using the market based direct comparison method. Under this valuation method, assets are compared to comparable sales of comparable assets. As non-specialised land does not contain significant unobservable inputs these assets are classified as Level 2 fair value assets. Specialised land is also valued using the direct comparison method, although it is adjusted for community service obligations (CSOs) to reflect the specialised nature of the land being valued. The CSO adjustment is a reflection of the valuer’s assessment of the impact of restrictions associated with an asset to the extent that is also equally applicable to market participants. This approach uses the highest and best use consideration and takes into account the use of the asset that is physically possible, legally permissible and financially viable. As adjustments for CSOs are significant unobservable inputs, specialised land is classified as a Level 3 fair value asset. All buildings held by City West Water are non-specialised in nature and classified as Level 2 fair value assets under the market based direct comparison approach. Infrastructure assets are measured using the income approach (discounted cash flow method). This method calculates fair value by discounting estimated future cash flows of the business to their present value and arriving at an enterprise value range. Net debt is deducted from the enterprise value range to obtain an equity value. The valuation of infrastructure assets is derived from the equity value after deducting all other assets and liabilities and grossing up for deferred tax of 30 per cent. In order to assess the reasonableness of the enterprise valuation, cross checks are performed by comparing the earnings before interest, tax and depreciation and the regulated asset value multiples under the income approach against multiples implied by share prices for comparable trading organisations and recent transactions in comparable assets. Any goodwill generated by this approach is negligible and has no bearing on the valuation of infrastructure assets. Such an approach is often referred to as a market approach or a relative value approach. Judgement is applied in selecting the appropriate valuation within the enterprise value range. The assumptions adopted in calculating fair value in this manner are considered to be significant unobservable inputs. As such, infrastructure is classified as a Level 3 fair value asset. A full valuation of City West Water’s infrastructure assets was performed by KPMG as at 30 June 2020. The valuation process derived a range of values. The valuation adopted by City West Water represents the mid-point of this range. The rate used to discount free cash flows to their present value is based on assumptions that market participants would reasonably be expected to use in determining the fair value of the corporation after taking into account the market Annual Report 2020 117 cost of debt and equity. In 2020, the financial markets have been subject to higher volatility in comparison to the prior year as a result of COVID-19. Valuation adjustments, assumptions and projections include COVID-19 related impacts which have had an effect on the weighted average cost of capital and future budgets and forecasts. The 2020 valuation resulted in a decrement of $128.2m compared to a decrement of $9.8m in 2019. Refer to Section 5 for further information on non-financial physical assets. Fair value of non-financial physical assets Carrying Fair value measurement using: amount Level 11 Level 22 Level 33 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 2019 Freehold land at fair value 35,398 Non-specialised land 2,853 Specialised land 32,545 Non-specialised buildings at fair value 7,965 7,965 Infrastructure assets at fair value 1,892,599 1,892,599 Plant and equipment at fair value 4,341 4,341 Motor vehicles at fair value 2,537 2,537 Leasehold improvements at fair value 5,018 5,018 Total infrastructure, property, plant and equipment 1,947,858 10,818 1,937,040 2020 Freehold land at fair value 37,686 Non-specialised land 3,054 Specialised land 34,632 Non-specialised buildings at fair value 7,743 7,743 Infrastructure assets at fair value 1,999,000 1,999,000 Plant and equipment at fair value 5,497 5,497 Motor vehicles at fair value 1,972 1,972 Leasehold improvements at fair value 4,595 4,595 Total infrastructure, property, plant and equipment 2,056,493 10,797 2,045,696 1. Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets. 2. Inputs based on observable market data (either directly using prices or indirectly derived from prices). 3. Inputs not based on observable market data. 118 City West Water Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2020 8. Risks, contingencies and valuation judgements (continued) Reconciliation of Level 3 fair value movements Specialised Infrastructure Plant and Motor Leasehold land assets equipment vehicles improvements $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 $’000 2019 Opening balance at 1 July 2018 34,279 1,788,261 5,399 2,385 5,442 Purchases (sales) (80) (401) Transfers into/(out of) Level 3 Developer contributed assets 47,252 Transfers from work in progress 104,806 1,137 1,349 Gains or losses recognised in profit after income tax Depreciation (37,853) (2,195) (796) (424) Impairment Revaluation increment/(decrement) Subtotal (37,853) (2,195) (796) (424) Gains or losses recognised in other comprehensive income Revaluation increment/(decrement) (1,734) (9,787) Subtotal (1,734) (9,787) Closing balance at 30 June 2019 32,545 1,892,599 4,341 2,537 5,018 2020 Opening balance at 1 July 2019 32,545 1,892,599 4,341 2,537 5,018 Purchases (sales) (28) (1) (190) Transfers into/(out of) Level 3 Developer contributed assets 54,811 Transfers from work in progress 225,033 2,313 364 Gains or losses recognised in profit after income tax Depreciation (45,254) (1,156) (739) (423) Impairment Revaluation increment/(decrement) Subtotal (45,254) (1,156) (739) (423) Gains or losses recognised in other comprehensive income Revaluation increment/(decrement) 2,087 (128,161) Subtotal 2,087 (128,161) Closing balance at 30 June 2020 34,632 1,999,000 5,497 1,972 4,595 Annual Report 2020 119 Description of significant unobservable inputs to Level 3 valuations 2019 Significant Range Valuation unobservable (Weighted Asset technique input Average) Sensitivity of the input to fair value Specialised Market approach Community 9% – 40% A significant increase or decrease in a CSO land Service (27%) adjustment would result in a significantly Obligation (CSO) lower or higher fair value. adjustment Infrastructure Income Discount rate 5.2% – 5.8% An increase or decrease of 0.25% in the assets approach (WACC) (5.5%) estimated discount rate would result in a (discounted cash decrease of $264m or an increase of $316m flow method) to the valuation. Terminal growth 3.25% An increase or decrease of 0.25% in the rate (3.25%) terminal growth rate would result in an increase of $272m or a decrease of $217m to the valuation. Inflation rate 2.3% A significant increase or decrease in the (2.3%) inflation rate would result in a significantly higher or lower fair value. Terminal $92.067m – A significant increase or decrease in the value capital $112.527m terminal value of capital expenditure would expenditure ($102.297m) result in a significantly higher or lower fair value. Useful life 3 – 100 years A significant increase or decrease in the (74.7 years) estimated useful life of an asset would result in a significantly higher or lower fair value. Plant and Current Cost per unit $1,000 – A significant increase or decrease in cost per equipment replacement $469,000 unit would result in a significantly higher or cost ($16,000) lower fair value. Useful life 3 – 50 years A significant increase or decrease in the (13.9 years) estimated useful life of an asset would result in a significantly higher or lower fair value. Motor Current Cost per unit $21,000 – A significant increase or decrease in cost per vehicles replacement $49,000 unit would result in a significantly higher or cost ($35,000) lower fair value. Useful life 5 years A significant increase or decrease in the (5 years) estimated useful life of an asset would result in a significantly higher or lower fair value. Leasehold Current Cost per unit $1,674 – $724,000 A significant increase or decrease in cost per improvements replacement ($114,000) unit would result in a significantly higher or cost lower fair value. Useful life 7 – 20 years A significant increase or decrease in the (15.3 years) estimated useful life of an asset would result in a significantly higher or lower fair value. 120 City West Water Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2020 8. Risks, contingencies and valuation judgements (continued) 2020 Significant Range Valuation unobservable (Weighted Asset technique input Average) Sensitivity of the input to fair value Specialised Market approach Community 9% – 40% A significant increase or decrease in a CSO land Service (27%) adjustment would result in a significantly Obligation (CSO) lower or higher fair value. adjustment Infrastructure Income Discount rate 4.1% – 5.1% An increase or decrease of 0.25% in the assets approach (WACC) (4.8%) estimated discount rate would result in a (discounted cash decrease of $349m or an increase of $743m flow method) to the valuation. Terminal growth 3.25% An increase or decrease of 0.25% in the rate (3.25%) terminal growth rate would result in an increase of $501m or a decrease of $362m to the valuation. Inflation rate 2.3% A significant increase or decrease in the (2.3%) inflation rate would result in a significantly higher or lower fair value. Terminal $82.634m to A significant increase or decrease in the value capital $112.123m terminal value of capital expenditure would expenditure ($96.521m) result in a significantly higher or lower fair value. Useful life 3 – 100 years A significant increase or decrease in the (72.6 years) estimated useful life of an asset would result in a significantly higher or lower fair value. Plant and Current Cost per unit $1,000 – A significant increase or decrease in cost per equipment replacement $469,000 unit would result in a significantly higher or cost ($18,000) lower fair value. Useful life 3 – 50 years A significant increase or decrease in the (13.9 years) estimated useful life of an asset would result in a significantly higher or lower fair value. Motor vehicles Current Cost per unit $22,000 – A significant increase or decrease in cost per replacement $54,000 unit would result in a significantly higher or cost ($35,000) lower fair value. Useful life 5 years A significant increase or decrease in the (5 years) estimated useful life of an asset would result in a significantly higher or lower fair value. Leasehold Current Cost per unit $1,674 – $724,000 A significant increase or decrease in cost per improvements replacement ($114,000) unit would result in a significantly higher or cost lower fair value. Useful life 7 – 20 years A significant increase or decrease in the (15.3 years) estimated useful life of an asset would result in a significantly higher or lower fair value. Annual Report 2020 121 A significant movement is considered to be a movement of sufficient magnitude as to have a material impact on the financial statements. A material impact is defined by AASB 101 Presentation of Financial Statements as a movement that could individually or collectively with other movements influence the economic decisions that users make on the basis of the financial statements. The sensitivity of the fair value of infrastructure assets to a change in key assumptions is detailed in the table below. Assumption 2020 2019 Terminal year growth rate +/0.50% 62.1% -31.8% 32.8% -20.9% Terminal year growth rate +/0.25% 25.1% -18.1% 14.4% -11.5% Discount rate +/0.50% -37.1% 74.1% -25.7% 41.1% Discount rate +/0.25% -17.5% 37.2% -16.7% 14.0% Terminal year growth rate sensitivity impacts steady state cash flows, representing those expected to be received in perpetuity. Discount rate sensitivity impacts the present value of free cash flows to the corporation. 122 City West Water Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2020 9. Other disclosure This section includes additional material disclosures required by accounting standards or otherwise for the understanding of this financial report. Structure 9.1 Responsible persons and executives 9.2 Related parties 9.3 Equity 9.4 Ex gratia expenses 9.5 Accounting Standards issued that are not yet effective 9.6 Subsequent events 9.1 Responsible persons and executives The relevant Minister and directors of City West Water are deemed to be responsible persons by Ministerial Direction pursuant to the provisions of the Financial Management Act 1994. 9.1.1 Responsible persons Persons who held the position of responsible person at any time during the 2020 financial year were as follows: The Hon. Lisa Neville MP Minister for Water 1 July 2019 – 30 June 2020 Mr David Middleton Chair 1 July 2019 – 30 June 2020 Mr David Ryan Managing Director 1 July 2019 – 5 November 2019 Ms Maree Lang Managing Director 6 November 2019 – 30 June 2020 Ms Elizabeth Parkin Director 1 July 2019 – 30 September 2019 Ms Mary Beth Bauer Director 1 July 2019 – 30 June 2020 Dr Bruce Cohen Director 1 July 2019 – 30 June 2020 Mr Bill Jaboor Director 1 July 2019 – 30 June 2020 Ms Constantina Dertimanis Director 1 July 2019 – 30 September 2019 Ms Tania Fryer Director 1 July 2019 – 30 June 2020 Mr Christopher Lovell Director 1 July 2019 – 30 June 2020 Ms Freya Marsden Director 1 October 2019 – 30 June 2020 Ms Sawsan Howard Director 1 October 2019 – 30 June 2020 Persons who held the position of responsible person at any time during the 2019 financial year were as follows: The Hon. Lisa Neville MP Minister for Water 1 July 2018 – 30 June 2019 Mr David Middleton Chair 1 July 2018 – 30 June 2019 Mr David Ryan Managing Director 1 July 2018 – 30 June 2019 Ms Mary Beth Bauer Director 1 July 2018 – 30 June 2019 Dr Bruce Cohen Director 1 July 2018 – 30 June 2019 Mr Bill Jaboor Director 1 July 2018 – 30 June 2019 Ms Elizabeth Parkin Director 1 July 2018 – 30 June 2019 Ms Constantina Dertimanis Director 1 July 2018 – 30 June 2019 Ms Tania Fryer Director 1 July 2018 – 30 June 2019 Mr Christopher Lovell Director 1 July 2018 – 30 June 2019 The Minister’s remuneration and allowances are set by the Parliamentary Salaries and Superannuation Act 1968 and are reported in the Department of Parliamentary Services’ Financial Report. Annual Report 2020 123 Remuneration received or receivable by responsible persons in connection with the management of City West Water Corporation during the current and previous reporting periods is reported in the table below. 2020 2019 No. No. $10,000 – $19,999 2 $30,000 – $39,999 2 1 $40,000 – $49,999 1 $50,000 – $59,999 5 5 $90,000 – $99,999 1 1 $210,000 – $219,999 1 $330,000 – $339,999 1 $420,000 – $429,999 1 Total 12 9 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 Total amount 1,014 853 9.1.2 Executives 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 Short term employment benefits 1,275 1,730 Post employment benefits 97 114 Other long term benefits 27 32 Termination benefits Total 1,399 1,876 Total employees (no.) 7 6 Annualised employee equivalent1 4.6 5.6 1. Annualised employee equivalent is based on working 38 ordinary hours per week over the reporting period. The number of executive officers other than the Minister or responsible persons and their total remuneration during the reporting period is shown in the table overleaf. Remuneration comprises employee benefits in all forms of consideration paid, payable or provided for by the corporation, or on behalf of the corporation, in exchange for services rendered, and is disclosed in the following categories: • Short term employee benefits – includes amounts such as wages, salaries, annual leave or sick leave that are usually paid or payable on a regular basis, as well as non-monetary benefits such as allowances and free or subsidised goods or services; • Post-employment benefits – includes superannuation benefits paid or payable on a discrete basis when employment has ceased; • Other long term benefits – includes long service leave, other long service benefits and deferred compensation; and • Termination benefits – includes termination of employment payments, such as severance packages. 124 City West Water Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2020 9. Other disclosure (Continued) 9.2 Related parties Relevant Minister The relevant Minister for City West Water for the period 1 July 2019 to 30 June 2020 was the Hon. Lisa Neville MP, Minister for Water. Transactions with the relevant Minister and relevant Minister related entities Outside of normal citizen type transactions, there were no material transactions with the relevant Minister, their close family members or business interests during the reporting period. Key Management Personnel Key management personnel (as defined in AASB 124 Related Party Disclosures) include the Managing Director and the Board of Directors, who have the authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the corporation either directly or indirectly during the year. The names of persons who were key management personnel of City West Water at any time during the current or previous financial years are as follows: D. Middleton, D. Ryan, M. Lang, M. B. Bauer, B. Cohen, B. Jaboor, E. Parkin, C. Dertimanis, T. Fryer, C. Lovell, F. Marsden and S. Howard. Transactions with key management personnel and key management personnel related entities Ms Maree Lang’s spouse is a key management personnel of City of Yarra. During the year, City West Water paid $857,848 to City of Yarra for various projects. City West Water also has an outstanding $190,280 due from City of Yarra for various work performed. Mr Chris Lovell is the Chair of the CBD Community Reference Groups North and South – Rail Projects Victoria (RPV), the Parkville Stakeholder Reference Group RPV, and the Arden North Melbourne Community Reference Group RPV. During the year, City West Water received $379,221 CY (2019 $227,515 PY) from Rail Projects Victoria (formerly MMRA). In 2019, a further $161,687 PY was outstanding and receivable for services rendered to the Metro Tunnel Project. Outside of normal citizen type transactions, there were no further material transactions either with key management personnel, their close family members or business interests during the reporting period other than remuneration for employment. Key management personnel with related party interests are not involved in any decision-making processes relevant to the related party. Payments to Key Management Personnel 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 Short term employment benefits 945 787 Post employment benefits 62 58 Other long term benefits 1 6 8 Termination benefits Total 1,013 853 Total employees (no.) 12 9 1. Other long term benefits represent long service leave. Annual Report 2020 125 Other related parties All Victorian cabinet ministers and their close family members, as well as all departments and public sector entities that are controlled and consolidated into the whole of government consolidated financial statements, are considered to be related parties of City West Water. Transactions with cabinet members and related entities Outside of normal citizen type transactions, there were no material related party transactions with cabinet members, their close family members or their personal business interests during the current or prior financial years. Power Purchase Agreement specific disclosure City West Water is one of 13 water corporation Members of Zero Emissions Water (ZEW) Limited, a public company limited by guarantee. ZEW’s substantial objective is to acquire electricity, contracts for difference and other derivative products in relation to electricity, and/or green products from an energy and emissions reduction facility(ies) in Victoria and in turn supply these products to its Members. This vehicle provides the opportunity for water corporation members to collaboratively promote energy and emissions reduction initiatives in Victoria and to reduce emissions. On 30 October 2018, a Members’ Agreement was entered into between the water corporations and ZEW in order to regulate their rights and obligations as members of ZEW and as participants in the project. The Members’ Agreement establishes the operating activities of ZEW and the decision making responsibilities of the ZEW Directors. Under the Members’ Agreement City West Water’s liability as a member is limited to $10 in the event of a winding up. As required by Australian accounting standards, City West Water has assessed the nature of its relationship with ZEW, and has concluded that it does not have control, joint control or significant influence over ZEW. City West Water will account for its investment in ZEW as a financial instrument within the scope of AASB 9 Financial Instruments. ZEW is a related party of City West Water. On 30 October 2018, ZEW entered into an 11-year Power Purchasing Agreement (PPA) with a solar farm energy generator. In relation to the PPA, ZEW will act as a central intermediary between the energy generator and the water corporations. The PPA contains a contract for difference (CFD) payment mechanism in respect of electricity generated by the facility and the sale and supply of large-scale generation certificates (LGCs) from the facility. The PPA contains certain conditions precedent which were due to be satisfied during the 2019/20 financial year. The solar farm energy generator experienced a construction delay due to redesign of electrical infrastructure and a connection delay relating to generator restrictions and revised connection procedures advised by the Australian Electricity Market Operator (AEMO). Renegotiated terms have resulted in an extension of the target commercial operation date to 1 October 2020 and a compensation settlement to ZEW for the delay. City West Water’s share of the settlement is $116,868.53 which has been recognised in the Comprehensive Operating Statement as other income. At 30 June 2020 the conditions precedent in the PPA are not completed and ZEW does not have a contractual obligation for the CFD derivative. Therefore, there are no other transactions to be recognised. Upon satisfaction of the conditions precedent, the CFD derivative will be recognised as a financial liability and will be measured at its fair value. Subsequent changes in the fair value of the derivative will be recognised in profit and loss. The Members’ Agreement specifies that ZEW may call on City West Water to make a loan available to the Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) amounting to $67,084.97. The loan, if requested by ZEW would meet the definition of a financial asset as it gives rise to a contractual right for City West Water to receive cash from ZEW at the end of the loan term. No request has been made by ZEW. Once the facility is operational, the financial impact of the members’ agreement with ZEW is expected to be an increase in revenue, expenses, and recognition of LGCs as intangible assets or asset held for sale (asset). 126 City West Water Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2020 9. Other disclosure (Continued) Victorian Government City West Water is subject to the provisions of the Water Act 1989 and the Water Industry Act 1994. City West Water operates under specific legislation and is subject to independent economic regulation. City West Water operates under a Board of Directors appointed by the Victorian Government and makes income tax equivalent and dividend payments to the Victorian Government. Transactions with government controlled entities The below table details City West Water’s dealings with government controlled entities, which are considered to be related parties of City West Water. The following four pages contain more detailed information regarding related parties with significant transactions with City West Water. Paid Payable Received Receivable $ $ $ $ 2019 Yarra Valley Water 367,815 39,708 6,001 Goulburn Murray Water 408,313 6,547 Development Victoria 1,629,598 Western Water 5,555 36,168 64,750 Victorian Auditor-General’s Office 171,600 49,600 Rail Projects Victoria 227,515 161,687 Environment Protection Authority 124,129 Energy and Water Ombudsman Victoria 129,960 Public Transport Victoria 32,134 700,000 2020 Yarra Valley Water 908,497 41,738 4,177 Goulburn Murray Water 382,510 Development Victoria 674,201 Western Water 55,579 17,757 Victorian Auditor-General’s Office 162,100 Rail Projects Victoria 379,221 667 Environment Protection Authority 127,222 36,162 Energy and Water Ombudsman Victoria 26,629 27,867 4,279 Public Transport Victoria 31,111 Annual Report 2020 127 Related parties with significant transactions Department of Environment, Land, Water and Planning City West Water bills and collects parks charges on behalf of the Department of Environment, Land, Water and Planning (DELWP). Due to the nature of the agent/principal relationship between City West Water and DELWP. City West Water does not recognise these amounts in its accounts. City West Water recognises an administration fee collected from DELWP relating to the billing and collection of parks charges as revenue. City West Water makes various other payments to and receives other payments from DELWP which are recognised as revenue and expenses. 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 Payments Parks Charge collected on behalf of DELWP 53,407 50,725 Environmental Contribution 26,457 19,843 Other 588 4 Receipts Billings and collection fee 2,307 2,282 Other 63 Payables Environmental Contribution 6,614 6,614 Parks Charge collected on behalf of DELWP 35 58 Receivables Billings and collection fee 137 132 128 City West Water Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2020 9. Other disclosure (Continued) Department of Treasury and Finance The Department of Treasury and Finance monitors the implementation of City West Water’s Corporate Plan in consultation with the Department of Environment, Land, Water and Planning. 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 Payments Income tax equivalent 25,757 45,679 Dividend 75,800 20,400 Financial Accommodation Levy 17,995 16,854 Capital repatriation 10,880 Licence fee 524 Payables Financial Accommodation Levy 4,701 4,572 Income tax equivalent 7,366 2,369 Receipts Interest on CBS deposit 153 255 Receivables Income tax equivalent 2,821 Treasury Corporation of Victoria As required by the State Government pursuant to the Borrowing and Investment Powers Act 1987, other than lease liabilities, City West Water’s borrowings are sourced solely from the Treasury Corporation of Victoria. 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 Payments Finance costs 47,418 47,941 Administration fees 1,562 1,460 Receipts Net borrowings during the year 143,100 69,700 Interest received 19 Payables Total borrowings 1,393,000 1,249,900 Finance costs 16,002 17,533 Administration fees 425 463 Annual Report 2020 129 Melbourne Water Corporation City West Water sources all its drinking water from Melbourne Water Corporation and the majority of its sewage is treated by Melbourne Water Corporation at the Western Treatment Plant. City West Water bills and collects drainage charges as an agent for Melbourne Water. Due to the nature of the agent/ principal relationship between City West Water and Melbourne Water, City West Water does not recognise these amounts in its accounts. City West Water recognises an administration fee collected from Melbourne Water relating to the billing and collection of drainage charges as revenue. City West Water makes various other payments to and receives other payments from Melbourne Water which are recognised as revenue and expenses. 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 Payments Bulk water and sewage charges 364,155 348,155 Drainage Charge collected on behalf of Melbourne Water 60,150 60,401 Property information statements 194 201 Other 149 141 Receipts Billings and collection fee 3,745 3,886 Other 109 82 Payables Bulk water and sewage charges 3,669 3,628 Drainage Charge collected on behalf of Melbourne Water 1,220 1,261 Property information statements 86 Receivables Billings and collection fee 125 132 130 City West Water Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2020 9. Other disclosure (Continued) State Revenue Office The State Revenue Office is the Victorian Government’s tax collection agency. The State Revenue Office administers Victoria’s tax legislation and collects a range of taxes, duties and levies. 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 Payments Payroll tax 2,576 2,520 Unclaimed monies 920 Receipts Pension rebate 725 559 Land tax refund 250 Payables Payroll tax 209 203 Receivables Pension rebate 140 290 Department of Health and Human Services City West Water provides a number of services to the community including the administration of the Pension Rebate and Health Care Card schemes on behalf of the Department of Health and Human Services. 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 Payments Safe Drinking Water Levy 144 140 Receipts Pension rebate 22,740 22,901 Administration fee on pension rebate 207 205 Utility relief grant 562 382 Dialysis users’ rebate 11 10 Other Receivables Pension rebate 1,217 3,068 Administration fee on pension rebate 11 20 Dialysis users’ rebate 3 2 Annual Report 2020 131 Other Victorian Government controlled entities Water and sewerage services were provided to other government controlled entities for properties within City West Water’s service area under normal commercial terms and conditions. 9.3 Equity 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 Contributed equity 197,111 189,248 Physical asset revaluation surplus 83,559 171,256 Retained profits 503,461 490,312 Total equity 784,131 850,816 9.3.1 Contributed equity 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 Contributed equity at the beginning of the financial year 189,248 200,128 Asset received as contributed equity 7,863 Capital repatriation (10,880) Contributed equity at the end of the financial year 197,111 189,248 In line with the requirements of the Financial Management Act 1994, additions to net assets which have been designated as contributed equity by the Assistant Treasurer are recognised as contributed equity. Other transfers that are in the nature of contributions or distributions have also been designated as distributions to or contributions from owners. 9.3.2 Physical asset revaluation surplus 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 Physical asset revaluation surplus at the beginning of the financial year 171,256 180,718 Infrastructure assets revaluation, net of tax (89,713) (7,857) Land revaluation, net of tax 2,016 (1,605) Physical asset revaluation surplus at the end of the financial year 83,559 171,256 Physical asset revaluation surplus is used to record revaluation increments and decrements in the value of non-current physical assets. 132 City West Water Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2020 9. Other disclosure (Continued) 9.3.3 Retained profits 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 Retained profits at the beginning of the financial year 490,312 447,490 Profit after income tax expense 89,041 63,099 Final dividend paid during 2020 in respect of 2019 (53,900) Final dividend paid during 2019 in respect of 2018 (20,400) Interim dividend paid in respect of current year (21,900) Actuarial gain/(loss) on defined benefit superannuation plan (net of tax) (92) 123 Retained profits at the end of the financial year 503,461 490,312 Retained profits represent accumulated retained profits over the lifetime of the corporation. 9.4 Ex-gratia expenses 2020 2019 $’000 $’000 Forgiveness or waiver of debt 103 141 Other 14 9 Total ex gratia expenses 117 150 Ex gratia expense items greater than or equal to $5,000 individually or in total are disclosed. In exceptional circumstances City West Water may waive part of a customer’s debt. This will occur at the discretion of the corporation when there has been a significant undetected leak on a customer’s property, unexplained high usage on a customer’s account, or in cases of financial hardship. Ex gratia expenses are recognised as part of other expenses (refer Section 3). Annual Report 2020 133 9.5 Accounting standards issued that are not yet effective Certain new Australian Accounting Standards have been published that are applicable to City West Water, but are not mandatory for the 30 June 2020 reporting period. These standards are listed below. Standard Effective date Key changes Impact AASB 2018-7 1 January 2020 This Standard principally amends AASB The corporation has Amendments to 101 Presentation of Financial Statements and not early adopted the Australian Accounting AASB 108 Accounting Policies, Changes in Standard and is in the Standards – Definition of Accounting Estimates and Errors. process of analysing Material the impacts of this The amendments refine and clarify the Standard. However, it is definition of material in AASB 101 and its not anticipated to have application by improving the wording a material impact. and aligning the definition across AASB Standards and other publications. The amendments also include some supporting requirements in AASB 101 in the definition to give it more prominence and clarify the explanation accompanying the definition of material. AASB 2020-1 Defer the application It initially applied to annual reporting The corporation is in Amendments to by one year to periods periods beginning on or after 1 January the process of analysing Australian Accounting beginning on or after 1 2022 with earlier application permitted the impacts of this Standards – Classification January 2023. however the AASB has recently issued ED Standard. However, it is of Liabilities as Current or 301 Classification of Liabilities as Current or not anticipated to have Non-Current Non-Current – Deferral of Effective Date. a material impact. This Standard amends AASB 101 to clarify requirements for the presentation of liabilities in the statement of financial position as current or non-current. The corporation will not early adopt the Standard. 134 City West Water Notes to and forming part of the Financial Statements For the year ended 30 June 2020 9. Other disclosure (Continued) 9.6 Subsequent events COVID-19 continues to change the landscape in which organisations operate. Since 30 June 2020, a number of major developments related to COVID-19 have taken place, including implementation of Stage 4 restrictions, the extension of State of Emergency provisions, the State of Disaster declaration, increases in community transmission, business closures, and the extension of JobKeeper and JobSeeker wage subsidies at lower rates. Management is of the view that the impacts of COVID-19 have been adequately accounted for in the Financial Statements. No other matter or circumstance has arisen since 30 June 2020 which has significantly affected, or may significantly affect: • the corporation’s operations; • the results of those operations; and/or • the corporation’s state of affairs in the financial year subsequent to 30 June 2020. Annual Report 2020 135 Statutory Certification The attached financial statements of City West Water Corporation (the corporation) have been prepared in accordance with Direction 5.2 of the Standing Directions 2018 under the Financial Management Act 1994, applicable Financial Reporting Directions, Australian Accounting Standards including Interpretations and other mandatory professional reporting requirements. We state that, in our opinion, the information set out in the Comprehensive Operating Statement, Balance Sheet, Statement of Changes in Equity, Statement of Cash Flows and accompanying notes presents fairly the financial transactions during the year ended 30 June 2020 and the financial position of the corporation at 30 June 2020. At the time of signing, we are not aware of any circumstance which would render any particulars included in the financial statements to be misleading or inaccurate. This financial report was authorised for release by the Board of Directors on 25 August 2020. David Middleton Maree Lang Michael Wootten Chair Managing Director Chief Financial Officer Melbourne 25 August 2020 136 City West Water Independent Auditor’s Report Independent Auditor’s Report To the Board of City West Water Corporation Opinion I have audited the financial report of City West Water Corporation (the corporation) which comprises the: • balance sheet as at 30 June 2020 • comprehensive operating statement for the year then ended • statement of changes in equity for the year then ended • cash flow statement for the year then ended • notes to the financial statements, including significant accounting policies • statutory certification. In my opinion, the financial report presents fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the corporation as at 30 June 2020 and its financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with the financial reporting requirements of Part 7 of the Financial Management Act 1994 and applicable Australian Accounting Standards. Basis for I have conducted my audit in accordance with the Audit Act 1994 which incorporates the Australian Opinion Auditing Standards. I further describe my responsibilities under that Act and those standards in the Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Report section of my report. My independence is established by the Constitution Act 1975. My staff and I are independent of the corporation in accordance with the ethical requirements of the Accounting Professional and Ethical Standards Board’s APES 110 Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (the Code) that are relevant to my audit of the financial report in Victoria. My staff and I have also fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the Code. I believe that the audit evidence I have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for my opinion. Other The Board is responsible for the other information included in the corporation’s Annual Report for Information the year ended 30 June 2020. The other information in the Annual Report does not include the financial report, the performance report and my auditor’s reports thereon. My opinion on the financial report does not cover the other information included in the Annual Report. Accordingly, I do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon. In connection with my audit of the financial report, my responsibility is to read the other information when it becomes available and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial report or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work I have performed, I conclude that there is a materially misstatement of this other information, I am required to report that fact. I have nothing to report in this regard. Key audit Key audit matters are those matters that, in my professional judgement, were of most significance in matters my audit of the financial report of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of my audit of the financial report as a whole, and in forming my opinion thereon, and I do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. Annual Report 2020 137 Key audit matter How I addressed the matter Revenues from service and usage charges Note 2.2 – Sale of Goods and Services Revenues from service and usage charges: My key procedures included: $636 million.  testing the operating effectiveness of key application I considered this to be a key audit matter because: controls in the billing system and key manual controls in the billing process  revenue is financially significant to the corporation  assessing management's model, key assumptions and  the corporation’s IT billing system and business inputs for estimating the value of unbilled water and rules are complex, and it uses several inputs, sewerage services accrued revenue at 30 June 2020 some from different sources  performing substantive analytical procedures by  a key input, customer water volume consumption, developing an expectation of usage and service charges relies on external service providers to conduct revenue for the period based on water volumes, number meter readings of serviced properties and approved prices, compared  revenue includes a significant accrual for unbilled against the revenue recorded by the corporation water and sewerage services at year end that  reviewing the adequacy of revenue recognition and involves a higher degree of estimation uncertainty measurement policies  the applicable accounting standard AASB 15  assessing the adequacy of financial statement disclosures Revenue from Contracts with Customers requires against AASB 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers. detailed and complex financial report disclosures. The fair value estimate of infrastructure assets Note 5.1 – Infrastructure, property, plant and equipment Fair value estimate of infrastructure assets: My key procedures included: $1.99 billion  obtaining an understanding of management's approach I considered this to be a key audit matter because: to estimating the fair value of infrastructure  infrastructure assets are financially significant to  assessing the competence and capability of the corporation management's expert engaged to assist with the valuation process  the fair value estimate is derived from an incomebased valuation approach that uses a discounted  engaging a subject matter expert to assist us in obtaining cashflow (DCF) model sufficient appropriate audit evidence, including:  the fair value estimate relies on management’s the appropriateness of using an income-based use of an external valuation expert valuation approach  the DCF model is highly complex and involves identification of any changes to the DCF model and/or significant management judgements, underpinned assumptions. by various subjective assumptions the reasonableness and consistency of all the  the calculated value is sensitive to small changes assumptions used in the DCF model in key assumptions used in the DCF model the reasonableness of all inputs used in the model,  the model's forecast period is long, and includes a with specific reference to underlying data and terminal value, which increases the difficulty in supporting documentation accurately estimating the fair value the DCF model’s computational accuracy  accounting standard AASB 13 Fair Value assessing the completeness and adequacy of the Measurement (AASB 13) and the Assistant financial report disclosures with regard to AASB 13 Treasurer issued Financial Reporting Direction and FRD 103H, including the significant observable 103H Non-financial physical assets (FRD 103H), and unobservable inputs utilised in the model and the both require extensive financial report sensitivity analysis disclosures.  evaluating our subject matter expert's workings and concluding the work was adequate for the purposes of our audit. 2 138 City West Water Independent Auditor’s Report (continued) Board’s The Board of the corporation is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the financial responsibilities report in accordance with Australian Accounting Standards and the Financial Management Act 1994, for the financial and for such internal control as the Board determines is necessary to enable the preparation and fair report presentation of a financial report that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the financial report, the Board is responsible for assessing the corporation’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless it is inappropriate to do so. Auditor’s As required by the Audit Act 1994, my responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial report responsibilities based on the audit. My objectives for the audit are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the for the audit of financial report as a whole is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to the financial issue an auditor’s report that includes my opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance report but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with the Australian Auditing Standards will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of this financial report. As part of an audit in accordance with the Australian Auditing Standards, I exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. I also: • identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial report, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. • obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the corporation’s internal control • evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by the Board • conclude on the appropriateness of the Board’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the corporation’s ability to continue as a going concern. If I conclude that a material uncertainty exists, I am required to draw attention in my auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the financial report or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify my opinion. My conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of my auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the corporation to cease to continue as a going concern. • evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial report, including the disclosures, and whether the financial report represents the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. 3 Annual Report 2020 139 Auditor’s I communicate with the Board regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the responsibilities audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that I for the audit of identify during my audit. the financial From the matters communicated with the Board, I determine those matters that were of most report significance in the audit of the financial report of the current period and are therefore key audit (continued) matters. I describe these matters in the auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, I determine that a matter should not be communicated in the auditor’s report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. MELBOURNE Paul Martin 4 September 2020 as delegate for the Auditor-General of Victoria 4 140 City West Water Appendix 1 Disclosure Index City West Water’s 2020 Annual Report is prepared in FRD 22H Compliance with building and maintenance accordance with all relevant Victorian legislation and provisions of the Building Act 1993 (p. 52) pronouncements including Financial Reporting Directions FRD 22H Details of consultancies over $10,000 (p. 50) (FRDs), Ministerial Reporting Directions (MRDs) and Standing Directions of the Assistant Treasurer. This index FRD 22H Details of consultancies under $10,000 has been prepared to facilitate identification of City West (p. 50) Water’s compliance with statutory disclosure requirements. FRD 22H Disclosure of government advertising Charter and purpose expenditure (p. 54) FRD 22H Workforce inclusion policy (p. 36) FRD 22H Manner of establishment and the relevant Minister (p. 43) FRD 22H Key initiatives and projects (pp. 7–9) FRD 22H Purpose, functions, powers and duties (p. 4) FRD 25D Local Jobs disclosure in the Report of Operations (p. 54) FRD 22H Key initiatives and projects (pp. 7–9) FRD 27C Presentation and reporting of performance FRD 22H Nature and range of services provided (p. 4) information (pp. 58–60) Management and structure FRD 29C Workforce data disclosures (p. 34) FRD 22H Organisational structure (p. 41) FRD 30D Standard requirements for the design and print of annual reports (whole report) FRD 22H Directors of the Board (pp. 43–45) SD 3.7.1 Financial management compliance attestation Financial and other information (p. 56) FRD 10A Disclosure Index (pp. 138–139) SD 5.2 Specific requirements under Standing Direction FRD 22H Five year summary of financial results (p. 48) 5.2 3 (pp. 3, 135) FRD 22H Disclosure of ICT expenditure (p. 49) Ministerial Reporting Directions FRD 22H Current year financial review (p. 47) MRD 01 Presentation and reporting of performance FRD 22H Significant changes in financial position during information (pp. 58–60) the year (p. 47) MRD 02 Reporting on water consumption and drought FRD 22H Operational and budgetary objectives and response (pp. 16–18, 24–25) performance against objectives (p. 47) MRD 03 Environmental and social sustainability FRD 22H Major changes or factors affecting reporting (pp. 14, 19–25) performance (p. 47) MRD 04 Disclosure of information on bulk entitlements FRD 22H Employment and conduct principles (p. 36) (pp. 150–151) FRD 22H Health and safety (pp. 39–40) MRD 05 Annual reporting of major non-residential water users (pp. 17–18) FRD 22H Subsequent events (p. 50) MRD 06 Greenhouse gas and energy reporting FRD 22H Application and operation of the Freedom of (p. 29) Information Act 1982 (p. 51) MRD 07 Disclosure of information on letter of FRD 22H Application and operation of the Public Interest expectations (pp. 142–147) Disclosures Act 2012 (p. 53) Compliance attestation and declaration FRD 22H Statement on National Competition Policy (p. 53) SD 3.7.1 Financial management compliance attestation FRD 22H Statement on availability of other information (p. 56) (p. 54) SD 5.2.2 Specific requirements under Standing Direction FRD 22H Environmental performance (p. 58) 5.2 3 (pp. 3–135) Annual Report 2020 141 Other requirements under Standing Direction 5.2 Legislation SD 5.2.1(a) Compliance with applicable Australian Water Act 1989 accounting standards and other authoritative Water Industry Act 1994 pronouncements (p. 68) Freedom of Information Act 1982 SD 5.2.1(a) Compliance with Ministerial Directions (p. 68) Building Act 1993 Other disclosures required by FRDs in notes to and Public Interest Disclosures Act 2012 forming part of the financial statements Local Jobs First Act 2003 FRD 3A Accounting for dividends (p. 85) Financial Management Act 1994 FRD 11A Disclosure of ex gratia payments (p. 132) Disability Act 2006 FRD 17B Wage inflation and discount rates for employee benefits (p. 78) FRD 21C Disclosures of responsible persons, executive officers and other personnel (Contractors with Significant Management Responsibilities) in the Financial Report (pp. 122–123) FRD 103H Non-financial physical assets (pp. 116–117) FRD 105A Borrowing costs (pp. 104–105) FRD 106 Impairment of assets (pp. 93–95) FRD 109 Intangible assets (pp. 94–96) FRD 110A Cash flow statements (p. 67) FRD 112D Defined benefit superannuation obligations (pp. 79–80) FRD 114A Financial instruments – General Government Entities and Public Non-Financial Corporations (pp. 107–111) FRD 119A Transfers through contributed capital (p. 131) FRD 120M Accounting and reporting pronouncements applicable to the 2019–20 reporting period (p. 133) 142 City West Water Appendix 2 Disclosure of Information on Letter of Expectations MRD07 Priority Area Key Performance Indicator Measure Definition Comments Climate Change E2 Emission reductions E2 Scope 1 and scope Greenhouse Gas and 2 emissions only for Energy Reporting Undertake a set of Demonstrate reasonable progress Total net emissions the whole business p. 29 activities that mitigate toward achievement of the entity’s greenhouse gases and its activities, as climate change and emission reduction target specified in tonnes of CO2 specified under the Emission Reduction adapt to climate in the Statement of Obligations equivalent. National Greenhouse Pledge p. 26 change and variability (Emissions Reduction). and Energy Reporting Scheme. E3 Adaptation to climate change E3 a. NA Climate Resilience and variability Strategy a. Qualitative b. The six business a. Apply the Guidelines for description of how areas, and adaptation 12 Month Action Plan: Assessing the Impact of Climate the Guidelines will be considerations for Climate Resilience and Change on Water Suppliers used. each, are articulated Emission Reduction in Victoria and demonstrate in the WSAA Climate Pledge (June 2020– adaptation by: b. Qualitative Change Guidelines June 2021) p. 26 description of how for Victorian water • Urban Water Corporations: adaptation will be corporations and Water Sector Pilot their application in drought undertaken in each of has chosen to follow Adaptation Action preparedness and urban the six business areas. its approach to Plan p. 27 water strategies (Urban water Include consideration defining six parts of corporations). of short, medium and the business where long-term changes. adaptation is relevant. b. Integrate climate changes adaptation into decision-making c. Qualitative across the business (all sources description of of water, wastewater, and where contribution / relevant drainage and flood participation. management) including: • source waters and demand • built assets • natural environment • people and workplace • interdependencies • customer and product delivery. c. Contribute to development of the DELWP Water Sector Climate Change Adaptation Action Plan (published October 2018). Annual Report 2020 143 Priority Area Key Performance Indicator Measure Definition Comments Customer and C1 Customer satisfaction C1(U) Customer As per ESC definition No report required. community (Urban Water Corporations excl satisfaction survey DELWP to obtain data outcomes Melbourne Water) (urbans excl MW) from ESC. All aspects of Note this indicator includes both The ESC will collect service delivery will direct and proxy measures. Overall, customer satisfaction be customer and reporting on measures identified for survey data on an community centred this indicator should demonstrate ongoing quarterly and will continue to high or improving levels of basis. build extensive and customer satisfaction over time. (a) CR1 Water quality No. of water quality Customer effective community complaints (urbans complaints regarding responsiveness engagement excl MW). discoloration, taste, performance and partnerships odour, stained indicators p. 60 in planning and washing, illness or implementation of cloudy water per 1000 service delivery. customers. (b) CR4 Number of Billing/payment issues Customer billing payment issues complaints for 1000 responsiveness (urbans excl. MW). customers year on performance year. indicators p. 60 C2 Customer and community C2 Development Customers First engagement and delivery of Strategy pp. 11–13 an engagement Stakeholder engagement based strategy / plan / Customer Charter p. 12 on best practice that demonstrates policy or equivalent approaches to engagement Community Reference explanation (via the that are open, honest and occur Groups (Carlton Water water corporation’s frequently. The DELWP Community website). Main Renewal Project Charter or IAP2 framework could be p. 21 considered as a guide. Lonsdale Street Sewer Upgrade p. 22 144 City West Water Appendix 2 Disclosure of Information on Letter of Expectations MRD07 (continued) Priority Area Key Performance Indicator Measure Definition Comments Water for Aboriginal AC1 Engagement of Aboriginal AC1.1 A strategy that Explore and develop AC1.1: cultural, spiritual communities demonstrates how opportunities and economic values the water corporation for business First Nations Advisor Effective and genuine engagement will build capability arrangements with role p. 37 Recognise and of Aboriginal communities and understanding Traditional Owners support Aboriginal for involvement in business Social and sustainable of procurement and Aboriginal cultural values and opportunities and access to water procurement p. 50 processes to address enterprises to deliver economic inclusion in for economic development. barriers for Aboriginal value-for-money Environmental Policy the water sector. Measures related to this indicator enterprises to supply catchment and water p. 27 will not be considered in isolation. good/services to services. Rather, reported information will be water corporations.* Collaborative used to help build a broad picture of engagement, taking into account AC1.2 Number/ Provide opportunities Sustainable Land explanation of for cross-cultural Management Practices the relevant local context. sponsorships of learning in the water p. 27 Aboriginal people in sector, as well as AC1.2 relevant study and skills training and training courses, employment for First Nations including scholarships, Aboriginal Victorians. commitment and vocational education action p. 37 and traineeships. AC1.3 Number of First Nations staff within the water Employment and corporation who Retention Plan p. 37 have undertaken a AC1.3 cross-cultural training course (by relevant Cultural training Traditional Owner) in conducted by Koorie the last 5 years. Heritage Trust p. 37 AC2 Engagement of Traditional AC2.1 Number of Inform Traditional Environmental Owners engagements with Owners when Management system Traditional Owners in opportunities arise p. 27 Effective and genuine engagement water planning and to access water of Traditional Owners for inclusion management and entitlements within First Nations of Aboriginal values in water report on outcomes. existing framework. commitment and planning. Measures related to this Incorporate action p. 37 indicator will not be considered traditional ecological in isolation. Rather, reported Biodiversity and knowledge into information will be used to cultural heritage water planning and help build a broad picture of values p. 31 management using engagement, taking into account Aboriginal Waterway the relevant local context. Assessments and other tools developed by Traditional Owners. Notify and engage with Traditional Owners to achieve shared benefits. AC3 Aboriginal Inclusion Plan/ Development Reconciliation Action Reconciliation Action Plan of an Aboriginal Plan p. 37 Inclusion Plan or a To be considered in conjunction Reconciliation Action with AC1 and AC2, taking into Plan, reflecting account the relevant local context. measures AC1.1 to AC1.3 and AC2.1. Annual Report 2020 145 Priority Area Key Performance Indicator Measure Definition Comments Resilient and L1 Integrated Water L1 Progress towards: Facilitating regional Integrated water liveable cities and Management (urban) stakeholder management towns a. participation in, or collaboration pp. 24–25 In relevant IWM forums, actively establishment of, IWM (including local Contribute to healthy facilitate and champion water’s forums in your region government and Collaborating for communities by contribution to deliver liveability Traditional Owners) the environment supporting safe, for cities and towns of the region b. contribution to to deliver placedp. 30 affordable, high consistent with the forum’s development and based IWM outcomes quality services and objectives. implementation of for the community resilient environments Strategic Directions projects that support Statements in your region the liveability and c. implementation of resilience of cities and priority IWM projects towns of the region. and plans as applicable delivering IWM outcomes for the region. L2 Water efficiency (urban) L2 Continue to collaborate The Community Sustainable water on the Victorian Efficiency Rebate Program use pp. 19–21 Implement water efficiency Strategy by: provides funding to programs aligned with water corporations to Community services Target 155 a. Water corporations assist vulnerable and obligations working together hardship customers. pp. 14–15 through a coordination group to develop statewide initiatives; a. and reporting the number of customers in need assisted by the Community Rebate Program. L3 Water bills (urban) L3 Total residential bill Comparison with Total Residential based on: national median for water bill p. 18 Victorian water bills are amongst relevant utility sixed the lowest in Australia. a. Average consumption groupings. b. 200kl consumption. L4 Payment management and L4 For urbans, definition Community services hardship (not MW) as per ESC (UPP1) and obligations Number of instalment plans (UPP6). pp. 14–15 Overall improved access at the end of the reporting to instalment plans for period management of payments. Understand year on year trends Number of customers in hardship grants. awarded hardship grants. Recognising Rec 1 Recreational values N/A recreational values Not applicable to Melbourne Support the wellbeing metropolitan retail water of rural and regional corporations. communities by considering recreational values in water management 146 City West Water Appendix 2 Disclosure of Information on Letter of Expectations MRD07 (continued) Priority Area Key Performance Indicator Measure Definition Comments Leadership and G1 Diversity and inclusion G1.1 Development and A Diversity Inclusion Our People p. 36 culture Improve gender and cultural delivery of a Diversity Plan/s that includes diversity in workforce Inclusion Plan/s and gender equity and Reflect the needs including gender equity in publication (via the water cultural, indigenous of our diverse executive leadership. Diversity corporation’s website) of the inclusion. communities and Inclusion plans to be based on Inclusion Plan or equivalent develop strategies best practice. The approach explanation. and goals that will of the DELWP Diversity and increase cultural G1.2 Number of females Our People p. 36 Inclusion Strategy 2016-2020 occupying senior executive diversity in the could be considered as a workforce and positions over projected guide. five-year period. gender equity in executive leadership G1.3 Adopt a 1% target for Our People p. 36 Aboriginal people in the business consistent with Vic government policy[1] and work to a stretch target of 3% by 2020 (DELWP policy[2]). G1.4 Actions taken to First Nations Advisor improve participation by role p. 37 Traditional Owners in Board committees and other organisational Committees. G1.5 Number of Staff participation in No report required. respondents to the the Victorian Public DELWP to obtain data VPSC People Matter Sector Commission from VPSC. Survey from each water (VPSC) People corporation should be Matter Survey. high or improving over Water corporation time (to be based on to encourage staff participation in alternate participation to years with mplementation complete annual measures achievements survey or equivalent reported in follow up year). survey. Results indicate favourable response to implementation of diversity inclusion plan. G3 Health and Safety G3 Performance indicators Health, safety and adopted to monitor wellbeing pp. 39–40 Sustained annual occupational health and improvement against H&S safety in line with FRD 22H, performance benchmarks section 6.10. (AS/NZS standard 4801). Annual Report 2020 147 Priority Area Key Performance Indicator Measure Definition Comments Financial F1-F8 Financial Indicators F1 interest cover Financial indicators as Performance Report sustainability prescribed by PRF. pp. 58–60 Overall reporting on these F2 gearing ratio Delivering safe and measures should demonstrate cost-effective water financial sustainability and provide F3 internal financing and wastewater a positive picture of a corporation’s ratio services in a financially financial sustainability over time. F4 current ratio sustainable way. F5 return on Assets F6 return on equity F7 EBITDA Margin 148 City West Water Appendix 3 The United Nations Global Compact As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, we outline below where our policies, actions and programs highlighted in this annual report align with the 10 principles of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Global Compact Ten Principles How our values guide our actions Page Human Rights 1. B  usinesses should support City West Water is committed to providing and respect the protection a healthy and safe workplace for all staff, of internationally proclaimed contractors, customers and the community, human rights; and where the wellbeing of individuals is supported and diversity is actively 2. M ake sure that they are not encouraged and championed. The following complicit in human rights policies and programs outlined in this report abuses. reflect this commitment: • Diversity and inclusion targets 36 • Annual Health and Safety Plan 2019–20 39 • Social sustainability actions 14 • Programs for people living with family violence 12, 15, 37 Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the City West Water is committed to a diverse freedom of association and and inclusive workplace culture free of the effective recognition of the discrimination. Our efforts are reflected right to collective bargaining. through the following items in this report: 4. The elimination of all forms of • Diversity and inclusion targets 36 forced and compulsory labour. • Accessibility Inclusion Plan 2019–20 39 5. T he effective abolition of child • Gender equity initiatives 37 labour; and City West Water staff have access to unions 6. The elimination of and professional associations, with local discrimination in respect of delegates engaging in regular meetings with employment and occupation. the City West Water executive. City West Water recognises the importance of unions and staff representation when negotiating enterprise agreements and consulting on significant work changes. As noted in our Corporate Plan 2019-20, the (Commonwealth) Modern Slavery Act 2018 came into effect from January 2019. As required City West Water will report annually (from 2020) on the risks of modern slavery in our operations and supply chains, and the action we have taken to assess and address those risks, and the effectiveness of our response. Annual Report 2020 149 Global Compact Ten Principles How our values guide our actions Page Environment 7. Businesses should support a The protection and enhancement of our precautionary approach to environment is embedded in City West environmental challenges; Water’s vision for the future. City West Water is dedicated to benefiting customers and the 8. U ndertake initiatives to community, and understands the intrinsic promote greater environmental link between water, the environment and responsibility; and human health and wellbeing. The following 9. E ncourage the development actions and strategies highlighted in this and diffusion of annual report, reflect this commitment: environmentally-friendly • Sustainable water use 19–21 technologies. • Climate Resilience Strategy 26 • Urban Water Strategy 24 • Collaboration on environmental projects 30 • Reducing energy use and emissions 30 Anti-Corruption 10. Businesses should work City West Water is committed to ensuring against corruption in all its transparency and accountability in its forms, including extortion and administrative and management practices, bribery. and the corporation supports the making of disclosures that reveal corrupt conduct, conduct involving a substantial mismanagement of public resources or conduct involving substantial risk to public health and safety or the environment. • Commitment to compliance with the 53 Public Interest Disclosures Act 2012 • Compliance with the Freedom of Information Act 1982 51 • Oversight of the corporation’s financial reports and information by the Risk Management and Audit Committee 45 • Reporting on related party transactions as part of our Financial Statements 122 150 City West Water Appendix 4 Bulk water entitlement reporting City West Water Corporation holds individual delivery entitlements to the water resources of the Greater Yarra System – Thomson River Pool (managed by Melbourne Water Corporation), the Victorian Desalination Project and the Murray and Goulburn river systems. Greater Yarra Victorian System – Thomson Desalination Reporting requirements River Pool1 Project7 Goulburn System12 River Murray17 Amount of water taken clause 16.1(a) clause 13.1(a) clause 14.1(b) n/a18 110,536.000 ML2 0 ML8 0 ML13 Opening carryover at 1/7/19 clause 16.1(b) clause 13.1(a) clause 14.1(c) clause 11.1(a) 80,011.763ML3 0 ML9 7,930.676 ML14 5,356.741 ML19 Annual water allocation made clause 16.1(b) clause 13.1(a) clause 14.1(c) clause 11.1(a) available during 2019-20 130,600.699 ML 31,258.933 ML9, 10 7,132.000 ML14 5,219.300 ML19 Closing carryover as at 30/6/20 clause 16.1(b) clause 13.1(a) clause 14.1(c) clause 11.1(a) 98,293.342 ML3 31,258.933 ML9 6,804.542 ML14, 15 5,154.739 ML19, 20 Compliant with entitlement clause 16.1(c) clause 13.1(e) n/a n/a volume yes5 yes11 Assignment of bulk entitlement clause 16.1(d) clause 13.1(b) clause 14.1(d) clause 11.1(b) 0 ML 0 ML -7,900 ML16 -5,150.000 ML21 Permanent transfer of all or part clause 16.1(d) clause 13.1(b) clause 14.1(e) clause 11.1(c) of bulk entitlement None None None None Approval, amendment and clause 16.1(e) n/a n/a n/a implementation of the metering continuing6 program Amendment of bulk entitlement clause 16.1(f) Clause 13.1(c) Clause 14.1(f) Clause 11.1(d) None None None None Any new bulk entitlement of clause 16.1(g) clause 13.1(d) None None water granted None None Any failure to comply with any clause 16.1(h) clause 13.1(f) clause 14.1(g) clause 11.1(e) provision of this bulk entitlement None None None None Any difficulties experienced or clause 16.1(i) clause 13.1(g) clause 14.1(h) clause 11.1(f) anticipated in complying with this None None None None bulk entitlement and any remedial action taken or proposed Notes for compliance with bulk entitlements Greater Yarra System – Thomson River Pool ML. The metropolitan retailers make water available in Tarago Reservoir to Gippsland Water under a Bulk 1. We hold Bulk Entitlement (Greater Yarra System – Water Supply Agreement. This is used by Gippsland Thomson River Pool – City West Water) Order 2014. Water to supplement their Tarago Bulk Entitlement Compliance requirements are set out in clauses during periods of high demand. City West Water 16.1(a)-(i). provided 60.9 ML under the BWSA in 2019-20. 2. We are a primary entitlement holder with an annual 4. For water accounting purposes, water sourced during entitlement share of 152,797 ML. 2019-20 under our Bulk Entitlement (Desalinated Water – 3. The Resource Manager – Melbourne Water makes City West Water) Order 2014 is considered to have been seasonal allocations monthly and maintains our water carried over and held in the Melbourne Headworks account and carry over accounting. Carry-over on System under our Bulk Entitlement (Greater Yarra System 30 June 2020 accounts for estimated spills of 1,779.531 – Thomson River Pool – City West Water) Order 2014. Annual Report 2020 151 5. Compliance with the entitlement volume is measured 15. Carry over on 30 June 2020 accounts for estimated by compliance with the overall cap within the source evaporative losses of 358.134 ML. entitlements for the Thomson and Yarra systems (held 16. We have water management action plans in place to by Melbourne Water). manage water allocations in excess of our use. These 6. Metering programs for this bulk entitlement are strategies include the transfer of allocations between continually maintained and reviewed via the Bulk bulk entitlement allocation accounts and selling water Water Supply Agreement between us and Melbourne allocation. Water and System Management Rules established by Melbourne Water. River Murray Victorian Desalination Project 17. We hold Bulk Entitlement (Murray River – City West Water) Conversion Order 2012. Compliance requirements are 7. We hold Bulk Entitlement (Desalinated Water – City West set out in clauses 11.1(a)-(f). Water) Order 2014. Compliance requirements are set out in clauses 13.1(a)-(g). 18. We hold this entitlement as a result of our investment in the Goulburn Murray Water Connections Project 8. We do not take water directly from the Victorian Stage 1. We took no water from this resource in Desalination project infrastructure. We may take 2019-20. an average annual volume of up to 39,595 ML of desalinated water over any period of five consecutive 19. The Resource Manager – the Northern Victorian years that is delivered to a delivery point to the Resource Manager, makes allocation equal to oneMelbourne headworks system. ninth of the total Phase 4 water savings achieved in 9. The Resource Manager – Melbourne Water makes the River Murray component of the Goulburn Murray seasonal allocations monthly and maintains our water Irrigation District (GMID) from Goulburn Murray Water account and carry over accounting. Connections Project Stage 1 as verified in the latest audit. 10. The Hon Lisa Neville MP, Minister for Water announced a 125 GL desalinated water order for the 2019-20 year. 20. Carry over on 30 June 2020 accounts for estimated We received our share of 31,258.9 ML of our total share evaporative losses of 271.302 ML. 32,996 ML during 2019-20 and 1,737.1 ML of our total 32,996 ML share was delivered in 2018-19. 21. We have water management action plans in place to manage water allocations in excess of our use. These 11. Compliance with the entitlement volumes is measured strategies include the transfer of allocations between with respect to whether the annual volume taken bulk entitlement allocation accounts and selling water exceeds the entitlement. This didn’t occur this year. allocation. Goulburn System 12. We hold Bulk Entitlement (Goulburn System – City West Water) Order 2012. Compliance requirements are set out in clauses 14.1(a)-(h). 13. We hold this entitlement as a result of our investment in the Goulburn Murray Water Connections Project Stage 1. We took no water from this resource in 2019-20. 14. The Resource Manager – the Northern Victorian Resource Manager, makes allocation equal to oneninth of the total Phase 4 water savings achieved in the Goulburn component of the Goulburn Murray Irrigation District (GMID) from Goulburn Murray Water Connections Project Stage 1 as verified in the latest audit.
