Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Operations The year in brief 4 This is Swedavia 5 Statement of the Chairman of the Board 6 Statement of the President and CEO 8 The aviation market 10 Sustainable future aviation 13 How Swedavia creates value 16 Materiality analysis 20 Swedavia’s targets 24 Swedavia’s strategies 26 Operations 28 Airport Operations 32 Real Estate 44 Sustainability Sustainable development 48 Sustainable economy 50 Sustainable social development 52 Sustainable environmental concern 56 Financial information Report of the Directors 61 Consolidated financial statements 84 Parent Company financial statements 89 Notes 93 Signatories to the Annual Report 126 Auditor’s Report 127 Other GRI Index 130 Key metrics 134 Statement of Compliance 136 Definitions 137 Green bonds 138 This is Swedavia’s Annual and Sustainability Report for the financial year 2019. The report is aimed primarily at its owner, customers, credit analysts and partners, but also at other stakeholders, and is focused on the company’s strategy, objectives, targets and results for the past year. The report concerns the entire Group unless otherwise indicated. Swedavia prepares its Sustainability Report in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. Reported indicators have been chosen based on Swedavia’s and its stakeholders’ shared view of material issues and what is important for long-term sustainable operations. For sustainability-related information, see the GRI Index on pages 130–132. The statutory sustainability report in accordance with Sweden’s Annual Accounts Act is found on pages 65–71. The report also constitutes Swedavia’s report (Communication on Progress, COP) for the UN Global Compact. The airports of the future This is a translation of the Swedish original. In the event of any discrepancy ­between the two versions, the Swedish version takes precedence. Swedavia operates and develops the airports of Read more at: www.swedavia.se the future. The access they create enables Contact person: ­m eetings between people and cultures. It makes Emma Behrendtz, communication strategist Sweden competitive, which provides the basis for Tel. +46 10 109 00 00 • emma.behrendtz@swedavia.se long-term sustainable growth. Swedavia’s overall targets 85% satisfied passengers, 2025 6% return on operating capital, annually 75% engage leaders and employees, 2025 0 tonnes of emissions of fossil ­carbon dioxide from own operations, 2020 5% share of sustainable aviation fuel, 2025 THE YEAR IN BRIEF The year in brief Performance in 2019 The Group in numbers For the full year, Swedavia’s airports The Group had 40.2 million (42.0) passengers, SEK M, unless otherwise indicated 2019 2018 2017 2016 which is a decrease of four per cent Net revenue 6,235 5,922 5,745 5,546 Net revenue increased to SEK 6,235 Operating profit 709 682 651 966 M (5,922) Operating margin, % 1 11.4 11.5 11.3 17.4 The operating cost per departing pasProfit for the year 583 517 407 717 senger increased to SEK 212.6 (200.7) Return on operating capital, %2 4.6 4.6 5.1 8.5 due to the lower number of passengers Debt/equity ratio, times2 1.1 1.1 1.0 0.7 Operating profit was SEK 709 M Investments 3,460 3,195 3,866 2,138 (682). It was negatively affected by SEK 82 M (84) attributable to impairDividend —3 — 122 143 ment losses and disposals as well as Average number of employees 3,050 3,217 3,074 2,949 restructuring costs of SEK 81 M (—). Number of passengers, million 40.2 42.0 41.9 39.5 Operating profit in 2019 was positively Operating costs per departing passenger, SEK4 212.6 200.7 192.9 194.5 affected by capital gains of SEK 130 Commercial revenue per departing passenger, M (55). Excluding these items affecting SEK 81.0 75.2 75.7 75.5 comparability, operating profit was SEK Satisfied passengers, % 76 74 75 77 742 M (711) Engaged leaders and employees, %5 — 65 67 64 The Group’s investments totalled SEK 3,460 M (3,195). Significant Fossil carbon dioxide emissions, tonnes 316 1,305 1,896 2,723 OPERATIONS investments were made in the airports’ For key metrics and definitions, see pages 134–135 and 137. ­development programmes and in run1 Operating margin excluding extraordinary items was 11.9 per cent in 2019, 12.0 per cent in 2018, way maintenance 14.1 per cent in 2017 and 13.1 per cent in 2016. The Board of Directors proposes 2 As of 2017, the company’s pension provision and receivable for the related employee pension tax are offset. Comparative years have been restated. that Swedavia AB brings forward the 3 Dividend proposed to the Annual General Meeting. ­retained earnings for 2019 4 This key metric is calculated based on the Airport Operations business segment. As of January 1, 2019, the subsidiaries Swedavia Airport Telecom AB and Swedavia Energi AB are included in the Airport Operations business segment. Comparative years have been restated. 5 As of 2019, this key metric is calculated every two years. SEK 3,460 40.2 million M in investments SEK passengers 6,235 M in net revenue Sustainable aviation fuel 4 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 THIS IS SWEDAVIA Swedavia develops the airports of the future and creates sustainable growth for Sweden Swedavia’s mission is to operate and develop the ten airports in Sweden’s national basic infra­structure Kiruna Airport and to contribute to good access for Sweden and for the country’s different regions. Luleå Airport Purpose international role model in sustainTogether we enable people to meet. ability and a growth engine for all of Umeå Airport Sweden. Vision Swedavia develops the airports of Sustainable future aviation Swedavia is a world leader in develÅre Östersund the future and creates sustainable Airport growth for Sweden. oping airports with the least possible climate impact. In 2020, ­Swedavia’s Business concept objective is to have zero emissions of Together with its partners, ­Swedavia fossil carbon dioxide. Swedavia also creates added value for its customcontributes to fossil-free air transStockholm ers by offering attractive airports port by being a driver in the largeArlanda Airport and access that provide smooth scale switch to sustainable aviation and inspiring travel experiences. fuel. The goal is to achieve fossil-free Bromma Stockholm Airport ­Swedavia’s airports shall be the most Swedish air transport by 2045. important meeting places in Scandinavia, while the company shall be an Göteborg Landvetter Visby Airport Airport Ronneby Airport Malmö Airport SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 5 STATEMENT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD Without aviation Sweden – and the world – would come to a stop The access that aviation creates is an say this work for the company is a task essential requirement for Sweden’s that feels engaging and important. competitiveness, economic growth and Swedavia was formed in 2010. Up prosperity. Aviation links together our until the autumn of 2018, we had strong long, narrow country and links Sweden passenger growth, 4–5 per cent a year on to the rest of the world, which enables average. Although we see a declining experiences, meetings, trade and trend for the past two years, in our view commerce. air travel will increase in the long term. No other transport mode can connect In order to handle the capacity shortdistant destinations with the same age arising from the passenger growth degree of convenience and speed. in previous years and based on future Together with ships, trains, lorries and needs, Swedavia needs to expand and buses, aviation creates a network of increase capacity at its airports, a protransport modes that all serve the same cess that is in full swing and which purpose – to create access so that people involves major investments. can meet and Swedish companies can do In 2019, we devoted a great deal of the business in a global marketplace. That is Board’s work to our master plans, in one reason why Swedavia is vital to which we plan for the long-term perOPERATIONS Sweden, but in order for us to continue spective. One such perspective concerns to make a contribution, aviation must be Bromma Stockholm Airport. The transformed. Board’s assessment is that planning Given the roadmap that the aviation must be based on the assumption that industry has adopted under the scope of Swedavia’s lease with the City of the Swedish Government’s Fossil-Free ­Stockholm will not be extended after Sweden Initiative, there is a concrete – 2038. We must therefore focus on common – plan for this transformation. ensuring that Stockholm Arlanda AirWe are working intensely here and now, port will also be able to handle the and we are working with great focus within a much longer timeframe. It Bromma traffic after that. This places demands on increased runway and ter“Our job is to should be possible for aviation to develop and meet demand while at the minal capacity, which, in turn, entails lengthy permit processes that must be create access” same time reducing its climate impact. initiated now. Meanwhile, we must By 2030, Swedish domestic air travel maintain our flexibility in order to shall be fossil-free. By 2045, all Swedish change and adapt these measures air travel, domestic and international, depending on the future trend. shall be fossil-free. It is worth noting that Swedavia’s development work is financed by the Swedavia’s Board of Directors is company’s own funds, generated from entrusted with the task of safeguarding airport charges, concessions and propSwedavia’s operations in the short and erty development, along with long term. We shall ensure that ­Swedavia borrowings. is profitable over time and we shall also have a sharp focus on sustainability that Safety and security are a fundamental covers all operations – everything from matter for Swedavia’s operations. All operating and economic to environmenpassengers who travel via the airports tal and social factors. Swedavia shall also each day must be able to do so safely and develop with the times and be prepared securely, and our airports shall be to handle future needs for access. I know robust in the event of different kinds of that I speak for the entire Board when I service disruption. It is also a matter of 6 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 5% of the aviation fuel used for refuelling at Swedavia’s airports shall be sustainable by 2025. being safetyand security-minded, for and be successful in creating jobs and and good funding opportunities and is our own employees as well as for everyprosperity. well-equipped to meet the owner’s one else who works at our facilities. requirements for return, gearing and Safety and security are one of the We leave a challenging year behind us, profit. I look forward to continuing to most important items on every Board one that included an extensive change be involved in and drive this work meeting agenda. There is thus always a programme with cost-cutting measures together with the Board of Directors, review of any incident and of serious and employee lay-offs, both driven by a the President and CEO, and the risk observations regarding incidents changed market situation and as part of management. that could have occurred. There is also a our continuous development and On behalf of the Board of Directors, I focus on sustainability issues on the improvement work. This has been at a would like to thank all our leaders, Board’s agenda. By the end of 2020, time when we have a great deal of work to employees and partners for their good ­Swedavia shall be completely fossil-free do. It is challenging to maintain a balance work during the year. in its own airport operations. Our sights in retaining the talent and resources I would also like to extend my thanks are also set on 2025, when 5 per cent of needed and at the same time keep costs to everyone who chose to fly to and from all fuel used for refuelling at Swedish down in order to maintain competitive our airports. It is because of you that we airports shall be renewable. airport charges. Swedavia is investing in exist. Swedavia’s goals are ambitious, and the future, and it is heart-warming to collaboration with other stakeholders experience the good spirit found at Stockholm, March 2020 in the industry as well as in other parts ­Swedavia, despite a challenging year. of society is crucial. This enables With the measures that have been Åke Svensson ­Sweden’s different regions to develop taken, the company has good cash flow Chairman of the Board SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 7 STATEMENT OF THE PRESIDENT AND CEO At the forefront in the transformation of aviation Aviation is a meetings industry. Those of us who work in this ­industry enable people around the world to meet, exchange ideas and trade with one another. Our operations are vital to a sparsely populated, export-dependent country like ­Sweden. Meanwhile, the industry faces great challenges, and we at S ­ wedavia are working with great focus and intensity to meet them. For Swedavia, 2019 was a year in which, for the first time in a decade, we experienced a decrease in passenger volume. Some 40.2 million passengers flew to or from our airports, a decrease of 4 per cent compared to 2018. This primarily concerned domestic traffic, which fell 9 per cent due to a decrease in business travel, but international travel also decreased somewhat. The passenger trend was affected by a greater focus on aviation’s OPERATIONS climate impact, a weaker Swedish krona and general concerns about and preparations for an expected deceleration in economic growth, among other factors. The importance of aviation should not be underestimated Our service delivery is vital to Sweden. The development of the country’s different regions depends on good transport links, and 50 per cent of Swedish GDP depends on export industries. Just as the Transformation requires growth is achieved in a sustainable manner will it mouths of rivers and railway stations As early as 2012, Swedavia signed the be possible for this growth to continue have long been important for trade and UN’s Global Compact and works with and create value over time. meetings, today’s modern airports also every dimension – social development, At Swedavia, we work hard to keep our serve as value-creating hubs for people economic sustainability and, not least, own house in order. In 2019, we continued and different transport modes. The need environmental issues. The climate to reduce our carbon dioxide emissions, to exchange services, goods and cultures debate has had a major impact on aviaand our target is zero emissions of fossil between countries will not decrease, and tion, and the entire industry is in the carbon dioxide from our own operations virtually every long-term forecast sugmidst of a sweeping transformation proby the end of 2020. At the end of 2019, gests that air travel will continue to cess. In this context, it is worth noting three of our airports were fossil-free, and increase. that sustainability and economic growth by the end of 2020, all ten of our airports In Sweden, some international travel is are not diametrically opposed. In order to will be fossil-free, which will make us the driven by the fact that we have many resihave good growth in the long term, we only airport operator in the world to do so. dents with roots in other countries. One must manage to transform ourselves into By 2025, planes that land at and take off fifth of the population was born outside a renewable society. At the same time, we from our airports will refuel using 5 per Sweden and has family and friends in will not be able to achieve such a sweepcent sustainable aviation fuel, which is in other countries that they visit or receive ing transformation without maintaining line with the Swedish aviation industry’s visitors from. One fourth of all air traffic economic growth since this transformaroadmap to being fossil-free. to and from Sweden consists of people tion requires resources, skills and investTo stimulate demand for sustainable who want to meet family and friends. ments. On the other hand, only if growth aviation fuel and show that it is possible 8 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 to fly sustainably even today, in 2019 we years of successfully enhancing internaaimed at making operations more effipurchased 450 tonnes of renewable fuel tional access at Stockholm Arlanda Aircient and shifting to a more process-­ to cover the amount used for our own air port, a number of airlines started to oriented way of working with an even travel for business purposes. In conjuncreduce capacity in 2019. The suspension clearer focus on customers. We anticition with last year’s joint procurement and relocation of several important pate the effects will be higher customer for 2020 delivery, we also chose to invite intercontinental direct routes from and passenger satisfaction, quality and other organisations and public authoriSweden were announced or impleefficiency. Even now, we can see daily ties to do the same. For the 2020 public mented. However, during the year we effects of our change work, which is tender for fuel, the Swedish emergency also got the go-ahead for a direct route to gratifying. assistance services company SOS Alarm, Tokyo, which will be launched just in Aviation and airport safety and secuthe alcohol retailer Systembolaget and time for the 2020 Summer Olympic rity are our highest priority. Incidents in the Swedish coalition for decarbonisaGames. This route has long been sought recent years – for example, accidents tion the 2030 Secretariat also took part, by Swedish export companies and will with a newly developed aircraft type – which we are pleased about. For the next strengthen the Swedish tourism have a major impact on how people view public tender, our hope is that other industry. our industry. It takes a long time to build organisations will join us. We are developing our airports in trust but just moments to destroy it. order to meet future needs and to address The start of 2020 has been dominated Collaboration necessary the capacity shortage after many years of by the COVID-19 coronavirus. We are folOne dilemma in aviation’s drive to reduce increased passenger volume. At Stocklowing developments closely – both from its climate impact is limited access to holm Arlanda Airport, a new airport an infectious disease control perspective renewable fuel. Sweden is a country rich maintenance area, the size of 40 football and from the impact of the situation on in forests, and by-products from forestry, pitches, was inaugurated during the year. traffic and travel patterns – and have saw mills and the paper industry constiDecisions were also made on building a preparations in place to take necessary tute raw materials for domestic producnew pier with additional gates as well as measures. tion of renewable fuels. However, this new spaces for a central security checkAlongside aviation safety and security, requires increased demand in order to point and a marketplace for shopping and the workplace environment is one of the bring about large-scale production of restaurants. Property development has issues I am most passionate about. It is sustainable aviation fuel. At Swedavia, we gone as planned, with new tenants important that we feel good on the job, would really like to see more robust moving into the Office One complex and which also has a direct impact on how financial support to stimulate investconstruction of the new Comfort Hotel. ­satisfied our customers are with us. ments in larger commercial facilities for Göteborg Landvetter Airport is one of Similarly from a recruitment perspecproducing renewable fuel. Our proposal Swedavia’s airports that saw an increase tive, job satisfaction, diversity and is a reduction quota scheme, also recomin international passengers in 2019 and a engagement are crucial. If we are to sucmended by the Swedish Government’s number of additional routes to destinaceed in attracting the best employees, we bio jet fuel inquiry, which by creating sigtions such as Lyon, Marseille, Budapest must have a good workplace environnificant long-term demand would stimuand Turin. The airport is also being ment, both physically and psycho-­ late renewable fuel production. Swedavia expanded with the addition of three new socially. Having a clear goal in what we has also begun preparations so that the gates connected to the southern part of want to achieve for society is increasingly first electric-powered aircraft for comthe airport, which will be inaugurated in important when young people today mercial use can be placed in service for 2020. In the northern part of the airport, choose where they want to invest their Swedish domestic air travel, perhaps by a new hotel and a new baggage sorting future. At Swedavia, we enable people to as early as 2025 and beyond. The indusfacility with upgraded baggage x-ray meet, and it is a pleasure to work in opertry’s transformation to fossil-free operaequipment will be built. ations that are so vital to our country and tions is both necessary and possible but At Bromma Stockholm Airport, we are to us as individuals. will require broad collaboration across seeing the completion of modernisation industries as well as between business work. During the autumn, the new deparInto the future with air travel and government. At Swedavia, we look ture hall was finished, and we have Finally, I would like to spotlight the great forward to being part of this historic already seen one effect of this, increased skills and wonderful engagement we have journey. passenger satisfaction, which generally in our organisation. Together we work holds for a number of Swedavia’s airports. every day to give people the opportunity Access and capacity enhancement to meet. We help create prosperity and a investments Better efficiency and lower costs sustainable aviation industry that is Swedavia’s task is to create and enable Based on the prevailing market situation showing the way to the future. access. The range of direct routes availawith fewer passengers, in 2019 Swedavia ble is a vital competitive advantage for a carried out a cost reduction and change Stockholm, March 2020 region or country and is often crucial to programme, with necessary measures where a company chooses to locate its including the lay-off of 125 employees. Jonas Abrahamsson main office, for example. After numerous We are also working full out with changes President and CEO SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 9 THE AVIATION MARKET A business in continuous change The aviation industry faces challenges with climate change, the switch to fossil-free jet fuel and economic fluctuations. At the same time, the world’s population and the need to travel to different parts of the world are growing. The industry is working tirelessly with these issues to find sustainable solutions for the future. The earth’s population has increased expotrend was somewhat weaker. As for internanentially over the past century, and in a few tional traffic, foreign visitors continued to decades the global population is expected to show increased interest in travelling to reach ten billion. Economic prosperity has Sweden, thus making a significant contribualso grown in step with great technological tion to the tourism industry. advances. This has created conditions for For a number of years, Swedavia has many more people to quickly move between needed to enhance its airport capacity and continents and see the world. Air travel has make major investments to maintain comchanged our view of distances in the world, and petitiveness and to do this in a sustainable there are scarcely any places on the map that manner. Work is also under way at other large can no longer be reached. Today travel is not a international airports to enhance capacity. matter of class; 25 per cent of our international Investments in the neighbouring Nordic passengers travel to meet family and friends. countries have progressed further, which also To ensure that there is an opportunity to means that some international direct routes OPERATIONS travel in the longer term, the aviation indushave been moved there. try needs to address a number of challenges. According to Swedish Transport Agency The industry’s impact on climate change is forecasts, growth is expected mainly in leione of the greatest. Fluctuating oil prices, sure travel, and destinations in Europe are geopolitical conflicts, terrorism, pandemics most attractive to Swedish passengers. Inter“Domestic and cybercrime are other challenges. Increased protectionism, with more closed nationally, passenger numbers from emerging markets such as China and India are air travel borders and import tariffs, is advocated by more and more countries. growing quickly – although this still involves relatively small volumes. shall be Exchange rates have a strong impact on both people’s desire to travel and airlines’ There are a number of reasons for the weaker passenger trend in Sweden compared fossilprofitability. Many airlines are exposed to the to other markets in Europe and Scandinavia. free by US dollar so when the Swedish krona, for The climate debate began earlier in Sweden, instance, weakens we travel less, which and the aviation industry sees a great chal2030 at entails a risk that these companies will invest lenge in both reducing its carbon dioxide in other markets. emissions and handling the expected increase the latest” Increased capacity needed The aviation industry as such has its own drivNUMBER OF PASSENGERS AT SWEDAVIA’S AIRPORTS ers, which are changing the playing field for the Miljoner Million industry. For example, the business model of 45 low cost carriers – giving customers the choice 40 of opting in or out on services – has changed 35 the aviation market fundamentally. Network 30 airlines are now starting to follow this practice, 25 charging for baggage and the like. 20 In 2019, Swedavia saw a decrease in 15 demand for flights, especially in domestic 10 traffic. Globally and in Europe, traffic 5 remained strong, but a slowdown was seen at 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 the end of the year. In Scandinavia, the traffic 10 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 PASSENGER TREND AT SWEDAVIA’S AIRPORTS PASSENGER TREND BY MONTH, 2019, AT SWEDAVIA’S AIRPORTS % % 15 0 –1 10 –2 –3 5 –4 –5 0 –6 –7 –5 –8 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 11 THE AVIATION MARKET in passenger volume. This has affected demand mainly on shorter domestic routes, with more and more companies and other organisations introducing Opportunities and challenges travel policies that favour other transport • In global terms, air travel is on the reduces emissions. modes. In an increasingly digitised world, rise, which in the long term means a other forms of meeting are also available growing business. • Terrorist acts and armed conflicts and chosen to an increasing extent. can affect air travel. Terrorist acts An uncertain economic outlook and a • The climate change debate has had have a devastating effect mainly on weaker Swedish krona have also affected an impact on travel behaviour, but loved ones and can also affect airdemand. These factors have contributed both electric aircraft and more lines. Armed conflicts can have to airlines choosing to invest in other large-scale production of biofuels more long-term consequences for markets to a greater extent and to are within reach. Older aircraft are destinations. reduced capacity in Sweden. In the long also being replaced with new, more term, there is a risk that this will have energy-efficient models. • Extreme weather is increasingly consequences for access within Sweden common and affects airports. It but also to and from the country. • New technology through digitisabecomes harder to take off and tion and automation is making air land, and communications systems There are calls for an EU-wide aviation travel more fuel-efficient, which can be affected. tax, like the tax introduced in Sweden in 2018. Aviation taxes are controversial. Some people argue that it is a good way to limit air travel while others believe it has Digitisation, automation and no effect and is counterproductive. In collaboration Denmark and Finland, there is no aviaNew technology creates many opportution tax, while the tax is far higher in nities to make travel more attractive. Sweden for some kinds of traffic comWith digital services, it is possible to pared to Norway. acquire detailed knowledge about pasOPERATIONS sengers’ travel and spending habits, Electric aircraft and biofuel which means simple methods are needed The aviation industry’s own position is to get consent to store data. that emissions must be reduced, and not Digitisation and automation are a priair travel, with all of its benefits to society. ority material issue for Swedavia. The Person-to-person meetings are still company is working on a number of difimportant, while more and more people ferent initiatives. Rapid advances are User-friendly. The Swea AI also live, study and work in places where being made in artificial intelligence (AI), ­chatbot answers questions they were not born. In this context, aviaand in the future robots and biometaround the clock about arrival tion plays a major role. ric-based services will be taken for times, queue times at the security The work now continues with the granted as being part of the airport envicheckpoint, and which restaurants roadmap developed by the Swedish aviaronment. Among other things, robots will serve vegan food. This is one example of how ­Swedavia’s innotion industry under the scope of the Govbe able to guide passengers to the right vation and digitisation work creernment’s Fossil-Free Sweden initiative. gate and take care of baggage. Biometrics ates better customer experiences. Two of the important measures to reduce will provide new methods, for instance, in Swea was launched in late 2018. carbon dioxide emissions are electrified order to rapidly identify people. aircraft and a large-scale switch to bio­ At the end of 2018, Swedavia launched fuels. The first target is for Swedish its AI-based chatbot, Swea, which can be domestic air travel to be fossil-­free by accessed on the company’s website, Face2030 at the latest. The second target is for book and Messenger. Swea can answer Today airports and airlines can share all Swedish air travel to be fossil-free by questions about arrival times, baggage, information amongst themselves in real 2045 at the latest. the range of services available at the airtime. That provides benefits such as more There are also measures in the aviation ports and more. efficient approaches and departures and industry’s roadmap for energy efficiency Airlines and airport operators need to shorter waiting times at the gate. improvements and electrification. collaborate in different ways. When Improved efficiency also helps to reduce Among other moves, the airports must be travel and cargo patterns change, airlines fuel use, which in turn reduces aviation’s prepared with the necessary infrastrucmust be able to adjust quickly. They then climate impact. Another context in which ture to charge aircraft and a power supply depend on the airports being able to concollaboration is crucial is in airport refursufficient to handle the electric aircraft of tribute, for example, by changing infrabishment work, so that passengers have the future. structure and keeping airport changes at as smooth and easy a journey as possible. competitive levels. 12 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 SUSTAINABLE FUTURE AVIATION Fossil-free air travel within reach Access to sustainable aviation fuel is a challenge for aviation’s ­transformation, but production is set to accelerate. Swedavia is a driver of this transformation in various ways and in 2019 began to prepare its airports for electric aircraft. In terms of surface area, Sweden is the put the country on the map. In order to tors generate nearly 150 billion kronor third largest country in Europe. Its remain innovative and successful, in revenue in Sweden. topography is also special, which makes people who live in Sweden need to be it difficult to quickly get from the north close to other countries and cultures. At Reduced emissions through to the south by any other transport the same time, it also has to be easy for innovation mode than by air. foreign visitors to get to Sweden. Most Air transport also has a downside. Sweden is also an export-dependent foreign visitors who travel to Sweden Exhaust gases from fossil fuel account country that, despite its small populaarrive by air. Aviation plays a critical for around 2 per cent of global carbon tion, has had a relatively large impact on role in the country’s competitiveness dioxide emissions. the rest of the world. High-quality and regional development – it is a matter In Sweden, domestic air transport industrial production along with innoof contributing to employment and ecoaccounts for 1 per cent of carbon dioxide vation, design, music and fashion has nomic growth. Each year, foreign visiemissions while international air transSWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 13 SUSTAINABLE TRANSPORT OF THE FUTURE port accounts for about 4 per cent1. The aviation industry is in an intensive, “In 2019, a number of airlines in the innovative phase in which large sums are being invested to reduce emissions. Swedish market rejuvenated their The work has been successful, reducing ­aircraft fleet, which helped reduce emissions per passenger-mile sharply in recent years. The new aircraft placed in both emissions and noise” service today consume 20 per cent less fuel than those being replaced, which also reduces carbon dioxide to a similar degree2. In addition to the climate impact from carbon dioxide, air travel also has an effect from emissions at high Electric-powered aircraft are making the future charge their batteries. altitude. Usually, the total climate considerable advances. Manufacturers Swedavia is also a partner in the EU impact of air travel is estimated to be in Sweden anticipate that they will be Green Flyway project. Under the scope twice as large as its carbon dioxide able to sell their first electric aircraft for of the project, Åre Östersund Airport will emissions. Work is under way to reduce passenger traffic, with seating capacity be prepared as a test airport for electrithese effects through flight operating of about 20, by as early as 2025.3 fied aircraft. The goal is to create a venue procedures and new engines. Other to test-fly electric aircraft and drones in measures to reduce fuel use involve Swedavia’s contribution airspace between Östersund and Trondmethods to fly straighter paths and have Swedavia has ambitious goals for the heim, Norway. Testing will be carried out lighter loads on board. company’s climate impact. By the end of in partnership with a number of stake2020, its own operations shall have zero holders in Sweden and Norway. Fossil fuel is being phased out fossil carbon dioxide emissions, and by The use of non-fossil fuels enables a 2025, 5 per cent of the fuel used for refuWhat the industry is doing reduction in carbon dioxide emissions elling aircraft in Sweden shall be renewaClimate impact is an issue at the top of of more than 80 per cent. Renewable ble. The next goal for Swedavia is totally the aviation industry’s agenda. In OPERATIONS fuels are therefore one of the most fossil-free domestic air travel by 2030. Sweden, stakeholders in the industry important keys in reducing the climate During the year, Swedavia carried out are working actively to transform operimpact of aviation. However, there is as a joint public tender that will enable the ations, with developments taking place yet no large-scale production of biofuel Swedish organisations Systembolaget, mainly in three areas: energy improvein Sweden. Swedavia believes policy SOS Alarm and the 2030 Secretariat to ment measures, fossil-free fuel and instruments are needed to get producfly fossil-free by purchasing sustainable electrification. tion up and running in earnest. One avition fuel, something Swedavia Energy improvement measures are example of a better alternative to the already does to offset the amount of fuel carried out on an ongoing basis through current national aviation tax is a statuused for its flights for business the optimisation and renewal of the airtory reduction quota scheme, which purposes. craft fleet and through more efficient requires some percentage of fuel to be A strategic approach for how the comways of flying to save fuel and reduce renewable. According to the proposal pany will contribute to the electrificaemissions. In 2019, a number of airlines put forward by the Swedish Governtion of Sweden’s aircraft fleet was prein the Swedish market rejuvenated their ment’s inquiry on biofuel, at least 30 per pared during the year. Concrete measaircraft fleet, which helped reduce both cent of fuel used for domestic air travel ures have been launched, including the emissions and noise. shall be renewable by 2030 at the latest. mapping of the power supply at its airAs for fuel, the industry is working to Fossil jet fuel shall be completely ports to ensure that the electricity increase the use of sustainable alternaphased out in Sweden by 2045. needed is available when the aircraft of tives and to get large-scale Swedish pro0% 5% 2020 dioxide No emissions of fossil carbon from Swedavia’s operations. 2025 The share of sustainable aviation fuel shall be 5 per cent. 14 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 duction of fossil­-free fuel up and running. In Sweden, we have great potential to use 2% aviation’s share of by-products from our forest industry. global carbon dioxToday sustainable aviation fuel is proide emissions. duced primarily from materials such as used cooking oil and slaughterhouse waste. In Sweden and in other Nordic countries, a number of biofuel refineries are being planned, and the aviation Aviation and carbon dioxide: industry is working to ensure that a share • 15.5 million – the number of tonnes of carbon dioxide equivaof this production goes to air transport. lents that Swedish domestic road traffic emits annually. MariIn electrification, important progress was made during the past year. Among time transport emits the equivalent of 312,000 tonnes and rail other contributions, Sweden was a transport emits 40,000 tonnes. driver in forming the Nordic Network • 0.5 million – the number of tonnes of carbon dioxide equivafor Electric Aviation (NEA) with the lents that Swedish domestic air transport emits annually. aim of coordinating the development of • 2.8 million – the number of tonnes of carbon dioxide equivaelectric aviation in the Nordic counlents that international air transport emits in Sweden annually. tries. In addition, a number of Swedish • Air traffic at high altitudes has a greater climate impact than companies in both the aviation and that flying at lower altitudes.This means that a large part of energy sectors also launched measures Sweden’s domestic air transport does not have any to promote electric air transport. climate impact apart from carbon dioxide 80% Another development during the year emissions 4. was the move by Swedavia, RISE Research Institutes of Sweden and Scandinavian Airlines (SAS) to estabhow much more fuel-­ lish the innovation cluster Fossil-Free efficient air travel has Air Transport 2045. The idea is to carry become over the past out joint efforts to achieve the goal of 50 years. fossil-free air transport in Sweden by Another inquiry to examine what the 2045. The work will include finding new conditions are like for investment and Sources: business models and speeding up the production support for large-scale biodevelopment of electric aviation and the fuel production was also proposed. 1 Swedish Environmental Protection Agency production of biofuel. Funds have likewise been allocated for 2 Airbus, Boeing and others For example, Braathens Regional Aircontinued research, development and 3 Heart Aerospace lines (BRA) and SAS offer their customfeasibility studies for the production of 4 Swedish Energy Agency ers the option of paying an additional biofuel. A climate policy action plan was cost for biofuel corresponding to the presented by the Government in late amount of fuel used for their flights. December. One policy proposal during the year Political will to change was to give priority to the public sector During the year, the Swedish Governto some extent in purchasing fossil-free ment’s inquiry on bio jet fuel presented fuel. An investigation was also launched its findings along with a proposed reducto study the structure of charges in aviation quota scheme for air transport. tion linked to emissions. 100% 100% 2030 travel Swedish domestic air shall be fossil-free*. 2045 All Swedish air travel, domestic and international, shall be fossil-free*. * According to the trade association the Swedish Air Transport Society’s roadmap. SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 15 HOW SWEDAVIA CREATES VALUE Access, employment and trade – Swedavia creates benefits on numerous levels Swedavia’s main task is to create access – within Sweden well as to and from the country. Growth and business opportunities are created through sions and activities have in the company’s value chain and on the company’s operations. Swedavia contributes to employstakeholders. ment, tax revenue, diversity, and the exchange of culture and Swedavia’s operations give rise to an environmental knowledge for its stakeholders. Furthermore, Swedavia impact to some extent. For long-term, sustainable profitabilplays an active role in developing the Swedish transport ity, Swedavia invests in measures to reduce its noise impact, sector and contributes to Sweden achieving its transport improve energy efficiency, reduce fossil carbon dioxide emispolicy goals. This produces positive effects for all of Swedish sions and make other environmental improvements. At the society – locally, regionally and nationally, for companies, same time, the company supports the industry’s climate other organisations and individuals. change adaptation, for example by working to increase the As a State-owned company, Swedavia shall be a role model use of biofuels and create opportunities for the electrical air in sustainable development. That means it is important to transport of the future. OPERATIONS understand and take into consideration the effects that deciActivities & products Inputs Capital Suppliers Offerings Products Market channels Tangible, intangible Goods and Services that facilitate Aviation Business, Airports, stakeholder and financial capital services travel, business and ­Commercial Services ­dialogues and meetings and Real Estate partnerships Employees Relations Sustainable fundamental values Labour and Samarbeten Collaborations Reliable • Engaged • Innovative • Welcoming ­competences 16 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 “Aviation is of great importance to Sweden’s economy and competitiveness and plays a vital role in meeting the needs of people and business for long-distance travel and transport, both domestic and international.” Excerpt from the Swedish Government’s aviation strategy, 2017 Effects Deliveries to customers Effects Inspiring + Access passenger New products, + Employment experience ­ xperiences and e + Tax revenue Attractive destinations ­interesting brands + Business opportunities + Exchange of culture and knowledge Personal, sustainable and modern + Diversity Airlines airport ­services and Tenants transports – Environmental impact Safe, effective Functional premises in infrastructure Swedavia shall create the an attractive environment access that Sweden needs to facilitate travel, business and meetings SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 17 HOW SWEDAVIA CREATES VALUE Swedavia’s resources Operations and business model Relational capital 40.2 million passengers and relations with customers, Swedavia’s vision tenants, suppliers, partners and decision-makers. Swedavia develops the airports of the future and creates sustainable ­Swedavia has more than 388 million visitors at growth for Sweden. ­swedavia.se annually and more than 190,000 followers on social media. Swedavia’s business model Swedavia’s role is to create the access Sweden needs to facilitate travel, Human capital business and meetings – in Sweden as well as elsewhere in Europe and the Swedavia’s engaged, skilled employees help to provide rest of the world. Safety, security and sustainable development with a customers with a better experience. focus on customers are the foundation of everything Swedavia does, both in its own operations and in society in general. Operations are run based on sound business principles, and the company shall build a long-term ­sustainable business through development, planning and operational efficiency. Swedavia’s fundamental values shall be integral to all stakeholder ­relations. This means Swedavia shall be reliable, engaged, innovative and welcoming. Based on customer needs and working from these fundamental values and its different inputs, Swedavia creates products and offerings in its Aviation Business, Commercial Services and Real Estate business segments. OPERATIONS Tangible and intangible capital Ten airports that are included in Sweden’s national basic infrastructure. Buildings and land adjacent to the airports. Financial capital Own and borrowed capital. 18 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 What Swedavia offers Value for stakeholders Together with its partners, Swedavia offers the opportuOwner 4.6 % nity to travel to attractive destinations, within Sweden’s • Profit for the year SEK 583 M borders and beyond. • Return on operating capital 4.6% • International role model in sustainability return on • Contributes to Sweden achieving operating capital its transport policy goals Suppliers, partners, financiers Increased • Long-term mutual partnership • Jobs access Customers • Attractive airports • Access • Smooth, inspiring travel experiences 76 % satisfied passengers • Personal meeting places Safe, effective Employees infrastructure • Jobs • Personal and professional development • Salaries, pensions and benefits 65 % engaged employees* *M  easurement made in 2018. Society • Access within Sweden as well as to and from the country Attractive • Employment and business opportunities environments for • Tax revenue • Diversity people to meet in • Exchange of culture and knowledge Environment 0.3 • Contributes to fossil-free aviation by ­driving the large-scale transformation of tonnes the industry emissions of Functional • World leader in developing airports with fossil carbon dioxide premises the least possible climate impact 0.14 % sustainable aviation fuel Personal, sustainable airport services, experiences and transport SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 19 MATERIALITY ANALYSIS Sustainable growth with a focus on the customer at every level Swedavia shall be an international role model in sustainability. This will be done by integrating social, economic and environmental aspects in its day-to-day work with a focus on the customer. Swedavia’s materiality analysis, together with the company’s strategic sustainability plan, constitutes the basis of its sustainability work. The basis of Swedavia’s materiality In order to develop the airports of the and locally in the form of the airports’ analysis is continuous business intellifuture and create sustainable growth, neighbours. Dialogues are carried out gence, stakeholder dialogues and analySwedavia maintains an ongoing diaon a continuous basis in order to undersis of the impact of its operations on logue with stakeholders that affect or are stand how stakeholders view Swedavia’s people, the environment and the econaffected by the company’s operations. impact, and what expectations they have omy. Swedavia has defined five imporThe main stakeholders are customof the company’s sustainability work. tant areas that affect the industry. We ers, the owner, Swedavia’s own organ­Swedavia’s business is developed and take these five trend themes into considisation, suppliers, legislators and non-­ improved together with its stakeholders. eration, further develop ourselves with governmental organisations (NGOs) as OPERATIONS them and benefit from them. well as society in general – regionally Swedavia’s strategic sustainability plan Swedavia’s materiality analysis is an important tool and serves as the basis of its strategic sustainability plan. This contains a description of the company’s objectives, targets and strategies. The overall objectives in the sustainability plan, which is based on the priority material issues, are broken down each year in the organisation’s business and operational plans. This strategic focus is thus integral to governance, all the way from long-term plans to employees’ dayto-day work. Results are measured and monitored on a quarterly basis by the executive management and Board of Directors. In 2019, an updated detailed materiality analysis was carried out, which involved in-depth interviews with external and internal stakeholders. This update will be integrated in the strategic sustainability plan and business plans in effect as of 2021. The priority material issues are reviewed annually in order to address any significant changes in stakeholder needs. Governance and communication In its Annual and Sustainability Report, Swedavia presents the highest priority 20 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Swedavia’s materiality analysis The digital Owner Digitisation and Economic results society automation and return Customers Sustainability Commercial Capacity and flows is enhanced in an offering at airports uncertain world Employees SOC IA The seamless Offering of airlines Customer satisfaction L Suppliers Y journey and destinations NO LOPMENT M VE E CO Trend analysis Stakeholder Materialities DE dialogue Identify global trends and factors Understand our Understand opportunities and challenges for Swedavia Customer that affect our stakeholders and operations their priorities EN VI N An aviation Owner and Competitiveness of Cost-effectiveness RO C ER NM ENTAL CON industry in change investors airport charges New ways to Legislators Engaged leaders Aviation’s climate impact serve customers and NGOs and employees Society Employee health Customer health and safety and safety material issues in four areas – customer, environmental concern, economy and “Swedavia’s model for sustainable develsocial development. Other material issues are addressed, as needed, opment is the basis of operations for through ongoing business planning. Governance of Swedavia’s priority achieving the company’s objectives” material issues is done through fundamental governing documents in the form of policies that lay out Swedavia’s approach at an overall level in a given area. Swedavia’s management systems nication are based on sustainable develomy and environmental concern. support the work in quality, aviation opment at every level with a focus on the ­Swedavia’s model for sustainable develsafety and security, the environment, customer. In order to justify Swedavia’s opment is the basis of operations for the workplace environment and inforgrowth and development, work is achieving the company’s objectives. The mation security for a number of the needed in operations close to the cusmodel shows how the company takes company’s most important issues. tomer and in the three sustainability customers and every sustainability Swedavia’s governance and commudimensions social development, econdimension into consideration. SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 21 MATERIALITY ANALYSIS Priority material issues Swedavia has chosen to divide its priority material ­issues into four areas – customer, environmental concern, ­sustainable economy and social development. Customer Customer satisfaction Capacity and flows at airports Swedavia offers customers a combination of infraHaving sufficient capacity is important to meet structure and services. To achieve long-term sustainathe need for flights today and in the future and ble operations, a clear focus on the customer is to contribute to Sweden’s development. required. Customer satisfaction is measured on a con­Swedavia’s stakeholders expect the company tinuous basis since the customer is the heart of susto work with punctuality since this is a key tainable development. aspect in choosing transport modes. PunctualFor passengers, the most important issues concern ity at the airports is one indicator of capacity. atmosphere, customer service, cleanliness and attracCapacity is determined in part by infrastructure tive commercial offerings. For airlines, they are comand environmental permits as well as by the petitive airport charges, efficient processes and airports’ operational capability. well-functioning infrastructure. For tenants, premises, service and rents are especially important. Range of routes and destinations Good access is important to Swedavia’s cusOPERATIONS Digitisation and automation tomers and other stakeholders. Airlines are New technology allows potential for increased efficiency essential to operations. This has an impact on and automation of operations and processes, someairport operations since Swedavia must prothing that customers assume Swedavia is working with. vide good services at the right price, develop The development of Swedavia’s business and busithe market, be attractive and work together ness-mindedness is carried out by digitising and autowith partners to ensure access and the range mating processes and flows. As a result, operating and of destinations available. commercial capacity is built to meet customer demand. EnvironAviation’s climate impact As an airport operator, Swedavia is responsible for a small share of the aviation industry’s overall environmental mental impact. This is mostly in the form of emissions of fossil carbon dioxide from its own operations. “Swedavia concern Swedavia can help reduce this environmental impact by setting requirements in public tenders, for contributes to example, for energy, propellants and vehicles as well as for suppliers in construction processes. sustainable By working for a switch to sustainable aviation fuel and contributing to industry-related research and development development, for example in electric aviation, the company can also contribute to sustainable development in the aviation industry” in the aviation industry in general. 22 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Economy Long-term profitability In order to fund investments in capacity enhancement measures, maintain competitive airport charges and achieve financial targets, long-term profitability is necessary. Profits and returns shall be in line with the owner’s “Long-term targets. Sources of income are mainly airport charges, revenue from commercial operations and ­profitability rental income. Through an attractive range of services, competitive airport charges and cost-effecenables SEK tiveness, conditions are created for Swedavia being a role model in sustainable business operations that continued our stakeholders expect. investments” Social Engaged leaders and employees The aim is an engaging corporate culture based on clear ethical guidelines and Employee health and safety Swedavia shall provide a healthy, safe and secure workplace environment, respect for human rights developwhere employees are given an opportunity to develop in an inclusive environand good occupational conditions. The company’s proactive and systematic work with the workment ment. Differences are considered to be an place environment creates the conditions needed asset, and Swedavia works actively to for employees to carry out their tasks and reach prevent and fight discrimination. Everytheir goals in a healthy, safe manner. The impact is one’s equal rights and opportunities are from all employees who work at the company, to be promoted in order to achieve an which includes employees of building contractors inclusive culture. Gender equality and and other contractors involved in projects. diversity contribute to increased innovation, customer insight, a stronger brand Customer health and safety and enhanced competitiveness. Engaged Airport operations have the highest priority and leaders and employees are the basis of affect all operations and many different stakeholdSwedavia’s development as a sustainable ers, not just those who work at and in the vicinity of company. the airports. A high level of safety and security contributes to safe, secure passengers and a positive travel experience. Swedavia carries out work in both aviation safety and aviation security. SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 23 SWEDAVIA’S TARGETS Growth engine and international role model in sustainability Based on its materiality analysis and business approach, Swedavia has defined a number of sustainability targets. All the target areas ultimately depend on one another. One essential requirement for high Customer satisfaction, passengers Return on operating capital customer satisfaction is engaged leaders After having previously measured cusIn addition to the long-term return and employees. That has a positive effect tomer satisfaction among different custarget of 6 per cent annually, Swedavia’s on Swedavia’s income. Income streams, tomer groups using different methods, in owner has adopted a debt/equity ratio in turn, are vital to Swedavia’s return 2019 the company developed a new way equal to 0.7–1.5 times as its capital structarget and its capability to continue to measure their experience. In 2020, ture target as well as a dividend payout investing in measures that produce even this method will be implemented in all policy. The normal dividend shall be more satisfied customers and help to operations. between 10 and 50 per cent of profit after reduce its environmental impact. The target for satisfied passengers in tax. Annual dividend decisions shall take 2025 is 85 per cent. Customer satisfacinto account the company’s operations, Engaged leaders and employees tion in 2019 was 76 per cent (74), with implementation of the company’s stratBy having an inclusive corporate culture the target being 75 per cent. Better seregy and its financial position. Particular based on ethical guidelines and values, vice and experienced waiting time were consideration shall be given to the comOPERATIONS Swedavia develops the airports of the two factors contributing to the improvepany’s assessed ability to achieve its capfuture and enables people to meet. The ment over 2018. The long-term target ital structure target. metric engaged leaders and employees is will be achieved by working with a focus The owner has also entrusted measured every two years as of 2018, on the customer, which entails a sys­Swedavia with the task of helping when the actual figure was 65 per cent. tematic way of working, and with the Sweden achieve the transport policy Since 2019, pulse measurements are customer journey, which involves cusgoals set by the Swedish parliament. taken among employees every two tomers in the development of existing Return on operating capital in 2019 months. and new solutions. was 4.6 per cent. Own emissions of fossil carbon dioxide The target is to have no emissions of fossil carbon dioxide from the company’s own airport operations after the end of 2020. Fossil carbon dioxide emissions from Swedavia’s own operations in 2019 totalled 316 tonnes. Increased share of sustainable aviation fuel One of a number of conditions required for aviation to achieve its goal of Swedish fossil-free air transport by 2045 is to replace fossil jet fuel with sustainable fuel. Another is to create the conditions needed for infrastructure to handle electric air aircraft. Swedavia’s target is for 5 per cent of all jet fuel for refuelling aircraft in Sweden to be sustainable by 2025. The share of sustainable aviation fuel in 2019 was 0.14 per cent. 24 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Swedavia’s sustainability targets Indicators for Area Target Actual, 2015–2019 the owner Engaged leaders Mission targets/ and employees 100% Actual, % indicators 80% •S  atisfied passengers 75% 64 67 65 * 60% 76% (74%) 40% 2016 2017 2018 2019 • N umber of passengers (2025) domestic/interna* Starting in 2019, pulse measurements are taken every two months. A full-scale survey is tional carried out every two years, and the next one 12.4 million/27.8 million will be in 2020. (13.5 million/28.5 million) Satisfied passengers • N umber of interna100% Actual, % tional destinations 314 (324) 80% 85% 76 77 75 74 76 60% •C  arbon footprint, tonnes* 506,000 (528,000) ** (2025) 40% 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 • N umber of accidents and serious incidents Accidents 2 (1) Return on Serious incidents 1 (2) operating capital 15% 14.6 Actual, % * The  mission target for carbon footprint. Read more on page 10% 137 6% 8.5 **  F  ootprint per airport, which includes ground transport and 5% 5.1 4.6 4.6 air traffic; reported on pages 58–59 (annually) 0% 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Economic targets Fossil carbon dioxide emissions • Capital structure Debt/equity ratio 0.7–1.5 0 5 Actual, kilotonnes 4 times 3.1 3 2.7 tonnes 2 1.9 • Profitability 1.3 6% return on operating 1 0.3 capital (2020) 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 • D ividend payout The target is zero emissions by the end of 2020. ­r atio*** 10–50% Sustainable aviation fuel 5% Actual, % *** P  ertains to the dividend payout 4% ratio under the new dividend policy adopted at the Annual 5% 3% General Meeting 2019 2% 1% 0.14 (2025) 0% 2019 The target for sustainable aviation fuel was set in 2019, which is why no previous measurements were taken SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 25 SWEDAVIA’S STRATEGIES Five strategies to achieve its goals Based on its s­ trategic Purpose ­materiality analysis, ­Swedavia has formulated Together we enable people to meet five strategies that shall help the company to reach Vision all of its targets. We develop the airports of the future and create sustainable growth for Sweden Commercial excellence Swedavia’s operations enable the estabBusiness concept lishment of attractive air links and create an innovative customer offering in retail, Together with our partners, we create added value for our services and property. This is done by customers through access and attractive airports understanding the customer’s current and future needs and by safeguarding the Targets ability to offer and deliver competitive products and services that create value ai nab le dev e lo st So p for the customer and ­Swedavia. ContinuSom u cia l m ous assessments are made of the company’s core operations and business 85% y Econ de t e n elopment 5% share of satisfied Customer v sustainable models. Business is developed through passengers, aviation fuel, OPERATIONS 2025 innovation and digitisation. 2025 Swedavia intends to develop new En vir nc er n 0 onm ental co business and revenue models, establish Airport Cities as attractive marketplaces, adopt methods to enable cus6% return on operating tonnes of fossil carbon tomer-centred ways of working, capital, annually 75% dioxide emissions, 2020 strengthen and develop good external engaged leaders and relations and communicate Swedavia’s employees, 2025 performance and success to customers. Operational excellence Strategies Swedavia’s operational strategy is to deliver effective, flexible and automated Responsibility Commercial Operational Adjusted Engaging for society and infrastructure. That means both serexcellence excellence capacity ­c ulture people vices and products shall meet customer expectations. This is made possible by optimising the use of available infrastructure and resources, automating Swedavia is also working to ensure an skills needed to carry out its developprocesses and flows, and working optimised, clear-cut governance model. ment programmes without any workactively with digitisation and innovative place accidents, on time and within solutions. Swedavia shall work in an effiAdjusted capacity budget. cient, cost-conscious way and continuStrategic work for operational excellence ously improve and develop its delivery is important but also challenging. Some Engaging culture and cost-effectiveness. Clearly defined of the airports have capacity limits, but The basis that enables all employees to products, services and processes, operadeveloping the airports of the future work together towards and contribute tionally and commercially, are crucial. enhances both operational and commerto Swedavia’s shared goals is the opporThrough the process-oriented way of cial capacity. This enables customer tunity to grow and develop in an incluworking that has been developed, the needs of today and tomorrow to be met. sive environment. Employees shall be focus shall be even more clearly on the In the company’s own operations and offered development opportunities and customer experience, efficiency, collabthrough partners and contractors, rights while taking responsibility, fuloration and a comprehensive approach. ­Swedavia ensures the resources and filling obligations and acting in accord26 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Swedavia’s supplier work A well-functioning supply chain is an essential condition in order for Swedavia to carry out and develop operations, which in turn helps the company to reach its goals. It is thus important to understand the supplier’s market, the challenges in the areas that Swedavia carries out public tenders in and where the ­sustainability risks are. Swedavia works with category­based procurement depending on what the supplier market looks like. The company has 14 main categories with some 90 subcategories and purchasing volume of nearly six billion kronor. Swedavia has a framework agreement with about 750 of its roughly 4,000 suppliers. The company considers about 75 of them to be strategically important to operations, which is why greater focus is placed on follow-up work for these suppliers. Following an assessment, 20 were ance with Swedavia’s values. Active a basis for its ambition to be an internadetermined to be top risk suppliers work with equal treatment and gender tional role model in sustainability. This from an operational perspective. equality creates an engaging culture. is done through a number of different Swedavia has instituted follow-up This ensures inclusiveness and divermeasures. In 2020, Swedavia shall work for these, placing great emphasity, which contribute to better perforachieve its zero target for fossil carbon sis on sustainability issues with a mance, innovation, a good workplace dioxide emissions from its own airport focus on environmental concern. environment and increased knowledge operations and ensure that there is conIn the IT category, Swedavia about customers. An engaging culture tinuously access to sustainable aviation monitors all strategically important also entails building pride in Swedavia fuel at the airports. Stockholm Arlanda suppliers with specific follow-up and the company’s sustainability work. Airport was the first airport in the meetings on sustainability twice a One condition needed for long-term world to show that it is possible to transyear. Based on this follow-up, the success is the drive to be an attractive port sustainable aviation fuel via regusuppliers work with action employer that can attract, develop and lar logistics chains. Swedavia has also plans that Swedavia then retain the best employees. identified and implemented initiamonitors. In 2019, Swedavia tives to safeguard and develop the began to receive support Responsibility for society and company’s business ethics and to from the Swedish people further develop risk manageNational Agency for Swedavia works proactively for safety, ment and crisis management as Public Procurement’s security, the environment and the well as continuity planning. library of criteria for health of customers, employees, conIn order to assume social and sustainability requiretractors and society. Safety and security environmental responsibility, ments in procureare fundamental to everything that is Swedavia works, among other Purchasing ment, including done. Resources and energy shall be things, to heighten the safety volume: SEK regarding social used responsibly and efficiently, with and security climate at the air6 billion/year requirements. In the priority given to the physical and ports, enhance its proactive, next step, these critepsycho­-social workplace. systematic workplace environNumber of ria will be used in the Swedavia does more than its formal ment work and switch to clisuppliers: follow-up work. responsibility requires, which serves as mate-smart energy solutions. 4,000 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 27 OPERATIONS All business operations are customer-centred The ultimate focus of Swedavia’s business is its customers – ­passengers, airlines and tenants. Swedavia has two operating segments – Airport Operations and Real Estate. In Airport Operations, Swedavia owns, operates and develops its ten airports. In Real Estate, Swedavia owns, develops and ­administers buildings and land adjacent to its airports. Swedavia’s OPERATIONS operating segments Airport Operations Real Estate Owns, operates and develops Sweden’s national Owns, develops and basic infrastructure of airports across the country administers properties Aviation Business Commercial Services Real Estate • Passenger services •R ental of premises for retail, •O  wns, develops and adminis• Take-off and landing s­ ervices restaurants, offices, wareters developable land at and • Security screening housing and logistics in the vicinity of Swedavia’s • Terminal and en route • Car parking & pick up/dropairports ­services off facilities • Preparations for property • Assistance services (PRM)* • Advertising, IT and other development projects for hotels, • Infrastructure for ground services offices, logistics, retail and more handling services** • Administration and updating of • Ground handling services information about properties • Services in construction ­project * People with reduced mobility management ** Including baggage handling • Development of property joint and refuelling ventures 28 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Revenue, % of net revenue New measurement method provides immediate answers In 2019, a new way to measure the the new measurement method was introcustomer experience started to be duced at Göteborg Landvetter Airport and rolled out at some airports. Going Bromma Stockholm Airport. In 2020, the forward, all customer groups will method will gradually be used at the other airports as well, and by the end of the year be measured in the same way, and it will be established throughout the comfeedback will be monitored on a pany’s operations. continuous basis. With the new tool, it will be possible to see measurement results on a continuous 63% Aviation Business Previously, satisfaction among basis. Conclusions can quickly be made 14% Car parking and ­Swedavia’s different customer groups – about how customers experience the airpassenger pick-up/ passengers, airlines and tenants – was capports, both at an operational and strategic drop-off facilities tured using different methods, which made level, and about how this affects their 12% Retail, food it difficult to compare results. In 2019, a experience. This helps Swedavia to under& beverage new method started to be used, and going stand its customers’ needs and facilitates 8% Property revenue forward the customer experience will be the development of services and products 2% Advertising measured in the same way regardless of that enhance the company’s offering. 1% O ther commercial services which group is involved. Specific questions Swedavia has an overall target of 85 per will vary to some extent, but the overall cent customer satisfaction for passengers. 0% O ther net revenue approach will be the same for every group. With the introduction of the new method, During the spring, a pilot test was carSwedavia will have both an overall target ried out at Bromma Stockholm Airport, and specific targets for each customer and during the third and fourth quarters group. In the air on time Having flights keep to the schedule Arlanda’s infrastructure, which also conis an important goal, and one that tributed to better punctuality. is highly valued by passengers. Eurocontrol has placed great focus on Swedavia has therefore set specific air traffic management over Europe, including by limiting flexibility during the punctuality targets for every airport. summer months and increasing coordination between different countries to ensure In aviation, punctuality is defined as there is shared situation awareness. the aircraft rolling out from the gate – “off For international departures, Swedavia block” – within 15 minutes of the schedhad punctuality of 77 per cent, compared uled departure time. To achieve this, all of to 72.6 per cent in 2018. Swedavia’s airports have their own targets For domestic departures, Swedavia had which are monitored. There is also an punctuality of 86.5 per cent, compared to overall punctuality target of 85 per cent 81.3 per cent in 2018. Domestic traffic is for all the airports. not at all affected by delays due to crowded In 2019, overall punctuality for domesairspace, which is a common cause in the tic and international routes was 80.8 per rest of Europe. cent, compared to 76.3 per cent in 2018. The share of delays that customers conA number of factors affected results sider to be caused by the airports as such during the year. There were never as many decreased in 2019 to 2.8 per cent, comweather disruptions in pared to 2.9 per cent in the form of heavy snow2018. The reason for this fall and thundershowers Punctuality, % 2019 2018 is that, during the as in 2019. Reduced trafDomestic 86.5 81.3 summer months, Stockfic volume during the holm Arlanda Airport International 77.0 72.6 year enabled maintehad disruptions with IT nance of Stockholm Total 80.8 76.3 equipment at the gates. SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 29 OPERATIONS Plans in preparation for the future A long-term perspective is crucial for planning sustainable Climate change adaptation and national stakeholders infrastructure. Swedavia thus works with 50-year master In 2019, Kiruna Airport and Luleå Airplans. During the year, two of its airports had their plans port had their master plans adopted. A completed. Swedavia also began to investigate how the decision on the approach for Göteborg Landvetter Airport’s master plan was airports should prepare for the electrification of aviation. also made, with a recommendation for the development of the terminal to the south and east. Along with airport operations as minimises the need to move them, which The decision on the approach for such, the master plans also cover combenefits sustainability. Stockholm Arlanda Airport includes termercial business operations and propLong-term forecasts for passenger minal expansion at what are now Termierties adjacent to the airports. They volumes, among other factors, provide a nals 2 and 3 as well as a new satellite terinclude no fixed assumptions but basis for the plans, and one example of minal west of Runway 3 – work that is should be visionary and make certain what is taken into consideration is where now being carried out in more detail. To that short-term decisions and investany expansion should be placed in order keep up with long-term forecasts, work ments also work from a longer-term to meet future needs. For instance, began on, among other things, an enviperspective. ­Swedavia is in the middle of a significant ronmental permit in 2021. A new runway With a long-term perspective on planinvestment phase for a number of its airis also within the scope of Stockholm ning, the airport’s different operations ports, with master plans serving as a Arlanda Airport’s master plan. can be laid out so that they work both basis when preparations for processes Swedavia is sometimes asked why now and in the future. As a result, this were made. London Heathrow can handle nearly OPERATIONS Stockholm Arlanda Airport 30 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 500,000 aircraft movements a year on time of day. If Stockholm Arlanda Airtected against operations, which can two runways while Stockholm Arlanda port reaches its capacity cap and is forced make it considerably more difficult for Airport, which has about 240,000 moveto say no to traffic, most people will the airport to carry out its task. ments a year today, is planning for a third choose another airport rather than land During the year, work was begun to parallel runway. There are a number of at Stockholm Arlanda at another time. supplement the master plans with inforexplanations: The Swedish Transport Administramation about how the airports should be • The number of parallel runways affects tion is currently involved in identifying modified in the face of climate change. capacity, which means that Runway 2 at areas of national interest for Stockholm This involves describing what the conseStockholm Arlanda Airport does not conArlanda Airport and Göteborg Landvetquences could be if there is a change in tribute to the airport’s maximum capacter Airport. This entails determining temperatures, wind force and water ity. The new parallel runway planned at what areas in Sweden should be prolevels, for example. Stockholm Arlanda Airport will thus be a third parallel runway. Heathrow, like Stockholm Arlanda Airport, has two parMaster plans in brief allel runways, and both airports are plan• Swedavia has worked with master plans in • Åre Östersund Airport’s planning work will ning for a future third parallel runway. their present format since 2016. The work is start in 2020. For Stockholm Arlanda Air• It is not annual volume that limits carried out and developed by Swedavia’s port and Göteborg Landvetter Airport, more capacity, but rather the time when the Master Planning function in close collaboraso-called general plans and decisions on tion with Facilities & Systems, the airports approaches have been completed. need for capacity is greatest. In a comparison between Heathrow and Stockand Real Estate. • Swedavia’s in-house handling of public holm Arlanda Airport, it is clear that • Adopted for all of Swedavia’s airports except consultation procedures for planning and Stockholm Arlanda Airport’s capacity Bromma Stockholm Airport. building permits, which are closely linked to need is greatest in the morning and after• Airports with complete master plans are the national interest, was transferred during noon, while Heathrow needs its maxiMalmö Airport, Luleå Airport, Umeå Airport, the year to the Master Planning unit. mum capacity for a much longer part of Visby Airport, Ronneby Airport and Kiruna Read more about the airports’ master plans on the day. London is a destination that pasAirport. Swedavia’s website under “About Swedavia” – “Role and mission”. sengers choose to fly to regardless of the Göteborg Landvetter Airport Kiruna Airport Malmö Airport SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 31 AIRPORT OPERATIONS Stockholm Arlanda Airport: Multi-billion kronor investments through 2025 Swedavia’s objective is to develop Stockholm Arlanda Airport into the Customer satisfaction at Stockholm leading Nordic airport with smooth flows, inspiring travel experiences Arlanda increased since 2018, from 73 and a well-developed network of destinations and thus contribute to per cent to 75 per cent. Passengers experience better customer service, a cleaner Sweden’s growth and development. airport and greater efficiency. Waiting At the same time, the airport shall continue to be one of the most time ratings for check-in and security climate-smart airports in the world while retaining its position as an screening also increased. international role model in sustainability. Although major maintenance work was carried out during the year on Air access is crucial to Sweden’s comnance organisation was able to move Runway 1, adjacent taxiways and some petitiveness, growth and prosperity. into the newly built airport maintenance aircraft parking stands at the airport, While a deceleration in air travel is now area, which has been environmentally which occasionally affected air traffic, seen, passenger volume rose sharply for certified at the highest level. As a result the airport’s punctuality in 2019 many years. Development has thus been of the move, along with other extensive increased to 77.4 per cent, compared to necessary to meet today’s capacity chalwork in recent years, the refurbishment 72.4 per cent in 2018. lenge. Swedavia has been carrying out work and new construction are now Swedavia’s ambition is for customer extensive development prostarting to be noted in several satisfaction and punctuality to further grammes for a number of parts of the passenger flow. improve once the capacity challenges years to build sufficient During the period 2016– have been addressed and the developOPERATIONS 75 capacity and develop 2025, Swedavia plans to ment programmes are completed. Stockholm Arlanda so invest about 27 billion that it can handle prokronor in Stockholm Collaborations and stakeholder jected demand for Arlanda Airport. This relations travel of more than 40 million passengers % includes real estate investments such as The parts of operations closely related to aircraft, such as the runway system, field satisfied customers Office One, inauguservice and assistance service, are run by 2040. To create more at Arlanda rated in 2019, and Comunder Swedavia’s own auspices. In those ­terminal space and fort Hotel Arlanda Airparts of operations where Swedavia increased capacity, Termiport, inaugurated in Februworks in partnership with contractors, nal 5 will be expanded with the ary 2020. A number of buildings the need to ensure effective supplier addition of another pier. Initial work and close to the terminals are planned. relations is crucial. The airport’s security preparations are under way, and compleoperations employ 1,000 people and are tion of the new pier is planned for 2025. Customer satisfaction and carried out by contractors; air traffic A larger marketplace, a central security punctuality management is also provided by a checkpoint and an upgraded baggage A relevant range of food, beverages and contractor. handling system will provide greater retail, smooth and efficient flows, good Before the start of 2019, Swedavia, capacity and more flexibility as well as service and a welcoming atmosphere are together with the supplier, automated updated environments. the main factors affecting the travel the process for security screening and At the end of 2018/beginning of 2019, experience. Transfers should be smooth introduced a digital solution that allows Stockholm Arlanda’s airport mainteand waiting times short. the formation of queues to be monitored in real time. As a result, passengers are given an estimate of how long it is expected to take to get through the security checkpoint. Automation of parts of “A relevant range of food, beverages and security screening is a clear example of how Swedavia works with its suppliers to retail, smooth and efficient flows, good serachieve a better customer experience. vice and a welcoming atmosphere are the Swedavia has the target that 95 per cent of passengers at Stockholm Arlanda Airmain factors affecting the travel experience” port should not queue for more the five 32 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 STOCKHOLM ARLANDA AIRPORT IN BRIEF: • Stockholm Arlanda Airport is Sweden’s gateway to the world and has the ambition to be the world’s gateway to the Nordic region. • Stockholm Arlanda Airport is served by a total of 280 routes, and international access at the airport increased 13 per cent in the period 2016–2018. • 168 destinations are served, including 23 domestic destinations. • A total of about 19,000 people work in the day-to-day operations at and around Stockholm Arlanda Airport, with 1,125 of them employees of Swedavia. Passenger trend in 2019 • In 2019, the airport had 25.6 million passengers compared to 26.8 million in 2018. Domestic traffic decreased eight per cent, but international traffic also decreased in 2019, down four per cent compared to 2018. New developments in air traffic in 2019 • In 2019, the Japanese carrier All Nippon Airways (ANA) announced that it will offer direct service to Tokyo, the first time in more than 30 years. • The cancellation of a number of important intercontinental routes was announced or carried out: SAS to Hong Kong and Los Angeles, as well as all of Norwegian’s destinations in the US and Thailand from Stockholm Arlanda. The fact that these routes are being moved to large neighbouring airports has a direct impact on passengers and on trade and business in Sweden, in particular through negative effects for air cargo, which affects logistics chains for many companies in the country. minutes, which places high demands on are expected to more than double the both Swedavia and the company’s number of jobs there to about 40,000. Challenges and opportunities contractor. Ambitious infrastructure projects are • International access is being challenged Regardless of the number of passencrucial in order to meet the new needs – airlines have reduced capacity and a number of important intercontinental direct routes have gers, it is important that Swedavia is able created in the region and to attract the been cancelled or moved to other airports. to provide airlines with well-functioning, set-up of companies that can promote • Successfully maintain or increase passenger efficient and competitive solutions. The development and further bolster growth. satisfaction despite major refurbishment work development programme under way at Other important collaborations, for and new construction, which are starting to be the airport plays a major role in enabling the development of Stockholm Arlanda seen in passenger flows. the continued delivery of a good product Airport and of international access in • Continue to develop areas close to the to airline customers. Sweden and the Stockholm region, are terminals as an attractive and expanding place Continued close collaboration with the Arlanda Council and Connect for meetings and work. the Municipalities of Sigtuna, Upplands Sweden. Both forums bring together a • Based on the airport’s development proVäsby, Vallentuna and Knivsta is vital. number of key players with the aim of gramme and the attractiveness of the The airport is an employment engine in strengthening Stockholm Arlanda Stockholm region, be developed into the the region, and within a few decades joint Airport. leading Nordic airport. investments in Airport City Stockholm SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 33 AIRPORT OPERATIONS Göteborg Landvetter Airport: Expanding airport in a growing region Its location in a rapidly growing area means Göteborg Landvetter “Major investments Airport has great potential to conare being made to tinue its development. However, capacity needs to increase, and expand Göteborg during the year signs of the airLandvetter Airport in port’s terminal expansion to both the north and the south could be order to meet the seen. current demand for The passenger volume trend was negacapacity” tive, with the number of passengers falling from 6.8 to 6.7 million. This change was in part due to decreased business travel in Sweden. International travel is properties are being built. In all, more still on the rise. Overall, international than two million square metres of land traffic increased 1.2 per cent while is under development, and in 15 years domestic traffic decreased 14.3 per cent. the number of people working in the airOPERATIONS In July 2019, Göteborg Landvetter Airport area is expected to increase from port set a new passenger record. 4,000 to 10,000. To ensure sufficient All long-term forecasts indicate future public transport to and from Göteborg increases, and by 2028 Swedavia expects Landvetter Airport, the Swedish Transone million more passengers compared port Administration is planning a new to today. Major investments are being railway between Gothenburg and made to expand Göteborg Landvetter Borås. Construction is expected to Airport in order meet the current begin in around 2026–2027. demand for capacity. The investments started in 2016, and a total of 3.4 billion Customer satisfaction and kronor will be spent through 2025. The punctuality airport is now in its biggest growth phase Some of the most crucial factors for cussince the late 1970s. tomer satisfaction at the airport are a In 2020, the terminal will grow relevant offering of food, beverby 40 per cent, and three ages and retail, smooth flows new gates connected to and good service. Carry76 the terminal will be ing out development vetter Airport decreased from 77 per completed in the projects while remaincent in 2018 to 76 per cent in 2019. southern part of the ing fully operational is The airport already has self-service airport. The gates will a challenge. In 2019, check-in and boarding, which makes the be flexible and can be used for passengers % Swedavia outsourced security screening processes efficient and reduces the forming of queues. To improve the pasboth within and outsatisfied customers and security guard sersenger experience, a new loudspeaker side the Schengen area. at Landvetter vices at Göteborg Landsystem was placed in service during the This will mean an even vetter Airport. That year. smoother travel experientailed some staffing chalIn contrast to customer satisfaction, ence. For example, far fewer lenges during the first five punctuality at the airport showed a pospassengers will need to be bussed to or months of the year, which resulted in itive trend. It rose from 76.5 per cent in from aircraft. longer waiting times at the security 2018 to 80.7 per cent in 2019. There were Airport City Göteborg is growing, and checkpoint during the summer. Cusnever so many weather disruptions in another hotel and three new logistics tomer satisfaction for Göteborg Landthe form of heavy snowfall and thunder34 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 GÖTEBORG LANDVETTER AIRPORT IN BRIEF: • Has a unique position centrally located between Oslo, Copenhagen and Stockholm. • Served by 189 routes, and international access has increased 5 per cent since 2018. • Serves 107 destinations, seven of which are domestic. • Number of employees is about 3,700, 847 of whom are Swedavia employees. • An airport with a number of expanding low cost carriers, which places high demands on efficiency. Passenger trend in 2019 • In 2019, the airport had 6.7 million passengers compared to 6.8 million in 2018. New developments in air ­t raffic, 2019 • Served by a total of 174 routes, compared to 164 routes in 2018. • 10 new routes to and from the airport were established. Ryanair’s subsidiary Laudamotion was among the new airline customers. • In December, Qatar Airways increased its departures to Doha from five to seven departures a week. • Ryanair launched seven new routes. storms as there were during the year. both strategic and operational • Aeroflot discontinued its service to Most of the development projects are ­collaborations in order to develop Moscow. starting to finish up, with fewer opera­G öteborg Landvetter Airport. Security Challenges and opportunities tional disruptions as a result. Euroconalso requires close collaboration • The climate is affecting business trol has placed great focus on managing between the different operations on travel. During the year, more people air traffic control over Europe. This has site. chose the train for their business been done in part by limiting flexibility In the important groups the Air travel or chose not to travel at all. during the summer months and increasTransport Council, Go:Connect and • The Gothenburg region is expanding coordination between different Go:Cargo, the airport works in partnering and its tourism industry is countries to ensure there is a shared sitship with the business community, in growing, which in the long term will have a positive impact on travel. uation awareness. particular the tourism industry, and the region with the common goal of ensur• Cargo traffic on Qatar Airway’s route to Doha has potential to grow. Collaborations ing access and enhancing business for The airlines and Swedavia are highly companies in western Sweden. dependent on one another and pursue SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 35 AIRPORT OPERATIONS Bromma Stockholm Airport: BROMMA STOCKHOLM International travel on the rise AIRPORT IN BRIEF: • Sweden’s third largest Customer satisfaction rose at overhaul of the airport’s parking airport is nearly 10 Bromma Stockholm Airport options, while the new infrastructure in kilometres from central after a number of modernisathe area for taxis, buses and rental cars Stockholm, which tions were completed. In 2019, was completed. makes it the fastest travel option to and international air travel increased, from Stockholm. Customer satisfaction and while the number of women surpunctuality • Number of employees: passed the number of men flying About 1,100 people, Customer satisfaction at Bromma Stockto and from the airport. holm Airport in 2019 was 77 per cent, 210 of whom are Swedavia employees. which is a sharp increase compared to • Served by 17 routes. Bromma Stockholm Airport is an air2018, when the figure was 60 per cent. A • Serves 17 destinations, 14 of which port with a long history. It was inaugunumber of measures have had a positive are domestic. rated in 1936 and has not been fully reneffect on customer satisfaction. They • Certified as a Code 3C airport under ovated since the 1950s. There has thus include modernisation of the arrival and the Swedish Transport Agency’s been a major need for modernisations. departure halls, which provides an reference code for aviation safety Security and noise level measures have improved customer experience, and measures. also been necessary. For several years completion of numerous development now, the airport has been in a developprojects. Among other effects, this has Passenger trend in 2019 ment phase. Between 2016 and 2023, reduced crowding and improved the • In 2019, the airport had 2.4 million Swedavia will invest 1.6 billion kronor. atmosphere in the terminal. Punctuality OPERATIONS passengers compared to 2.5 million in So far, a new arrival hall opened in 2017, at Bromma Stockholm Airport is high; in 2018. and in 2018 a new departure hall was 2019, it was 91.9 per cent compared to • Domestic travel from Bromma inaugurated. In 2019, the older part of 87.1 per cent in 2018. A close dialogue Stockholm decreased somewhat the departure hall was also completed. with airlines, improved internal produring the year. The number of gates has increased from cesses and a number of major modernisa• International travel saw the opposite eight to 13. In order for the airport to tion projects completed in 2018 contribtrend, with a 16 per cent increase, remain fully operational, the work has uted to improved punctuality in 2019. primarily to the destinations of been carried out in phases. Brussels and Helsinki. Since parts of Bromma Stockholm Collaborations • Leisure travel is on the rise and now Airport are listed for their historical Because of Bromma Stockholm Airaccounts for 43 per cent of travel. interest, all changes must be carried out port’s proximity to Stockholm and the with great sensitivity. The airport also high population density of the immediNew developments in air ­t raffic, has a leasehold contract that expires in ate surroundings, environment and 2019 2038, which means that all investments safety requirements are extremely • Braathens Regional Airlines (BRA) must be given careful consideration. stringent. There are specific requireremains the biggest airline serving Bromma Stockholm Airport. In 2019, The growing retail complex Bromma ments for aircraft that serve the airport, BRA accounted for 90 per cent of all Blocks, located adjacent to the airport, in particular, requirements for low flights. increases traffic in the area. For pasnoise levels. Each year, Swedavia consengers to reach the airport ducts studies to determine Challenges and opportunities on time, smooth, reliable whether it is possible to • Its proximity makes travel from transport is needed. reduce noise levels in 77 Bromma Stockholm Airport smooth, Among other measnearby properties. and international travel is on the rise. ures, the airport will For airline custom• In order to develop travel, continued get its own stop on ers, partners and supmodernisation of the airport and the Kista branch of Stokholm’s Cross% pliers, it is vital to operations that Swedavia improved transport to central Stockholm are needed. ways light rail line; satisfied customers works to reach a conthe new stop will be at Bromma sensus on how the cusinaugurated in 2021. tomer offering should be In 2019, there was an developed. 36 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Seven regional airports: A network of links across Sweden For the company’s seven regional nership with the region and municipaligate figure for customer satisfaction in airports, the year was characterties. As a result, the airport also ensures 2019 was 80 per cent, compared to 79 per ised by a sharp decrease in pasaccess in poor weather conditions. cent in 2018. Overall, punctuality at the senger volume. A stronger focus The airports have introduced the proseven airports was 84.7 per cent in 2019, on the climate has affected the cess-oriented way of working developed compared to 81.7 per cent in 2018. Delays in Swedavia’s change work, which is are usually due to late-arriving flights, trend for business travel. Leisure aimed at continuous improvements and which have a knock-on effect on all travel has also declined, which is with a focus on the customer experi­traffic. With its process orientation, clearly reflected in the number of ence, a comprehensive approach, collab­Swedavia puts a strong focus on its work charter passengers. oration and efficiency. The first process with punctuality. Collaboration between analyses were conducted in the autumn, all the airports and partners is crucial to Swedavia’s regional airports form an and a new process oriented organisation achieving the punctuality targets set. infrastructure network that covers all is now fully operational. of Sweden. Along with their domestic Collaborations and stakeholder routes, some of the airports also have Customer satisfaction and relations international direct routes, mostly in punctuality Among the airlines that serve the seven the form of charter operations but also The company has a strong focus on the regional airports are BRA, Norwegian scheduled service. The international customer, and satisfaction is in many and SAS. At Malmö Airport, where a routes are mainly at Malmö Airport. cases above Swedavia’s targets. These large share of routes are to destinations A fair number of major investments good results are largely related to the outside Sweden, Wizz Air is the biggest are being carried out at the regional airsmaller airports’ model for integrated airline. To maintain good competition ports through 2025. These investments services, a way of working that involves and reduce vulnerability in its offering, are in maintenance of buildings and employees meeting passengers throughSwedavia strives to have at least two airfield structures. One example of a develout the flow. It provides welcoming cuslines at every airport. This is important opment investment is Åre Östersund tomer service, but also a good undernot least for the regions, which need to Airport, which has upgraded its runway standing of the customer’s needs based secure access for their own residents but system from Cat III standards in parton their overall experience. The aggrealso for the important tourism industry. SEVEN REGIONAL • In 2017, Ronneby Airport reached New developments in air traffic, AIRPORTS IN BRIEF: Swedavia’s target to be fossil-free in its 2019 own operations by the end of 2020. Visby • Because of the decreased demand, SAS is • Swedavia’s regional Airport and Luleå Airport achieved this in reducing capacity at Visby Airport, while airports are Kiruna 2018. BRA is making significant capacity Airport, Luleå Airport, Passenger trend in 2019 reductions at Östersund. Umeå Airport, Åre • In 2019, the regional airports had 5.5 Challenges and opportunities Östersund Airport, Visby million passengers, compared to 5.9 million Airport, Ronneby Airport • The regions’ need for fast transport to in 2018. and Malmö Airport. Sweden’s major cities creates a demand • Business travel declined during the year. for routes. • The number of employees is about • Leisure travel was somewhat better, but all • The climate debate is affecting business 2,200, 897 of whom are airlines have announced cuts to service in travel – during the year, more people chose Swedavia employees. the regions. the train for their business trips. As a result, • Serves 101 destinations, 35 of which are • All the airports had negative passenger the airlines are cancelling routes, which in domestic. Malmö Airport and Umeå Airport growth in 2019. The clearest decreases turn means poorer access for the regions. have the biggest range of destinations on were at Ronneby Airport and Malmö • Business travel declined during the year. offer. Airport, but charter traffic also declined, except at Luleå Airport. SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 37 AIRPORT OPERATIONS Swedavia’s FROM NORTH TO SOUTH: Kiruna Airport airports in 2019 Length of runway: 2,502 metres Take-offs and landings: 2,891 Number of passengers: 267,941 Routes: 3 international, 5 domestic The company’s ten airports form a Most popular destinations: Stockholm, Umeå, London network that links Sweden together and links Sweden to the rest of the world. Luleå Airport Length of runway: 3,350 metres Take-offs and landings: 10,856 Number of passengers: 1.2 million Routes: 12 international, 7 domestic Most popular destinations: Stockholm, Gothenburg, Gran Canaria Umeå Airport Kiruna Airport Length of runway: 2,400 metres Take-offs and landings: 12,223 Number of passengers: 960,351 Routes: 10 international, 16 domestic Luleå Airport Most popular destinations: Stockholm, Helsinki, Gran Canaria Umeå Airport Åre Östersund Airport Length of runway: 2,500 metres Åre Östersund Airport Take-offs and landings: 7,001 Number of passengers: 473,497 Routes: 8 international, 8 domestic Most popular destinations: Stockholm, London, Umeå Stockholm Arlanda Airport Length of runways: 3,301, 2,500 and 2,500 metres Stockholm Arlanda Airport Take-offs and landings: 229,601 OPERATIONS Bromma Stockholm Airport Number of passengers: 25.6 million Routes: 280 international, 44 domestic Most popular destinations: London, Copenhagen, Oslo Göteborg Landvetter Airport Bromma Stockholm Airport Visby Airport Length of runway: 1,668 metres Take-offs and landings: 46,474 Ronneby Airport Number of passengers: 2.4 million Routes: 3 international, 14 domestic Malmö Airport Most popular destinations: Malmö, Gothenburg, Visby Göteborg Landvetter Airport Length of runway: 3,300 metres Take-offs and landings: 66,149 Number of passengers: 6.7 million Routes: 174 international, 15 domestic Most popular destinations: Stockholm, London, Frankfurt Visby Airport Length of runways: 2,000 and 1,100 metres Take-offs and landings: 9,564 Number of passengers: 446,764 Routes: 4 international, 15 domestic Most popular destinations: Stockholm, Göteborg, Malmö Ronneby Airport Length of runway: 2,231 metres Take-offs and landings: 4,039 Number of passengers: 204,678 Routes: 3 domestic Most popular destinations: Stockholm Malmö Airport Length of runways: 2,800 and 797 metres Take-offs and landings: 22,849 Number of passengers: 2 million Routes: 48 international, 12 domestic Most popular destinations: Stockholm, Gdansk, Skopje 38 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Swedavia’s ten airports form a network that links Sweden together, from Kiruna Airport in the north to Malmö Airport in the south. SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 39 AIRPORT OPERATIONS • AVIATION BUSINESS OPERATIONS 40 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 An attractive offering of routes is a growth engine After a number of years of strong traffic growth, travel at ­Swedavia’s airports declined in 2019. The decrease was primarily in domestic traffic and direct intercontinental travel while traffic to other European countries remained at good levels. Other airports around Europe are also seeing a deceleration in traffic growth. Sweden is an increasingly popular destinaof the airlines and their customers. The differAVIATION BUSINESS tion for both companies making investments ences between their business models are narIN BRIEF and travellers. Some 60 per cent of commerrowing, and over time they have begun to look cial guest-nights are for travellers who have increasingly similar. This benefits travellers, • The operational area arrived by air. Globalisation is an engine for who get a more flexible offering. comprises services travel, since more people live, work and study Margins in the industry are small, so good focused on air transport in a different place than where they were born. relations are needed for the airlines and operations. Today around 20 per cent of Sweden’s popula­Swedavia to understand each another’s condi• That includes destination tion was born outside the country, and many of tions. Airlines are sensitive to economic flucand route development, them take trips to visit family and friends in tuations and cost increases; oil prices are a key take-off and landing serother countries. parameter. In recent years, more airlines have vices, ground handling To increase access to Sweden and passenger had profitability problems and exited the services, aircraft parking streams to the airports, a good offering of market. Meanwhile, the larger players and and various kinds of pasroutes is needed. Destination and route devel­airline groups in Europe have grown. senger services. opment is thus a key part of Swedavia’s When air travel decreases and airlines cut • Despite a decline mostly mission. their capacity, that also affects cargo traffic. As in domestic travel, a Over the past eight years, the traffic trend a result of the general economic trend and the number of airlines was at an all-time high. Traffic increased by reduction in routes on offer during the year, ­continue to expand at more than 50 per cent at Swedavia’s airports cargo volumes also fell at Swedavia’s airports. ­Swedavia’s airports. between 2010 and 2018, but in 2019 the trend Goods shipped by air account for small vol• In 2019, a total of 31 reversed. This is largely explained by the umes, but the value of goods handled is nonenew routes were added, including seasonal routes decrease in domestic travel. theless great. Although air cargo only constito a total of 22 new Traffic is crucial, and if this trend continues tutes 1 per cent of global transport volumes, it destinations. it will affect access and the possibility of living accounts for a full 35 per cent of the value of • Four new airlines estaband working all across Sweden. those goods. lished operations at Charter traffic and intercontinental direct Sweden is a small market that is highly ­Swedavia’s airports in traffic to North America and Asia decreased dependent on trade with other countries. 2019. during the year while scheduled traffic to other Access is important for Swedish manufactur• A good location, an European countries was relatively stable. ing to ensure the rapid air transport of imports attractive offering and A number of factors contribute to traffic and exports. The bulk of air cargo at Swedavia’s good service are factors growth, including economic fluctuations, the airports is transported in the hold (or belly) of that make airlines want to climate debate, geopolitical concerns and a passenger aircraft. Fewer intercontinental establish operations at weak Swedish krona. The traffic trend affects passenger routes and reduced belly capacity Swedavia’s airports. the willingness and ability of airlines to invest mean poorer access since lead times are longer in and develop traffic in Sweden. when goods are transported by lorry to elseAirline customers vary in terms of their where in Europe to then be shipped by air. It is business model and target groups. Traditionalso environmentally detrimental since direct ally, low cost carriers focused on more basic flights are not used. and more automated services while the larger E-commerce and consumer demands for network airlines opted for more personal cusfast transport entail both opportunities and tomer service and services that fit their profile challenges for air cargo. The number of packas a premium airline. For Swedavia, it is ages shipped is growing while the weight per important that it can meet the shifting needs package is falling. SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 41 AIRPORT OPERATIONS • COMMERCIAL SERVICES OPERATIONS 42 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Commerce and services that develop the airports In 2019, the sale of food and beverages increased more than passenger volume. One new development during the year was that Swedavia assumed control of taxi management at its a ­ irports. Renegotiations also began to convert leases on ­premises to concession agreements. Retail and other services in Swedavia’s they return or have them delivered straight COMMERCIAL commercial business operations are more to their home. SERVICES than something that passengers want. During the year, Swedavia carried out a IN BRIEF Shops, restaurants, cafés, hotels, parking, project to take over taxi management at and the leasing and sale of advertising space Stockholm Arlanda Airport and Bromma • The operational area create economic value that constitutes an Stockholm Airport that involved a total of ensures that Swedavia – important basis for funding Swedavia’s 370 taxi drivers. Operations will continue to in collaboration with its investments. be run by an external contractor but will partners, airlines and tenants – has a commerThis income contributes to increased have clearer strategic contact and its own cial offering that appeals capacity, makes the airports more attractive contractual relations with drivers. The new to their mutual and creates conditions for their sustainable operations went into effect in January 2020. customers. development. So it is essential for Swedavia In 2019, Swedavia launched a process to • Operations comprise the to enhance its commercial offering. Cusswitch from rental leases to concession leasing of premises for tomer satisfaction and how much time pasagreements for companies at the airports restaurants, shops, sengers spend at the airport are also affected that provide services and goods to offices, warehousing and by how well commercial business operations passengers. logistics as well as car deliver. parking and passenger Active sustainability work drop-off/pick-up New innovative services Active sustainability work is carried out in facilities. The sale of food and beverages increased Swedavia’s commercial business operations. more than passenger volume in 2019. Retail Swedavia is certified under the Airport did not have the same level of growth, and Carbon Accreditation (ACA) programme, sales revenue in percentage terms was lower which is aimed at making airports more than at many other airports. That is partly ­efficient from a climate perspective, and a because a relatively large share of passennumber of requirements are set for concesgers at Swedavia’s airports travel domestision holders operating at the airports. cally; this group tends to spend less than Among the changes in 2019 were new guideinternational passengers, but Swedavia sees lines for single-use plastics, which will be potential to increase sales. phased out of operations over time. RequireAs digitisation grows, people’s purchasing ments are also set for corporate social patterns are changing. To create as good a responsibility, for sorting waste, and for sustravel experience as possible, Swedavia is tainable transport. One clause in the concescontinuously developing new services. New, sion agreements requires working in cooperinnovative solutions, such as self-services ation on sustainable development. This is for check-in, security screening and boardespecially important since many agreeing are tested in collaboration with customments run for a lengthy period, during which ers and partners. Other examples are mobile time there will be many advances in the susphone solutions for parking fees and the tainability field. This is a partnership that opportunity to purchase goods using strengthens Swedavia’s sustainability work ­Swedavia’s shop & collect function. This and also provides an opportunity to learn allows customers to go shopping before they from one another. depart and pick up their purchases when SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 43 REAL ESTATE • REAL ESTATE Investments that provide growth potential Swedavia’s Airport Cities continue to develop at a ­rapid pace. In both Stockholm and Gothenburg, major hotels are being built, and during the year Swedavia also began to explore interest in a major congress ­centre at Airport City Stockholm. Swedavia’s Real Estate business area operations. One example is Alecta, is responsible for the properties and land which together with Swedavia owns adjacent to its airports. These operaSwedish Airport Infrastructure, a comtions are expanding as globalisation pany that administers properties around increases, with airports becoming an the airports. To develop Airport City ever more important central location for Stockholm, Swedavia has a partnership meetings. with Arlandastad Holding and the Airport Cities are being built around Municipality of Sigtuna. Stockholm Arlanda Airport and Göteborg At Göteborg Landvetter Airport, the Landvetter Airport and include busiproperty developer Bockasjö has been an nesses, office buildings, hotels, conferimportant partner in a joint venture that ence facilities and logistics hubs. was formed to develop the first phase of a OPERATIONS ­Swedavia’s strategy is to develop properlogistics hub immediately adjacent to the REAL ESTATE ties, often together with different partairport. In 2019, the first phase – involvIN BRIEF ners. and then sell them when they are ing three properties – was completed, completed. The profits are invested in the with Swedavia then selling its holding in • The business area company’s core operations and help the joint venture to Bockasjö. owns, develops and make the airports more attractive. Reveadministers developable land at and in the nue from Real Estate is very important to Own construction organisation vicinity of Swedavia’s Swedavia’s operations. Swedavia has a client and an execution airports. At Airport City Stockholm, the largest organisation for its construction opera• Operations prepare airport hotel in the Nordic region, with tions. The Facilities & Systems business development projects 503 rooms, is being built under the ausunit is the client for buildings and facilifor properties such as pices of Nordic Comfort Hotel – a project ties needed for the airports’ core operahotels, offices, logistics that will be completed in 2020. Together tions. There is a Portfolio Management and retail. with the Office One complex, which was department in Facilities & Systems that • Administers and inaugurated in 2019, the hotel signals the investigates potential opportunities and updates information start of the 800-hectare district taking prepares different business cases. Real about properties, shape at Airport City Stockholm. During Estate is responsible for Swedavia’s develops property joint the year, development of a new logistics commercial properties and in turn is a ventures and has serarea at Stockholm Arlanda began. business area in Portfolio Management. vices in construction ­Swedavia has also begun to explore interReal Estate develops properties and project management. est in a congress centre for up to 4,000 developable land at and in the vicinity of visitors in the area. At Airport City Götethe airports. borg, a major hotel with capacity of about To plan and deliver major projects, 220 rooms is also being built, with inauSwedavia has its execution organisation, pleted. Smaller-scale refurbishment proguration planned for 2021. Scandic Major Projects. When a project that jects and maintenance are handled by the Hotels is involved in this venture. affects the airports’ core operations is airports’ own organisations. completed, the building is incorporated Having the right organisation in place Strategic partners into Facilities & Systems, which is then for construction is crucial to Swedavia. Swedavia has well-developed collaboraresponsible for administration. If it This is necessary to carry out maintetion with strategic partners that have involves commercial properties, the nance operations on an ongoing basis and specific skills that complement its own buildings are sold when they are comto manage refurbishment and expansion 44 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2 223 rooms in the new hotel being built in Airport City Göteborg. Inauguration in 2021. as well as for major investments when the climate and the environment. According environmental work is important both airports are expanded to provide to its ownership policy, Swedavia shall be from a sustainability perspective and for increased capacity. a role model in sustainability. Swedavia is Swedavia’s credibility as a company. a pioneer in environmentally certifying The situation for those carrying out Active environmental work its construction operations and works work on construction projects entails Swedavia’s construction operations continuously to develop the construction risks, so the workplace environment is a include a materials-intensive part of methods used with the goal to find matehigh priority. The well-developed culture operations which have an impact on the rials with less of an impact. This active of safety-mindedness in aviation in genSWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 45 REAL ESTATE • REAL ESTATE eral also has an impact on safety-minded“In 2019, Swedavia organisation. For all materials selection, OPERATIONS ness related to construction operations. careful consideration is given to reducThese operations also entail the risk of was named Property ing the climate impact and decreasing negative effects on human rights in a the use of toxic substances. Recycled number of phases. Active work with the Owner of the Year” materials are used in construction proworkplace environment is therefore key, jects to the greatest extent possible. as is careful scrutiny of the contractors Renewable energy is used in the buildhired on projects. ings when completed. One example is There is an ongoing partnership with the ground­water reservoir in the aquifer the Swedish Tax Authority to prevent Green Building Council. The buildings at Stockholm Arlanda Airport, which is undeclared work, as well as proactive for which the honour was bestowed are used to recycle both heating and cooling. work with the workplace environment in the southward terminal expansion at Swedavia’s ongoing construction procollaboration with contractors, which Göteborg Landvetter Airport and the jects are a crucial part of operations. includes risk analyses and workplace Office One complex at Stockholm This entails great focus on sustainable inspections for preventive purposes. Arlanda Airport, which were both certiconstruction processes with priority ­Swedavia also takes part in the industry fied at the highest level of Sweden’s areas such as a toxin-free environment, initiative Zero Accidents, whose vision is BREEAM environmental certification resource and energy efficiency, reduced to have no one injured on construction system. climate impact and ensuring that supplisites. ers and subcontractors comply with In order to work proactively with susConscious choice in selecting laws, regulations and guidelines to tainability in the early phases of projects, materials and climate calculations achieve a good workplace environment. Real Estate has started to work in comConstruction operations at Swedavia In 2020, the work with climate calcupliance with the Citylab Action Guide. are governed by an environmental and lations will begin. This will enable Citylab is a certification system for susenergy management system. A cor­projects to be guided towards reducing tainable urban development and a supporate-level environmental departtheir climate impact in an early phase, port tool for everyone who wants to work ment audits projects, and each project for example, through materials selection for sustainable cities. The first area to has its own environmental coordinaand transport. The goal is for all investhave a sustainability programme is the tor. ­Swedavia also works with a lesments over 500 million kronor or initiasouthern section of the future Arlanda sons-learnt process, where important tives with a high implementation risk, Logistic City. lessons are taken into account in order called class 1 investments, to have In 2019, Swedavia was named Propto continuously maintain and share ­environmental calculations made during erty Owner of the Year by the Sweden the unique knowledge produced in the the year. 46 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Sustainable development Sustainable development is the basis of Swedavia’s running and development of operations. Customers are Swedavia’s primary focus, and economic, social and environmental sustainability are a fundamental requirement for earning customers’ trust and for ensuring long-term sustainable operations. SUSTAINABILITY SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 47 SUSTAINABILITY TARGETS Operations that contribute to sustainable development The guiding principle in Swedavia’s bility. These principles are bases in the ­ wedavia directly or indirectly affects a S sustainability work is the United UN’s Declaration of Human Rights, the number of these global goals through its Nations’ agenda for sustainable developInternational Labour Organisation business partners. The company has ment – Agenda 2030 and its 17 sustaina(ILO)’s Conventions on Fundamental identified four goals that are most releble development goals. Swedavia plays Principles and Rights to Work, the Rio vant its operations in the short and long an important role and contributes to susDeclaration on Environment and Develterm and to whose progress it can best tainable development by taking into conopment and the UN Convention against contribute. Global and local collaborasideration environmental, social and Corruption. tions are an important basis for working economic factors in a responsible way in Swedish State-owned companies shall towards these goals. Through various its operations and development of analyse the global goals in Agenda 2030 forms of collaboration, Swedavia can airports. under the scope of their operations in create the conditions needed and conSwedavia is also a signatory to the UN’s order to identify the most relevant goals tribute to sustainability where the comGlobal Compact for corporate responsithat they affect and contribute to. pany has an impact on our world. The UN’s 17 sustainable development goals for Agenda 2030: SUSTAINABILITY 48 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Swedavia has identified four goals that are the most relevant to the company and to whose progress the company can best contribute through its operations. GOALS SELECTED WHAT SWEDAVIA DOES READ MORE 9. Sustainable industry, • Development and modernisation of the airports. Pages 50–51 ­innovation and infrastructure • Works actively for new, more efficient traffic solutions. Build resilient infrastructure, • Investments in infrastructure, digital technology and promote inclusive and sustainbetter flows. able industrialisation and foster innovation. • Investments in sustainable aviation fuel and electric aviation. 10. Reduced inequalities • Works actively for an equal, inclusive workplace. Pages 52–55 Work to reduce inequalities within • Fights discrimination and promotes equal treatment. and among countries. • Continuously works with business ethics in terms of anti-corruption, human rights, employees and social relations, and the environment. • Fights the occurrence of human trafficking at the airports. • Works for increased access. 11. Sustainable cities and • Links together Sweden’s regions and links Sweden with Pages 50–51 communities the rest of the world. Work to make cities and human • Works for more efficient transport. settlements inclusive, safe, • Carries out extensive development programmes to ­resilient and sustainable. develop the airports of the future. • Works in partnership with companies and other organisations at the airports to develop the airports of the future. 13. Climate action • No emissions of fossil carbon dioxide from its own Pages 56–59 Take urgent action to combat operations. climate change and its impacts. • Energy efficiency improvement work in its own facilities. • Works to increase the use of sustainable aviation fuel. • Facilitates the development of electric aviation in Sweden. SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 49 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT • ECONOMY SOC How aviation creates growth Y IA L DE EC O NO VE E LOPM NT Swedavia contributes to Sweden’s competitiveness and M growth by enhancing national and international access. CUSTOMER By 2050, the share of the population Swedavia’s contributions living in urban areas will have increased EN • The airport operator, airlines and tenants VI R N from around 50 per cent today to 70 per RO provide inspiring experiences that proNM NCE cent. There will be an increased need to ENTAL C O duce increased passenger satisfaction move between countries, regions, cities and increase the attractiveness of the and rural areas. In order for companies to destination. be competitive, well-functioning links • Contributes to access, which provides will be a key factor. Infrastructure that employment, tax revenue, business ensures high-quality reliable and sustainopportunities, meetings and diversity, and under way at all ten Swedavia airports able transport systems that are fit for purmakes transport accessible to everyone which include the development of infrapose will be increasingly important. For regardless of their gender, age or funcstructure, digital technology and creation an export-dependent country like tional ability. of better flows. The investments are Sweden, which is far from the major mar• Reduces the environmental impact of aviaimed at increasing both efficiency and kets and has great distances within the ation through efficient ground handling capacity, which will give passengers country, well-functioning air links are services, fossil-free fuels and new aircraft smoother, more inspiring travel expericrucial to the country’s future growth, types. ences. The objective is for Swedavia’s aircompetitiveness and prosperity. • Works to create safe, secure ports to be the most important meeting SUSTAINABILITY Aviation today creates around environments. places in the Nordic region. 200,000 jobs directly and indirectly in • Develops modern technology to find The different companies and other Sweden. Half of these are directly related effective forms of work and collaboration. organisations at the airports must thereto the aviation industry. All in all, they • Contributes to job creation as well as fore be able to manage and adapt to the contribute more than 175 billion kronor national and regional growth. major changes taking place in the world, annually to Sweden’s GDP. Well-funcincluding in the form of new kinds of travtioning, sustainable aviation infrastrucSwedavia’s network of airports shall be ellers and new business opportunities but ture generates a number of positive growth engines for all of Sweden and conalso in the form of capacity requirements effects and promotes growth and develtribute to the development of both metroand growing climate challenges. opment economically, socially and envipolitan and rural areas. Swedavia has thus For the aviation industry, the UN’s ronmentally. The development of the taken on the challenge of developing the global sustainability target number 11 airports will also play a vital role in Sweairports of the future, a network of airentails building high-quality reliable, susden’s national and global transport sysports that will help enhance the conditainable and resilient infrastructure. New tems, which shall link ­Sweden’s metrotions needed for the entire country to knowledge and technology are continupolitan and rural areas together and link develop. Extensive, long-term developously being developed, which creates the country to the rest of the world. ment programmes are therefore now opportunities for increased efficiency and reduced environmental impacts. The main companies and organisations at the airports, which sometimes are partners Sustainable industry, innovation and infrastructure and sometimes each other’s suppliers or Swedavia contributes to sustainable industry, innovation and infracustomers, must do this together. structure – in part by developing infrastructure that contributes to As an airport operator, Swedavia is an improved national and international access and to people’s well-­ being and by making continuous environmental improvements in important facilitator and link between existing infrastructure as well as that being developed under the the different companies and other organscope of its development programmes. isations at the airports. In this role, ­Swedavia can create the conditions Sustainable cities and communities needed for the different organisations at Swedavia contributes to sustainability through its mission to link the airports and in the industry to use together Sweden’s regions and link Sweden to the rest of the world. The company also works to link together different transport modes. new knowledge and technology to Swedavia maintains a continuous dialogue with its stakeholders reduce aviation’s climate impact and regarding social, environmental and business issues. help to facilitate achievement of the UN’s sustainability goals. 50 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Investments to COMPARATIVE INDEX ensure access 100 Swedavia develops airports for the air transport of the future. To do this, the company 90 plans to invest 42.3 billion kronor during the 80 80 period 2016–2025. The biggest investments 79 79 74 75 are being made in capacity improvements at 70 Stockholm Arlanda Airport. During the period 2016–2019, 12.6 billion kronor was 60 invested. 50 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Stockholm Arlanda Airport Stockholm Arlanda Airport shall be developed into the leading Nordic airport and be an international role model in susCompetitiveness of airport charges tainability. During the period 2016–2025, 27 billion kronor is The airports’ charges for airline customers are a crucial means of competibeing invested in such areas as the expansion of Terminal 5, tion. Swedavia’s competitiveness is rated each year based on a weighted a new airport maintenance area, more aircraft parking average of airport charges for typical flights at the company’s airports comstands, improved baggage systems and additional security pared to similar flights at competing and comparable airports. Competitivescreening flows. The aim is increased capacity for passenness in 2019 was affected by Swedavia’s increase in airport charges, which gers and airlines, more meeting places, better public transresulted in an index value of 75 for 2019, compared to 74 in 2018. Given port, expanded access to shopping, restaurants and activithat the Swedish krona weakened further and a number of comparable airties, and more opportunities for hotels and conference ports implemented major increases in their charges, Swedavia’s hike had facilities. limited effects on its index value in 2019. Because Swedavia is carrying out major investments in capacity, this index value is expected to increase in the Göteborg Landvetter Airport years ahead. Göteborg Landvetter Airport is and shall be western Sweden’s gateway to the world. The airport is getting more new gates, expanded terminal capacity, improved baggage handling and new traffic solutions in the vicinity. Hotels, logistics INVESTMENTS 2016–2025 facilities, retail space and workplaces are taking shape in a new airport city. The airport shall thus contribute to the Planned Of which carried region’s development to an even greater extent. Total investSEK billion 2016–2025 out 2016–2019 ments in 2016–2025 are an estimated 3.4 billion kronor. Stockholm Arlanda Airport 27.0 5.5 Of which development programme 17.6 3.5 Bromma Stockholm Airport Bromma Stockholm Airport shall be a more efficient city airOf which master plan 1.4 0.0 port. The airport is being modernised in several phases. A new arrival hall is in place, and in 2019 the older section of Göteborg Landvetter Airport 3.4 1.9 the departure gall was also completed. The airport has a terBromma Stockholm Airport 1.7 1.6 minal that can handle 1,200 passengers an hour in peak traffic. Preparations for the planned extension of Stockholm’s Regional airports 1.9 0.6 Crossways light rail network are under way, so flows for bus Real Estate 5.0 1.7 and taxi traffic are being continuously improved. During the period 2016–2025, about 1.7 billion kronor is being invested Group-wide 3.2 1.3 in the airport, with most of this work already completed. Total 42.3 12.6 Regional airports All seven regional airports shall be accessible to residents in the region, businesses and tourists. The airports are being developed and modernised to increase both efficiency and capacity and to create important meeting places. In many Green bond framework ways, they are vital to the development of the different regions. During the period 2016–2025, about 1.9 billion FINANCING / To fund investments and environmental impact. kronor is being invested at the airports. projects for climate change adaptation The money that can be borrowed and sustainability among other purthrough green bonds will be used to Real Estate poses, during the autumn Swedavia fund investments and projects that supSwedavia works with the development of properties close to launched a framework that allows it to port Swedavia’s long-term strategy the airports in Real Estate. The objective is to develop land in issue green bonds through its existing while contributing to the UN’s sustainaorder to realise value that can then be used to develop the airports. During the period 2016–2025, 5.0 billion kronor is medium-term note (MTN) programme. ble development goals and the princibeing invested in the Real Estate segment, including in a new This move supports the company in its ples of the Paris Agreement. (Read more hotel and office complex at Stockholm Arlanda Airport and a ambition to be a world leader in develon pages 138–139) new hotel at Göteborg Landvetter Airport. oping airports with the least possible SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 51 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT • SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT SOC Safety and security for Y IA L customers, employees DE EC O NO VE E LOPM NT M and partners CUSTOMER For Swedavia, social development is a multifaceted concept. The workplace environment at the airports shall EN VI RO R N CE be characterised by engagement and accountability, and NM ENTAL C ON some of the key aspects that the company continuously works with are occupational health and safety, aviation safety and security, human rights, diversity, equality, ­inclusiveness and efforts to fight corruption. Work with aviation safety and risk banks that are continuously updated dents (one in 2018) and one incident security under the framework for the manage(two in 2018). The work with safety and security is ment review and for the work with susStructural damage to aircraft was integral to all of Swedavia’s operations tainability and business planning. caused in the two accidents. The acciand the focus of continuous developAt Stockholm Arlanda Airport and dents did not result in any loss of life or ment. Security work is aimed at preGöteborg Landvetter Airport, there is an serious injury. The two accidents were SUSTAINABILITY venting criminal acts, while safety work airport operations management centre – investigated by the Accident Investigais aimed at preventing accidents. All of APOC – that facilitates work with crisis tion Authority. Neither Swedavia’s infraSwedavia’s airports are certified under management on a practical level. APOC structure nor procedures were considthe European Union Aviation Safety and the adjacent crisis management ered to have any effect in either case. Agency (EASA)’s regulations, with the room are also available when other airDuring the year, the Swedish Transport except of Ronneby Airport and Luleå ports are affected. Agency identified three serious deficienAirport, which are both operated in During the year, Swedavia carried out cies in conjunction with its review of the partnership with the Swedish Armed an updated analysis of security protecairport’s aviation security work. Both Forces and thus covered by special regution in accordance with the new requiredeficiencies were addressed immediately lations. All of the airports have been ments laid out in the new Swedish Profollowing the inspection. The deficiencies certified for safety and security by the tective Security Act, which took effect in concerned part of the monitoring and Swedish Transport Agency. April 2019. As a result of the analysis, a entry checkpoint for the authorisation Swedavia works with continuity plannew security protection plan is now area. Swedavia works on a continuous ning and risk management. In 2019, both being prepared in operations. basis to improve its self-inspection of Stockholm Arlanda Airport and Göteoperations in order to detect any deficienborg Landvetter Airport carried out fullZero vision cies in good time. scale emergency exercises together with To ensure the health and safety of the companies and other organisations company’s customers, Swedavia regisImproved security procedures operating at the airport and beyond. The ters incidents at its airports involving The development of new technology company develops concrete action plans the number of accidents, serious incicontributes to the work to continuously to ensure that aircraft shall be able to dents and serious deficiencies identified improve security processes at the aircope with disruptions such as a major in the Swedish Transport Agency’s ports and make them more efficient, power outage or water supply problems. inspections or the European Commiswhile improving the passenger experiIt is important to carry out risk mansion’s inspection of operations. The goal ence. Security scanners and x-ray equipagement in order to ensure good access is zero accidents and serious incidents ment for cabin baggage are important for passengers and customers. Through caused by the company. Swedavia parts of the passenger process. New continuous and systematic risk managereports all incidents that have an impact technology has now been developed and ment, decisions, priorities and change on aviation identified by the authority to certified that will allow passengers to work can be directed with a view to the the Swedish Transport Agency and the keep liquids and electronics in their company’s overall objectives. All of the Swedish Accident Investigation Authorhand baggage throughout security risks and risk categories in Swedavia’s ity in the event of an accident or serious screening. Screening will thus be easier operations are assessed and compiled in incident. In 2019, there were two acciand faster. The work to introduce a new 52 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 standard that puts more stringent Human rights restrictions on checked baggage has also begun. The technology will be introRunning airports is a complex operation that can affect the human rights of many Network against duced by 2022 at the latest. different stakeholders. It is Swedavia’s trafficking The development work under way at a responsibility to ensure respect for Stockholm Arlanda against Human Trafnumber of Swedavia’s airports is related to human rights among employees, cusficking is comprised of companies and more stringent security requirements. The tomers and suppliers to the greatest other organisations operating at and large number of deliveries and construcextent possible. around the airport, such as the Swedish tion workers at and around the airports Swedavia works for closer compliance Police, the Church of Sweden, Clarion requires reliable, efficient procedures. with UN’s Guiding Principles on BusiHotel, the women’s shelter Kvinnojouren Security on landside – in other words, ness and Human Rights. The commitSigtuna, Nokas, Securitas, Forex, Swedish before the security checkpoint – is particument to respect human rights is included Customs, the Swedish Migration Agency, larly important in this context. Responsiin the company’s Code of Conduct. The Radisson, SAS and Menzies. In a chain of bility for security on landside is shared Code, adopted by the Board of Directors, events, everyone’s observations are imporwith the police, which means roles and lays out clear expectations for how tant. Through collaboration and increased responsibilities must be clearly defined. ­Swedavia’s employees and suppliers knowledge about human trafficking, the During the autumn, it was discovered shall conduct themselves. Leaders at network helps to create a safer Stockholm that a number of people were working at Swedavia have an important role to play Arlanda Airport for both customers and Stockholm Arlanda without the right as role models. Training material is availemployees and provides care for victims permit to work in Sweden. In conjuncable as support in the work to continucaught in our modern-day slave trade. tion with this, a collaboration was begun ously maintain a dialogue on business involving Swedavia, other companies ethics issues, and is used at workplace and organisations at the airport and the meetings throughout operations. relevant authorities with the aim of In 2019, Swedavia continued the work carried out to ensure good accessibility ensuring that anyone who has their to further develop and structure its work for people with different functional abiliworkplace at the airport has the right to with human rights. One focus area is ties, equal treatment and good customer work in Sweden. To achieve this, estabissues concerning employees, primarily service for passengers at the airports. lished procedures are needed for compathe workplace environment, gender In 2019, Swedavia continued its work nies that work at the airport, along with equality, diversity, discrimination and to run a network to prevent the occurchanges in the laws and regulations govvictimisation. There are clear guidelines rence of human trafficking at Stockholm erning how background checks and and policies on these issues for how Arlanda Airport. checks of public records are carried out. ­Swedavia shall work. Active work is also SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 53 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT • SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT Anti-corruption work • An open dialogue with employees, sup2019, 94 per cent of Swedavia’s leaders and Ethical accountability is an essential conpliers and other stakeholders. specialists had completed this training. dition for the sustainability work that Clear governing documents are crucial Every leader is responsible for informing constitutes the basis of Swedavia’s operato Swedavia in its work to fight corrupemployees and maintaining an open diations. An important part of the compation. The company’s Code of Conduct logue with them about the company’s bribny’s strategy is to work both actively and guides this work, and there are also a speery policy and business entertainment proactively against corruption. cial bribery policy and business enterguidelines in an appropriate manner. The Three main components comprise the tainment guidelines. aim is for employees to be aware of the basis for this work: Anti-corruption training sessions are risks of corruption and bribery. • Clear governing documents. arranged on a regular basis for the compaSince 2018, Swedavia’s online training • Training on a regular basis. ny’s leaders and specialists. In December on Swedavia’s bribery policy and business entertainment guidelines is mandatory for all employees at Swedavia. This Reduced inequalities effort is in order to increase awareness Swedavia contributes to reduced inequalities in part by working about corruption issues throughout the for a gender-balanced, inclusive workplace and by adapting airorganisation. ports so that they are accessible to everyone. At Swedavia, there In 2019, material was produced with is zero tolerance of victimisation and discrimination. Each year, questions about ethical dilemmas specifsalaries and terms of employment are surveyed to ensure that all ically for workplace meetings. The aim is employees regardless of their gender are treated in an unprejudiced manner. Swedavia has recruitment guidelines that cover all to create a good, robust dialogue on these recruitment and that also apply to external parties and the hiring issues throughout Swedavia. Employees of consultants. These guidelines shall contribute to increased are also trained in business ethics and diversity, promote gender balance and fight discrimination. anti-corruption as part of training on construction law arranged in-house. SUSTAINABILITY Focus areas to make Swedavia an even better workplace For an inclusive, engaging culture Swedavia’s greatest asset is its employees, and the company works from the understanding that everyone has talents that contribute in different ways to the company’s success. In the work to develop Swedavia into an even better workplace, the focus is on three areas: sustainable leadership and employeeship, development and inclusiveness, and the workplace environment. Swedavia has a well-developed process for setting overall and individual goals, and every leader is responsible for creating the conditions needed for employees regarding learning, career tion, Swedavia makes use of everyone’s employees to achieve these goals and and development. The aim is to involve knowledge and desire to develop. This develop while creating success in operemployees to a greater extent in affectis a condition needed for a sustainable, ations. Every employee is responsiing their work situation and developattractive Swedavia going forward. ble for their own skills development by ment at Swedavia. Clarifying internal Swedavia as a workplace is characpushing their performance, learning career paths and development opporterised by diversity, inclusiveness and and development in their day-to-day tunities as well as focusing on continurespect for individuals at every level. work. Swedavia wants to make use of ous learning in day-to-day operations Many different skills work together the talent in its operations and develop are examples of areas strengthened under the scope of Swedavia’s operit in a sustainable direction, and in 2019 during the year. By ensuring sustainable ations in order for the company to bolstered its support for leaders and performances and creating participaachieve its strategic objectives and 54 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Swedavia’s Gender breakGender breakdown, Average number down, leaders all employees * of employees ­employees in figures 38% 34% 3,050 (36%) (36%) (3,217) Women Women Employees with a ­foreign background ** 62% 66% (64%) (64%) 19.3% (18.2%) Män Men Män Men * Based on number of employees, ** Born abroad or both parents 2019 born abroad provide increased passenger satisfacFocus on the workplace observations. The reporting covers both tion and improved safety and security. environment the physical and psycho-social workEvery leader is responsible for drivWork with the workplace environment place environment and includes acciing focused work for equal treatment is a priority area at Swedavia and is cardents, incidents and risk observations. and diversity, and it is also important ried out as a natural part of day-to-day The goal is for all workplace environthat every employee takes responsioperations. Through preventive work ment incidents and observations to be bility for contributing to an inclusive on the workplace environment for both reported. There is continuous follow-up culture. S­ wedavia shall be a workplace employees and consultants, people’s of the work at the management level. with gender balance and other forms of health, development and job satisfacIn 2019, Swedavia further bolstered equality and works actively for an inclution are safeguarded from a physical, its proactive work with the workplace sive, engaging culture where all employpsychological and social perspective. All environment by implementing a digiees’ specific capabilities are put to use. leaders undergo compulsory training in tal reporting system in which employIn 2019, Swedavia continued to be the workplace environment, in which ees report workplace incidents easily active in the UUA project for universally everyone’s active responsibility in the and securely using an app. The aim is to designed workplaces. The aim of UUA work on the workplace environment is strengthen engagement regarding the is to create a workplace with inclusive highlighted. Close collaboration workplace environment, learn from structures and which works for everybetween leaders, employees and occuone another and find areas for improveone. This entails a change in perspecpational health and safety organisations ment. In addition, tools to assess and tive and a new approach, which involves is crucial. manage the organisational and social taking a comprehensive view of the Swedavia’s goal is for there to be no workplace environment and expanded workplace. During the year, employees serious accidents in the workplace and support material on risk and conseat Swedavia attended training arranged no victimisation or discrimination. quence assessments were developed. by UUA. In its proactive work with the workIn 2019, Swedavia’s overall rate of The company also has strategic colplace environment, Swedavia’s reportabsence due to illness fell from 4.94 per laborations with the Swedish employing culture and willingness to report cent at the start of the year to 4.42 per ment agency Arbetsförmedlingen, the incidents are measured as an overall cent at the end of the year. The decrease Royal Swedish Academy of Engineerstrategic goal. This is done by comparapplies to women as well as to longing Sciences, Doctors Without Borders, ing the number of serious accidents in term absence due to illness. Stockholm Pride and the Red Cross. the workplace and the number of risk SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 55 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT • ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERN SOC Zero vision is within reach Y IA L – so Swedavia is aiming higher DE EC O NO VE E LOPM NT M CUSTOMER Swedavia is closing in on its ambitious goal of zero emissions of fossil carbon dioxide from its own airport operations by the end of 2020. The work to have 5 per cent of EN VI N RO R the jet fuel used for refuelling at Swedish airports be reNM NCE ENTAL C O newable by 2025 has also gained significant momentum. Swedavia’s ambitious environmental goal continued to come closer to realisaSwedavia began the work to calculate and reduce emissions. “Swedavia wants to work tion in 2019, with good progress made. for the Swedish producThe work to achieve the goal of zero emisCollaboration is key to success sions of fossil carbon dioxide from the Swedavia has a role and a responsibility to tion of ­sustainable company’s own airport operations by the end of 2020 continues. Among the contribute to the aviation industry’s transformation to fossil-free operations. aviation fuel” remaining challenges are ensuring that With its target of having 5 per cent susback-up power sources can run on renewtainable aviation fuel used for refuelling able fuel, securing access to HVO100 at Swedish airports by 2025, Swedavia SUSTAINABILITY renewable diesel and replacing all workwants to work to accelerate this transforwhile regional and local collaborations ing tools that run on petrol, diesel or liqmation. Swedavia has purchased sustainhave also promoted refuelling with susuefied petroleum gas. One condition able aviation fuel to offset the fuel used for tainable aviation fuel. One example is needed to achieve this zero target is for its own flights for business purposes since local organisations in Östersund that Swedavia’s fleet of vehicles to switch to 2016, and the new goal requires more joined together and purchased sustainausing renewable fuels. companies and other organisations to ble aviation fuel during the Alpine World refuel with sustainable aviation fuel in Ski Championships in Åre and the World 97 per cent reduction in fossil carbon Sweden. One key to success is collaboraBiathlon Cup in Östersund. The fuel was dioxide since 2005 tions between stakeholders in the indusused for refuelling at Åre Östersund AirToday three of Swedavia’s ten airports try and beyond. port to show that flights to the events have reached the goal of zero tonnes of In 2019, Swedavia took delivery of 796 could also be fossil-free. fossil carbon dioxide from their own opertonnes of sustainable aviation fuel for its The challenge for a large-scale switch ations. Ronneby Airport reached the flights for business purposes in 2018 and to biofuels for air transport is that protarget as early as 2017, and Visby Airport 2019. Most of the fuel was used for refuelduction takes place on a limited basis. As a and Luleå Airport did so in 2018. ling at Stockholm Arlanda Airport, but result, renewable fuel is much more For Swedavia as a whole, fossil carbon Göteborg Landvetter Airport, Umeå Airexpensive than equivalent fossil fuels. dioxide emissions from its own operaport, Åre Östersund Airport and Malmö Swedavia wants to work for the Swedish tions totalled 316 tonnes in 2019, comAirport were supplied with some of the production of sustainable aviation fuel pared to 1,305 tonnes in 2018. That is a fuel. During the year, a number of airlines through the different collaborations reduction of 97 per cent since 2005, when refuelled with sustainable aviation fuel, needed to achieve this goal. There are mainly two producers in Sweden that promise production of sustainable aviation fuel in the near future using Swedish Combatting climate change materials. Swedavia works for the industry’s transformation to combat climate change by facilitating infrastructure for electric aviation Initiative for joint public tender at Swedavia’s airports and working for the increased use of During the autumn of 2019, a joint public sustainable aviation fuel in Sweden. Swedavia also contributes tender for sustainable aviation fuel was by working at the company for operations with no fossil carbon dioxide emissions. This is being done through a gradual switch to carried out at Swedavia’s initiative in non-fossil fuels for its own vehicle fleet and continuous efficiency partnership with the Swedish emergency improvement work to reduce the use of energy and materials. assistance services company SOS Alarm, the alcohol retailer Systembolaget and 56 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Swedavia’s collaborations: • Member of the ACI Europe Taskforce on how Airport Carbon Accreditation (ACA) should be developed and Taskforce Climate Change, which is aimed at developing long-term climate goals for EU airports and airlines. These goals support the intentions of the Paris Accord. • Partner in the Fly Green Fund, an economic association which works to increase demand for sustainable aviation fuel while supporting the production of such fuel in the Nordic countries. • Member of the Nordic Initiative for Sustainable Aviation (NISA), in which a large number of stakeholders work together to find an efficient supply of renewable fuel for the aviation industry. • Member of the 2030 Secretariat, which works to ensure Sweden has a vehicle fleet that does not need fossil fuels by 2030. • Collaboration in the innovation cluster Fossil-Free Air Transport 2045, which RISE Research Institutes of Sweden has been commissioned to run by the Swedish Energy Agency. Together with RISE and SAS, Swedavia shall bring together stakeholders from all across the ecosystem in order to achieve the common goal of fossil-free air transport. • Partner in the consortium Electric Air Transport in Sweden, which goes under the acronym (ELISE) and whose goal is to develop electric aircraft by 2025. Today’s airports play a key role in the electric aviation of the future. • Co-financier of Green Flyway, whose objective is to prepare Åre Östersund Airport to handle test operations for electric aviation starting in autumn 2020. • Member of the Nordic Network on Electric Aviation 2019–2022, a platform that brings together Nordic players to accelerate the introduction of electric aviation in the Nordic countries. the Swedish coalition for decarbonisation those organisations that refuel with susships with different organisations, clusthe 2030 Secretariat. The joint procuretainable aviation fuel in Sweden. In 2019, ters and consortiums. ment is aimed at reducing these organisaabout 0.14% of the jet fuel used for refueltions’ carbon dioxide emissions from air ling in Sweden was sustainable. To speed Energy use transport while increasing supply and up the pace of this transformation, In 2019, energy use was 170,742 MWh, demand for sustainable aviation fuel. ­Swedavia both drives and works in collabcompared to 169,952 MWh in 2018. In Swedavia will carry out a new public oration with other stakeholders in the 2019, the energy goal was changed, with tender annually so that more organisaindustry. The company challenges politivehicle fuel now excluded from the goal. tions can join. cal leaders to develop policy instruments The figure for 2018 has thus been restated. To monitor progress and ensure that and regulations for this purpose and is The increased energy is due to Swedavia’s this goal is met, Swedavia follows up with involved in a number of close partnerexpansion in square metres. SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 57 SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT • ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERN In February, the new airport maintetime, which produces less noise. a curved approach for Runway 12, which nance area at Stockholm Arlanda Airport At Stockholm Arlanda Airport and will also help improve the environment. was placed in service. Thanks to more Bromma Stockholm Airport, long-term energy-efficient premises, total energy measurements are taken at fixed points in Water, chemicals and waste use per square metre in the facilities part to survey the noise characteristics of Swedavia conducts active work to reduce decreased. The building was certified with different aircraft types in conjunction its environmental impact. Chemicals are CEEQUAL’s Excellent sustainability with take-off and landing. There are varireplaced, and their use is assessed and rating by the Sweden Green Building ous tools to reduce noise impact, such as restricted in order to have as little impact Council. noise insulation of residences, higher Swedavia uses 100 per cent renewable take-off charges for noisy aircraft, curved district heating, 100 per cent renewable approaches to avoid densely populated Overall NRI of Swedavia’s airports electricity, 97 per cent renewable propelareas and work with green approaches in lants and 100 per cent renewable fuel for which the aircraft steadily descends from 3.5 3.7 its own boilers. its cruising altitude to the runway. This 3.9 reduces noise as well as saves fuel and cuts 4.1 Noise emissions. 4.3 Swedavia’s goal for aviation noise is to A total of 1,270 curved approaches were 4.5 work actively to reduce the noise load carried out at Stockholm Arlanda in 2019, 4.7 4.9 and have exposure considered to be at an which overall also reduced fossil carbon 5.1 acceptable level relative to the social dioxide emissions by about 263 tonnes. 5.3 benefits of aviation. Swedavia measures Malmö Airport carried out a modernisa02 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 noise using the ACI Noise Rating Index tion of its airspace, the result of which is Progress in NRI class over time overall for Swedavia’s (NRI). The chart to the right shows the shorter approach paths and reduced fuel ten airports. A higher NRI class entails reduced noise. modernisation of the aircraft fleet over use. Åre Östersund Airport has developed SUSTAINABILITY Progress on Swedavia’s target of zero emissions of fossil carbon dioxide* Tonnes 14,000  cope 1: Vehicle propellants, S electricity and heat produced by 12,000 Swedavia (used by Swedavia and 10,000 sold) and firefighting exercises Scope 2: Purchased electricity and 8,000 heat used by Swedavia Scope 3: Purchased electricity sold 6,000 to others 4,000 2,000 * This target includes Swedavia’s emissions in Scope 1 and 2 as well as purchased heat sold 0 to others (Scope 3). Scopes are defined by 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Emissions of fossil carbon dioxide in kilograms per passenger for air Swedavia’s fossil carbon dioxide traffic’s LTOs** and passengers’ ground transport to/from the airports emissions by area, 2019, % Kg CO 2 /passenger 16 Total 14 12 LTO 10 8 Ground 6 transport 66 % Vehicles and propellants 25 % Energy * 4 8 % Fire and rescue service 2 2 % Motorised equipment * Fossil carbon dioxide emissions in Energy 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 stem from back-up power supply operations. ** LTO stands for landings and take-offs in other words, flying below an altitude of 3,000 feet, including taxiing on the ground. 58 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 on the environment and people’s health as possible. This primarily involves reducing discharges from substances used for Swedavia’s vehicle fleet de-icing aircraft and anti-skid treatment • All diesel-powered vehicles at Swedavia’s airports can run on HVO100 renewable diesel. of runways. A number of facilities at the • The vehicle fleet consists of nearly 30 per cent electric vehicles. airports recycle recovered de-icing fluid. • In 2019, Malmö Airport and Kiruna Airport tested electric-powered vehicles that can replace Some airports also have their own ponds normal work vehicles. and water treatment facilities for collect• Testing of automated buses was carried out in late 2019, with self-driving buses operating on ing contaminated water from the airport the public road between the company’s headquarters, Swedaviahuset, and the new airport maintenance area. area. Water from firefighting exercises, • Robot lawn mowers at Bromma Stockholm Airport. workshops, car wash facilities and hangars is also collected and treated. Top certification ratings In terms of waste, the total amount • Swedavia’s airports are certified at the highest level under Airport Carbon Accreditation (ACA)’s of waste per passenger at Swedavia standards for the climate work of airports. decreased 5 per cent overall, and a • Swedavia’s operations are certified under the ISO 14001:2015 environmental management number of airports improved their sortsystems standard and ISO 50001:2018 energy management systems standard. ing of food waste. During the year, work • The new airport maintenance area at Stockholm Arlanda Airport and the P1 long-term car park was initiated to minimise single-use at Stockholm Arlanda Airport are certified as Excellent under CEEQUAL’s sustainability standplastics. Among other measures, guideards, which specify how well construction projects address sustainability issues. lines were developed for how this work • Sky City Office One at Stockholm Arlanda Airport was rated Excellent by BREEAM. The termishould be carried out. The area that still nal at Göteborg Landvetter Airport is BREEAM In-Use certified for its environmental perforpresents a challenge is the sorting of mance. BREEAM is an environmental certification system for buildings, and Excellent is its waste from terminals and from aircraft. second highest rating. Carbon footprint, kilotonnes CO2 Airport Air traffic Ground transport Swedavia Total 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Stockholm Arlanda Airport 222 233 111 112 0.15 0.83 333 346 Göteborg Landvetter Airport 47 47 29 32 0.07 0.09 76 78 Malmö Airport 19 21 17 17 0.03 0.16 36 38 Bromma Stockholm Airport 16 18 3 3 0.01 0.01 19 21 Umeå Airport 7 8 6 6 0.03 0.07 13 14 Luleå Airport 8 9 6 6 0.00 0.00 14 15 Åre Östersund Airport 4 4 2 2 0.02 0.02 6 6 Kiruna Airport 2 2 1 1 0.01 0.12 3 3 Ronneby Airport 2 2 1 1 0.00 0.00 3 3 Visby Airport 3 3 1 1 0.00 0.00 4 4 Total 330 346 176 181 0.3 1.3 506 528 Percentage change, 2018–2019: –4.6 % –2.7 % –75.8 % –4.1 % The carbon footprint for Swedavia’s airports in 2019 reported here is broken down into time, the number of passengers decreased 4 per cent, which means the carbon footprint air traffic’s emissions in the LTO cycle (landing and take-off cycle, flying below 3,000 feet per passenger was unchanged. including taxiing on the ground), passengers’ ground transport to and from the airports Swedavia’s own emissions of fossil carbon dioxide were reduced by over 76 per cent, and Swedavia’s own operations. from 1,305 tonnes in 2018 to 316 tonnes in 2019. Measures contributing to this reduction During the year, the carbon footprint for Swedavia’s airports decreased about 4 per in Swedavia’s own production include an increase in the mixture of renewable fuels for cent, from about 528 kilotonnes of CO2 in 2018 to 506 kilotonnes in 2019. At the same vehicles. SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 59 TABLE OF CONTENTS Contents Report of the Directors 61 Note 21 Investment properties 110 Sustainability Report 65 Note 22 Leases 111 Dividend and distribution of earnings 73 Note 23 Biological assets 112 Corporate Governance Statement 74 Note 24 Non-current financial assets 113 The Board of Directors 80 Note 25 Other non-current receivables 113 Swedavia's executive management 82 Note 26 Holdings in associated companies and joint ventures 113 Consolidated accounts 84 Note 27 Holdings in Group companies 114 Consolidated income statement 84 Note 28 Financial assets and liabilities 114 Consolidated balance sheet 85 Note 29 Materials and supplies 115 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 87 Note 30 Current receivables 115 Consolidated cash flow statement 88 Note 31 Receivables from Group companies 115 Parent Company accounts 89 Note 32 Receivables from and liabilities to associated companies and joint ventures 115 Parent Company income statement 89 Note 33 Other receivables 116 Parent Company balance sheet 90 Note 34 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 116 Parent Company statement of changes in equity 91 FINANCIAL INFORMATION Note 35 Equity 116 Parent Company cash flow statement 92 Note 36 Provisions 117 Notes 93 Note 37 Provisions for pensions 117 Note 1 Corporate information and accounting Note 38 Other provisions 118 principles 93 Note 39 Deferred tax 119 Note 2 Significant judgements and estimates 99 Note 40 Interest-bearing liabilities 119 Note 3 Segment reporting 100 Note 41 Non-current and current liabilities 120 Note 4 Net revenue 101 Note 42 Loan liabilities 120 Note 5 Related party transactions 102 Note 43 Overdraft facilities 120 Note 6 Other operating income 102 Note 44 Other liabilities 120 Note 7 Remuneration and reimbursements to auditors 102 Note 45 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 120 Note 8 Employees and staff expenses 103 Note 46 Assets held for sale 121 Note 9 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment Note 47 Financial risks 121 losses on fixed assets/ non-current intangible assets 106 Note 48 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities 124 Note 10 Other operating costs 106 Note 49 Cash flow 125 Note 11 Financial income and expenses 106 Note 50 Supplementary information for key financial metrics 125 Note 12 Appropriations and untaxed reserves 107 Note 51 Events after the balance sheet date 125 Note 13 Tax 107 Note 14 Non-current intangible assets 107 Signatories to the Annual Report 126 Note 15 Tangible fixed assets 108 Auditor’s Report 127 Note 16 Buildings and land 108 Note 17 Field structures 109 Other 130 Note 18 Electrical installations, vehicles and equipment 109 GRI Index 130 Note 19 New construction in progress related to fixed Key metrics 134 assets 109 Statement of Compliance 136 Note 20 Fair value 110 Definitions 137 Green bonds 138 60 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Report of the Directors The Board of Directors and the President and CEO of Swedavia AB (publ), Swedish corporate identity number 556797-0818, hereby submit their annual accounts for Swedavia AB and the consolidated annual accounts for the Swedavia Group for the financial year 2019. The Report of the Directors is for the Group and Parent Company unless otherwise indicated. Swedavia is a State-owned company that owns, operates and develJanuary 15 Swedavia notified the Swedish public employment agency ops a network of ten airports in Sweden. Swedavia’s operations are Arbetsförmedlingen that it would lay off employees. A total of 125 fulldivided into two segments, Airport Operations and Real Estate. In year equivalent employees were affected, both in the corporate func2019, the Airport Operations segment at Swedavia ran operations tions and at Swedavia’s airports. The executive management’s decision at ten airports – Bromma Stockholm Airport, Göteborg Landvetter served as a basis for collaborative negotiations with the trade unions. Airport, Kiruna Airport, Luleå Airport, Malmö Airport, Ronneby The organisation and these changes were implemented as of July 1, Airport, Stockholm Arlanda Airport, Umeå Airport, Visby Airport 2019. and Åre Östersund Airport – in the national basic infrastructure as In February, after five years of work, the new airport area at determined by the Swedish Government. The airports are managed Stockholm Arlanda Airport was placed in service. The maintenance as and consolidated into an integrated airport system with shared area houses many of Stockholm Arlanda’s operational and maintecorporate functions. Real Estate owns, develops and manages nance functions such as the Airside and Landside field unit, surveilproperties and developable land at and in the vicinity of Swedavia’s lance, buses, runway lighting and vehicle workshops. Its mission is to airports. Swedavia’s task from the Swedish State includes workmake sure the airport’s operations and maintenance work are in coming actively based on sound business principles and with long-term pliance with laws and regulations and based on the traffic situation. The profitability to develop the Swedish transport sector and help achieve new maintenance area was certified as Excellent under Swedish envithe Parliament’s transport policy objectives. The overall objective of ronmental standards, and the change in location is part of the preparaSwedish transport policy is to ensure the socioeconomically efficient, tions for the new pier at Terminal 5. long-term sustainable provision of transport to citizens and busiIn March, Swedavia appointed Caroline Ottoson, formerly CEO of nesses throughout the country. As per the instructions of its owner, the Swedish transport companies SL and Waxholmsbolaget, to be Swedavia shall measure and report results for five indicators in the the new director of its Facilities and Systems unit and a new member areas of access, quality of transport, safety, security, and environof Swedavia’s executive management. She assumed the position in ment. Swedavia’s operations are funded by the revenue generated August. from operations. In March, Swedavia’s Board of Directors made an implementation decision concerning the construction of a new pier and an expanded PURPOSE, VISION AND BUSINESS CONCEPT marketplace as well as a new central security checkpoint for all pasSwedavia’s purpose is “Together we enable people to meet” and its sengers in Terminal 5 at Stockholm Arlanda. This implementation is vision is “We develop the airports of the future and create sustainable part of Stockholm Arlanda’s development programme for 2016–2025, growth for Sweden”. The company’s business concept is “Together which includes total investments of SEK 17.6 billion for the period. The with our partners, we shall create added value for our customers aim of Stockholm Arlanda’s development programme is to meet current through attractive airports and access”. and future capacity needs and improve the passenger experience at the airport. IMPORTANT EVENTS DURING THE YEAR In October 2018, Swedavia made a pricing decision for 2019 which After a number of consecutive years of growth and zero growth in entailed an underlying increase in charges to airlines of 7.8 per cent 2018, passenger volume decreased in 2019. During the year, 40.2 starting January 1, 2019. A number of airlines submitted an appeal million passengers flew to or from Swedavia’s airports, a decrease of to the Swedish Transport Agency concerning Swedavia’s decision on 4.4 per cent compared to the preceding year. airport charges for 2019, and the agency examined the matter. After In December 2018, a new Group organisational structure for doing so, the Swedish Transport Agency announced in mid-March that Swedavia was decided, which was implemented on January 1, 2019. the decision on charges was properly made by Swedavia. The charges The new organisation will help ensure that Swedavia has the conditions were introduced on January 1, 2019. needed to gradually change its working methods, be more resultsand At the Annual General Meeting 2019, a new dividend policy was process-oriented and create better potential to realise the company’s adopted. The policy stipulates that the normal dividend shall be strategies. In conjunction with the change, the executive management between 10 and 50 per cent of profit after tax. Annual dividend deciwas adjusted, with a smaller number of people reporting directly to the sions shall take into account the company’s operations, implementaPresident and CEO. tion of the company’s strategy and its financial position. In deciding the Swedavia took measures in 2019 to ensure its competitiveness matter, special consideration shall be given to the company’s assessed and meet changes in market conditions. The measures are aimed ability to achieve its capital structure target (a debt/equity ratio of 0.7– at ensuring efficiency and adjusting cost levels in both the short and 1.5 times) going forward. At the AGM, a new composition for the Board long term. As a result of a cost reduction and change programme, on of Directors was also adopted. Swedavia’s Board consists of chairman SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 61 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Åke Svensson and members Lars Backemar, Lottie Knutson, Lotta In September, Swedavia sold its 50 per cent holding in Landvetter Mellström, Lottie Svedenstedt, Lars Mydland and Mikael Norman. Logistik Center. The buyer is its partner, Bockasjö, which is now the In late April/early May, pilots at Scandinavian Airlines (SAS) went on sole owner of the company. The sale gives Swedavia a capital gain of strike. The dispute lasted for seven days, from April 26 to May 2, and 102 million Swedish kronor and is in line with Swedavia’s strategy to had an impact on traffic at all of Swedavia’s airports. create value by developing properties in the vicinity of its airports in As of May 1, Securitas is the new security services provider at order to reinvest in the airports’ competitiveness. Göteborg Landvetter Airport. Prior to this, the airport was the only one After consulting with airlines and ground handling companies last of Swedavia’s big airports at which security operations were carried out autumn, in November Swedavia decided to increase airport charges in under Swedavia’s auspices. As a result of the agreement, Securitas has its network by 5 per cent starting on January 15, 2020. The increase is responsibility for security screening operations, airport protection and a result of the long-term infrastructure development Swedavia is carrypatrolling at Göteborg Landvetter Airport. The agreement is for three ing out to ensure future capacity and the quality of its airport products. years, with the option of an extension of up to four years. As of 2019, Swedavia applies the Swedish Concessions Office One at Stockholm Arlanda Airport is Swedavia’s largest office Procurement Act (2016:1147), which means that tenants in retail, property venture located near its airports to date, with a total of 15,000 food & beverage are awarded contracts on tender. The changeover to square metres of floor space, and was placed in service in the autumn the new law means that, in 2019, Swedavia began to cancel existing of 2018. On May 15, United Spaces inaugurated its co-working facilileases in order to carry out public tenders in accordance with the law. ties there. Leases were signed with a number of tenants in 2019. In conjunction, some tenants have sued Swedavia for damages. The In early June, biofuel was delivered to and used for refuelling airissue will be decided in a court of law in 2020. craft at Stockholm Arlanda Airport, Göteborg Landvetter Airport, In November, Swedavia issued a perpetual SEK 1 billion kronor Malmö Airport, Umeå Airport and Åre Östersund Airport. Since 2016, hybrid bond with the first call date in November 2024. The bond will Swedavia has purchased biofuel equivalent to the amount used for be recognised as equity and the proceeds used for working capital, the company’s flights for business purposes. This investment is part of including to refinance existing debt and fund investments. FINANCIAL INFORMATION Swedavia’s strategy to be fossil-free in its operations by 2020, to work In October, Swedavia launched a Green Bond Framework. The to transform the aviation industry in the face of climate change and to framework is based on the International Capital Market Association’s achieve fossil-free Swedish air transport by 2045. Green Bond Principles and is subject to an independent external In June, Swedavia signed a credit facility for two billion Swedish kroassessment by the Center for International Climate and Environmental nor with the German State-owned KfW-IPEX Bank. The loan agreeResearch (CICERO). In December, Swedavia issued a SEK 1 billion ment runs for a maximum of ten years and is intended to finance kronor green bond with a maturity of five years and three months. Bond Swedavia’s development programme. proceeds will fund climate change adaptation and sustainability measures and projects based on this framework. THE GROUP IN BRIEF1 SEK M, unless otherwise indicated 2019 2018 2017 2016 2015 Net revenue 6,235 5,922 5,745 5,546 5,416 Operating profit 709 682 651 966 1,755 Operating margin, % 11.4 11.5 11.3 17.4 32.4 Profit for the year 583 517 407 717 1,410 Return on operating capital, %3 4.6 4.6 5.1 8.5 14.6 Debt/equity ratio, times3 1.1 1.1 1.0 0.7 0.6 Investments 3,460 3,195 3,866 2,138 1,120 Dividend —2 — 122 143 232 Average number of employees 3,050 3,217 3,074 2,949 2,787 Number of passengers, million 40.2 42.0 41.9 39.5 37.6 Operating costs per departing passenger, SEK4 212.6 200.7 192.9 194.5 195.2 Commercial revenue per departing passenger, SEK4 81.0 75.2 75.7 75.5 76.1 1 For key metrics and definitions, see pages 134–135. 2 Dividend proposed to the Annual General Meeting. 3 As of 2017, the pension provision and related pension tax receivable are netted; comparative years have been adjusted. 4 As of January 1, 2019, the subsidiaries Swedavia Airport Telecom AB and Swedavia Energi AB were moved from the Real Estate segment to the Airport Operations segment; comparative periods for 2017–2018 have been adjusted. As of 2017, the item capitalised work for the own company’s account has been taken into consideration; comparative years have been restated. For 2016–2018, the metric is calculated based on Airport Operations and for 2015 on Swedavia AB. 62 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 NET REVENUE AND PROFIT Swedavia’s loan liabilities totalled SEK 8,570 M (8,363) at the end Consolidated net revenue for the year was SEK 6,235 M (5,922), of the period, which is an increase of SEK 203 M. Swedavia’s borrowwhich is an increase of SEK 313 M or 5.3 per cent compared to ings are broken down into bank loans of SEK 2,700 M (1,700), bond the preceding year. In the Airport Operations segment, net revenue loans of SEK 5,150 M (5,150), commercial paper of SEK 720 M (1,506) increased SEK 286 M to SEK 6,222 M (5,936). Net revenue in the and the balance on a line of credit of SEK — M (7). At the end of the Real Estate segment also increased, to SEK 54 M (14 M). Operating period, the average capital tie-up period, which includes the effect of profit for the Airport Operations segment was SEK 740 M (659) and interest rate derivatives, was 5.0 years (4.2) and the average interest for the Real Estate segment SEK –50 M (31). Revenue from Aviation rate lock-in period was 3.8 years (2.7). The average interest rate as of Business totalled SEK 3,914 M (3,696), which is an increase of SEK December 31 was 1.1 per cent (1.0). On the balance sheet date, the 218 M. Passengerand aircraft related revenue increased 10 per nominal total of interest rate derivatives was SEK 3,500 M (2,500). cent. The increase in revenue, despite lower passenger volume, is Liquid assets increased SEK 67 M and at the end of the period mostly attributable to an increase in airport charges. The change in totalled SEK 77 M (10). Net liabilities increased SEK 1,493 M from SEK charges is partly due to the pricing decision for 2019 and partly the 9,195 M to SEK 10,688 M, due to the introduction of IFRS 16 and effect of retroactive adjustments based on a previous decision. increased loan liabilities as a result of the high investment pace. The Revenue from Commercial Services was SEK 2,294 M (2,191), debt/equity ratio was 1.1 times (1.1). which is an increase of SEK 103 M and is explained by an increase in At the end of the period, Swedavia had unutilised credit facilities commercial revenue per departing passenger, to SEK 81.0 (75.2). For totalling SEK 1,800 M (1,800), which reduces the company’s refinancCommercial Services, revenue from food & beverage was on a par with ing risk and ensures access to capital. the preceding year, while revenue from retail exceeded last year’s figure On the balance sheet date, there was also a framework loan agreeas a result of higher revenue from taxand duty-free sales. Revenue ment with Nordic Investment Bank of SEK 2,000 M which allows loans from car parking and passenger pick-up/drop off facilities was lower with maturities of up to 10 years, with SEK 1,700 M (1,700) of this compared to the preceding year because of the lower passenger utilised. During the period, a framework loan agreement was signed volume. with the German State-owned KfW-IPEX Bank for SEK 2,000 M, which The key metric operating costs per departing passenger was SEK allows loans with maturities of up to 10 years, with SEK 1,000 M (—) of 212.6 (200.7), with an increase largely due to lower passenger volume. this utilised. In October, Swedavia launched a Green Bond Framework Capitalised work for the company’s own account increased SEK 19 M based on the Capital Markets Association’s Green Bond Principles. A to SEK 189 M (170), which is largely attributable to employees putting SEK 1,000 M green bond was issued in December with a maturity of more time into ongoing investment projects. External costs and staff five years and three months. expenses together were SEK 55 M higher compared to the preceding The return on operating capital excluding restructuring costs, capital year, with restructuring costs of SEK 81 M included in the total. The gains, impairment losses and disposals at the end of the period was restructuring programme, launched in early 2019, is proceeding as 4.8 per cent (4.7). For information about targets and principles applied planned. Winter costs increased compared to the preceding year, while for financial risk management and about principles applied for hedging costs for the use of external services decreased. As a result of the tranand exposure to price risks, credit risks, liquidity risks and cash flow sition to IFRS 16, external costs were SEK 106 M lower. risks for each important type of planned transaction for which hedge Depreciation and amortisation increased SEK 206 M compared to accounting is used, see Note 47 “Financial risks”. the preceding year, which is largely explained by the implementation of development programmes at Stockholm Arlanda Airport and Bromma CASH FLOW Stockholm Airport and in IT operations during the year. Impairment Cash flow for the period totalled SEK 67 M (–48). Cash flow from losses in 2019 totalled SEK 82 M (84). Depreciation and amortisation operating activities was SEK 1,977 M (1,359), which is SEK 618 M also increased SEK 90 M because of the transition to IFRS 16. higher compared to the same period the preceding year. The differConsolidated operating profit was SEK 709 M (682). Operating profit ence is largely explained by the trend in operating capital, which had in 2018 was positively affected by a SEK 55 M earnout from the sale of a positive effect on the period compared to last year. Investments for Säve Airport. the period entailed payments of SEK 3,460 M. The operating margin was 11.4 per cent (11.5). The sale of tangible assets, SEK 309 M, the sale of an associated company, SEK 50 M, and dividends from associated companies, LIQUIDITY AND FINANCIAL POSITION SEK 67 M, generated positive cash flow. Consolidated equity at year-end was SEK 9,440 M (8,066). Equity A shareholder contribution to associated companies had a negaincludes a hybrid bond of SEK 1,000 M issued in November 2019. tive effect of SEK 13 M. Cash flow from financing operations totalled The hybrid bond, which is recognised in equity, totalled SEK 996 M SEK 1,137 M (1,717). Cash flow was generated from a new bank after transaction costs. The hybrid bond has a perpetual maturity and loan, SEK 1,000 M, the issuance of a green bond of SEK 1,000 M, the first call date is November 26, 2024. The hybrid bond has a floating and a hybrid bond that generated SEK 996 M in positive cash flow rate up to the first redemption date of 3m STIBOR + 150 basis points. after issuance costs. In addition, a bond of SEK 1,000 M was repaid. SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 63 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Commercial paper borrowing decreased SEK 786 M net, and during ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS the year the outstanding balance on a line of credit, SEK 7 M, was In September, Swedavia sold its 50 per cent holding in the associated repaid. During the period, lease liabilities of SEK 90 M (9) were repaid company Landvetter Logistik Center AB. The sale resulted in a capital and other borrowings increased SEK 23 M (23). gain of SEK 102 M. The AGM 2019 decided not to pay any dividend to the owner. The dividend paid for the previous year was SEK 122 M. MARKET AND FUTURE DEVELOPMENT After a number of years of growth and zero growth in 2018, pasINVESTMENTS senger volume decreased in 2019. This reduced demand is considDuring the year, investments totalled SEK 3,460 M (3,195), with ered to be due to a number of factors such as an intensifying climate investments in the Airport Operations segment totalling SEK 2,906 M debate, Sweden’s national aviation tax, new travel policies, a weak (2,604). Important capacity spending was used to enhance capacSwedish krona and increased concerns about weaker Swedish and ity in Stockholm Arlanda Airport’s and Göteborg Landvetter Airport’s global economic growth. Airlines have also cut their supply of seats development programmes. Investments in landing runways also and routes compared to 2018, which has contributed to a subdued represent a significant share of investments for the year. Investments traffic trend for traffic to, from and within Sweden. The airlines’ supply in Real Estate and property development totalled SEK 554 M (591). to the market, measured in the number of seats, decreased 2.8 per Important capital spending was for the construction of a hotel at cent during the year. Declining demand contributed to the airlines’ Stockholm Arlanda Airport and a hotel at Göteborg Landvetter lower load factor in 2019. Airport. All of Swedavia’s airports had a negative traffic trend in 2019, with Stockholm Arlanda Airport showing the biggest decline in absolute ECONOMIC TARGETS terms, followed closely by Malmö Airport, Bromma Stockholm Airport Swedavia’s economic targets consist of a profitability target, which and Göteborg Landvetter Airport. However, half of Swedavia’s airis a return on operating capital of at least 6 per cent, and a capiports had a positive trend for international traffic, with the greatest FINANCIAL INFORMATION tal structure or debt/equity ratio of 0.7-1.5 times. These economic increase in international passenger volume at Göteborg Landvetter targets are long-term, which means that actual results may exceed Airport, followed by Bromma Stockholm Airport. All of the airports or fall below the targets as a result of fluctuations in the general ecohad a negative trend for domestic passenger volume, with Stockholm nomic trend for some years. Arlanda Airport posting the biggest decline in absolute terms, ­followed by Göteborg Landvetter Airport and Bromma Stockholm DIVIDEND TARGET Airport. The normal dividend shall be between 10 and 50 per cent of the Scheduled traffic to elsewhere in Europe had the smallest year’s profit after tax. Dividend decisions shall take into consideration decrease in demand, with a decline of 1.2 per cent. Domestic traffic, the company’s operations, implementation of the company’s strategy charter traffic and direct intercontinental traffic decreased more than and its financial position. Special consideration shall be given in this European traffic. Swedavia’s future development depends on pasassessment to the company’s estimated ability to achieve its capital senger growth, and the Group’s most recently published long-term structure target (debt/equity ratio 0.7–1.5 times). forecast shows an estimated annual increase in passenger volume of 1.6 per cent. Based on the estimated passenger volume trend, SHARES an assessment is then made of what investments need to be made Swedavia AB (publ) has issued 1,441,403,026 shares, which comto ensure the capacity needed to handle the increased demand. prise a single share class, and all shares have equal voting rights in Swedavia will invest SEK 42.3 billion on maintenance and capacity the company. All shares are held by the Swedish State; the State’s enhancement measures during the period 2016–2025. Swedavia’s holdings are administered by the Ministry of Enterprise and Innovation long-term passenger volume forecasts and investment plans are pubas of December 31, 2019. The par value of a share is one (1) Swedish lished on its website. The risks and uncertainty factors regarding its krona. future development are described on pages 66–67 in the Report of the Directors. 64 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Sustainability Report Swedavia’s task is to own, operate and develop ten airThe Risk Manager is responsible for developing, coordinating ports included in Sweden’s national basic infrastructure. For and monitoring the risk management process and for compiling Swedavia, corporate social responsibility entails incorporating a general risk report on a quarterly basis to the executive mansustainable development in its business operations – with a agement, Audit Committee and Board of Directors. The Board focus on the customer and by taking responsibility for Social, of Directors, Audit Committee and executive management have Environmental and Economic Development. Swedavia shall responsibility for providing feedback if the risk assessment is be an international role model in sustainability, which is in line not considered balanced in terms of measures implemented or with the Swedish Government’s ownership policy for Stateplanned. owned companies. Guiding principles in this ownership policy include the Agenda 2030 for sustainable development and its The risk management process global sustainable development goals. Swedavia shall contribute to Sweden’s Generation Goal and its environmental quality 5. ADMINISTRATION 1. RISK IDENTIFICATION objectives as well as help to achieve the climate change goals SO CI adopted in the Paris Agreement. Y A L All business operations are associated with risk-taking. NO M DE Opportunities and risks are assessed and managed to ensure VE EC O LO P M E N T that the owner’s objectives and targets are reached. Good risk management can lead to opportunities. Poor management can 4. MONITORING CUSTOMER 2. RISK have major consequences in the form of lower income, higher AND ASSESSMENT costs or reduced trust in the company. The work to identify, INSPECTION analyse, manage and monitor risks is thus a priority area at N E VI N R RO CE Swedavia. NM ENTAL CON Swedavia’s risk management framework Swedavia’s risks are managed based on the principles of 3. RISK CHANGE responsibility, equality and proximity. These principles are put A. Mitigate the consequence into practice through the requirement that risk analyses be B. Increase the level of protection C. Control the risk carried out prior to changes and projects. Swedavia’s airport D. Insure the risk operations strive for a low level of risk-taking, which safeguards E. Transfer the risk Swedavia’s brand and meets the requirements of its owner, F. Accept the risk oversight authorities, partners and customers in line with Swedavia’s business strategy. Risk identification and risk change Strategic risks Risk management is carried out proactively in all parts of the Risk of loss or other adverse consequence that affects organisation, in all processes and in all projects and port­folio Swedavia’s sustainable development. In general, this risk conoperations. Identified risks are assessed and documented cerns risks that have a great impact on the Group as a whole. based on strategies, objectives and targets using a Groupwide format. For each identified risk, a risk owner is designated, Operational risks measures are documented and risk change work is initiated. Risks as the result of insufficient, inefficient or non-functional internal processes, human error, problems with technical Monitoring and inspection ­systems or external events. Risk work is monitored on a continuous basis for the management’s review and business planning work. The Group’s Financial risks Risk Committee meets on a quarterly basis and prepares the Currency risks, interest rate risks, credit risks, commodity price Group’s risk report as well as constitutes a cross-functional risks and liquidity and refinancing risks are included under the platform for strategic and Group-wide risk issues. The risk framework for financial risk management. Read more on pages report is approved by Swedavia’s executive management and 121–122, Note 47 “Financial risks”. is then prepared by Swedavia’s Audit Committee prior to being adopted by the Board of Directors. Internal auditing examines, Responsibility for risk work tests and validates the effectiveness of Swedavia’s risk manOperations have responsibility to identify risk on a continuous agement through audits of the Risk Management function and basis. A risk owner is designated for each identified risk and of ongoing risk work in the company’s operations. is responsible for managing the risk in the form of measures, ­escalation and reporting. SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 65 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Risk management Swedavia describes its risk work based on its sustainability perspectives – customer, environment, economy and social development. CUSTOMER ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERN Risk description Risk description • An economic downturn and continued deceleration in passen• Swedavia’s operations, which require environmental permits ger growth risk having a negative impact on Swedavia. Swedavia under the Swedish Environmental Code, together with the comis dependent on a small number of airline customers and operpany’s high level of ambition with respect to climate change, ates in a market with competition from other Nordic airports. guide environmental work in the Group. Permits and the condi• This also has an impact on Swedavia’s competitiveness and its tions in these permits define both opportunities and limitations ability to attract airlines and customers. Reduced demand and for Swedavia in developing its business and meeting demand. a change in customer behaviour can have a negative impact on • Changes in permits and the conditions in these permits can commercial business. There are also risks in conjunction with affect operations to a great extent. Environmental permit prothe switch to concession agreements in retail, food & beverage cesses are lengthy and time-consuming, which means environoperations regarding the interpretation of leases with tenants. mental issues constitute a crucial aspect of the airport’s long• Changes in passenger growth forecasts affect the possibilterm development plans. In addition, there are local risks, for ities of taking short-term measures. There is also a challenge example, associated with soil contamination, surface water faciliin that solutions and development programmes will challenge ties and the new EU environmental quality standards for water. existing capacity during their different implementation phases. If A number of risks identified are associated with Swedavia’s FINANCIAL INFORMATION Swedavia cannot convert insights and customer needs into new ambition for sustainable aviation fuel. The growing climate efforts and business opportunities, in the long term this can lead debate, “flight shaming” and people’s views on aviation’s emisto decreased profitability. sions affect travel in companies and other organisations and in • There is a risk that long-term planning and investment needs ­people’s choice of transport mode. are not fully analysed since a number of facilities have reached the end of their technical lifetime. This places great demands on Measures maintenance and planning. It may also entail delays and higher ✔ Joint tenders for sustainable aviation fuel and communication costs on investment projects decided. Changes in the form of to make new stakeholders aware of this work are important in delays and reprioritising in the company’s portfolio affect availaorder to create demand for biofuel and the conditions needed for ble capacity both in the long and short term. production in Sweden. It is also important to create conditions for a sustainable process and structure with resources. Measures ✔ Work with soil contamination is managed using an identified ✔ Swedavia strives to continuously develop, improve and create resource that integrates Swedavia’s work with one of the most flexibility in operations with a focus on customers. Customerserious toxins, man-made perand polyfluoralkyl substances driven development is achieved through great focus on busi(PFAS). Procedures and work methods are in place to ensure ness intelligence, process control and cross-functional work. that there is no intentional spread of soil contaminants. At each A new commercial concept for public procurement has been airport that has water as a significant environmental aspect, the developed for gradual implementation based on new legislation. performance of surface water ponds is monitored. Measures are At Swedavia, focused work is carried out in order to increase taken to ensure appropriate maximum or limit values. access in the form of new routes. Measures to improve the cus✔ To enhance its brand as an attractive employer, Swedavia tomer experience are carried out on an ongoing basis, for examworks with communication material and messages related to the ple new self-service solutions. climate debate and showcases the company’s proactive envi✔ To meet increased demand in the short term, efficient flows ronmental work to reduce the climate impact of its airports and are needed in existing infrastructure. In the long term, capacity of the air transport industry. needs are met through development plans, which then result in investments. In the business plan adopted, there are a number of measures to maintain current capacity and to ensure capacity in the long term. ✔ Through the development of systematic requirements for format and content in administration plans, conditions are created in order to carry out asset management in a standardised way. 66 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ECONOMY SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT Risk description Risk description culture, with a risk that key talent will choose to • Swedavia carries out work on a continuous basis • The Group carries out a large number of leave Swedavia for other employment. to make operations more efficient and during the strategic development projects, which places • Running airports is a complex operation, year implemented a cost-efficiency improvement high demands on access to the right skills, which can affect the human rights of many programme. There is a risk that cost savings and leadership, implementation capability and focus different stakeholders. Such risks can affect efficiency improvement measures will not have a on mitigating risks related to the workplace Swedavia’s credibility as a sustainable comlasting impact. As a consequence of changes in environment. The most serious workplace envipany and have consequences for the brand and passenger growth and the fast pace of change ronment risks from a Group perspective are the company’s ability to generate income. in the industry, there is a need for highly complex compliance with the systematic work with the • Events such as extreme weather conditions, investments in infrastructure. In 2019, passenger workplace environment, the risk of accidents in operational downtime, a labour dispute or tervolume decreased, which entails challenges in a Swedavia’s construction projects, traffic-related rorist act could entail a shutdown or disruption short-term perspective. At present, the company’s incidents and stress-related health problems. in airport operations and commercial services. long-term plans indicate that demand for capacity An operations-wide transformation contribThere is a growing cyber risk in the world, over time will be higher than what Swedavia’s infrautes to a high level of change pressure, which which could entail disruptions in IT infrastrucstructure can handle. affects employees and Swedavia’s corporate ture and IT services. • The risks that Swedavia faces because of uncertainty about the economy and airlines in financial Measures involves fighting the occurrence of trafficking imbalance include the risk of lower profitability as a ✔ Swedavia works together with contractors and poor labour conditions in high-risk counresult of lower revenue if costs cannot be reduced to reduce occupational health and safety risks. tries in the procurement of products and serto the same extent, and the risk of credit losses as Conditions for well-functioning, preventive vices. Read more about risks involving human a result of airlines or other customers going bankwork with the workplace environment are prorights on page 71. rupt. Moreover, a challenging market situation for vided through procedures, tools and training ✔ Risks with corruption are identified and airlines can mean limited potential to redress the for leaders, and safety officers. A new system identified and processed on an ongoing basis cost situation through Swedavia’s price model. for workplace environment incidents was in the different operations. Read more on page implemented in 2019, and particular energy 68. Measures was put into promoting people’s willingness to ✔ The airports’ aviation safety and security ✔ To monitor and mitigate the risk, and to control report risk observations. work is aimed at preventing and minimising the and prioritise the company’s investment resources, ✔ Critical recruitments and identification of effects of any incidents. Through proactive risk there is an established investment process through strategic skills to convert people hired on a work together with efficient safety and security Swedavia’s portfolio management and developconsultancy basis into Swedavia employwork, the risk that disruptions in airport operment forum. Swedavia strives to increase cost flexees are carried out on a continuous basis. ations will affect aviation safety and security is ibility, create action plans to handle traffic declines Continued clear priorities, ongoing dialogue minimised. and reinforce monitoring of its customers’ ecoand focus on the psycho-social workplace ✔ Systems and configurations are being nomic position in order to minimise credit losses in environment will be critical to ensure everyreviewed to safeguard protective measures for the event of bankruptcy. one’s progress in this transformation to meet devices connected to Swedavia’s networks. A ✔ The Group’s financing activities and manset goals. review of its information classification is being agement of financial risks are centralised in the ✔ Attracting, developing and retaining the right carried out which will harmonise with the EU corporate finance function and are part of the staff is an important part of Swedavia’s drive General Data Protection Regulation. Group-wide risk method. Operations are carried to safeguard its future talent supply. Another ✔ Swedavia works actively with crisis and out based on the Financial Policy, Risk Policy, key aspect is a continued sharp focus on continuity plans and carries out exercises Credit Policy and Tax Policy adopted by the Board inclusiveness, diversity and equal treatment. on a regular basis in order to increase risk of Directors, which are characterised by a low risk ✔ Another measure is to continue developawareness and the competencies of employlevel. The aim is to minimise the Group’s capiing the work to identify, prioritise and manees, partners and authorities. If an unplanned tal costs through effective funding solutions and age human rights risks throughout the value incident occurs, Swedavia works continueffective management and control of the Group’s chain based on the UN’s Guiding Principles ously with crisis communication together with financial risks. For more information about definion Business and Human Rights. The priority is those parties affected, aimed at relevant target tions and the management of financial risks, see the supplier and customer chains, which have groups. The work is focused on quickly providNote 47 on pages 121–124. potentially the greatest risks. For example, this ing accurate, fact-based information. SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 67 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS BUSINESS ETHICS AT SWEDAVIA Whistleblowing Within the framework for Swedavia’s strategy “Responsibility for For Swedavia’s stakeholders, there are a number of options for consociety and people,” the Legal function is responsible for the initiative tacting Swedavia in the event a stakeholder would need to report an “safeguard and develop business ethics at Swedavia.” This involves irregularity or make a complaint. Swedavia’s whistleblowing function safeguarding in four areas: Anti-corruption, Human rights, Social relais available to both employees and external stakeholders and is mantions & employees, and Environment. The illustration below depicts aged by an external party. There is also a well-defined process for the process for how Swedavia works with business ethics. handling incoming cases. The function guarantees anonymity. In each of the four areas, Swedavia works based on this business ethics process wheel. Risks are identified on a continuous basis and Complaints analysed in part through workshops and then incorporated for manSwedavia enables airport visitors to make a complaint through the agement in relevant parts of operations. Governing documents are customer service counters at its airports or digitally, while nearby prepared, training programmes are held and dialogues are mainresidents can make a complaint about noise on its website. For comtained in operations – and opportunities are provided for follow-up. panies and other organisations that work at our airports, there is an online system for incident reporting. ANTI-CORRUPTION The occurrence of bribery or suspicion of bribery in a company affects everyone who has a relationship with the company. Swedavia’s reputaANTIENVIRON­ tion and brand would be damaged if there was corruption in operations CORRUPTION MENTAL ­CONCERN and/or among suppliers or other companies or organisations at one of Swedavia’s airports. How the company is viewed – by customers, suppliers and employees – would be adversely affected. So it is part of ND REGUL SA AT IO Swedavia’s sustainability work to proactively work to prevent corruption L AW N and irregularities in the company. G RISK RIN AN S Swedavia has chosen to be more restrictive in its bribery policy FINANCIAL INFORMATION I TO AL and guidelines than the law explicitly requires. That is because, as a N MO IS YS publicly owned company, it has a responsibility to administer society’s invested resources in the best way. So as a publicly owned company, it has a lower threshold for what is allowed compared to many BUSINESS G OV E R other companies. Employees of Swedavia may never, either explicDI A LO ETHICS N DOCUM I N G itly or implicitly, for themselves or on someone else’s behalf receive, EN promise to offer or request an unlawful benefit for carrying out their GU TS E duties, nor give or offer such a benefit. The risk of corruption may be considered to be latent but is not currently addressed at an overall TR AINING level. Swedavia carries out a number of measures to mitigate this risk, for instance through training programmes, advice, a whistleblower function and an Ethics Committee. In 2019, material with questions about ethical dilemmas was SOCIAL distributed particularly in workplace meetings. The aim is to create HUMAN good, robust dialogue on these issues throughout Swedavia. Training RELATIONS & RIGHTS EMPLOYEES on business ethics and anti-corruption takes place on a continuous basis, in part through training on construction law in-house. Read more about anti-corruption on page 54. ANTI-CORRUPTION Governance Target Actual, 2019 • Swedavia’s Code of Conduct 100 per cent of 94 per cent • Swedavia’s bribery policy Swedavia’s leaders and • Swedavia complies with the Joint Initiative to Prevent Bribery and Corruption, specialists shall have an agreement between Swedish suppliers and clients in the public-financed completed training on construction and property sector Swedavia’s bribery policy and business enterSwedavia’s Code of Conduct, together with a special bribery policy and business tainment guidelines entertainment guidelines, governs operations. Regular training and dialogue with employees, suppliers and other stakeholders are important in this work. 68 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERN During the year, most of Swedavia’s airports were recertified under Systematic environmental work is an essential requirement for ACA standards. All of Swedavia’s airports meet the requirements for Swedavia to achieve the ambitious environmental goals and targets the highest level of certification. set. It is also important to show credibility and meet the requirements placed on operations. Looking ahead The target of zero tonnes of fossil carbon dioxide emissions will be Proactive environmental work achieved in 2020. Aviation’s transformation in the face of climate Since Swedavia set its goal in 2011 of zero tonnes of fossil carbon change requires that we act now and take a long-term view. One dioxide by the end of 2020, the curve has continuously headed downsuccess factor is bringing together the entire value chain, something wards. In 2019, emissions were 316 tonnes of carbon dioxide (1,305 being done today in the innovation cluster Fossil-Free Air Transport tonnes), and in 2020 the focus will be on bringing this down to zero. 2045, which Swedavia launched with RISE Research Institutes of Electrification and improved efficiency of vehicles, a larger percentSweden and the airline SAS. There will be a greater need for cooling age of biofuels used in fuel mixtures and innovation helped improve due to climate change, which can be a challenge to Swedavia’s goal this trend during the year. Energy use totalled 170,742 MWh in 2019 of reduced energy use. The aquifer at Stockholm Arlanda Airport may (169,952 MWh). Since 2019, fuel is excluded from this energy goal, offer potential to meet the growing demand for cooling. and the figure for 2018 has been restated. Increased energy use is due to the increase in square metres of the company’s facilities. Aviation’s Environmental permits climate change adaptation is a crucial sustainability issue, and during Swedavia’s operations require an environmental permit since they conthe year Swedavia took the initiative to arrange a joint public tender stitute environmentally hazardous operations under Chapter 9 of the for sustainable aviation fuel to offset fuel used on its flights for busiSwedish Environmental Code (airport operations) and water operations ness purposes, while a number of collaborations in electrified aviation under Chapter 11 (ponds, water treatment facilities and groundwater continued. The share of sustainable aviation fuel used for refuelling at run-off). Each airport must therefore have an environmental permit to Swedish airports was about 0.14 per cent in 2019. The target is 5 per allow airport operations. At the end of 2019, Swedavia was responcent by 2025. Read more about this on pages 56–59. sible for eight airports that require an environmental permit under the Swedavia takes part in a number of industry collaborations such Swedish Environmental Code. For the other two airports, Luleå Airport as Fossil-Free Sweden and the 2030 Secretariat, and on the issue and Ronneby Airport, the Swedish Armed Forces was responsible for of perfluorinated alkylated substances or PFAS Swedavia is involved the environmental permits. Swedavia’s primary environmental impact in the PFAS network involving the Swedish Chemicals Agency, the is greenhouse gas emissions, mostly carbon dioxide. The greatest Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, the Swedish Fortifications source of the company’s emissions is exhaust gases from vehicles Agency, the Swedish Defence Forces and the Swedish Transport and the operation of terminals and other buildings. Another significant Administration. During the year, Swedavia was an active partner in environmental impact is the discharge to land and water primarily of the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences’ extensive prooxygen-consuming substances from the anti-skid treatment of runways ject “Facing critical decisions on climate change”. and de-icing of aircraft. As a result of airport operations, the areas in Under the scope of Airport Carbon Accreditation (ACA)’s climate the vicinity of the airports are also exposed to aviation noise. programme, there are many collaborations at the airports to reduce Stockholm Arlanda Airport’s environmental permit entered into fossil carbon dioxide emissions. ACA also provides certification. force on May 25, 2015. Stockholm Arlanda Airport placed the permit ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERN Governance Target Actual, 2019 • Swedavia’s Code of Conduct Swedavia’s target is to have 316 tonnes (1,305 • Environmental and energy policy zero tonnes of fossil carbon tonnes) • Environmental and energy management system dioxide emissions from its • Airport Carbon Accreditation (ACA) own operations by 2020 170,742 MWh (169,952 and reduce energy use by MWh) Swedavia governs its environmental work through an environmental two per cent a year. and energy management system and Swedavia’s Code of Conduct. About 0.14 per cent Swedavia’s environmental and energy policy is adopted by the Board of The share of sustainable sustainable aviation Directors and used as a comprehensive governing document. Swedavia aviation fuel used for refufuel monitors strategic goals on a quarterly basis which are summarised in elling at Swedish airports a quarterly report that is submitted to the executive management and shall be 5 per cent in 2025. Board of Directors. Local environmental targets are monitored on a quarterly basis. Internal and external audits for ISO 14001 and ISO 50001 certification and Airport Carbon Accreditation (ACA) are conducted on a regular basis. Compulsory web-based training in environment and energy is provided to Swedavia’s employees. SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 69 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS in service on January 1, 2016. Swedavia has identified a deficiency in Condition 5, which means that the airport cannot comply with Women as a percentage of Swedavia’s employees this condition. In 2019, Swedavia, in partnership with the LFV, the 34% Swedish Civil Aviation Administration, found a way to handle lowspeed traffic, which is governed by Condition 5 in the current permit. Stockholm Arlanda Airport’s environmental permit includes a condition that requires an action plan to reduce atmospheric emissions of fossil carbon dioxide, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter. The action plan shall include Swedavia’s operations and the operations of other companies and organisations at the airport, as well as ground transport and air traffic. As a result of the condition that regulates flights over the densely populated areas of Upplands Väsby, regular straight approaches over these areas may now take place, but the * Based on the number of employees in 2019 airport must use other approach procedures to avoid them when possible, taking into consideration the airport’s capacity, regulations for air traffic service, aviation safety and weather conditions. During the year, Swedavia tested the introduction of three curved Swedavia’s values and with a focus on sustainable development, procedures on Runway 3 at Stockholm Arlanda which avoid flying leaders and employees shall together create an engaging, inclusive over the densely populated areas of Upplands Väsby. This reduces culture that provides opportunities for higher performance, creativity the noise load and shortens the flight path, which also helps reduce and innovation. Read more about Swedavia as a workplace on pages greenhouse gas emissions. Stockholm Arlanda Airport has applied 54–55. for permission to construct a new boiler facility. On June 13, 2018, an application was submitted to the Land and Environmental Court. Talent management A ruling was issued on June 13, 2019, giving Swedavia a permit and Swedavia has developed a process for setting overall and individual conditions for a new boiler facility. personal engagement and performance (PEP) objectives and targets. FINANCIAL INFORMATION On June 17, 2015, the Land and Environmental Court issued a Employees who work in teams and have similar duties shall be able partial ruling on the case concerning Göteborg Landvetter Airport. to identify and monitor Group-wide objectives and targets and in that The ruling was appealed by Swedavia, the Swedish Environmental way be more involved. The process is part of the work to achieve the Protection Agency and the Western Götaland County Administrative company’s overall objectives, targets and strategies and is based on Board among others. The Land and Environmental Court of Appeal’s Swedavia’s business plan as well as the operational plan of each ruling on April 28, 2016, included a restriction on production volume airport/unit. Read more about Swedavia as a workplace on page of 90,000 aircraft movements compared to the volume applied for, 54–55. 120,000 movements. Swedavia submitted leave to appeal the ruling to the Supreme Court on May 25, 2016. The Supreme Court rejected The workplace environment the leave to appeal, and Swedavia has decided not to place the new Swedavia’s goal is to have no serious accidents in the workplace. permit in service. The permit does not allow the production volume For leaders, this involves working practically and visibly for a healthy, needed for the region, which means that in a few years, a new envisafe, secure workplace environment. One requirement is to carry ronmental permit application procedure must be launched. Placing out four safety walks and safety talks a year, in which leaders and the new permit in service requires a lot of resources to carry out trial employees together take inventory of workplace environment risks in period studies as specified in the permit and is difficult to handle operations. To ensure this is done, the work is followed up on in each while the airport is putting together material for a new permit applicaleader’s annual performance review. Safety walks are also carried out tion. The airport assesses the need for a new environmental permit in Swedavia’s development programmes. Continuously improving annually or whether the new permit should be placed in service. procedures for reporting incidents and deviations is an ongoing proDuring the year, Visby Airport made a decision on noise insulacess. Reporting includes the physical and psycho-social workplace tion. In 2019, Malmö Airport had a ruling in its favour against Svedala environment internally and for external contractors. In its proactive regarding damage claims for PFAS-contaminated water. Bromma work with the workplace environment, Swedavia measures its reportStockholm Airport, Kiruna Airport, Umeå Airport and Åre Östersund ing culture and willingness to report as an overall strategic goal. Each Airport did not have any issues related to permits during the year. month, statistics on reported workplace environment incidents are During the year, the Swedish Defence Forces launched a review of compiled and submitted to the executive management, in order to environmental permits for Ronneby Airport and Luleå Airport. then be distributed in the organisation and to the Board of Directors. More detailed information about more serious accidents and inciSOCIAL DEVELOPMENT dents is also compiled. Read more about Swedavia’s work with the Social relations and employees workplace environment on pages 54–55. The key to running airports successfully is motivated, engaged employees and leaders. For Swedavia, a healthy, safe and secure Inclusiveness and equal treatment workplace environment, respect for human rights and Diversity and an inclusive approach are a strategic and priority good, decent working conditions are a matter of course and an issue at Swedavia. Swedavia works from the understanding that important condition needed for operations to be run efficiently all employees have equal value and that people’s differences are and successfully. This is also an important element in Swedavia’s an asset. Swedavia shall be an unprejudiced, attractive workplace drive to be viewed as an attractive employer and partner. Based on where everyone has the right to be themselves and be treated with 70 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 respect. The work with equal treatment is based on the Swedish a result, Swedavia has enhanced internal processes in order to sysDiscrimination Act, and Swedavia has clear guidelines and policies tematically identify and prioritise all kinds of human rights throughout in this area. The work with equal treatment shall be carried out as a the value chain. Airport operations at Stockholm Arlanda Airport work natural part of the company’s day-to-day operations, and contributactively to fight the occurrence of trafficking through collaborations ing to an inclusive culture is the shared responsibility of employees with companies and other organisations at the airport. Read more on and leaders. page 53. In 2019, Swedavia also started to set requirements for pubTo increase diversity, Swedavia also works in partnership with lic tenders. Read more on page 27. the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences, among others, in collaborations promoting jobs and technology. It also has a Looking ahead national collaboration with the Swedish public employment agency Based on the strategies and goals developed, Swedavia shall conArbetsförmedlingen largely involving internships. Another initiative tinue to carry out preventive work aimed at avoiding injuries and acciconcerns universal design, with a focus on accessible workplaces for dents, reducing absence due to illness and proactively work for zero everyone. Read more on pages 54–55. tolerance of victimisation and discrimination and to create an inclusive culture. Swedavia will continue to boost engagement on issues Human rights regarding the workplace environment and equal treatment among With structured, systematic work that leads to continuous improveleaders and employees. Everyone shall feel that they participate in ments, Swedavia works actively with respect for human rights. By the work, and the goal is for all workplace environment incidents to supporting operations in transforming the UN’s guiding principles into be reported. concrete action, Swedavia makes corporate social responsibility part Swedavia will continue to work further to develop processes for of its core operations. Human rights are integrated in the company’s identifying and prioritising risks to human rights throughout the value existing processes and procedures, for example, risk management, chain. One priority is the supplier and customer chains, where there occupational health and safety, and equal treatment. Swedavia works are potentially the greatest risks – for example, building contract continuously to enhance methods to identify, prioritise and assess work, trafficking, and procurement of goods and services associeffects on human rights. Particular focus is placed on areas exposed ated with inadequate working conditions. Swedavia takes measto risk such as the supplier and customer chains. ures on gender equality and the percentage of people with a foreign Swedavia has surveyed and identified risks to human rights background annually, includes questions about equal treatment in through a Group-wide impact assessment and gap analysis based employee surveys, and surveys risks in its procurement. Read more on the UN’s Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. As on page 53. SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT Governance Target Actual, 2019 • Code of Conduct 75 per cent engaged Measurement of engaged • Equal treatment and diversity policy leaders and employees leaders and employees is • Workplace environment policy (ELE), 2025 taken every two years. The • Policy for employee planning most recent measurement • Equal treatment and diversity plan was taken in 2018. • Guidelines to fight victimisation • Guidelines for training 4.50 per cent absence 4.42 per cent absence due to • Guidelines for recruitment due to illness illness (4.94 per cent). • Guidelines for meetings and business travel • Safety policy Gender equality 34 per cent women (36 per • Information and communication policy cent) and 66 per cent men (64 • Engaged leaders and employees (ELE) per cent). The share of women at management level is 38 per Swedavia’s Code of Conduct together with the company’s cent (36 per cent). Under the ­policies and guidelines constitutes the basis of work in social scope of Swedavia’s succes­sustainability. Swedavia monitors strategic goals on a quarterly sion planning, the correspondbasis which are summarised in a quarterly report that is subing figure is 48 per cent mitted to the executive management and Board of Directors. women (49 per cent). Regular training and dialogue with employees, suppliers and other stakeholders are important in this work. Swedavia’s leaders and Percentage with a foreign Share of employees with a employees are responsible for ensuring compliance with governbackground foreign background 19.3 ing and reporting documents. per cent (18.2 per cent). SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 71 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS Interest rate level A sensitivity analysis shows how a change in different parameters, As of December 31, 2019, Swedavia had external borrowings of both internal and external, affects the company’s performance and SEK 8,570 M (8,363), which is 37 per cent (42) of the balance sheet. financial position. The three parameters that have the greatest impact Swedavia is sensitive to changes in interest rates, which affect the on performance are passenger volume, staff expenses and interest company’s financial expenses. As of December 31, 2019, 80 per rates. Swedavia’s situation can generally be described as one where cent (73) of external funding is fixed rate, which consists of borrowrevenue essentially is variable while costs are relatively fixed. That ings with a fixed interest rate and interest rate hedges. A 1 per cent means flexibility is limited in terms of the ability to adjust costs in case increase in interest rates would raise Swedavia’s interest expense by revenue should fall. SEK 19.2 M (22.5), which means that operating profit would decrease by the same amount. However, a 1 per cent decrease in interest rates Effect on profit would reduce Swedavia’s interest expense by SEK 12.8 M (1.8) and Parameter % SEK M/year thus improve operating profit by the same amount. Current lock-in periods and financial instruments are taken into account in calculating Passenger volume +1 +40 the sensitivity analysis. Salary level +1 –20 Interest rate level +1 –19 Other factors affecting performance There are also other factors that could have an impact on profit in both the short and long term. One critical factor, especially in the long Passenger volume term, is the environmental permits required for Swedavia’s operaThe number of passengers who fly to or from one of Swedavia’s tions. A change in these could affect operations on a large scale. In airports constitutes the basic condition for all revenue the company the short term, any extreme weather conditions or natural disasters generates. constitute the main factors that have an immediate impact on air trafFINANCIAL INFORMATION About 60 per cent of Swedavia’s revenue comes from Aviation fic and thus a negative impact on revenue. Interest rate changes also Business and consists of infrastructure services aimed at airlines affect Swedavia’s pension liability, which means that if the discount and ground handling companies. This revenue consists of airport rate falls, Swedavia must add funds to the provision for its pension charges, including passenger and take-off charges, which are related liability. Swedavia is also sensitive to policy decisions that can affect to the number of passengers, the number of aircraft movements air traffic as well as to changes in the general public’s attitudes to air and aircraft take-off weight in tonnes. There is also revenue from traffic. ground handling, which includes revenue for de-icing, apron (ramp) and freight forwarding services, and passenger reimbursements for ONGOING LITIGATION AND DISPUTES security screening. A change in the number of aircraft movements, Swedavia is a party to ongoing litigation and disputes. Legal protonnage or number of passengers has a direct impact on Swedavia’s ceedings and disputes are unpredictable by nature, and the actual revenue. outcome may deviate from the assessments Swedavia has made. For Swedavia’s revenue from Commercial Services is revenue from more information about ongoing litigation and disputes, see page 62. commercial services connected to the airports. This consists of revenue from car parking and the leasing of premises for shops, REMUNERATION TO EXECUTIVE OFFICERS offices, restaurants and logistics. Rental income is based largely on The term “executive officers” refers to the people who together its tenants’ sales, which in turn depend directly on the number of constitute the executive management and/or report directly to the passengers at the airport. An increase in passenger volume means President and CEO. The Swedish Government adopted new guideincreased revenue for Swedavia while a decrease means decreased lines for remuneration and other terms of employment for execurevenue. The correlation between percentage change in passentive officers in companies with State ownership on December 22, ger volume and percentage change in revenue is not linear but is 2016. These guidelines for remuneration and other terms of employan effect of growth discounts and price differences, partly because ment for executive officers were then adopted at Swedavia’s Annual rental income is dependent on revenue and is affected by shopping General Meeting on April 17, 2019. Swedavia follows the State’s behaviour. A change in passenger growth of 1 per cent is estimated guidelines for executive officers in companies with State ownerto have a SEK 40 M (40) impact on Swedavia’s revenue on an annuship. These principles are presented in the Corporate Governance alised basis. Statement. Information about those involved and the company’s process for handling remuneration to executive officers is presented Salary level in Note 8 on pages 103–106. On February 27, 2020, the Swedish With an average of 3,050 employees (3,217), Swedavia’s staff Government adopted a new ownership policy for State-owned comexpenses totalled 2,052 M (2,030). A 1 per cent change in staff panies which includes Guidelines for Remuneration and Other Terms expenses would have a SEK 20 M (20) impact on an annualised of Employment for Executive Officers. The new guidelines will be basis. adopted at Swedavia’s Annual General Meeting on April 29, 2020. 72 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE The following unrestricted equity at the disposal of the Annual Since the end of the year, Swedavia has been closely following events General Meeting, SEK: around the new COVID-19 coronavirus and is in continuous conShare premium account 2,161,354,539 tact with the authorities involved, mainly the Public Health Agency of Sweden and infectious disease doctors in the regions affected. Hybrid bond 1,000,000,000 The focus is always the safety and health of employees, passengers Retained earnings 2,580,555,650 and stakeholders. Swedavia complies with directives issued by the Profit for the year 258,442,374 authorities in charge. In March, developments around the COVID-19 virus accelerated, which has had an enormous impact on society in 6,000,352,563 general, in Sweden and in much of the world. This in turn has had a negative impact on airlines, partly in the form of tight restrictions and in some cases even a ban on air traffic, and partly in the form of The Board of Directors proposes that the profit be allocated as plunging demand for flights for both business and leisure travel. For follows: Swedavia, these developments have entailed a sharp fall in the numTo be carried forward 6,000,352,563 ber of aircraft movements and passengers, which means a sharp fall in revenue from airport charges, car parking and passenger drop6,000,352,563 off/pick-up facilities, and rental income from retail, food & beverage operations. Given the uncertainty about how this will develop, it is The owner’s financial targets for Swedavia AB are a return on operdifficult for Swedavia to predict how great an impact this will have ating capital of at least 6 per cent and a debt/equity ratio of 0.7–1.5 on the rest of the year. To reduce the negative economic impact of times. Decisions on dividends shall take into consideration the lower revenue, Swedavia is considering carrying out short-term laycompany’s operations and capital structure target. Furthermore, in offs, cost-cutting measures and a review of its investment portfolio. accordance with the company’s dividend policy, the dividend shall be It is very difficult at present to predict how the demand for flights will between 10 and 50 per cent of the profit for the year. change in the short term and how this could affect Swedavia’s longReturn on operating capital for 2019 was 4.6 per cent, which is not term forecast. in line with Swedavia’s profitability target. The debt/equity ratio was On January 30, 2020, Airport Hotel 2 AB, which owns the hotel 1.1 times, which is within the range of the capital structure target of property for the newly opened Comfort Hotel at Stockholm Arlanda 0.7–1.5 times. Airport, was sold. The buyer is Wenaasgruppen AS. The underlying In view of the period of major capacity investments the Group property value was SEK 1,344 M, and the preliminary capital gain is is currently in and to create increased financial flexibility, the Board estimated to be SEK 410 M. The capital gain will be recognised durproposes that no dividend be paid for 2019. Instead, the Board ing the first quarter of 2020. has decided to propose that Swedavia’s shareholder decide at the An Extraordinary General Meeting held on February 13, 2020, Annual General Meeting on April 29, 2020, to carry forward the profit elected Nina Linander as a new Board member. It also decided that for the year. there should be eight Board members voted by the General Meeting and no deputy member. ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Swedavia AB’s Annual General Meeting will take place on April 29, THE PARENT COMPANY 2020, at Stockholm Arlanda Airport. The Annual Report and other The Parent Company’s net revenue for the year was SEK 6,146 M financial reports are available on Swedavia’s website, (5,873), which is an increase of SEK 273 M. Operating profit was www.swedavia.se. SEK 403 M (429) and the operating margin was 6.6 per cent (7.3). Operating profit for the year was negatively affected by restructuring CALENDAR costs of SEK 81 M (—) as well as impairment losses and disposals of Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 Mar 27, 2020 SEK 82 M (83) and positively affected by capital gains related to the sale of fixed assets of SEK 28 M (—). Profit before tax was SEK 351 M Annual General Meeting 2020 Apr 29, 2020 (390), and profit for the period was SEK 258 M (272). Interim report Jan–Mar 2020 Apr 29, 2020 Six-month report Jan–Jun 2020 Jul 17, 2020 DISTRIBUTION OF PROFIT The proposed distribution of profit is based on the Annual Report Interim report Jan–Sep 2020 Oct 30, 2020 2019. The proposed distribution of profit, income statement and balYear-end report 2020 Feb 10, 2021 ance sheet of the Parent Company, and the statement of comprehensive income and the report on the financial position of the Group will For other matters concerning the company’s results and position, see be presented for approval at the Annual General Meeting on April 29, the income statements and balance sheets below. 2020. In its proposal for the distribution of profit, the Board proposes that the shareholder at the Annual General Meeting 2020 agree to Swedavia bringing forward the profit for the financial year. SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 73 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Corporate Governance Statement Swedavia AB (publ) Swedavia AB is a Swedish limited liability company with its registered office in the Municipality of Sigtuna. Swedavia’s operations are described in the company’s Articles of Association as financing, owning, managing, operating and developing airports with their appurtenant buildings and facilities. Swedavia shall also take an active part in the development of the Swedish transport sector and help achieve the transport policy goals set by the Swedish Parliament based on sound business principles. All shares in Swedavia AB are owned by the Swedish State. The Ministry that Swedavia shall apply a framework for documentation and analysis of of Enterprise and Innovation represents the Swedish State’s shares at internal control issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of Swedavia’s Annual General Meeting and thereby nominates Board memthe Treadway Commission (COSO). bers in Swedavia. Swedavia’s structure for corporate governance is illustrated in the chart below. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Swedavia’s corporate governance is regulated by external legal frameDEVIATIONS FROM THE CODE works such as the Swedish Companies Act and other applicable Swedavia is wholly owned by the Swedish State, and the principles that Swedish laws, the State’s ownership policy and the Swedish Code of the Swedish State applies in its ownership policy are generally in agreeCorporate Governance (the Code). The Government conveys its position ment with the rules in the Code. However, under the State’s ownership on important matters of principle concerning corporate governance of policy and 2017 guidelines for companies with State ownership (“the all State-owned companies in its ownership policy. Among other things, State’s ownership policy”), Code regulations regarding the selection FINANCIAL INFORMATION the decision has been made that all companies in which the State of Board members are replaced by a special nomination process that owns a majority of shares shall apply the Swedish Code of Corporate applies to companies wholly owned by the State. The primary reason for Governance. The Code is applied based on the “comply or explain” prindeviations from the Code is that Swedavia has only one owner whereas ciple, which means that deviations from the Code are allowed but must the Code is aimed at listed companies with dispersed ownership. be explained. The State’s ownership policy also deviates in reporting the independThe Board of Directors is responsible under the Swedish Companies ence of Board members relative to major shareholders. The State’s Act and the Code for Swedavia’s internal control. The Board has decided ownership policy specifies that the relevant provisions in the Code are EXTERNAL SWEDAVIA’S SHAREHOLDER AUDITOR EXTERNAL FRAMEWORK Laws, environmental permits, BOARD OF DIRECTORS Swedish Transport Agency and REMUNERATION AUDIT COMMITTEE other regulations, COMMITTEE Swedish Code of Corporate Governance, the Swedish State’s INTERNAL ownership policy COMPLIANCE AUDITING PRESIDENT etc. AND CEO Elects/appoints RISK CONTROL Reports to/informs SWEDAVIA’S INTERNAL FRAMEWORK Articles of Association, owner directive, the Board’s Rules of Procedure, Instructions to the President and CEO, Swedavia’s Code of Conduct, governing documents and Swedavia’s values. 74 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Code requirement Deviation Explanation/comment Code rules 1.2–1.3 and 2.1–2.7, 8.1 and 10.2 No Nomination Committee has The Nomination Committee has been replaced by The company has a Nomination Committee been set up. the owner’s nomination process. that represents the company’s shareholder. Code rules 4.5 and 4.6 Dependency relationship with The State’s ownership policy states that the The Corporate Governance Statement shall major shareholders is not relevant provision in the Code is mainly aimed at include information about whether Board reported. protecting minority owners in companies with dismembers are independent of major sharepersed ownership. In State-owned companies, holders. there is no reason to report such independence. primarily aimed at protecting minority shareholders in companies with applied, replacing the Code’s rules for appointing Board members. dispersed ownership so there is no reason to report such independence. The nomination process for Board members is managed and coordinated by the State ownership unit at the Ministry of Enterprise and GENERAL MEETING Innovation. A working group analyses the need for talent based on the The General Meeting (GM) is the company’s highest governing body, company’s operations, situation and future challenges, the composition where shareholders exercise their influence. The matters considered at of the Board and Board assessments carried out. After this, it is deterthe GM are regulated by the Swedish Companies Act. mined whether there are any recruitment needs and recruitment work is According to the Swedish Companies Act, an Annual General Meeting initiated. Members are selected from a broad recruitment base. When the (AGM) shall be held each year. Under the State’s ownership policy, the process has ended, the nominations are announced in accordance with AGM shall be held no later than April 30. Members of Parliament are the provisions of the Code. entitled to take part in the meeting and ask questions in conjunction with this. The general public shall also be given the opportunity to take part BOARD OF DIRECTORS in the meeting. Among other activities, the AGM shall appoint the Board According to the Articles of Association, the Board of Directors shall and external auditor, decide on remuneration to them and adopt the consist of at least six and no more than nine members, excluding deputy income statement and balance sheet. The Board shall also present prinmembers. Under Swedish law, employee organisations are also entitled ciples for remuneration to executive officers at the AGM. to appoint regular members and their deputies. Swedavia’s Chief Legal Decisions at the GM are adopted by a simple majority of the votes Counsel is the Board secretary. The President and CEO is not included given. However, for decisions concerning a change in the Articles of on the Board but makes presentations at the Board meetings. None of Association, a qualified majority is required. the Board members is on the executive management team. For information about the appointment and removal of Board members, reference is ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING made to the Swedish State’s ownership policy. Swedavia’s Annual General Meeting 2019 was held on April 17. Outsiders were entitled to attend the AGM. Minutes from the AGM are The work and responsibilities of the Board available on Swedavia’s website. According to the Swedish Companies Act and the Swedish State’s ownThe AGM decided to re-elect Lars Backemar, Lottie Knutson, Lotta ership policy, Swedavia’s Board is responsible for the company’s organiMellström, Lars Mydland, Mikael Norman, Lottie Svedenstedt and Åke sation and management of the company’s operations. The Board estabSvensson as Board members. Åke Svensson was elected Chairman lishes the Rules of Procedure each year for the Board’s work, instructions of the Board by the AGM. In conjunction with the meeting, Adine Grate for the division of labour and responsibilities between the Board and Axén stepped down from the Board. the President and CEO, and instructions for economic reporting to the The AGM adopted the Annual Report Annual and Sustainability Board. The Board’s duties include determining the company’s overall Report for 2018 submitted by the Board of Directors and the President strategies, mission objectives and targets as well as ensuring that there and CEO and discharged the Board members and the President and are appropriate systems for monitoring and controlling the company’s CEO from liability for the financial year 2018. The AGM also decided to operations and the risks to the company in connection with its operaadopt a change in the dividend policy. The AGM also decided, in accordtions. The Board governs the company in a sustainable and responsible ance with the Board’s proposed distribution of profit, that no dividend way to ensure long-term value creation. The Board’s Rules of Procedure should be paid to the owner. The decision was in accordance with the also regulate the Chairman’s duties and information to the Board. dividend policy. Under the Board’s Rules of Procedure, at least eight Board meetings The AGM also decided to adopt guidelines for remuneration to execfor which preparations are made in advance shall be held per calenutive officers, the Swedish State’s ownership policy and guidelines for dar year in addition to the statutory Board meeting. Additional meetings external reporting in companies with State ownership. At the AGM, the may be held when justified by events of major importance. The Board accounting firm KPMG AB was elected to be the company’s auditor. The is responsible for financial reporting and has regular meetings through accounting firm has designated Tomas Gerhardsson as principal auditor. the Audit Committee with the company’s auditor. In addition, the auditor meets the full Board at least once a year, when no member of the execuNOMINATION PROCESS FOR THE BOARD OF tive management is in attendance. DIRECTORS The Board assesses its work and that of the President and CEO on a For companies that are wholly owned by the Swedish State, a nominacontinuous basis and gives particular consideration to this matter at least tion process that complies with the Swedish State’s ownership policy is once a year. SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 75 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Composition of the Board • Internal control Swedavia’s Board of Directors consists of eight members elected by the • Risk management and risk assessment AGM, two regular employee representatives and their two deputies. An • Financial reports account is given on pages 80-81 of each Board member’s age, educa• Reporting from internal and external auditing tion, main work experience, other important duties outside the company • Safety and security and number of years as a member of Swedavia’s Board. Swedavia’s • IT executive management has adopted a Policy on Equal Treatment and • Aviation safety and security work Diversity with the aim of being an inclusive employer that sees to people’s • Tender offer for external auditor competences, capabilities and appropriate attitudes. Swedavia shall be • Swedavia’s and the industry’s climate adaptation work a role model in sustainable development by working actively for the equal rights and value of all people and affirming diversity and differences. This * In addition, at the annual statutory meeting the Board adopts a Code policy is applied by the Board of Directors in the recruitment of executive of Conduct, a number of Group policies, the Rules of Procedure for the officers and by the entire Group in all other recruitment. The owner follows Board and the committees, instructions to the President and CEO, and the Swedish State’s ownership policy and applies the ownership policy’s governing documents adopted by the Board. Board nomination process and the policy’s principles for the composition of the Board, which also takes diversity aspects into consideration. The Board’s committee work The AGM 2019 elected seven members, four of whom were men and Swedavia’s Board of Directors has an Audit Committee and a three women. The employee representatives in 2019 were two men. The Remuneration Committee. The committees prepare matters for the average age of Swedavia’s Board members, including the employee repBoard meetings. Guidelines for the committees’ work are found in the resentatives, was 60. Rules of Procedures for each committee. The Audit Committee’s tasks include being responsible for preparing Chairman of the Board the Board’s work to quality assure and prepare the company’s financial The Chairman of the Board is elected at the AGM. Under the Rules of reports and maintain an ongoing dialogue with the company’s audiProcedure for Swedavia’s Board of Directors, the Chairman shall ensure tors. Minutes for each committee meeting are attached to the summons that the Board’s work is managed effectively and that the Board fulfils for the next Board meeting. In 2019, the Audit Committee held eight FINANCIAL INFORMATION its duties. The Chairman’s duties include organising and managing the meetings for which minutes were kept, one of which was held by correBoard’s work, keeping in regular contact with the President and CEO spondence. The company’s internal and external auditors attended the and ensuring that the Board is given sufficient information and material meetings. During the year, among the matters dealt with by the Audit to make decisions in its work. The Chairman is also responsible for coorCommittee were financial reports and up-to-date risk reporting, internal dinating the Board’s views in relation to the owner on issues of critical auditing logs and the external auditor’s reporting on internal audits. The importance to the company, maintaining a dialogue with the owner conAudit Committee also dealt with internal auditing’s reports and a detailed cerning the monitoring of objectives and economic targets and commureview of IT issues and external funding in the form of green bonds and nicating these to the Board. hybrid capital. The committee also assessed its internal auditors, examined and monitored the impartiality and independence of its external The Board’s work in 2019 auditor and examined whether the external auditor did not provide any The Board held nine regular Board meeting and one statutory meeting in advisory services that affected its impartiality. The committee took part in 2019. Among the matters dealt with were business operations includa public tender for audit services in accordance with the Swedish Act on ing strategic development, instructions for economic reporting and the Public Procurement and then submitted a recommendation for the elecAnnual and Sustainability Report and reports related to this. The Board tion of an external auditor at the AGM. Since the 2019 statutory Board also dealt with investments, procurements and Swedavia’s pricing model meeting, the Audit Committee includes Board members Mikael Norman, for airlines. During the year, the Board also held theme meetings about Lotta Mellström and Åke Svensson. The committee appointed Mikael the Stockholm Arlanda Airport Master Plan and implementation capability Norman as Chairman. Adine Grate Axén stepped down from the comin the development programmes as well as the new Major Projects unit. mittee in conjunction with her stepping down from the Board of Directors at the AGM on April 17, 2019. Among the main issues dealt with by the Board in 2019 The Remuneration Committee’s task is to prepare matters concernwere: ing remuneration and other terms of employment for executive officers. • Strategic development The committee shall also assess compliance with decisions regarding • Sustainability goals and targets, mission objectives and economic targets remuneration made at the AGM. Minutes for each committee meet• Access and new routes ing are attached to the summons to attend the next Board meeting. In • Investment in the development plan for Stockholm Arlanda Airport 2019, the Remuneration Committee held five meetings for which minutes • Development plans for Bromma Stockholm Airport and Göteborg were kept, one of which was an extraordinary meeting. During the year, Landvetter Airport among the matters dealt with by the Remuneration Committee were • Hybrid financing and green bonds overall remuneration and terms of employment for the team of execu• Swedavia’s “Take Off” transformation and savings programme including tive officers and head of internal auditing. The committee also prepared organisational adjustments matters concerning the transformation and savings programme and the • Development of Real Estate operations organisational adjustments. The committee furthermore prepared mat• New hotel at Göteborg Landvetter Airport ters for the assessment of the Board of Directors, including an assess• Major investments and procurements ment of the work of the President and CEO, which was then carried • Master plans for Luleå Airport and Kiruna Airport out under the Board’s auspices. The committee likewise reviewed the • Governing documents* results and monitoring of Swedavia’s continuous pulse measurements 76 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 regarding employee feedback on the climate in the workplace. The comin conformity with the Board’s guidelines and instructions. Within the mittee also reviewed the President and CEO’s succession planning and bounds determined by the Board, the President and CEO manages leadership development for executive officers. Since the 2019 statutory operations and keeps the Chairman of the Board continuously informed Board meeting, the Remuneration Committee includes Åke Svensson about significant business matters. The President and CEO shall organas Chairman, Lottie Knutson, Lotta Mellström and Lottie Svedenstedt as ise the company’s management to meet the aims set for governance members and Robert Olsson as employee representative. and control of operations. Other executive officers are appointed by the President and CEO. The executive management is a forum for inforAssessment of the Board’s work in 2019 mation, discussions and decisions for Group matters. Its meetings are During the year, the work of the Board and of the President and CEO chaired by the President and CEO and are held each month. Swedavia’s was assessed, at the Chairman of the Board’s initiative, through a executive management, including the President and CEO, is presented in methodical, structured process under the Board’s auspices. The assessmore detail on pages 82–83. ment is aimed at developing a good basis for the Board’s own development work, among other things. The results of the assessment are Remuneration to executive officers reported by the Chairman of the Board to the owner. Based on this At Swedavia’s AGM on April 17, 2019, the owner decided on the prinassessment, the Board adopts measures to develop the Board’s working ciples for remuneration and other terms of employment for executive methods and effectiveness. In addition to the annual assessment, the officers. For remuneration and other terms of employment, Swedavia Board conducts an assessment after every Board meeting at which the shall apply the principles adopted by the Government on December 22, company’s executive management is not in attendance. 2016, in the Guidelines for Terms of Employment for Executive Officers in Companies under State Ownership. Similar principles are applied in Remuneration of the Board Swedavia’s subsidiaries. Swedavia does not use variable remuneration for Compensation to the Board is decided by the AGM. The Chairman of executive officers. On February 27, 2020, the Government adopted a new the Board is paid a fee of SEK 450,000 and each member is paid SEK ownership policy for State-owned companies which includes guidelines 225,000. It was also decided at Swedavia’s AGM that no specific remufor remuneration and other terms of employment for executive officers. neration should be paid to the Board’s employee representatives or The new guidelines will be adopted at Swedavia’s AGM on April 29, 2020. members employed in the Swedish Government Offices. The Chairman of the Audit Committee is paid a fee of SEK 38,500 and the commitSubsidiaries and associated companies tee members are each paid SEK 22,000. A fee of SEK 25,000 for the Swedavia had three subsidiaries at year-end 2019 – Swedavia Real Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and SEK 20,000 each for the Estate AB, which in turn is the parent company of a property group, members was decided. Swedavia Energi AB and Swedavia Airport Telecom AB. Through Swedavia Real Estate, Swedavia also has one associated company, THE PRESIDENT AND CEO AND THE EXECUTIVE Swedish Airport Infrastructure. During the year, Swedavia sold its holding MANAGEMENT in the associated company Landvetter Logistik Center. Joint ventures are The Board of Directors appoints the company’s President and CEO. strategic partnerships and jointly owned companies in which Swedavia Jonas Abrahamsson was Swedavia’s President and CEO in 2019. Karl does not have a controlling interest. There is an officer from Swedavia’s Wistrand was appointed deputy CEO until August 2019. The President executive management on the Board of every subsidiary and associated and CEO is responsible for the day-to-day management of the company company in the Group. Facts about the Board of Directors Attendance, Attendance, Attendance, Board meetYear Audit Remuneration Members elected at the AGM Main Board ings elected Committee Committee Åke Svensson Chairman 10/10 2016 4/8 4/4 Lars Backemar Member 9/10 2010 Adine Grate Axén1 Member 4/10 2010 3/8 Lottie Knutson Member 9/10 2015 4/4 Lotta Mellström Member 10/10 2015 8/8 4/4 Mikael Norman Member 9/10 2017 7/8 Lars Mydland Member 9/10 2014 Lottie Svedenstedt Member 9/10 2010 4/4 Employee representatives Robert Olsson Member 10/10 2010 4/4 Agne Lindbom Member 10/10 2018 Conny Moholi Deputy member 0/10 2018 Mikael Nordenståhl Deputy member 0/10 2018 1 Adine Grate Axén stepped down from the Board of Directors in conjunction with the AGM on April 17, 2019 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 77 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT The Parent Company, Swedavia AB, has adopted an owner directive with the Swedish State’s ownership policy that govern the company’s that is applied to all companies in the Group and is aimed at ensuring work. The control environment is aimed at providing operations with consistent management principles. the conditions for carrying out their tasks in a clear way in accordance with the Board’s objectives, targets and intentions as well as influence AUDITORS control awareness and risk awareness in the organisation. This is done External auditing by delegating responsibility and authority to the company’s managers Under the Swedish State’s ownership policy in effect at the AGM 2019, and employees. The control environment consists essentially of external the company’s Board of Directors submits proposals for the election of documents such as laws, agreements, generally accepted accounting an auditor after a recommendation from the Audit Committee. The final principles, the ownership policy and guidelines as well as other interdecision on the choice of auditor was made at the AGM. The audinal governing documents. The control environment also consists of the tor’s duties are to examine the financial reporting of the company and Board’s Rules of Procedure and instructions to the President and CEO. the Group as well as the administration of the company by the Board The President and CEO has adopted rules of procedure for Swedavia and the President and CEO. At Swedavia’s AGM on April 17, 2019, the that among other things delegate responsibility and authority to memaccounting firm KPMG was elected as auditor. Auditing duties are to bers of the executive management concerning their mandate to enter be performed until the end of the AGM held in 2020. KPMG designated agreements, make investment decisions and authorise invoices. There authorised public accountant Tomas Gerhardsson as principal auditor. are special rules of procedure for investment decisions. The Code of Tomas Gerhardsson had no duties in other companies that affect his Conduct and all Group policies are reviewed annually and adopted by independence as an auditor for Swedavia. Remuneration has been paid the Board or executive management and are then available on the comto the auditor and accounting firm for auditing and audit-related advice. pany’s intranet, which employees have access to. EY AB has been engaged for other accounting and tax advice. The table of Swedavia’s governing documents below specifies what polInternal auditing icies the Annual General Meeting, the Board of Directors and executive The Board has a special internal auditing function at Swedavia to support management decided on. the Board in carrying out its oversight and assessment of the company’s operations which reports to the Board. The Board has adopted instrucSwedavia’s governing documents Decided by FINANCIAL INFORMATION tions for internal auditing, which in 2019 consisted of three auditors. Guidelines for Remuneration and Annual General Meeting Other Terms of Employment for THE BOARD’S REPORTING ON INTERNAL CONTROL ­Executive Officers OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING The Board of Directors’ Rules of Board of Directors Under the Swedish Companies Act and the Code, the Board is responProcedure sible for internal control of financial reporting. Under the Code and the Instructions to the President and CEO Board of Directors Annual Accounts Act, the Board must submit a description each year of the most important features of the company’s system for internal control Rules of Procedure for the Ethics Board of Directors over and risk management of financial reporting. The Board has a formalCommittee ised procedure for ensuring that there is compliance with the established Instructions for Economic Reporting Board of Directors method for financial reporting and internal control. The Board receives Code of Conduct Board of Directors reports with feedback on monitoring the status of measures taken based on recommendations from internal auditing and external auditing conFinancial Policy Board of Directors cerning internal control at the company. Internal control over financial Credit Policy Board of Directors reporting is aimed at providing reasonable assurance about the reliability Environmental and Energy Policy Board of Directors of the external reporting and that it is prepared in compliance with laws, appropriate accounting principles, specific requirements from the owner Tax Policy Board of Directors and other requirements for limited liability companies. Risk Policy Board of Directors This Corporate Governance Statement has been prepared in accordSafety and Security Policy Board of Directors ance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the Code of Corporate Governance and is restricted to internal control over financial reporting. Workplace and Drug Policy Executive management The Board has decided that Swedavia shall follow the established Fire Safety Policy Executive management Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission Crisis Management Policy Executive management (COSO) framework for internal control. The COSO framework consists of five interdependent components: governance and control environment; Aviation Safety and Security Policy Executive management risk assessment; control activities; information and communication; and Insurance Policy Executive management monitoring and assessment. Information Security Policy Executive management Procurement Policy Executive management Governance and control environment The basis of Swedavia’s internal control consists of the control enviCommunication, Information and Executive management ronment, which is comprised mainly of the organisational structure and Insider Policy governing documents such as the Code of Conduct and Group policies. Competition Policy Executive management Swedavia’s Board has established Rules of Procedure for its work and Quality Policy Executive management the work of the committees. Some of the Board’s work entails developing, updating and adopting a number of basic Group policies in line Policy on Equal Treatment and Diversity Executive management 78 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Risk management by the company’s Board of Directors and then published. In addition to The Board has ultimate responsibility for the company’s risk managethe Annual and Sustainability Report, at least one of the interim reports ment and has assigned the President and CEO the task of managing is examined by the company’s auditor, who reports on his or her review this operationally. Swedavia’s risk management is aimed at identifying work to the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors. Swedavia’s potential events that can affect the organisation’s ability to achieve the internal auditing also conducts reviews in different areas in order to objectives and targets set. The risk management method used by the ensure quality in financial processes and in the financial reporting. The company is based on a model with three lines of defence. The first line of Audit Committee also has the possibility to conduct in-depth dialogue defence consists of the company’s operations, in the form of airports and and follow-up on financial and accounting matters with the company’s Group-level functions that have responsibility for identifying, assessing CFO and auditors taking part in the committee’s meetings. and reporting risks on a continuous basis. The second line of defence consists of the company’s Compliance Information and communication Officer, who is responsible for the process of developing comprehensive Swedavia is a State-owned company and under the Swedish State’s governing documents, and the Risk Manager, who follows the framework guidelines shall follow the same regulations for accounting and reportadopted for risk management. For a detailed description of Swedavia’s ing as publicly listed companies. Swedavia has issued financial instrurisk management, see pages 65–67. ments listed on the Nasdaq OMX exchange, which means the comThe third line of defence consists of the company’s internal auditpany is obliged to apply Nasdaq OMX’s regulations for issuers, the EU ing function, which examines Swedavia’s operations and reports to Market Abuse Regulation and other regulations that arise regarding the Board. Risks are monitored on a continuous basis by the airport this. Swedavia has therefore developed a Communication, Information units, business units and corporate functions and reported to the Risk and Insider Policy that regulates the dissemination of information interManager, who together with the Risk Committee consolidates them on nally and the disclosure of information to the market. Swedavia’s puba quarterly basis. Swedavia’s greatest risks are then compiled in a risk lic financial reports consist of four interim reports and an Annual and report which is approved by the President and CEO and then prepared Sustainability Report. External financial reporting shall be characterised by the Audit Committee before it is adopted by the Board. Financial risks by openness and transparency and is aimed at giving the company’s difare handled under the framework for the first line of defence and the risk ferent stakeholders a relevant picture of operations. work in the operations and are monitored through a special report on compliance with the company’s financial and credit policies. Monitoring and assessment The executive management meet on a monthly basis and review operaControl activities tions and related risks. The Board also evaluates the company’s perforSwedavia’s control activities for financial reporting consist of three parts – mance and economic results on a monthly basis and furthermore monmonitoring and analysis of economic results, the risk report, and monitoritors the company’s financial position and cash flow, sustainability goals ing of key controls for treasury and the financial statements process. and mission objectives on a quarterly basis. At the Group level, there are The Chief Financial Officer (CFO) monitors and analyses economic corporate functions, including a control and an accounting unit, that anaresults on a monthly basis and reports this to the President and CEO. lyse and monitor results compared to the budget and forecasts which In the processes for bookkeeping, financial statements and financial are reported to the company’s President and CEO and to the CFO. All reports, key controls are monitored by operations on an ongoing basis. people with responsibility for business units regularly report results and These operations also study and follow up on audit reports from the annual forecasts to the CFO. These reports are subsequently consoliexternal auditor and internal auditing. Swedavia’s Board of Directors dated for the company’s two operating segments and then submitted receives reports on economic results with analysis and comments from to the company’s President and CEO. The President and CEO submits the company’s President and CEO on a monthly basis. Swedavia’s pubfinancial reports on a monthly basis to the Board of Directors. The Board licly available reports are compiled by the CFO and the President and evaluates the information provided by the President and CEO on a conCEO for preparation in the Audit Committee before they are adopted tinuous basis. There is also an internal auditing function that serves as an independent examination function. INCLUDED IN OPERATIONS 1ST LINE OF DEFENCE 2ND LINE OF DEFENCE 3RD LINE OF DEFENCE EXECUTIVE RISK AND COMPLIANCE INTERNAL AUDITING MANAGEMENT Responsible for Responsible for performing Responsible for providing sufficient independent examinations maintaining good tools, evaluating and and ensuring that the Risk internal control and risk supporting operations in and Compliance function management risk management work works in a satisfactory manner MONITORING SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 79 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Swedavia’s Board of Directors ÅKE SVENSSON LARS BACKEMAR Chairman of the Board (elected 2016), Member (elected 2010) ­chairman Remuneration Committee, Born: 1950. ­member Audit Committee Other Board duties: Backemar ConsultBorn: 1952. ing AB (chairman) and City i Samverkan AB Other Board duties: Parker Hannifin (chairman). Corporation (USA), Business Sweden, Education: Business administration and Confederation of Swedish Enterprise, marketing, Köpmannainstitutet, Stockholm; and Chairman of Association of Swedish marketing and consumer policy, Uppsala ­Engineering Industries. University. Education: MS in Applied Physics and Work experience: Senior advisor, Electrical Engineering, Linköping University. Backemar Consulting AB. Formerly various Work experience: Formerly CEO, Saab executive positions at Hufvudstaden, Jones AB; CEO, Association of Swedish EngineerLang Lasalle. FINANCIAL INFORMATION ing Industries. MIKAEL NORMAN LOTTIE SVEDENSTEDT Member (elected 2017), chairman Audit Member (elected 2010), member DEPUTY MEMBERS Committee. ­Remuneration Committee CONNY MOHOLI Born: 1958. Born: 1957. Born: 1966. Other Board duties: Bravida Holding AB Other Board duties: MiL Foundation and Bonava AB (chairman). (chairman), Tillväxt Helsingborg (chairman), MIKAEL NORDENSTÅHL Education: Law degree and business MiL Institute AB, Gullberg & Jansson AB, Born: 1961. administration, Stockholm University. Helsingborg IF, CargoSpace24 AB and Fine Work experience: Formerly CFO, Nobia Little Day AB. AUDITOR AB; Group controller, AB Electrolux; Senior Education: Law degree, Uppsala TOMAS GERHARDSSON manager, Price Waterhouse Stockholm and University. Principal auditor, KPMG Brussels; and public prosecutor, Stockholm Work experience: Own company, AB. Court of Appeal. K-utveckling Engineering AB. Formerly Born: 1969. CEO, Kid Interiör A/S; Business Area Manager, IKEA of Sweden; Deputy General Manager, IKEA Systems BV; CEO, Inter IKEA Systems A/S; Regional Director, H&M AB. 80 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 LOTTIE KNUTSON LOTTA MELLSTRÖM LARS MYDLAND Member (elected 2015), member Member (elected 2015), member RemuneraMember (elected 2014) ­Remuneration Committee tion Committee, member Audit Committee Born: 1954. Born: 1964. Born: 1970. Other Board duties: mydland ehrling Other Board duties: Stena Line BV, STS Other Board duties: Jernhusen AB and AB (chairman), Special Adviser Board of Alpresor AB and Cloetta AB. LKAB. ­Directors Veling Ltd. Education: Journalisthögskolan i Education: MS in Engineering, Lund Education: Fighter pilot training RNAF/ ­Stockholm, Diplôme de Culture Française, University. USAF, Norwegian Air Force. Paris IV. Work experience: Scientific Council, Work experience: Chairman, SESAR Work experience: Advisor and journalist. ­Division for Companies with State OwnerPerformance Partnership; Senior ConsultFormerly: Communications ­Director, TUI ship, Ministry of Enterprise and Innovation. ant, IATA. Formerly SVP & Accountable Nordic; writer, account manager and proFormerly management consultant, Resco Manager, Scandinavian Airlines; airline ject manager, JKL and Bates; information AB, controller for the Sydkraft and ABB captain SAS; CEO, SAS Flight Academy officer, SAS; journalist, Svenska Dagbladet. groups. AB; fighter pilot and officer, Norwegian Air Force. Formerly member of SAS Commuter AB, SAS Sverige AB, SAS Norge AS, SAS Danmark AS, SAS Technical Services (STS). Formerly Chair, EAC (Spain) and Norwegian Aviation College. AGNE LINDBOM ROBERT OLSSON NINA LINANDER Employee representative (elected 2018) Employee representative (elected 2010) Member (elected 2020), member Audit Born: 1961. Born: 1966. Committee Other Board duties: Swedish Union for Other Board duties: Chair, Swedish Union Born: 1959. Service and Communications Employees of Civil Servants. Other Board duties: Castellum AB, Telia (SEKO) negotiation organisation. Education: school, trade union training etc. Company AB, AWA Holding AB (chairman), Work experience: Formerly apron techniSafety officer/security guard, Swedavia. GreenIron H2 AB (chairman), Industrivärden cian, Swedavia. AB. Education: Diverse trade union training. Education: International Baccalaureate, United World Colleges of the Atlantic, Wales, UK, master’s degree in business, Stockholm School of Economics and MBA, IMEDE, Switzerland. Work experience: Formerly founder and partner, Stanton Chase International AB; head of finance corporate function, AB Electrolux (publ); management positions at Vattenfall AB, work in corporate finance at investment banks in London. SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 81 EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT Swedavia’s executive management* ANNA STRÖMWALL CAROLINE OTTOSON Airport director, Göteborg Landvetter Airport Director, Facilities and Systems Born: 1977. Born: 1968. Education: MS in Industrial Economics, InstiEducation: MS in Engineering, KTH Royal tute of Technology, Linköping University. Institute of Technology. Work experience: Head of Swedavia Work experience: Head, Stockholm County Consultants; head of planning, APM Terminals Public Transport Administration; CEO, public Gothenburg; head of operations development transport companies SL and Waxholmsbolaget; and head of security screening, Stockholm acting director-general, Swedish Transport Arlanda Airport; SCM consultant, Establish. Administration and director, traffic management Board duties: None. and CFO, Swedish Transport Administration; director of roads, Swedish Road Administration; CFO, Swedish Mapping, Cadastral and Land Registration Authority. FINANCIAL INFORMATION *As of December 31, 2019. Board duties: Board member, Swedish National Road and Transport Research (VTI), Swedish Airport Infrastructure AB; Chairman of the Board, Swedavia Real Estate AB, Swedavia Energi AB, Swedavia Airport Telecom AB. JONAS ABRAHAMSSON ANNA BOVALLER PEDER GRUNDITZ President and CEO, assumed office January Chief Legal Counsel Airport director, Stockholm Arlanda Airport 2017 Born: 1963. Born: 1963. Born: 1967. Education: Law degree, Lund University; IHM Education: Executive MBA, M-gruppen Education: MBA, Lund University. Master in Leadership and Executive ManageWork experience: Airport director, Bromma Work experience: President and CEO, E.ON ment Program, IFL at Stockholm School of Stockholm Airport; director Regional Airports; Sverige AB; CFO, E.ON Energy Trading SE and Economics. various positions at LFV including airport direca number of different leading executive posiWork experience: Chief Legal Counsel, tor, Visby Airport and activing division head; tions and Board duties in the E.ON Group. LFV; Assistant Chief Legal Counsel, Posten director, Passenger Services, Malmö Aviation; Board duties: Board member, ÅF Pöyry AB AB; commercial lawyer, Posten AB; lawyer, director, Ground Operations Braathens Sverand Almega Tjänsteförbunden; member, Royal Dahlman Magnusson Advokatbyrå, law clerk, ige; and traffic manager, Transwede Airways. Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences Nacka District Court; legal assistant, MichelBoard duties: Airport City Stockholm AB. (IVA). Formerly, Chairman of the Board of sons Advokatbyrå. Fennovoima Oy and Board member of Enerjisa Board duties: None. Enerji A.S., among others. 82 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 JOHAN BILL SUSANNE NORMAN MATS PÅHLSON Director, Major Projects Airport director, Regional Airports Chief Financial Officer Born: 1958 Born: 1966. Born: 1963. Education: MS in Engineering, KTH Royal Education: BS in Information Systems, Mid Education: Economics, Växjö University Institute of Technology. Sweden University, Östersund. Work experience: CFO, Acade-Media; CFO, Work experience: Regional manager, Work experience: CEO, Recall AS Oslo; Poolia; CFO, Lernia; CFO, AGA S/A Brazil; Uppsala County, Skanska; assistant division Head of Production/Site Manager, Recall AB CFO, AGA Gas Sverige. head, Stockholm Peab; CEO, Bjerking; Sverige; Head of Sales, Central Region, Cap Board duties: Board member, Criar AB, director, Major Projects, Swedish Transport Gemini AB; operations developer, Jämtkraft Swedavia Real Estate AB and BRF Essinge Administration. AB. Mälarstrand. Board duties: None. Board duties: Board member, Svensk Turism AB and Länsförsäkrnoner Jämtland. CHARLOTTE LJUNGGREN MONA GLANS MARIE WIKSBORG Director, Market and Commercial Airport director, Bromma Stockholm Airport Director, Business Support, Safety and Development Born: 1966. Security Born: 1967. Education: Upper secondary school, Born: 1965. Education: Management, Finance & Law, IHM Management Programme American Express; Education: MBA, School of Business, EcoBusiness School, Gothenburg. Novare Executive Women Program, Board nomics and Law, Gothenburg University. Work experience: Airport director, Göteborg training through Styrelseakademin Sydost. Work experience: Director, Swedavia; HR Landvetter Airport; Route Director Stena Line Work experience: Nyman & Schultz Affärsremanager, Stockholm Arlanda Airport; Director Scandinavia AB, Route Director SeaCat AB, sor; American Express Business Travel; airport of HR and Employees, KF Group, including Finance & HR Manager Sea Containers Ltd, director, Swedavia Ronneby Airport; acting Coop; Business Support KF Fastigheter AB; Route Director Silja Line Eesti Oy, Route Direcairport director, Swedavia Kiruna Airport, HR Director, Sheraton Stockholm Hotel & tor, SeaCat AB; Finance & HR Manager Sea marriage officiant. Towers; Training Director, Sheraton Stockholm Containers Ltd; Route Director, Silja Line Eesti Board duties: Chairman, Visit Blekinge 2015– Hotel & Towers. Oy; Route Director, Color SeaCat AS; various 2018; Bord member, Blekinge Matakademi Board duties: None. positions at B&B Fondkommission AB. 2016–2018; ambassador, Eriksberg Vilt & Board duties: Board member, Swedish Natur. Exhibition and Congress Centre and Thomas Concrete Group AB; Chairman of the Board, West Sweden Chamber of Commerce. SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 83 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS Consolidated income statement Amounts in SEK M Note 2019 2018 Net revenue 3,4,5 6,235 5,922 Other operating profit 6 68 104 Own work capitalised 189 170 External expenses 7 –2,399 –2,366 Staff expenses 8 –2,052 –2,030 Depreciation/amortisation and impairment losses on tangible fixed assets and non-current intangible assets 9 –1,309 –1,103 Other operating costs 10 –23 –16 Operating profit 709 682 Profit from financial items 11 Profit from holdings in associated companies and joint ventures 147 53 Financial income 6 3 Financial expenses –127 –96 Profit before tax 736 642 FINANCIAL INFORMATION Tax 13 –153 –126 Profit for the year 583 517 Earnings per share Earnings per share before and after dilution, SEK 0.40 0.36 Number of shares 1,441,403,026 1,441,403,026 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Amounts in SEK M Note 2019 2018 Profit for the year 583 517 Other comprehensive income: Items that can be reclassified to the income statement Cash flow hedges: Reclassified to the income statement 0 1 Change in value for the year –72 57 Tax 15 –13 Other comprehensive income joint ventures, net 0 4 Items that cannot be reclassified to the income statement Revaluations of defined benefit pensions –144 –54 Tax 31 12 Total other comprehensive income, net after tax –170 7 Comprehensive income for the year 412 523 84 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Consolidated balance sheet Amounts in SEK M Note Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 ASSETS NON-CURRENT ASSETS Non-current intangible assets 14 775 777 Other tangible fixed assets 15,16,17,18,19 16,863 15,419 Right-of-use assets 22 1,284 44 Investment properties 20,21 897 713 Biological assets 20,23 82 80 Non-current financial assets 20,24,25,26,28 1,137 1,192 Total non-current assets 21,038 18,225 CURRENT ASSETS Materials and supplies 29 54 47 Trade receivables 47 595 575 Receivables from associated companies and joint ventures 32 13 20 Other receivables 33 267 220 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 34 135 154 Derivative instruments 20,28 6 31 Liquid assets 28,43 77 10 Total current assets 1,146 1,057 Assets held for sale 46 768 442 TOTAL ASSETS 22,952 19,725 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 85 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS Consolidated balance sheet (cont.) Amounts in SEK M Note Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity 35 Share capital 1,441 1,441 Other paid-in capital 2,162 2,162 Hedge reserve 47 –76 –18 Hybrid bond 1,000 — Retained earnings including profit for the year 4,914 4,480 Total equity attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholder 9,440 8,066 Non-current liabilities Provisions 36,37,38 1,053 947 Deferred tax liability 39 458 488 Interest-bearing liabilities 40,42 7,550 6,025 FINANCIAL INFORMATION Lease liability 22,40 1,187 40 Derivative instruments 20,28 108 76 Other non-current liabilities 150 23 Total non-current liabilities 10,506 7,598 Current liabilities Provisions 36, 38 150 121 Interest-bearing liabilities 40 1,045 2,363 Derivative instruments 20,28 — — Lease liability 22,40 134 13 Trade payables 796 651 Liabilities to associated companies and joint ventures 32 7 0 Other liabilities 44 91 161 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 45 741 750 Total current liabilities 2,963 4,059 Liabilities attributable to assets held for sale 46 43 2 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 22,952 19,725 86 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Consolidated changes in equity Retained earnings Other paid-in Hedging Hybrid including profit Amounts in SEK M Share capital reserves bond for the year Total capital 2019 Equity, opening balance 1,441 2,162 –18 — 4,480 8,066 Effect of new accounting principle, IFRS 16 — — — — –33 –33 Adjusted equity, opening balance, January 1, 2019 1,441 2,162 –18 — 4,447 8,033 Issuance of hybrid bond — — — 1,000 — 1,000 Transaction costs for hybrid bond — — — — –4 –4 Profit for the year — — — — 583 583 Other comprehensive income — — –57 — –113 –170 Equity, closing balance, December 31, 2019 1,441 2,162 -76 1,000 4,914 9,440 Retained earnings Other paid-in Hedging Hybrid including profit Amounts in SEK M Share capital reserves bond for the year Total capital 2018 Equity, opening balance 1,441 2,162 –63 — 4,125 7,665 Dividend paid — — — — –122 –122 Profit for the year — — — — 517 517 Other comprehensive income — — 45 — –38 7 Equity, closing balance, December 31, 2018 1,441 2,162 –18 — 4,480 8,066 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 87 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS Consolidated cash flow statement Amounts in SEK M Note 2019 2018 Operating activities 49 Profit after financial items 736 642 Adjustments for items not included in cash flow etc. 1,204 989 Tax paid –144 –135 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 1,796 1,496 Cash flow from changes in working capital Increase(–)/Decrease(+) in materials and supplies –7 –2 Increase(–)/Decrease(+) in operating receivables 18 –1 Increase(+)/Decrease(–) in operating liabilities 170 –134 Cash flow from operating activities 1,977 1,359 FINANCIAL INFORMATION Investing activities Disposal of subsidiaries — 55 Acquisition of non-current intangible assets –89 –224 Acquisition of tangible fixed assets –3,372 –2,971 Sale of tangible fixed assets 309 16 Acquisition of financial assets –13 — Sale of financial assets 117 — Cash flow from investing activities –3,048 –3,124 Financing activities Hybrid bond, net after transaction costs 996 — Loans issued 3,170 3,805 Repayment of loan liabilities –2,962 –1,980 Repayment of lease liability –90 –9 Dividend paid — –122 Increase (+)/Decrease (–) in other financial liabilities 23 23 Cash flow from financing activities 1,137 1,717 Cash flow for the year 67 –48 Liquid assets, opening balance 10 58 Liquid assets, closing balance 77 10 88 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Parent Company income statement Amounts in SEK M Note 2019 2018 Net revenue 4,5 6,146 5,873 Other operating profit 6 68 49 Own work capitalised 189 170 External expenses 7 –2,591 –2,453 Staff expenses 8 –2,192 –2,083 Depreciation/amortisation and impairment losses on tangible fixed assets and non-current intangible assets 9 –1,196 –1,111 Other operating costs 10 –23 –16 Operating profit 403 429 Profit from financial items 11 Interest income and similar items 23 15 Interest expenses and similar items –107 –97 Profit after financial items 318 346 Appropriations 12 33 44 Profit before tax 351 390 Tax 13 –93 –118 Profit for the year 258 272 Parent Company statement of comprehensive income Amounts in SEK M Note 2019 2018 Profit for the year 258 272 Other comprehensive income — — Comprehensive income for the year 258 272 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 89 PARENT COMPANY STATEMENTS Parent Company balance sheet Amounts in SEK M Note Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 ASSETS NON-CURRENT ASSETS Non-current intangible assets 14 676 703 Tangible fixed assets 15,16,17,18,19 16,593 15,249 Non-current financial assets 24,25,26,27,39 1,126 1,132 Total non-current assets 18,395 17,083 CURRENT ASSETS Materials and supplies 29 50 44 Current receivables 30,31,32,34 3,042 2,645 Cash and bank balances 43 71 5 Total current assets 3,163 2,694 FINANCIAL INFORMATION TOTAL ASSETS 21,558 19,777 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES EQUITY 35 Restricted equity Share capital 1,441 1,441 Reserve for development expenses 35 44 Total restricted equity 1,476 1,485 Unreserved equity Share premium reserve 2,162 2,162 Hybrid bond 1,000 — Retained earnings 2,580 2,298 Profit for the year 258 272 Total unrestricted equity 6,000 4,732 Total equity 7,476 6,217 Untaxed reserves 12 2,050 2,035 Provisions 36,37,38 1,524 1,408 Non-current liabilities 40,41 7,678 6,040 Current liabilities 40,41 2,830 4,077 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 21,558 19,777 90 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Parent Company changes in equity Restricted equity Unrestricted equity Reserve for Share development premium Retained Amounts in SEK M Share expenses reserve Hybrid bond earnings Total capital 2019 Equity, opening balance 1,441 43 2,162 — 2,570 6,217 Profit from merger — — — — 5 5 Issuance of hybrid bond — — — 1,000 — 1,000 Transaction costs — — — — –4 –4 Reclassification between restricted and unrestricted equity — –8 — — 8 — Profit for the year — — — — 258 258 Other comprehensive income — — — — — — Equity, closing balance, December 31, 2019 1,441 35 2,162 1,000 2,837 7,476 Restricted equity Unrestricted equity Reserve for Share development premium Retained Amounts in SEK M Share expenses reserve Hybrid bond earnings Total capital 2018 Equity, opening balance 1,441 25 2,162 — 2,438 6,067 Dividend paid — — — — –122 –122 Reclassification between restricted and unrestricted equity — 18 — — –18 — Profit for the year — — — — 272 272 Other comprehensive income — — — — — — Equity, closing balance, December 31, 2018 1,441 43 2,162 — 2,570 6,217 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 91 PARENT COMPANY STATEMENTS Parent Company cash flow statement Amounts in SEK M Not 2019 2018 Operating activities 49 Profit after financial items 318 346 Adjustments for items not included in cash flow etc. 1,373 1,162 Tax paid –119 –110 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 1,573 1,398 Cash flow from changes in working capital Increase(–)/Decrease(+) in materials and supplies –7 –2 Increase(–)/Decrease(+) in operating receivables –359 –340 Increase(+)/Decrease(–) in operating liabilities 52 –215 Cash flow from operating activities 1,260 841 Investing activities Acquisition of non-current intangible assets –89 –212 Acquisition of tangible fixed assets –2,771 –2,453 FINANCIAL INFORMATION Sale of tangible fixed assets 309 16 Cash flow from investing activities –2,551 –2,648 Financing activities Hybrid bond, net after transaction costs 996 — Loans issued 3,170 3,805 Repayment of loan liabilities –2,962 –1,992 Dividend paid — –122 Increase (+)/Decrease (–) in other financial liabilities 73 9 Group contribution received/paid 79 58 Cash flow from financing activities 1,357 1,759 Cash flow for the year 66 –49 Liquid assets, opening balance 5 54 Liquid assets, closing balance 71 5 92 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 NOTES Notes NOTE 1 Corporate information and accounting recognised at fair value. Biological assets are recognised at fair value; see Note 23. For information concerning measurement and information about principles fair value under IFRS 13, see Note 20. Swedavia AB (publ), Swedish corporate identity number 556797-0818, has New accounting principles its registered officer in the Municipality of Sigtuna, Sweden. The address of The new and reworked standards and interpretations that have been the main office is 190 45 Stockholm-Arlanda (Flygvägen 1), Sweden. applied since January 1, 2019, are as follows, Swedavia AB is wholly owned by the Swedish State. Swedavia’s task is to • IFRS 16 “Leases” is a new standard that covers the accounting treatown, operate and develop the national basic infrastructure of airports ment of leases and replaces IAS 17 “Leases” as well as IFRIC 4, SIC-15 decided by the Swedish Government, which consists of ten airports: and SIC27. Bromma Stockholm Airport, Göteborg Landvetter Airport, Kiruna Airport, Luleå Airport, Malmö Airport, Ronneby Airport, Stockholm Arlanda Airport, Summary of effects of the transition to IFRS 16 “Leases” Umeå Airport, Visby Airport and Åre Östersund Airport. The following paragraph concerns leases in which Swedavia is the lessee. Swedavia has not needed to make any adjustments in contracts in which Regulations governing operations Swedavia is the lessor. Swedavia’s operations are mostly regulated by Swedish and European regSwedavia previously determined whether a contract contained a ulations, with the most important regulations for running airport operations lease in accordance with IFRIC 4 “Determining whether an arrangement consisting of, among others: contains a lease”. As of January, 2019, the Group decides whether a contract contains a lease based on the definition of lease in IFRS 16. • Swedish Environmental Code (1998:808), with subsequent regulations Swedavia previously classified leases as operating or finance leases requiring a permit for airport operations based on whether the lease transferred significant risks and benefits that • Swedish Civil Aviation Act (2010:500), with subsequent regulations ownership of the underlying asset entails to the Group. Under IFRS 16, ­governing, among other issues, permission to establish an airport Swedavia recognises right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for most leases • Swedish Civil Aviation Security Act (2004:1100) concerning searches of – in other words, leases are included in the balance sheet; exceptions are persons and baggage in security screening specified in the text below and in the accounting principles for leases. • Swedish Aerodrome Ground Services Act (2000:150), which regulates To determine opening balances for the leases previously classified as matters concerning ground services at airports and obligations of airport operating leases, Swedavia has chosen to apply a modified retrospective operators to allow the establishment of external ground service provider approach, which means that any transition effects are adjusted in the openoperations ing balance of equity for 2019 and no restatement has been made for the • Swedish Act on Airport Charges (2011:866) regulating requirements for previous year. Lease charges are discounted using the incremental borrowconsultation with the users, airlines, on airport charges ing rate (IBR) on the initial application date. In accordance with IFRS 16 appendix C p10a, Swedavia has chosen to apply a single discount rate to a Conditions for preparation of the Parent Company’s and portfolio of leases with somewhat similar qualities such as leases with a ­consolidated financial reports ­similar remaining lease term and a similar class of underlying assets. The The consolidated accounts for Swedavia and its subsidiaries have been ­discount rate is based on Swedavia’s IBR. The weighted average IBR used ­prepared in conformity with the International Financial Reporting Standards on the application date to discount future lease charges is 2.92 per cent. (IFRS) to the extent these have been adopted by the European Union (EU). Swedavia has chosen the option of measuring, for each contract, the right of The Parent Company applies Sweden’s Annual Accounts Act and the use for all contracts as though the standard had been applied since the Swedish Financial Accounting Standards Council’s recommendation RFR 2 commencement date under IFRS 16 appendix C p8b i. “Accounting for legal entities”. The differences arising between the Parent On the initial application date, initial direct costs have been excluded from Company and consolidated accounting principles are due to restrictions on the measurement in accordance with IFRS 16 appendix C p10d. applying IFRS in the Parent Company as a result of Sweden’s Annual Assessments, for example, to determine the lease term if the contract Accounts Act and Pension Obligations Vesting Act as well as, in some includes options to extend or cancel the lease were subsequently made in cases, the connection between accounting and taxation. accordance with IFRS 16 C p10e. In accordance with IFRS 16 C p10c, In this report, the Swedavia Group is called “Swedavia” or “the Group”, Swedavia has also chosen not to recognise right-of-use assets and lease and Swedavia AB is called either by its full name or “the Parent Company”. liabilities for leases whose lease term ends in twelve months or less. Reporting for the Group and the Parent Company is in millions of Swedish Swedavia has a number of leases that are recognised as finance leases kronor (SEK M) unless otherwise indicated. Swedish kronor is abbreviated under IAS 17. No adjustments in the values of assets or liabilities for these as SEK, and thousands of kronor is abbreviated as SEK T. The amounts rechave been made in the opening balance. However, the assets in question ognised have in some cases been rounded off. In cases where the amount have been reclassified from other tangible fixed assets to right-of-use is less than SEK 1 M and rounded down, this is presented as a zero (0); if assets, while the liabilities have been reclassified from interest-bearing there is no value, a dash ( ̶ ) has been used. This means that tables, charts ­liabilities to lease liabilities. and calculations do not always add up. Figures in parentheses are for the On January 1, 2019, Swedavia recognised additional lease liabilities of previous year. SEK 1,114 M, right-of-use assets of SEK 1,095 M and deferred tax assets Non-current assets, non-current liabilities and non-current provisions of SEK 9 M in the Group while prepaid lease expenses were reduced SEK consist in all essential respects only of amounts that are expected to be 23 M, for a net reduction in equity of SEK 34 M on January 1, 2019. In the recovered or paid after more than twelve months calculated from the balAnnual Report 2018, Swedavia recognised operating lease obligations of ance sheet date. Current assets and current liabilities consist in all essential SEK 1,318 M. The difference between the present value of these lease respects only of amounts that are expected to be recovered or paid within ­obligations and the additional lease liability recognised on January 1, 2019, twelve months calculated from the balance sheet date. is immaterial. Assets, provisions and liabilities have been recognised at cost unless The income statement for 2019 is shown below using current and other­wise indicated below. Financial assets and liabilities have been recog­previous accounting principles. nised at amortised cost, apart from derivative instruments, which are SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 93 NOTES Group • Amendments to IAS 1 “Presentation of financial statements” and IAS 8 “Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors”, Differ­concerning harmonisation of the definition of “material” between different Consolidated income statement, 2019 IFRS 16 IAS 17 ence IFRS standards and clarification of the meaning of the term. The amendNet revenue 6,235 6,235 0 ment clarifies whether information is material depending on the nature or magnitude of information, or both. The definition of material is also Other operating income 68 68 0 changed from information that can have an effect on users of financial Capitalised work for own account 189 189 0 statements to information that can reasonably be expected to have an effect on users. The definition of “users of financial statements” has also External expenses –2,399 –2,505 106 been clarified as being primary users. Staff expenses –2,052 –2,052 0 • Amendments to IFRS 9 “Financial instruments: Hedge accounting” in accordance with IAS 39 and IFRS 7 “Financial instruments: Disclosures” Depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses concerning reform of the Interbank Offered Rate (IBOR). The reform has on fixed assets and non-current intangible assets –1,309 –1,219 –90 been backed by the Financial Stability Board and is a result of work under Other operating expenses –23 –23 0 way in different countries to replace IBOR with new reference rates, risk free rates (RFRs). The change in reference rates could have an effect on Operating profit 709 693 16 the company’s hedge accounting, among other things. Amendments to IFRS 9, IAS 39 and IFRS 7 introduce relief from certain requirements for Profit from financial items how the hedging relation shall be measured with respect to the IBOR Profit from holdings in associated companies and ­reference rate when hedge accounting is applied. The amendment introduces new disclosure requirements. joint ventures 147 147 0 Interest income and similar items 6 6 0 Consolidation principles The consolidated financial accounts include the Parent Company and all the Interest expenses and similar items –127 –91 –36 companies over which the Parent Company directly or indirectly has conProfit after financial items 736 755 –19 trolling interest. Subsidiaries are companies over which the Parent Company has a controlling interest. A controlling interest exists if the Parent Company Tax –153 –157 4 has control over the investee, has exposure or is entitled to a variable return from its commitment and can use its control over the investment to influence Profit for the year 583 598 –15 its return. In determining whether there is a controlling interest, consideration FINANCIAL INFORMATION is given to shares with potential voting rights and whether there is de facto As a result of the transition to IFRS 16, the portion of the lease charges control. The Parent Company in all cases owns, directly or indirectly, shares/ repaid is now recognised as a payment in financing activities instead of holdings in the companies included in the consolidated financial accounts. being included in operating activities. This means that the cash flow from Subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial accounts starting from operating activities for the full year 2019 is SEK 90 M higher while cash flow the time controlling interest is achieved and are excluded from the consolifrom financing activities is now SEK 90 M lower, compared to if previous dated financial accounts from the time controlling interest is no longer exeraccounting principles had been used for the period. cised. Where necessary, adjustments are made in the subsidiaries’ financial statements to adapt their accounting principles to those used by the Group. Apart from the new standard for leases, IFRS 16, only a few other amendTransaction costs, with the exception of transaction fees related to the issuments or interpretations from IASB entered into force in 2019: ance of equity instruments or debt instruments, are recognised directly in • Amendment to IFRS 9 “Financial instruments” concerning the right of profit for the year. prepayment with negative compensation. • Amendment to IAS 28 “Investments in associates and joint ventures”, Business combinations which clarifies that a company shall apply IFRS 9 to long-term holdings in Acquisitions of businesses are recognised using the acquisition method. associated companies and joint ventures that form part of the net investCost is calculated as the total fair value of assets purchased, liabilities that ment but to which the equity method is not applied. have arisen or are assumed, and equity instruments issued as payment in • Amendments to IAS 19 “Employee benefits”, concerning amendment, exchange for controlling interest over the acquired entity. Identifiable assets, curtailment or settlement in a defined benefit pension plan that occurs liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired are recognised at fair value on the during a pension period. acquisition date. The premium that consists of the difference between the • IFRIC 23 “Uncertainty over income tax treatments” provides guidance on cost of the acquired holdings and the total fair value of the identifiable net how companies shall treat a transaction when there is uncertainty over assets acquired is recognised as goodwill. A discount is recognised as a acceptable income tax treatment. A company shall determine whether gain in the income statement. the taxation authority will accept a particular tax treatment of income tax. The interpretation provides no new disclosure requirements. Associated companies and joint ventures None of the above changes has had any material effect on Swedavia’s Holdings in associated companies and joint ventures are recognised in the accounts. consolidated accounts using the equity method. The equity method entails that the carrying amount of shares in the associated company or joint venNew or amended standards and interpretations that enter into ture is equivalent to the Group’s share of the associated company’s or joint force in 2020 or later venture’s equity and any residual value of the consolidated premiums or dis• Amendment to IFRS 3 “Business combinations”, concerning changes in counts. The Group’s share of the associated company’s or joint venture’s the definition of a business combination. The classification of an acquisiprofit after tax adjusted for any amortisation on or liquidation of premiums or tion as either an asset acquisition or a business acquisition gives rise to discounts on acquisitions is recognised in the consolidated income statesignificant differences in their accounting. The change is expected to ment as “Profit from holdings in associated companies and joint ventures” to entail fewer acquisitions being classified as business acquisitions, with the extent that the Group owns shares in the company. Unrealised losses them instead being classified as asset acquisitions. The difference in are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains as long as there is no accounting between business acquisition and asset acquisition may be need for impairment. significant as a result of different standards being applied. The new definition of business acquisition is not expected to have a material effect on Elimination of transactions between Group companies Swedavia. Intra-Group receivables and liabilities and transactions between Group companies as well as unrealised gains in conjunction with these are eliminated in 94 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 full. Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associated companies Commercial Services and joint ventures are eliminated against “Holdings in associated companies Revenue from Commercial Services consists of revenue from car parking & and joint ventures” to the extent that the Group owns shares in the compassenger drop-off/pick-up facilities, retail, food & beverage, property pany. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains ­revenue, advertising and other commercial services. Revenue from car parkas long as there is no need for impairment ing & passenger drop-off/pick-up facilities, advertising and other commercial services is recognised under IFRS 15. The revenue category retail, food & Revenue beverage and revenue from leases in the revenue category “property” are Revenue is measured based on the payment specified in contracts with recognised under IFRS 16. customers. The Group recognises revenue when control of a product or serThe revenue category car parking & passenger drop-off/pick-up facilities vice is transferred to the customer. Information about the nature and timing consists of revenue from parking operations. The performance obligation for satisfaction of a performance obligation in contracts with customers and comprises providing space for passengers and other customers to park or related accounting principles for revenue recognition is given below. be dropped off/picked up at the airports. Revenue for car parking & passenSwedavia’s recognised net revenue consists of revenue flows from ger pick-up/drop-off facilities is recognised on an open account basis as Aviation Business and Commercial Services and other net revenue. either control or right of use is transferred to the customer. Revenue from the right to carry out car rental operations is also recognised after control has Aviation Business been transferred to the customer. Revenue from Aviation Business consists of revenue related to passengers, Revenue from retail, food & beverage consists of revenue from tenants at aircraft, external regulated charges, ground handling and other ancillary the airports whose operations offer passengers the possibility to eat, drink or services. shop for commercial goods. Rental revenue is classified as leases, with Passenger-related revenue consists of revenue from passenger fees, Swedavia being the lessor, and all revenue is recognised under IFRS 16. escorting of passengers and ground handling service fees. Swedavia’s Rental revenue is based on sales, and preliminary revenue is recognised on ­performance obligation is to give airline customers the opportunity to use a monthly basis with final settlement at the end of the year. Swedavia’s infrastructure and services, help passengers with reduced Property revenue consists of rental revenue for leasing premises and land mobility to and from the aircraft and provide infrastructure to airlines and during the lease term as well as property services and the sale of energy and ground handling companies that want to operate at the airports. Revenue telecom services, which are recognised with the provision of the service. for passenger fees and escorting is recognised on departure from one of Leases of premises and land are classified as leases with Swedavia being Swedavia’s airports, and ground handling fees are recognised as revenue in the lessor and are recognised under IFRS 16. The Group’s performance conjunction with the airline’s or ground handling company’s use of obligation for providing media and property services is regulated in contracts Swedavia’s infrastructure. Revenue is recognised when control has been with external parties. Invoicing and revenue recognition for external customtransferred to the customer. ers occur when control is transferred to the customer. The revenue category “aircraft-related revenue” consists of revenue from Advertising revenue consists of the sale of advertising space, and airlines for services and infrastructure used by the airlines’ aircraft or passen­revenue is recognised on a monthly basis in conjunction with the use of the gers in conjunction with take-off from or landing at Swedavia’s airports. advertising space and transfer of control to the customer. Swedavia’s obliExamples of revenue streams are take-off charges, emissions charges, gation is to provide advertising space, which entitles it to receive payment noise charges, aircraft parking fees, air traffic control charges and ground from the customer. handling fees related to the handling of aircraft. Swedavia’s performance For other services, revenue is recognised when the service is provided. obligation is to provide infrastructure to enable take-off and landing. AircraftDiscounts provided have reduced net revenue. related revenue, with the exception of ground handling fees, is recognised when an aircraft has taken off from one of Swedavia’s airports. Ground hanGovernment grants dling fees are recognised as revenue in conjunction with the airlines’ use of Government grants consist of grants from European Union research and Swedavia’s infrastructure. In all cases, control is transferred to the customer development programmes. Swedavia takes part in one such programme, with the recognition of revenue. which is aimed at providing air navigation services (ANS) to support the conExternally regulated charges consist of four revenue streams – security duct of business and commissioned traffic within the EU, which means that screening (GAS), slot coordination (SCC), air traffic management Stockholm aircraft shall be unrestricted by airspace configurations and be able to meet Arlanda Airport (TNC), and communication, navigation and surveillance the expected increase in volume through 2035. Government grants received (CNS). Swedavia’s performance obligation is to provide security screening of in the project related to costs are recognised as a decrease in the correpassengers and baggage, offer airport coordination services for aircraft in sponding cost in the income statement. Government grants received related conjunction with take-off and landing, provide infrastructure for air traffic to the financing of ongoing projects are recognised as a decrease in the control and assist with CNS infrastructure. Revenue is recognised for all four asset’s carrying amount. revenue streams after the performance obligation has been satisfied. Revenue from GAS is accrued on a monthly basis and final settlement is Financial income and expenses made following a decision by the Swedish Transport Agency. Revenue from Financial income consists of interest income on invested funds, dividends, SCC, CNS and TNC is recognised when the aircraft has taken off from one the gain on changes in the value of hedging instruments recognised at fair of Swedavia’s airports. The right of complaint expires once use of the good value through other comprehensive income and such gains on hedging or service is invoiced. instruments, which are recognised in net financial items. Financial expenses Revenue from ground handling is related to apron (ramp) services and consist of interest expenses on liabilities to credit institutions, bonds, freight forwarding fees. Swedavia’s performance obligation is to provide sermedium-­term notes and commercial paper, credit losses on hedging instruvices and infrastructure needed to receive aircraft and to prepare aircraft in ments, effects of reversing provisions recognised at their present value, turnaround for departure. Revenue is recognised in this revenue category on losses on changes in the value of hedging instruments recognised at fair departure from one of Swedavia’s airports, and it is at that point in time that value through other comprehensive income and such losses on hedging the performance obligation has been satisfied and control is transferred to instruments as are recognised in net financial items. the customer. Interest income and interest expenses on financial instruments are recogThe revenue category “other ancillary services” consists of ancillary nised using the effective interest method. Dividend income is recognised ­services that customers can use in return for payment, for example glycol when the right to receive a dividend is established. Foreign exchange gains handling or security services, which are primarily for fast track service. and losses are offset. Swedavia’s performance obligation for fast track service is to enable the airlines’ passengers to save time by providing special security checkpoints. Tax The obligation begins when the passenger enters the security checkpoint The Group’s total tax consists of current tax and deferred tax. Tax is recogand is satisfied in conjunction with the passenger exiting the security checknised in the income statement except when the underlying transaction is point. Revenue is recognised when the performance obligation is recognised in other comprehensive income. Current tax is tax that is to be completed. SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 95 NOTES paid or received during the current year. Current tax is calculated based on Useful life for the Group is: the taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit is distinguished from profit Buildings ­recognised in the income statement. The difference concerns revenue that – Foundations and frame 20 – 60 years is subject to tax and expenses that are deductible in other years (temporary – Roof 20 – 60 years differences) as well as items that are not subject to tax or are not tax-­ – Facade  20 – 60 years deductible (permanent differences). The Group’s current tax liability is – Internal structures and room functions  10 – 25 years ­calculated using the tax rates that are in effect on the balance sheet date. – Electrical installations  7 – 30 years An adjustment in current tax related to earlier periods is also recognised as – District networks  15 – 50 years ­current tax. Equipment, buildings  5 – 30 years Deferred tax is calculated using the balance sheet method based on the Equipment, land  10 – 60 years temporary differences between book and tax values of assets and liabilities. Field structures, runway systems Deferred tax is calculated using the tax rates and tax regulations that are – Load-bearing surfaces  60 years decided or advised on the balance sheet date. Temporary differences – Surface sealings  4 years related to consolidated goodwill and asset acquisitions are not taken into – Other parts 12 – 40 years account, and normally nor are differences related to holdings in subsidiaries, Field structures, other  30 – 70 years associated companies and joint ventures that are not expected to be taxed Electrical installations, vehicles and equipment  3 – 10 years Modifications within the foreseeable future. Untaxed reserves including deferred tax liability for tenants  Length of lease are recognised for legal persons. However, in consolidated accounts, untaxed reserves are divided into deferred tax liability and equity. Deferred Investment properties tax assets for temporary differences and loss carryforwards that are tax-­ Investment properties are properties held in order to obtain rental revenue, deductible are only recognised to the extent it is likely that a taxable profit appreciation in value or a combination of the two. Investment properties are occurs against which tax-deductible temporary differences can be used. recognised at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed on each closing impairment losses. date. Deferred tax liabilities are normally recognised for all temporary Cost includes the purchase price and fees directly attributable to the ­differences subject to tax. asset to convey it to the site and in the state it is to be used in accordance with the reason for the purchase. Borrowing costs directly attributable to sigNon-current intangible assets nificant renovation and new construction projects where the time of compleThe Group’s non-current intangible assets consist of goodwill and other tion exceeds twelve months are included in the cost of the fixed asset for the non-current intangible assets. Goodwill arises when the cost of the acquisiportion of the construction period they arose. Interest expenses are calcution of shares in a subsidiary exceeds the fair value of the net assets of the lated based on the Group’s average interest rate for all loan liabilities. FINANCIAL INFORMATION company acquired. Goodwill is recognised at cost less any impairment loss. Additional expenditures are added to the asset’s carrying amount or Goodwill has an indeterminable expected useful life, and an impairment ­recognised separately when it is likely that the company will derive future review is carried out at least once a year. Other non-current intangible assets economic benefits attributable to the asset and the cost of the asset can be consist mostly of noise insulation for the properties of others. Straight-line calculated in a reliable way. Other expenditures that arise are recognised as amortisation is used for noise insulation measures and is reviewed annually. a cost in the period in which they arise. Useful life shall correspond to the time the environmental permit or condiDepreciation is recognised based on the expected and estimated useful tions contained therein are in effect but never more than 25 years. Other life using the straight-line depreciation method. For cases where parts of the non-current intangible assets also consist of assets developed by the Group’s assets consist of different components, where each part has an ­company with a useful life of 5-10 years. expected useful life that differs significantly from the asset as a whole, depreciation of such components occurs on an individual basis using the estiTangible fixed assets mated useful life of each component. Tangible fixed assets are recognised at cost less accumulated depreciation Depreciation begins when the assets are ready for their intended use. and any accumulated impairment losses. Scheduled depreciation is based on cost less estimated residual value. The Cost comprises the purchase price and expenditures directly related to residual value and useful life are reviewed on an annual basis and adjusted if the asset in order to convey it to its location and to use it for the purpose for necessary. Properties under construction that are intended to be used as which it was acquired. Borrowing costs directly related to major renovation investment properties when the work is completed are classified as investor new construction projects where the time of completion is longer than ment properties. Investment properties are valued annually to determine twelve months are included in the cost of the fixed asset to the extent they their fair value, in other words, estimated market value. have arisen during the construction period. Interest expenses are calculated based on the Group’s average interest rate on all loan liabilities. Biological assets – standing timber Additional expenditures are added to the asset’s carrying amount or The Group’s forest assets are divided into standing timber, which is recog­recognised separately when it is likely that the company will derive future nised as a biological asset, and land. Standing timber is measured and economic benefits related to the asset and the cost of the asset can be ­recognised at fair value on each reporting date. Changes in fair value are ­calculated in a reliable way. Other expenditures that arise are recognised as ­recognised in the income statement. Fair value has been calculated as the a cost in the period in which they arise. present value of the discounted future return from long-term sustainable Depreciation is recognised based on the expected and estimated useful ­forest o ­ perations, that is, the expected future cash flow from forest operalife using the straight-line depreciation method. For cases where parts of the tions. For further information, see Notes 20 and 23. Group’s assets consist of different components, where each part has an expected useful life that differs significantly from the asset as a whole, Leases ­depreciation of such components occurs on an individual basis using the Principles applied as of January 1, 2019 estimated useful life of each component. When a contract is entered into, Swedavia determines whether the contract Depreciation begins when the assets are ready for their intended use. is, or contains, a lease. A contract is or contains a lease if the contract transScheduled depreciation is based on cost less estimated residual value. The fers the right to decide the use of an identified asset over a given period in residual value and useful life are reviewed on an annual basis and adjusted if exchange for payment. necessary. The Group’s field structures consist of various assets such as As a lessee, Swedavia recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability parking facilities, roads, ditches and ponds, where the useful life varies. The on the lease commencement date. The right-of-use asset is valued initially at Group’s buildings consist of different types of property such as terminal cost, which consists of the original value of the lease plus lease charges paid buildings and buildings with more basic constructions, which have a on or prior to the lease commencement date plus any initial direct expendi­different useful life. tures. The right-of-use asset is depreciated on a straight-line basis from the lease commencement date to the earlier of the end of the underlying asset’s 96 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 period of use or the end of the lease term, which normally for Swedavia is corresponding liability is recognised initially. The asset is depreciated the end of the lease term. In rarer cases when the cost of the right-of-use according to a set schedule over the asset’s useful life while lease payments reflects that Swedavia will exercise an option to purchase the underlying are recognised as interest and principal payments on the liability. For operatasset, the asset is written off at the end of the period of use. ing leases, lease payments are carried as an expense over the lease term. The lease liability – which is divided into a non-current and current portion – is initially measured at the present value of remaining lease charges during Impairment losses the expected lease term. The lease term consists of the non-cancellable On each balance sheet date, the Group analyses the carrying amounts of period with a supplement for additional periods if it is determined on the tangible fixed assets and non-current intangible assets to determine commencement date that it is reasonably certain the option on these whether there is anything to indicate that these assets have decreased in ­periods will be exercised. value. If there is an indication of this, the replacement value is calculated in Lease charges are normally discounted using Swedavia’s incremental order to determine the value of any impairment loss. borrowing rate (IBR), which reflects along with Swedavia’s credit risk the In valuation of the airports, a systems approach is applied. Since the airlease term, currency and quality of the underlying asset intended as security ports included in the national basic airport infrastructure are operated as a for each lease. However, in cases where the interest rate implicit in the lease system, integrated and mutually dependent, the individual airports have can easily be determined, that rate is used, which is the case for some of been valued according to their systemic useful life rather than based on Swedavia’s vehicle leases. ­recognised profit. Operating the airports as a system means that it is not The lease liability includes the present value of the following charges possible to isolate cash flow related to individual airports included in the under the expected lease term: ­system on a meaningful basis. Therefore the system of airports that are • fixed charges, including in-substance fixed payments, included in Sweden’s national basic infrastructure is treated as a single • variable lease charges linked to an index (such as CPI) or interest rate cash-generating unit. (such as STIBOR), initially valued using the index or interest rate in effect An impairment loss is recognised in the income statement. If an impairon the commencement date, ment loss is reversed, it is done so only to the extent that the carrying • any residual value guarantees for which payment is expected, amount of the asset does not exceed the carrying amount, less deprecia• the exercise price of a purchase option that Swedavia is reasonably tion, if no impairment loss had been made. A reversal of an impairment loss ­certain it will exercise and is recognised in the income statement. A reversal of an impairment loss is • penalties to be paid for termination of the lease if the expected lease term never recognised for goodwill. reflects that such a termination will occur. The value of the liability is increased by the interest expenses and Materials and supplies decreased by the lease payments for each period. The interest expense is Inventories are recognised at the lower of cost using the first-in first-out calculated as the value of the liability multiplied by the discount rate. method or fair value. As a result, obsolescence risks are mitigated. The lease liability for Swedavia’s premises with index-linked rent is calculated based on the rent in effect at the end of each reporting period. At that Receivables and liabilities in foreign currencies time, the liability is adjusted by the same amount as the adjustment in the Receivables and liabilities in foreign currencies have been translated at the carrying value of the right-of-use asset. Similarly, the value of the liability and exchange rate on the balance sheet date. Exchange rate differences for the asset is adjusted in conjunction with reassessment of the lease term. operating receivables and operating liabilities are included in the operating This occurs when the last cancellation date in the previously expected lease profit, while exchange rate differences for financial receivables and liabilities term for the lease of premises has passed or when significant events occur are recognised in financial items. or circumstances change significantly in a way that is within Swedavia’s ­control and affects the prevailing expected length of the lease term. Liquid assets Swedavia presents right-of-use assets and lease liabilities as separate Liquid assets comprise cash and banking holdings that are immediately items in the report on its financial position. available. For leases that have a lease term of twelve months or less or an under­ lying asset with a low value, less than SEK 50 T, no right-of-use asset or Trade payables lease liability is recognised. Lease charges for these leases are recognised Trade payables have a short expected maturity and are measured without as a cost on a straight-line basis over the lease term. discounting their nominal amount. As lessor, Swedavia determines on the commencement date of each lease whether the contract shall be classified as a finance or operating lease. Financial instruments In determining the classification, an overall assessment is made of whether A financial asset or financial liability is recognised in the balance sheet when the lease transfers substantially all economic risks and benefits associated an asset or liability arises under the terms of the instrument stipulated in the with ownership of the underlying asset. If that is the case, the lease is a contract. A financial asset is derecognised from the balance sheet when the finance lease; otherwise it is an operating lease. As part of this assessment, contractual rights are realised, expire or when the company loses control Swedavia takes into consideration a number of indicators. Examples of such over it. A financial liability is derecognised from the balance sheet when the indicators are whether the lease term constitutes the major part of the contractual obligation has been fulfilled or in any other way eliminated. remaining economic life of the asset or whether ownership of the underlying Financial instruments that are not derivatives are recognised at fair value asset is transferred to the lessee when the lease expires. plus or minus transaction costs, except for those financial assets belonging When a leased asset is subleased, the main lease and the sublease are to the category of financial asset or liability recognised at fair value through recognised as two separate leases. Swedavia classifies the sublease based profit or loss. Derivative instruments are recognised at fair value; increases on the right of use conveyed by the main lease, not based on the underlying and decreases in value are recognised on a regular basis as revenue or asset. costs in other comprehensive income in cases where hedge accounting is Swedavia recognises lease charges from operating leases on a straightappropriate. Financial assets and liabilities are measured at fair value based line basis over the lease term as part of the item “net revenue”. on their hierarchy level; see Note 20. Financial assets and liabilities are offset and recognised as a net amount Principles applied until December 31, 2018 in the balance sheet when there is a legal right to offset and when the intenLeases are classified in consolidated accounts and Parent Company tion is to settle the items with a net amount or to realise the asset and settle accounts either as finance leases or operating leases. Leases in which the liability simultaneously. Swedavia assumes substantially all economic risks and benefits associated On each balance sheet date, the company assesses whether there are with direct ownership of the asset are classified as finance leases. objective indications that an impairment loss needs to be taken on a financial Recognition of finance leases entails entering the fixed asset as an asset in asset or group of financial assets on initial recognition. Impairment losses are the Group’s balance sheet at the lower of the amount of the asset’s market calculated and recognised for financial assets that are measured at amorvalue or the estimated present value of the underlying lease payments, and a tised cost and for financial assets valued at fair value through other SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 97 NOTES comprehensive income. A provision for credit losses is calculated and recpay interest, decreasing unrestricted equity. If the company calls the hybrid ognised initially based on twelve months’ expected credit losses. If the credit bond for redemption, a liability is recognised at the time there is a contractual risk has increased significantly since the financial asset was first recognised, obligation to redeem the bond, and there is a decrease in the hybrid bond a provision for credit losses is calculated and recognised based on expected recognised as unrestricted equity. credit losses for the entire life of the asset. For trade receivables that do not include a significant financing component, a simplified method is applied Hedge accounting and a provision for credit losses is calculated based on expected credit General losses for the entire remaining life regardless of whether the credit risk has Derivative instruments are recognised in the balance sheet on the contract increased significantly or not. Swedavia bases its calculation of expected date at fair value through comprehensive income, both initially and in sub­ credit losses on a combination of historical data, based on customer type sequent remeasurements. The method for recognising profit or loss arising and due date, which are considered relative to future economic prospects. from remeasurement depends on whether the derivative has been identified The carrying amount after impairment losses on assets is calculated as as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the hedged item. The Group the present value of future cash flows discounted by the effective interest identifies some derivatives as a hedge of a given risk which is connected to a rate that applied when the asset was recognised for the first time. Assets recognised liability or a very likely forecast transaction (cash flow hedge). with a short maturity are not discounted. An impairment loss is charged to The Group uses derivative instruments to limit exposure to the negative the income statement. The asset is eliminated from the balance sheet in the effect of financial fluctuations on the Group’s income statement, balance event of bankruptcy. sheet and cash flow. When the transaction is entered into, the relationship between the hedgFinancial assets measured at amortised cost ing instrument and the hedged item is analysed and assessed against the The Group’s financial debt instruments are classified using the business Group’s risk management objectives for hedging. The analysis is documodel for collecting contractual cash flows. This category includes loan mented at the inception of the hedge and on a continuous basis, to ensure receivables, trade receivables, receivables from associated companies and that the derivative instruments used in hedging transactions are effective in joint ventures, other receivables and liquid assets. Since these assets are evening out changes in fair value or changes in cash flow for hedged items. classified according to its business model for collecting contractual cash Gains and losses on hedges are recognised in the profit for the year at the flows, it is important for the classification whether the financial asset is comsame time the gains and losses on the items hedged are recognised. plex or not. Classification is determined through a test to decide whether the asset’s cash flows consist only of repayment of the capital and interest. All Cash flow hedges assets except derivative instruments passed the test, which means they are To hedge interest rate risk for likely forecast interest cash flows related to classified as non-complex and are measured at amortised cost. Loan loan liabilities at variable interest rates, interest rate swaps – in which the receivables and trade receivables with short maturities are measured at their company receives a variable rate and pays a fixed rate – are used. Interest FINANCIAL INFORMATION nominal cost with no discounting. Trade receivables are recognised at the rate swaps are recognised at fair value on the balance sheet, with changes amount expected to be received less any expected credit losses that are in value recognised in other comprehensive income. The interest coupon assessed in terms of credit exposure based on forward-looking information portion is recognised directly in the profit for the year as part of interest and historical data; see Note 47. expenses. Unrealised changes in fair value on the interest rate swaps are recognised in other comprehensive income and are included in the hedge Financial assets measured at fair value through profit and loss reserve until the hedged item affects the profit for the year and as long as the Derivative instruments with a positive value that are subject to hedge criteria for hedge accounting and effectiveness are fulfilled. The gain or loss accounting are recognised at fair value through other comprehensive related to the non-effective portion of unrealised value changes on the interincome, with increases in value recognised on an ongoing basis as income est rate swaps is recognised in profit or loss. through other comprehensive income. Hedge accounting has also been applied for commodity and currency derivatives. Currency derivatives are used mainly to lock in the exchange Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost rate for future flows of foreign currencies, which arise mostly in conjunction Loan liabilities and other financial liabilities, apart from derivatives, are recogwith investments and with electricity trading. Commodity derivatives are nised at amortised cost. Amortised cost is determined based on the effecused to hedge the risk of electricity prices that arises in the Group’s business tive interest rate calculated at the time the amount was borrowed. This operations. Changes in the fair value of these derivative instruments are recmeans that discounts/premiums and the direct costs of share issues are ognised in other comprehensive income and are accumulated in the hedge allocated over the maturity of the loan. Trade payables have short expected reserve under equity. The accumulated gains or losses in the hedge reserve maturities and are recognised without discounting their nominal amount. are reclassified to the income statement in the same period that the hedged Non-current liabilities have an expected maturity of more than one year item affects profit. When a hedging instrument or hedging relationship is terwhereas current liabilities have a maturity of less than one year. minated but the hedged transaction is still expected to occur, the accumulated gains and losses in the hedge reserve remain and are recognised in the Financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit and profit for the year when the contracted or projected transaction is recogloss nised in the income statement. However, if the hedged transaction is no In this category are derivatives with a negative value that are not subject to longer expected to occur, the accumulated gains and losses in the hedge hedge accounting. Financial instruments in this category are measured on reserve are immediately reclassified to profit or loss. an ongoing basis at fair value through profit or loss. Provisions Classification and recognition of hybrid bond A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the company has a forFinancial instruments issued by the company are recognised either as a liamal or informal obligation as a result of an event occurring, it is likely that an bility or equity, based on whether there is any contractual obligation to settle outflow of resources is required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estithe contract in cash or another financial asset. mate of the amount can be made. A present value calculation is made to Swedavia AB (publ) has issued a hybrid bond with a perpetual maturity, take into account significant time effects of future payments. Provisions are and the company is entitled to defer interest payments for an indeterminate divided into non-current and current provisions. period insofar as the hybrid bond holders are informed within the agreed period. The hybrid bond is classified at the first call date as equity in accordRestoration reserve ance with IAS 32 “Financial instruments: Presentation”. Transaction costs In conformity with the Group’s published environmental principles and related to the hybrid bond are recognised in equity. Interest on the hybrid ­applicable legal requirements, a provision to restore contaminated assets bond is recognised as a liability at the time there is a contractual obligation to shall be recognised when the asset is contaminated. 98 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Restructuring reserve Group companies A provision is recognised when a detailed restructuring plan has been Holdings in Group companies are recognised in the Parent Company using adopted and the restructuring has either begun or been publicly announced. the cost method. The recognised value of holdings in a limited partnership changes annually by the Parent Company’s share of the limited partnership’s Other provisions net profit and any withdrawals or contributions made during the year. Other provisions consist of provisions related to estimated amounts for disputes, onerous contracts, social security funds and other commitments. A Equity provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected economic Equity is divided between unrestricted and restricted reserves in accordance benefits the Group expects to receive from a contract are lower than the with the Annual Accounts Act. Group contributions paid are recognised by unavoidable costs of fulfilling the terms of the contract. the donor as an increase in holdings in Group companies. The recipient ­recognises the contribution as unrestricted equity. Contingent liabilities A contingent liability is a possible obligation resulting from past events and Untaxed reserves whose occurrence is confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence In the Parent Company, untaxed reserves are recognised in their entirety of one or more uncertain future events, which are not entirely in the compawithout being divided between equity and deferred taxes. ny’s control, or there is an obligation resulting from past events but which is not recognised as a liability or provision since it is not likely that an outflow of Financial instruments resources will be required to settle the obligation, or the size of the obligation The Parent Company does not apply IFRS 9; instead, financial instruments cannot be estimated with sufficient accuracy. No accounting is necessary are recognised based on their cost in conformity with the Annual Accounts when the likelihood of an outflow of resources is extremely limited. Act. This means that non-current financial assets are recognised at cost less any impairment loss, and current financial assets are measured based on PARENT COMPANY ACCOUNTING PRINCIPLES the lower of cost or market rule. The Parent Company prepares its financial reports in conformity with Interest rate swaps are recognised at cost and accrued interest. Sweden’s Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554) and the Swedish Financial Accounting Standards Council’s recommendation RFR 2 “Accounting for Pensions legal entities”. The differences between the consolidated and Parent The Parent Company complies with the statutes in the Swedish Pension Company accounting principles are presented below. The accounting Obligations Vesting Act and the instructions of the Swedish Financial ­principles specified for the Parent Company have been applied consistently Supervisory Authority since that is a requirement for making tax deductions. in all the periods presented in the Parent Company’s financial reports. The most significant differences compared to reporting in the consolidated financial accounts and in that case with the regulations in IAS 19 are the way New accounting principles the discount rate is determined, with the calculation of the defined benefit The new principles for leases, in accordance with IFRS 16, that began to be obligation based on the current salary level without any assumption of future applied by the Group are not applied by the Parent Company based on salary increases, and actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the ­possible exceptions in Sweden’s RFR 2 “Accounting for legal entities”. The income statement. The Parent Company’s total commitments for defined Parent Company accounts have changed in this respect, since IAS 17 was benefit pensions are covered by credit insurance with FPG/PRI. previously applied in its accounts. The comparative year has not been restated, based on materiality considerations. Fixed assets held for sale When a fixed asset, or disposal group, is classified as held for sale, it means Group contributions its carrying amount will be recovered mainly through selling the asset and Group contributions received and paid are recognised as appropriations. not its usage. A fixed asset or disposal group is classified as held for sale if it is available for immediate sale in its present state and based on normal Non-current intangible assets ­conditions, and the sale must be highly probable. These assets or disposal The Parent Company recognises goodwill from the acquisition of assets that groups are presented separately as a current asset or current liability in the have an expected useful life of 20 years. Useful life reflects the company’s statement of financial position. estimate of the period under which future economic benefits that goodwill Immediately before an asset is classified as held for sale, the carrying and other non-current intangible assets represent will flow to the company. amount of the fixed asset and all assets and liabilities in a disposal group is Straight-line amortisation is applied over the expected useful life of the asset. determined in accordance with applicable standards. On initial classification as held for sale, fixed assets and disposal groups are recognised at the Leases lower of carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. Some assets, Principles applied as of January 1, 2019 ­individually or as part of a disposal group, are excluded from the measureThe Parent Company does not apply IFRS 16, in accordance with the ment requirements described above, namely investment properties, exception found in RFR 2. As a lessee, Swedavia recognises lease charges ­f­inancial assets, deferred tax assets and plan assets attributable to as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term, so rights of use defined-benefit pension plans. and lease liabilities are not recognised in the balance sheet. The contracts in which the Parent Company constitutes the lessor are recognised as operating leases. NOTE 2 Significant judgements and estimates Principles applied until December 31, 2018 In the preparation of the financial reports in accordance with IFRS, the Until December 31, 2018, Parent Company accounting principles for leases ­company’s management is required to make judgements and estimates as were the same as consolidated accounting principles. well as assumptions that affect application of the accounting principles and the carrying amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and costs. Estimates and Associated companies and joint ventures assumptions are based on historical experience and a number of other facHoldings in associated companies and joint ventures are recognised in the tors that seem reasonable under prevailing conditions. The actual outcome Parent Company using the cost method. Dividends received are recognised may differ from previous estimates and judgements. Estimates and assumpin the income statement. In cases where joint ventures are limited partnertions are reviewed on a regular basis. Changes in estimates are recognised ships, the value of the holding is adjusted by the value of the Parent in the period the change is made if it only affected that period, or in the Company’s share of the limited company’s net profit. period the change is made and future periods if the change affects both the current and future periods. SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 99 NOTES Below is a description of the areas that have a material effect on NOTE 3 Segment reporting judgements and estimates. An operating segment is defined as a part of the Group that carries out Measurement of goodwill business operations from which it can generate revenue and costs, Goodwill is allocated to the Airport Operations segment and tested for whose operating profit is regularly examined by the company’s highest impairment at least annually. The recoverable amount is based on calculaexecutive officer and for which there is independent financial informations of its value in use. These calculations are based on estimated cash tion. At Swedavia, the highest executive officer is identified as the chief flows in the business plan adopted and forecasts. Significant assumptions in executive officer of the Parent Company. Swedavia’s operations are determining the value in use are passenger volume trends, future interest organised and run as two business segments, Airport Operations and rates and cost trends. See also Note 14. Real Estate. Measurement of pension liability • Airport Operations owns, operates and develops Swedavia’s Defined benefit pension obligations were taken over in conjunction with the ­airports. Most revenue consists of passenger-related revenue division of operations at LFV and the formation of Swedavia. The assump• Real Estate owns, develops and administers properties and tion consists of the present value of expected future payments and is ­developable land at and in the vicinity of Swedavia’s airports. Most ­determined annually by independent actuaries. The size of the provision is ­revenue consists of revenue from properties affected by assumptions about the discount rate, which is assigned based on the duration, and inflation, which is assigned based on market expectaThe basis of segment reporting is internal reporting. Executive managetions. See also Note 37. ment mostly uses operating profit by segment in accordance with Swedish accounting principles for monitoring. The capitalisation of loan Other fees, financial expenses, financial income and income tax is handled at The executive management’s best judgement is also used in conjunction the Group level. with recognition of amounts involved in disputes since litigation and disputes The accounting principles conform to those applied in the consoliare unpredictable in nature. dated financial accounts. Belopp i MSEK Airport Operations Real Estate Eliminations/adjustments Group Income statement Jan – Dec 1 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 FINANCIAL INFORMATION Net revenue, external 6,197 5,919 39 3 — — 6,235 5,922 Net revenue, internal 25 17 15 11 –40 –27 — — Other operating income 68 49 — 55 — — 68 104 Capitalised work for own account 189 170 — — — — 189 170 Operating costs –4,555 –4,400 –83 –31 164 20 –4,474 –4,411 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses –1,184 –1,096 –21 –6 –105 0 –1,309 –1,103 Operating profit 740 659 –50 31 19 –7 709 682 Airport Operations Real Estate Eliminations/adjustments Group Balance sheet, on December 31 1 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Non-current assets 18,499 17,145 2,593 2,139 –54 –1,060 21,038 18,225 Current assets 3,043 2,611 322 191 –2,219 –1,745 1,146 1,057 Assets held for sale — — — — 768 442 768 442 Total assets 21,542 19,757 2,915 2,331 –1,505 –2,363 22,952 19,725 Equity 9,475 8,183 727 571 –761 –669 9,440 8,066 Liabilities 12,067 11,573 2,189 1,759 –786 –1,674 13,469 11,657 Liabilities related to assets held for sale — — — — 43 2 43 2 Total equity and liabilities 21,542 19,757 2,915 2,331 –1,505 –2,363 22,952 19,725 1 L ast year’s figures for the segments have been restated because Swedavia Airport Telecom AB and Swedavia Energi AB were moved from the Real Estate segment to the Airport Operations segment as of January 1, 2019. One customer accounted for 17 per cent (17) of the Group’s revenue in 2019, equal to SEK 1,097 M (1,082), allocated to both segments. Of the Group’s total investments in 2019, SEK 3,460 M (3,195), SEK 2,906 M (2,604) is attributable to Airport Operations and SEK 554 M (591) is attributable to Real Estate. 100 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 NOTE 4 Net revenue and other ancillary services. This revenue is related to the provision of infrastructure aimed at airlines and ground handling companies for Group Parent Company take-off and landing and is recognised in conjunction with airlines and ground handling companies using Swedavia’s range of services on offer Revenue by source 2019 2018 2019 2018 – in other words, when there is a departure from one of Swedavia’s airAviation Business ports. Discounts given have reduced net revenue in the same period the revenue is generated. Revenue is invoiced after the performance obligaPassenger-related revenue 1,822 1,821 1,822 1,821 tion has been completed. Aircraft-related revenue 867 623 867 623 Commercial Services Externally regulated charges 733 748 733 748 Revenue from Commercial Services consists of revenue from car parkGround handling 286 294 286 294 ing & passenger drop-off/pick-up facilities, retail, food & beverage, property revenue, advertising and other commercial services. This reveOther ancillary services 206 210 206 210 nue is related to services associated with the airports such as the leasTotal Aviation Business 3,914 3,696 3,914 3,696 ing of premises, parking operations and the provision of advertising space. Revenue from car parking & parking facilities is recognised in conjunction with the parking customer using the parking space. Group Parent Company Advertising revenue consists of the sale of advertising space, and reveRevenue by source 2019 2018 2019 2018 nue is recognised during the period of use. Real estate revenue and other commercial products consist of the sale of energy and telecom Commercial Services services, which are recognised when the service is provided. Discounts Car parking & passenger drop-off/ given have reduced net revenue in the same period the revenue is pick-up facilities 889 903 889 903 generated. Retail, food & beverage 735 676 735 676 Other net revenue Property revenue2 469 421 341 341 Revenue under other net revenue is recognised on delivery and consists of revenue from goods sold and services provided that are included in Advertising 123 123 123 123 the company’s regular operations but that are not related to revenue Other commercial products 78 68 105 90 from Aviation Business or Commercial Services. Discounts given have reduced net revenue in the same period the revenue is generated. Total Commercial Services 2,294 2,191 2,193 2,133 Revenue is invoiced after the performance obligation has been completed. Other net revenue 28 35 40 44 Contract balances Total net revenue 6,235 5,922 6,146 5,873 Contract assets and contract liabilities arise in conjunction with customer invoicing and are reclassified as trade receivables upon invoicing. Contract assets consist of the right to receive payment for performance Of which revenue for contracts completed when the service has been transferred to the customer. with customers 5,305 5,039 5,277 5,068 Contract liabilities consist of the customer’s right to be provided with a Of which not revenue for performance obligation by Swedavia – in other words, if payments are contracts with customers 930 883 869 804 made prior to completion of the performance obligation – as well as the right to receive volume discounts in accordance with the contract. 1 Last year’s figures for the segments have been restated because Swedavia Airport Telecom AB and Swedavia Energi AB were moved from the Real Estate segment to Breakdown of trade receivables into contract assets and contract the Airport Operations segment since January 1, 2019. ­liabilities from contracts with customers: 2 Leases contracts for premises and land are classified as leases under IFRS16 Group Swedavia’s geographic market is Sweden. Swedavia’s airports are run, Dec 31, Dec 31, consolidated and reported internally as a cohesive system of airports. 2019 2018 Of net revenue for the period, SEK 54 M (14) was related to Real Estate, broken down into Real Estate revenue of SEK 45 M (9), other commerTrade receivables related to contracts with customers 108 109 cial products of SEK 8 M (4) and other net revenue of SEK M (1). For a Contract assets 16 21 breakdown by segment and eliminations/adjustments, see Note 3 “Segment reporting”. Contract liabilities 35 48 Performance obligations Impairment losses recognised on any contract assets arising from Swedavia’s revenue from contracts with customers consists of revenue ­contracts with customers totalled SEK 0 M (0) during the year. from Aviation Business, Commercial Services and other net revenue. Independently determined sales prices are used for all performance Group obligations. Discounts given have reduced net revenue. Trade receivables are non-interest-bearing assets usually with 30-day payment 2019 2018 terms. Trade receivables in 2019 were on a par with those the previous Revenue recognised in the reporting period that was inyear. Information about the Group’s performance obligations is summacluded in the contract liability balance at the b­ eginning rised below: of the period 48 78 Aviation Business Revenue recognised during the reporting period from Revenue from Aviation Business consists of passenger-related revenue, performance obligations satisfied in previous periods — — aircraft-related revenue, externally regulated charges, ground handling SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 101 NOTES Breakdown of transaction price of contract assets by remaining Transactions with the Swedish State performance obligation with a duration of more than one year Swedavia AB is wholly owned by the Swedish State. The Swedavia Group’s products and services are provided to the State, government Group agencies and State-owned companies (hereinafter called other related 2019 2019 2019 parties) in competition with other suppliers on commercial terms. Similarly, Swedavia AB and its Group companies purchase products Aviation Commercial Other net and services from government authorities and State-owned companies ­Business Services revenue at market prices and on commercial terms. Costs for other related parRecognised at one point in time — — — ties consist mostly of the purchase of meteorological services, charges to government authorities and air navigation services, which are largely Recognised over time (duration of included in the costs covered via remuneration from the Swedish more than one year) — — — Transport Agency for security screening and parts of air traffic management services. The Group’s sale of goods and services to other related parties totalled SEK 276 M (170) and its purchase of goods and services NOTE 5 Related party transactions totalled SEK 291 M (266). Transactions with the Swedish State related to taxes and payroll fees have not been included. Related party transactions involve transactions with State-owned companies or operations that conduct business in which the State has controlling interest. Related parties also include companies over which NOTE 6 Other operating income Swedavia may exercise controlling interest or a significant influence in terms of operating and finance decisions made; for transactions with Group Parent Company them, see the table below. Concerning Swedavia AB’s receivables from and liabilities to Group companies, see Note 31 “Receivables from 2019 2018 2019 2018 Group companies” and Note 32 “Receivables from and liabilities to associated companies and joint ventures”. Shares in Group companies Other operating income are described in detail in Note 27 “Holdings in Group companies” and in Capital gains 36 71 36 16 Note 26 “Holdings in associated companies and joint ventures”. Transactions are carried out on market terms, and operations are Other 32 33 32 33 ­subject to competition. Total 68 104 68 49 FINANCIAL INFORMATION Physical persons who are related parties are defined as executive officers, Board members and immediate family members of such persons. For information about remuneration to executive officers and Board members, see Note 8 Capital gains in 2019 are related to the sale of subsidiaries, SEK — M “Employees and staff expenses”. There are no securities pledged by or contin(55), the sale of buildings, SEK 15 M (–), the sale of land, SEK 13 M (3), gent liabilities from Swedavia for executive officers or Board members. and other capital gains, SEK 8 M (13). Group Parent Company 2019 2018 2019 2018 NOTE 7 Remuneration and reimbursement expenses to auditors Sale of goods and services Subsidiaries — — 135 121 Group Parent Company Associated companies and joint 2019 2018 2019 2018 ventures 44 35 9 10 Ernst & Young Total sale of goods and service 44 35 144 131 Auditing assignments — 3 — 3 Sale of immovable property or Other services 0 0 0 0 other assets KPMG Subsidiaries — — 10 1 Auditing assignments 3 — 3 — Associated companies and joint ventures 13 3 13 3 Other services 0 0 0 0 Total sale of immovable Total 3 3 3 3 property or other assets 13 3 24 4 Auditing assignments refers to the statutory auditing of the annual Purchase of goods and services accounts and the administration of the Board of Directors and the President and CEO as well as auditing and other examination performed Subsidiaries — — 341 333 in accordance with agreements or contracts. This includes other duties Associated companies and joint incumbent upon the company’s auditors as well as advice or other ventures 93 56 93 57 assistance stemming from observations made during such audits or the performance of other such duties. Total purchase of goods and Other services refers to advice on accounting issues as well as services 93 56 434 390 advice on processes and internal auditing. Audit expense pertains to the accrued cost for the financial year the Interest, net audit is for. At the Annual General Meeting 2019, KPMG was elected Subsidiaries — — 17 12 auditor, which means the entire cost of the audit for the financial year 2019 is allocated to KPMG. Total interest — — 17 12 102 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 NOTE 8 Employees and staff expenses RemuRemuneration to the Audit neration Other 2019 2018 Board in 2019, SEK T Board fee Committee Committee benefits Average Chairman of the Board number of Åke Svensson 447 15 25 — employees, Share of Share of Share of Share of Sweden Total women, % men, % Total women, % men, % Board members Parent Company 3,050 35 65 3,217 37 63 Lars Backemar 223 — — — Subsidiaries — — — — — — Adine Grate Axén 1 73 7 Group 3,050 35 65 3,217 37 63 Lottie Knutson 223 — 20 — Lotta Mellström — — — — Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Lars Mydland 223 — — — Share of Share of Share of Share of Mikael Norman 223 37 — — Executive officers women men women men Lottie Svedenstedt 223 — 20 — Group Total 1,635 59 65 — Board members, % 33 67 40 60 1 Adine Grate Axén stepped down from the Board in conjunction with the Annual Other executive officers, including General Meeting 2019. the President and CEO, % 64 36 44 56 RemuRemuneration to the Audit neration Other Group Parent Company Board in 2018, SEK T Board fee Committee Committee benefits Salaries, other remuneration and employee benefits, SEK M 2019 2018 2019 2018 Chairman of the Board Salaries and remuneration Åke Svensson 440 — 25 — Board of Directors 2 2 2 2 Board members President and CEO 27 29 27 29, Lars Backemar 220 — — — Other employees 1,364 1,335 1,364 1,335 Adine Grate Axén 220 20 — — Total 1,393 1,366 1,393 1,366 Lottie Knutson 1 220 — 13 — Payroll taxes 615 610 755 663 Lotta Mellström — — — — of which pension expenses Lars Mydland 220 — — — including employee income tax for CEO and executive officers 9 10 9 10 Mikael Norman 220 35 — — of which pension expenses Lottie Svedenstedt 220 — 20 — including employee income tax for Total 1,760 55 58 — other employees 160 148 300 201 1 Lottie Knutson was elected to the Remuneration Committee at the statutory Board Other staff-related expenses 44 54 44 54 meeting on April 26, 2018. Total employee expenses 2,052 2,030 2,192 2,083 Remuneration to the Board of Directors consists of a fee decided at the Annual General Meeting. Up until the Annual General Meeting 2018, the Board fee was paid either as a salary or on invoice from the Board member’s sole proprietorship or company. In cases where the Board fee was invoiced, an amount equivalent to the payroll taxes that Swedavia AB does not have to pay as a result was added. As of the Annual General Meeting 2018, it is no longer possible to invoice the Board fee from one’s own company. Instead, the fee is only paid as salary. SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 103 NOTES Guidelines for remuneration to the Board of Directors Swedavia follows the State’s guidelines for remuneration to the Board. A fee is paid to the Chairman and Board members based on a decision at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) on April 17, 2019. No pension contribution is paid for Board members. No remuneration is paid to Board members who are employed in the Swedish Government Offices. No Board fee is paid to employee representatives or their deputies. As of the Annual General Meeting 2019, Board fees are only paid as salary. No Board fee is paid to Board members in any subsidiary since all members are employees of companies in the Swedavia Group. Remuneration for members of the Audit Committee is based on a decision taken at the AGM held on April 17, 2019. Since the 2019 statutory Board meeting, the Remuneration Committee includes Chairman of the Board Åke Svensson and Board members Lottie Knutson, Lotta Mellström and Lottie Svedenstedt as well as employee representative Robert Olsson. Employer’s period of notice Total of termination + Remuneration to executive officers 1 Base Other Pension remunumber of months’ in 2019, SEK T salary benefits 5 expenses neration severance pay President and CEO Jonas Abrahamsson 4,311 18 1,267 5,597 6 + 12 Director of Major Projects Johan Bill 2,186 14 657 2,857 6+6 Starting Jan 1, Director of Governance & Compliance Anna Bovaller 2019 1,558 18 440 2,016 6+ – Airport Director, Bromma Stockholm FINANCIAL INFORMATION Airport Mona Glans 1,498 4 384 1,885 6+6 Airport Director, Stockholm Arlanda Airport Peder Grunditz 1,934 15 581 2,530 6+6 Director of Market & Commercial Starting Jan 1, Development Charlotte Ljunggren 2 2019 2,078 7 612 2,696 6+6 Airport Director, Regional Airports Susanne Norman 1,536 6 393 1,935 6+6 Starting Aug 12, Director, Facilities & Systems Caroline Ottoson 2019 825 3 248 1,076 6+6 Chief Financial Officer Mats Påhlson 2,269 24 665 2,958 6+6 Airport Director, Göteborg Landvetter Starting Jan 1, Airport Anna Strömvall 3 2019 1,416 6 364 1,786 6+ 6 Starting Jan 1, Director of Business Support & Safety Marie Wiksborg 2019 1,900 4 524 2,429 6+ 6 Starting Aug 12, Senior Advisor Karl Wistrand 4 2019 5,876 15 1,106 6,997 6+9 Total 27,388 133 7,240 34,760 1  emuneration has been recognised based on the period each executive officer was included in executive management. Recognised base salary is based on a fixed monthly salary, R statutory holiday entitlement and any severance pay. Pension expense includes the effect of any exchange of salary increase for benefits and premiums for supplementary health insurance. 2 Charlotte Ljunggren stayed on as Airport Director of Göteborg Landvetter Airport until January 31, 2019, while serving in her position as Director of Market & Commercial ­Development pending the Swedish Transport Agency’s approval of Anna Strömwall as the new Airport Director of Göteborg Landvetter Airport. 3 A nna Strömwall assumed the position of Airport Director of Göteborg Landvetter Airport on January 1, 2019, but was in training and therefore formally assumed responsibility for the airport on February 1, 2019 following the Swedish Transport Agency’s approval. 4 K arl Wistrand assumed the position of Acting Director of Facilities & Systems on January 1, 2019, and stepped down from the position in August 11, 2019. Karl Wistrand then remained as an executive officer in the group of executive officers and reported to the President and CEO until he left Swedavia on December 31, 2019. Recognised remuneration for 2019 also includes base salary expenses of SEK 1,295 T and pension expenses of SEK 327 T during the period of notice until June 30, 2020, as well as severance pay for a period of 9 months of SEK 1,943 T. The total maximum remuneration is SEK 3,565 T. If that person assumes a new position, is given another salaried assignment or earns income from some business activity, remuneration shall be reduced by an amount equivalent to the new income during the time termination pay and severance pay are given. The entire expense including payroll tax was charged to income in 2019. 5 Benefits consist primarily of benefits in the form of parking, public transport allowances and health insurance. 104 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Employer’s period of notice Total of termination + Remuneration to executive officers 1 Base Other Pension remunumber of months’ in 2018, SEK T salary benefits 5 expenses neration severance pay President and CEO Jonas Abrahamsson 4,231 8 1,242 5,481 6 + 12 Chief Technical Officer Per Arenhage 2 1,677 7 473 2,157 6+ – Director of Aviation Business Elizabeth Axtelius2, 5 1,067 8 214 1,288 5+– Chief Strategy Officer Lennart Bergbom 1,434 13 360 1,806 6+6 Starting Aug 6, Director of Major Projects Johan Bill 2018 854 4 256 1,115 6+6 Chief Legal Counsel Anna Bovaller 2 1,523 5 426 1,954 6+ – Airport Director, Bromma Stockholm Starting Feb 1, Airport Mona Glans 3 2018 1,343 1 344 1,688 6+6 Airport Director, Stockholm Arlanda Starting Mar 1, Airport Peder Grunditz 4 2018 1,854 11 546 2,411 6+6 Airport Director, Göteborg Landvetter Airport Charlotte Ljunggren 1,902 2 552 2,456 6+6 Airport Director, Regional Airports Susanne Norman 1,499 2 379 1,880 6+6 Director of Security & Safety Mats Paulsson 1,427 10 371 1,809 6+6 Chief Financial Officer Mats Påhlson 2,206 20 651 2,877 6+6 Director of Market and Communication Linda Sjödin 1,498 12 381 1,891 6+ 6 Starting Mar 1, Director of Operational Excellence Kjell-Åke Westin 6 2018 1,896 10 495 2,401 6+6 Director of Human Resources Marie Wiksborg 1,764 0 483 2,247 6+ 6 Deputy President and CEO, Commercial & Real Estate Karl Wistrand 2,538 10 707 3,256 6+9 Total 28,713 123 7,881 36,717 1 R emuneration has been recognised based on the period that each executive officer has been included in the group of executive officers. Recognised base salary is based on a fixed monthly salary, statutory holiday entitlement and any severance pay. Pension expense includes the effect of any exchange of salary increase for benefits and premiums for supplementary health insurance. 2 The employment contracts have no provision for severance pay. 3 Mona Glans assumed the position of Airport Director of Bromma Stockholm Airport on February 1, 2018. 4 Peder Grunditz stepped down from his position as Airport Director of Bromma Stockholm Airport during the period February 1-28, 2018, and assumed the position of Airport Director of Stockholm Arlanda Airport on March 1, 2018. 5 Elizabeth Axtelius reports to the President and CEO but is not included in Swedavia’s executive management. 6 K jell-Åke Westin stepped down from his position as Airport Director of Stockholm Arlanda Airport on February 28, 2018, and assumed the position of Director of Operational Excellence on March 1, 2018. 7 Benefits consist primarily of benefits in the form of parking and public transport allowances. Remuneration to executive officers For matters concerning remuneration and other terms of employment, Executive officer refers to the people who together with the chief executive Swedavia applies the principles adopted in its Guidelines for Terms of officer (CEO) constitute the company’s executive management or report Employment for Executive Officers in Companies. These are based on the directly to the CEO. The executive management is appointed by the CEO. Swedish Government’s Guidelines for Remuneration and Other Terms of Remuneration to the CEO and Head of Internal Auditing is decided by Employment for Executive Officers in Companies under State Ownership Swedavia’s Board of Directors, following preparation of the matter in the adopted on December 22, 2016. These guidelines shall result in remunerRemuneration Committee. The CEO determines remuneration for other ation that is competitive, capped, reasonable and appropriate. The executive officers following preparation of the matter in the Remuneration ­principle is a fixed base salary, which means there may not be any incenCommittee. tive programmes or other types of variable pay for executive officers. The Board’s proposed principles for remuneration and other terms of employment for the company’s executive management stipulate that Pensions Swedavia AB (publ) shall strive for remuneration and terms of employment A pension provision of 30 per cent of fixed salary was made as a premium-­ that are competitive and carefully considered. based pension to the CEO. A pension provision was made to other execuRemuneration shall be characterised by reasonableness and trans­ tive officers in accordance with the ITP 1 defined contribution plan with the parency as well as contribute to good ethics and corporate culture. exception of the Director of Market & Commercial Development, who has Remuneration shall not be such that it drives salaries relative to com­ an agreement for a premium-based pension which includes a provision parable companies but shall instead be characterised by moderation. equivalent to 30 per cent of that person’s fixed salary. Executive officers SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 105 NOTES who were employed in the transition from LFV to Swedavia on April 1, NOTE 10 Other operating expenses 2010, are also covered by an age-related graduated pension premium for the ITP 1 plan determined through a collective bargaining agreement. An Group Parent Company additional pension contribution alongside the defined contribution plan under the ITP 1 plan was agreed for some executive officers not covered Other operating expenses 2019 2018 2019 2018 by the graduated pension premium for ITP 1. However, these pension Cost to sell non-current assets 21 14 21 14 benefits shall not exceed the Swedish State’s guidelines in effect at any time. The retirement age for the CEO and other executive officers is 65. Other 2 2 2 2 Total 23 16 23 16 Dismissal and severance pay For notice of termination given by the company, the period of notice of termination and severance pay are specified in the table. Severance pay is equal to a fixed salary. If that person assumes a new position, is given NOTE 11 Financial income and expenses another additional salaried assignment or earns income from some business activity, termination pay and the severance package shall be reduced Group Parent Company by the amount equal to the new income during the period in question. Severance pay is not pensionable income and is not subject to statutory Profit from holdings in a­ ssociated holiday pay. The CEO and other executive officers have six months’ notice companies and joint ventures 2019 2018 2019 2018 of termination by mutual consent, except for one person who must give Portion of profit for the year from four months’ notice of termination. All executive officers are entitled to all holdings in associated companies employment benefits that apply during the period of notice. and joint ventures 45 53 — — Other employees Capital gain from sale of Employees in the Swedavia Group receive remuneration in the form of a ­associated company 102 — — — fixed base salary, a fixed hourly wage, benefits and pension provision in Total 147 53 — — accordance with collective bargaining agreements. For some age groups whose positions were transferred from LFV to Swedavia on April 1, 2010, Group Parent Company there is also an age-related graduated pension premium for the ITP 1 plan as determined through a collective agreement. As a supplement to their Financial income 2019 2018 2019 2018 FINANCIAL INFORMATION fixed base salary, advertising sales representatives also have a variable portion of their salary which is commission-based and capped. Interest income 4 2 21 13 Net changes in foreign exchange rates 2 2 2 1 NOTE 9 Depreciation, amortisation and Total 6 3 23 15 impairment losses on fixed assets and ­ non-current intangible assets Group Parent Company Financial expenses 2019 2018 2019 2018 Group Parent Company Interest expenses, financial Depreciation/amortisation 2019 2018 2019 2018 liabilities 29 12 63 36 Goodwill — — 25 25 Interest rate derivatives 36 54 36 54 Other non-current intangible assets 63 52 63 52 Portion of interest in pension Buildings and land 315 308 315 307 expense for the year 21 21 — — Investment properties 19 4 — — Interest attributable to lease Field structures 239 217 239 217 liabilities 34 1 0 1 Electrical installations, vehicles Other financial expenses 8 7 9 6 and equipment 562 450 444 440 Total 127 96 107 97 New construction in progress 49 — 49 — Financial income is related to financial instruments recognised at amorTotal 1,249 1,031 1,135 1,041 tised cost. Financial expenses related to interest expenses from financial liabilities and other financial expenses are measured at amortised Impairment losses cost. Derivative instruments are measured at fair value through other Buildings and land — — — — total comprehensive income. Interest expenses from financial liabilities are related to liabilities to Investment properties — — — — credit institutions, bonds, medium-term notes and commercial paper. Electrical installations, vehicles Borrowing costs related to refurbishment and new construction proand equipment — — — — jects, totalling SEK 37 M (24), were capitalised during the year. The average interest rate for 2019 is 1.1 per cent (1.0). The figure for the previous New construction in progress 61 71 61 70 year has been restated. Total 61 71 61 70 Total 1,309 1,103 1,196 1,111 106 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 NOTE 12 Appropriations and untaxed reserves 2019 2018 Parent Company Parent Company Per cent Amount Per cent Amount Appropriations 2019 2018 Reconciliation of effective tax Change in accelerated depreciation/ amortisation –175 –85 Profit before tax 351 390 Change in tax allocation reserve 160 49 Tax calculated using Swedish tax rate in effect for the Parent Group contribution paid –101 –43 Company 21.4 –75 22.0 –86 Group contribution received 149 123 Tax related to taxation for the Total appropriations 33 44 previous year 0.0 0 1.0 –4 Tax effect of non-deductible costs 9.4 –33 6.9 –27 Untaxed reserves Tax effect of non-taxable revenue –0.3 1 0.3 –1 Accumulated accelerated depreciation/amortisation 2,050 1,875 Other –3.7 13 — — Tax allocation reserves — 160 Recognised effective tax 26.6 –93 30.3 –118 Total untaxed reserves 2,050 2,035 In the consolidated accounts, non-taxable revenue in 2019, SEK 23 M, Accumulated accelerated amortisation and depreciation are related to and in the previous year, SEK 12 M, is mostly capital gains from the sale other intangible assets, electrical installations, vehicles and equipment. of shares and holdings. The item “Other” in 2018 for the Group is related mostly to the remeasurement of temporary differences in deferred tax in the Group with the tax rate changed from 22.0 to 20.6 per cent. NOTE 13 Tax Group Parent Company NOTE 14 Non-current intangible assets 2019 2018 2019 2018 Group Parent Company Current tax expense (–)/tax Non-current Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, income (+) intangible assets 2019 2018 2019 2018 Tax expense/tax income for the year –128 –136 –107 –122 Goodwill 352 352 253 278 –128 –136 –107 –122 Other non-current intangible assets 423 425 423 425 Deferred tax expense (–)/tax Total 775 777 676 703 income (+) Deferred tax for temporary Group Parent Company ­differences –25 10 13 5 Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, Total tax expense recognised –153 –126 –93 –118 Goodwill 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Accumulated cost Opening balance 352 352 493 493 Group Per cent Amount Per cent Amount Closing balance 352 352 493 493 Reconciliation of effective tax Accumulated scheduled Profit before tax 736 642 ­amortisation Tax calculated using Swedish tax Opening balance — — –216 –191 rate in effect 21.4 –158 22.0 –141 Scheduled amortisation for the year — — –25 –25 Tax pertaining to taxation for the previous year –0.1 1 –0.2 1 Closing balance — — –241 –216 Tax effect of non-deductible costs 4.5 –33 4.2 –27 Carrying amount, closing balance 352 352 253 278 Tax effect of non-taxable revenue –3.1 23 –1.9 12 Other –1.9 14 –4.7 30 Goodwill In conjunction with the conversion of airport operations into a limited Recognised effective tax 20.8 –153 19.6 –126 ­liability company on April 1, 2010, assets and liabilities from LFV were transferred to Swedavia at an estimated market value. In conjunction with the transaction, goodwill of SEK 493 M arose. In the consolidated accounts, goodwill totalled SEK 377 M, with the difference due to the measurement of defined benefit pension obligations in accordance with IAS 19. In the transition to IFRS, goodwill totalled SEK 352 M. SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 107 NOTES Goodwill impairment testing NOTE 15 Tangible fixed assets Goodwill is allocated to the cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the acquisition. Goodwill in the consolidated financial Group Parent Company reports is derived from the cash-generating unit Airport Operations (operating segment). The airports included in Sweden’s national basic Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, infrastructure of airports are operated as a system which is cohesive 2019 2018 2019 2018 and mutually dependent. This notion of system means that it is not possible to isolate cash flows related to individual airports included in the Buildings and land (Note 16) 5,343 5,293 5,313 5,285 system in a meaningful way so the airports included in the national basic Field structures (Note 17) 3,399 3,314 3,390 3,304 infrastructure are treated as a single cash-generating unit. Goodwill has Electrical installations, vehicles and an indeterminable useful life. Impairment testing is carried out annually equipment (Note 18) 3,009 2,774 2,859 2,704 or more frequently if there is an indication of a decline in value. The recoverable value is determined based on calculations of value in use. New construction in progress The calculations for the first four-year period are based on estimated (Note 19) 5,113 4,037 5,031 3,955 cash flows in the business plan adopted. The Swedavia Group works Total 16,863 15,419 16,593 15,249 with strategic plans and long-term scenarios, based on industry assessments, which run through 2033. After the end of the business plan, impairment testing is based on the estimated cash flows in the strategic plan adopted. In calculating the value in use, lease payments have been NOTE 16 Buildings and land treated as cash flows in the business. That means lease liabilities did not affect the discount rate, in line with previous years. The lease liability is Group Parent Company deducted from the unit’s carrying amount because the value in use is Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, reduced by future lease payments, in which the right-of-use assets are 2019 2018 2019 2018 included in impairment testing. Significant assumptions in determining the value in use are the passenger trend, investment level and cost Accumulated cost trend. Cash flows beyond 2033 are assumed to have annual growth equivalent to 2.0 per cent (0.0) per year. The discount rate used before Opening balance 7,867 7,299 7,853 7,305 tax is 6.8 per cent (8.3). This testing has not entailed any impairment Acquisitions/reclassifications for loss on goodwill, and reasonable changes in assumptions would not the year 371 610 346 590 FINANCIAL INFORMATION lead to any need for impairment. Disposals and divestments for the year –31 –42 –31 –42 Group Parent Company Closing balance 8,206 7,867 8,168 7,853 Other non-current Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, intangible assets 2019 2018 2019 2018 Accumulated scheduled ­depreciation Accumulated cost Opening balance –2,563 –2,277 –2,557 –2,272 Opening balance 637 429 637 429 Reversal of depreciation on disposals 28, 22 28 22 Reclassifications for the year 61 210 61 210 Scheduled depreciation for the year –316 –308 –315 –307 Disposals and divestments for the Closing balance –2,851 –2,563 –2,844 –2,557 year –1 –2 –1 –2 Closing balance 698 637 698 637 Accumulated impairment Accumulated scheduled Opening balance –11 –26 –11 –26 ­amortisation Reversal of impairment from Opening balance –212 –162 –212 –162 previous years — 15 — 15 Reversal of amortisation on Impairment for the year — — — — disposals 1 2 1 2 Closing balance –11 –11 –11 –11 Scheduled amortisation for the year –63 –52 –63 –52 Closing balance –275 –212 –275 –212 Carrying amount, closing balance 5,343 5,293 5,313 5,285 Carrying amount, closing balance 423 425 423 425 Of which land Other non-current intangible pertain to noise insulation on the properOpening balance 382 378 359 355 ties of others, SEK 209 M (225); IT systems, SEK 180 M (156); and the Group’s proprietary assets, SEK 35 M (44). Acquisitions for the year 0 4 0 4 Disposals for the year — — — — Carrying amount, closing balance 382 382 359 359 108 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 NOTE 17 Field structures NOTE 18 Electrical installations, vehicles and equipment Group Parent Company Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, Group ¹ Parent Company ¹ 2019 2018 2019 2018 Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, 2019 2018 2019 2018 Accumulated cost Opening balance 4,699 4,032 4,689 4,032 Accumulated cost Reclassifications for the year 329 675 329 665 Opening balance 5,773 5,222 5,725 5,240 Disposals and divestments for the Reclassifications for the year 709 733 570 672 year –18 –8 –18 –8 Disposals and divestments for the Closing balance 5,010 4,699 4,999 4,689 year –98 –182 –98 –187 Accumulated scheduled Closing balance 6,384 5,773 6,198 5,725 ­depreciation Accumulated scheduled Opening balance –1,381 –1,170 –1,381 –1,170 ­depreciation Reversal of depreciation on Opening balance –2,998 –2,732 –3,022 –2,757 disposals 11 6 11 6 Reversal of depreciation on Scheduled depreciation for the year –239 –217 –239 –217 disposals 83 178 126 175 Closing balance –1,609 –,1,381 –1,609 –1,381 Scheduled depreciation for the year –459 –444 –444 –440 Closing balance –3,374 –2,998 –3,338 –3,022 Accumulated impairment losses Opening balance –4 –4 –4 –4 Accumulated impairment losses Reversal of impairment losses on Opening balance –1 — –1 — disposal 3 — 3 — Reversal of impairment losses on Impairment losses for the year — — — — disposal 0 — 0 — Closing balance –1 –4 –1 –4 Impairment losses for the year — –1 — –1 Closing balance –1 –1 –1 –1 Carrying amount, closing balance 3,399 3,314 3,390 3,304 Carrying amount, closing balance 3,009 2,774 2,859 2,704 Net field structure assets acquired have been treated for tax purposes as land. Field structures consist mostly of take-off and landing runways. ¹ Figures for the previous year have been restated due to the transition to IFRS 16 “Leases”. NOTE 19 New construction in progress related to tangible fixed assets Group Parent Company Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, 2019 2018 2019 2018 Opening balance 4,037 3,589 3,955 3,503 Acquisitions for the year 2,587 2,674 2,554 2,618 Disposals for the year –2 0 –10 –3 Reclassifications for the year –1,399 –2,157 –1,358 –2,093 Depreciation for the year –49 — –49 — Impairment losses for the year –61 –71 –61 –70 Carrying amount, closing balance 5,113 4,037 5,031 3,955 New construction in progress related to tangible fixed assets mostly consists of investments in infrastructure and terminals. Reclassification of the asset class in question occurs when the asset is placed in service. Impairment losses in 2019 and 2018 are primarily attributable to IT and operation development projects. Of the acquisitions for the year, SEK 189 M (170) is capitalised work for the company’s own account. SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 109 NOTES NOTE 20 Fair value Biological assets Swedavia’s biological assets consist of large forest holdings adjacent to The table below presents the assets and liabilities measured at fair value Swedavia’s airports, with standing timber assessed at fair value. or for which fair values are given for information purposes. Fair value is The holdings are measured on each balance sheet date. defined as the price at the time of measurement that would be received Measurement is made by an external appraiser in conjunction with the in the sale of the asset or charged in the transfer of a liability in an orderly year-end closing at least once every two years or at another time if there transaction between market participants. Assets and liabilities is any indication of changes in market value. For other balance sheet ­measured at fair value are classified in a hierarchy with three different dates, the stock of standing timber is measured through an internal levels based on the information used to determine their fair value. Level valuation. 1 applies when fair value is determined based on listed prices (unadThe measurement method used for external valuation is in accordjusted) in active markets for identical assets and liabilities. Level 2 ance with the Swedish land registration authority Lantmäteriet’s forest applies when fair value is determined based on observable data for the valuation method. This method is based on a discounted cash flow valuasset or liability other than listed prices included In Level 1. Level 3 ation of expected future cash flows from long-term sustainable forestry. applies when fair value is determined based on inputs for the asset or Important inputs are local pricelists for timber and pulp with average liability that are not based on observable market data. prices for the past ten years, potential harvestable volume in accordance with the Swedish Forestry Act’s restrictions on clear-cutting, and discount rates based on the age of the forest. A change in fair value is Measurement at fair value recognised in the income statement as other profit or other external costs. Fair value is determined based on Hierarchy Level 3, which Hierarchy levels in measuremeans that the fair value of the biological assets cannot be directly ment at fair value Dec 31, 2019 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total related to observable market data. Derivative instruments (Note 28)1 — 96 — 96 In internal valuations, the stock is compared on the valuation date with the stock on the date of the previous external valuation. After this, Biological assets (Note 23) 2 — — 82 82 an interview is/interviews are carried out with a key person/key people Non-current interest-bearing to determine whether any factors have had an effect on the stock and liabilities (Note 28)3 — 7,551 — 7,551 thus the market value. An external valuation was carried out in conjunction with the 2019 annual accounts. Investment properties (Note 21) 3 — — 3,049 3,049 Total — 7,647 3,131 10,778 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities FINANCIAL INFORMATION For information purposes, fair value is calculated for interest-bearing liaHierarchy levels in measurebilities. The fair value of a loan is calculated by discounting future cash ment at fair value Dec 31, 2018 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total flows. The calculation also takes into account any change in Swedavia’s credit risk since the loan was taken out. For some loan liabilities, the Derivative instruments (Note 28)1 — 23 — 23 ­carrying amount is considered to reflect the fair value, given the short Biological assets (Note 23) 2 — — 80 80 remaining maturity of the liabilities. Non-current interest-bearing Investment properties liabilities (Note 28)3 — 6,001 — 6,001 Swedavia’s investment properties are recognised at cost. The properInvestment properties (Note 21)3 — — 2,233 2,233 ties are measured to determine their fair value, that is, their estimated market value. The portfolio of investment properties is measured Total — 6,024 2,313 8,337 ­annually in conjunction with the year-end closing. Measurement is made 1  ecognised at fair value through comprehensive income in the consolidated balance R either by external independent appraisers or through internal valuation. sheet. An external valuation was carried out in conjunction with the 2019 2 Recognised at fair value in the consolidated balance sheet. The fair value of biological annual accounts. assets is determined based on Level 3; information for the comparative year has been The valuation of properties is based on the cash flows the asset is restated. expected to generate, discounting net operating profit. To estimate net 3 Recognised at cost in the consolidated balance sheet. The amounts above are fair operating profit, estimates are made of inflation, rents, vacancies, and values for information purposes. operating and maintenance costs. The value of the property is based on the expected cash flows of each property appraised over the next ten Derivative instruments years. For properties with a lease on premises or land longer than ten Interest rate swaps years, the calculations have been extended. For the last year of the calFor interest rate swaps, fair value is calculated as the present value of culation period, a residual value is calculated, which shall constitute an expected future cash flows based on current market interest rates. estimated market value at that time. The information used to determine the fair value of the investment properties is classified as Level 3, which Electricity derivatives means that the fair value of the investment properties cannot be directly For electricity derivatives, fair value is determined based on listed rates. attributed to observable market data. If there are no listed rates, fair value is calculated by discounting the difference between the contracted forward rate and the forward rate available on the balance sheet date for the remainder of the contract period. NOTE 21 Investment properties Currency futures Swedavia recognises properties classified as investment properties at Fair value of currency futures is calculated by discounting the difference cost. Investment properties are found in the Real Estate operating segbetween the contracted forward rate and the forward rate that can be ment, and the portfolio consists of cargo and office properties as well as contracted on the balance sheet date for the remainder of the contract land at Göteborg Landvetter Airport, Malmö Airport and Stockholm period. Discounting is done at a risk-free interest rate based on Swedish Arlanda Airport. Revenue from investment properties totalled SEK 37 M (3) sovereign bonds. and direct costs totalled SEK 65 M (47). For information about the depreciation method and estimated useful life, see Note 1 “Corporate information and accounting principles”. For information about valuation assumptions, 110 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 see Note 20 “Fair value”. Fair value increased from SEK 2,233 M to SEK Lease liabilities 2019 3,049 M. The positive change in value is due to investments mostly in Hotell 1 Landvetter AB, TreDoffice AB and Airport Hotel AB. Current lease liabilities 134 Group Non-current lease liabilities 1,187 Dec 31, Dec 31, Lease liabilities included in the statement of financial position 1,321 2019 2018 To see the maturity analysis of Swedavia’s lease liabilities, see Note 47 Accumulated cost “Financial risks”. Opening balance 730 675 Group Acquisitions for the year 552 472 Amount recognised through profit and loss 2019 Disposals for the year –32 0 Depreciation on right-of-use assets –104 Reclassification for the year –10 –5 Interest on lease liabilities –34 Reclassification of assets held for sale –308 –413 Variable lease charges not included in the valuation of the lease Closing balance 931 730 liability –10 Costs of short-term leases –3 Accumulated scheduled depreciation Cost of leases of low-value assets, not short-term leases of Opening balance –10 –5 low-value assets –2 Scheduled depreciation for the year –19 –4 Reclassification of assets held for sale 2 — Amount recognised in the cash flow statement 2019 Closing balance –28 –10 Total cash flow attributable to leases –105 Accumulated impairment losses Opening balance –7 –6 The cash outflows above include both the amount paid for leases ­recognised as lease liabilities and the amount paid for variable lease Impairment losses for the year — –1 charges, short-term leases and leases of low-value assets. Closing balance –7 –7 Parent Carrying amount, closing balance 897 713 Company Fair value (Note 20) 3,049 2,233 Non-cancellable lease payments amount to: 2019 Reclassification of assets held for sale –1,200 –832 Within one year 137 Fair value (Note 20), after reclassification 1,849 1,401 Between one and five years 472 More than five years 1,009 NOTE 22 Leasing Parent Company The effects of the transition to IFRS 16 on the Group’s leases are described in Note 1 “Corporate information and accounting principles”. Charges for operating leases recognised as an expense amounted to: 2019 As a result of the transition method the Group has chosen to use in the Minimum lease charges 121 transition to IFRS 16, comparative information has not been restated to reflect the new requirements. Variable charges 16 Total lease expenses 137 Leases in which Swedavia is lessee Information for 2019 Buildings and land Swedavia leases buildings and land for office and other operations. Leases usually contain extension options that Swedavia can exercise up Equipto one year before the expiration of the non-cancellable lease term. Right-of-use asset Buildings Land ment Machinery Vehicles Total When it is possible in practice, Swedavia tries to include such options in Depreciation for the new leases since they contribute to operational flexibility. The options year –82 –5 –4 0 –13 –104 can only be exercised by Swedavia, not by the lessor. Whether it is reasonably certain that an extension option will be exercised or not is deterClosing balance, mined at the commencement date of the lease. Swedavia reassesses December 31, 2019 1,200 55 8 0 21 1,284 whether it is reasonably certain that an extension option will be exercised or not if there is a significant event or substantial changes in cirAdditions to right-of-use assets in 2019 totalled SEK 215 M. This amount cumstances that are within Swedavia’s control. includes the cost of newly acquired rights of use during the year and Leases consist of non-cancellable periods of 2-20 years, with options additional amounts from the reassessment of lease liabilities due to the for Swedavia to extend for additional periods. The leases have no final change in payments as a result of the change in the lease term. end date. At the commencement of the contract, Swedavia makes an No leases include covenants or other restrictions apart from the individual assessment for each contract in order to determine whether ­guarantee for the leased asset. Swedavia is reasonably certain to use exercise or more such extension options. SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 111 NOTES During the year, lease liabilities/assets increased SEK — M as a result Leases where Swedavia is lessor of the exercise of options not previously included in the lease liability. Operating leases – the Group as lessor Significant changes can occur in the future should there be a reassessThe Group’s operating leases, which generate rental revenue, pertain to ment of the lease term for one of Swedavia’s key property contracts. the rental of premises in commercial parts of its owner-occupied propSome leases include lease charges based on changes in the local erties and to a few contracts for investment properties. Rental revenue price index, and Swedavia pays charges related to property taxes that is generated from both fixed and sales revenue-based rents. Variable are charged to the lessor. These amounts are determined annually. charges included in profit for the period total SEK 677 M (609). Payments for contractual lease charges on existing contracts fall due Other leases as follows: Swedavia leases vehicles, machinery and equipment with lease terms Parent of two to five years. In some cases, Swedavia has the option to purGroup Company chase the asset at the end of the lease term. In other cases, Swedavia guarantees the residual value of the leased asset at the end of the lease Due date 2019 2019 term. Extension options occur to only a negligible extent. Within one year 799 786 Swedavia also leases construction equipment, office equipment and IT equipment with lease terms of one to three years. These Between one and two years 764 751 leases are short-term contracts and/or leases of low-value assets. Between two and three years 710 699 Swedavia has chosen not to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for these leases. Between three and four years 476 466 Between four and five years 475 467 Information about the comparative year Information about the comparative year More than five years 1,511 1,480 Expensed minimum lease charges for 2018 totalled SEK 101 M while Total 4,736 4,649 variable charges included in the profit for the period for Swedavia in 2018 totalled SEK 7 M. Future payments for non-cancellable operating leases fall due as Parent follows: Group Company Parent Due date 2018 2018 Group Company FINANCIAL INFORMATION Within one year 803 800 Due date 2018 2018 Between one and five years 2,406 2,400 Within one year 97 97 More than five years 1,458 1,455 Between one and five years 327 327 Total 4,667 4,655 More than five years 894 894 Total 1,318 1,318 NOTE 23 Biological assets Finance leases Finance leases pertain to vehicle leases with a lease term of between three Group and five years. Included in the item “Electrical installations, vehicles and Dec 31, Dec 31, equipment” are lease objects that the Group has leases for with the follow2019 2018 ing amounts. Parent Accumulated cost Group Company Opening balance 80 88 Carrying amounts Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2018 Change in fair value 2 –7 Cost – capitalised finance leases 87 87 Carrying amount, closing balance 82 80 Accumulated depreciation –43 –43 Swedavia’s biological assets consist of large forest holdings adjacent to Carrying amount, closing balance 44 44 Swedavia’s airports, with standing timber assessed at fair value. The stock is measured on each balance sheet date. Measurement is made The lease charges for the year total SEK 12 M in the Group. by an external appraiser in conjunction with the year-end closing at least Future payments for the use of assets in finance leases fall due as once every two years or at another time if there are any indication of sigfollows: nificant changes in market value. For other balance sheet dates, the stock of standing timber is measured through an internal valuation. An Group Parent Company external valuation was carried out in conjunction with the 2019 annual 2018 2018 accounts. The change in fair value is recognised in the income stateFuture minPresent value of Future minPresent value of ment as other revenue or other external expenses. For information imum lease future minimum imum lease future minimum about valuation assumptions, see Note 20 “Fair value”. Future lease charges charges lease charges charges lease charges Within one year 14 13 14 13 Between one and five years 21 21 21 21 More than five years — — — — Total 35 35 35 35 112 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 NOTE 24 Non-current financial assets Specification of the Parent Company’s and Group’s holdings in associated companies and joint ventures on December 31, 2019 Group Parent Company Carrying Profit for amount in Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, Company, corporate the year, OwnerValue of the 2019 2018 2019 2018 identity number, Swedavia’s Number ship holding in Parent Classifi­ registered office share of shares in % the Group Company cation Holdings in Group companies — — 870 889 Holdings in associated companies Swedish Airport and joint ventures 913 953 — — Infrastructure AB, 559012-5182, Other non-current receivables 217 217 217 217 Stockholm County, Derivative receivables 7 22 — — Municipality of Joint Sigtuna — 25,000 50.0 0 — venture Deferred tax assets — — 39 25 Total 1,137 1,192 1,127 1,132 Swedish Airport Infrastructure KB, 969775-2609, Stockholm County, NOTE 25 Other non-current receivables Municipality of Joint Stockholm 45 1 49.9 913 — venture Group Parent Company Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, Airport City 2019 2018 2019 2018 Stockholm AB, 556872-9619, Accumulated cost Stockholm County, AssoMunicipality of ciated Opening balance1 217 181 217 181 Sigtuna — 495 33.0 0 — company New receivables 0 35 0 35 Total 45 913 — Carrying amount, closing balance 217 217 217 217 Balance sheet and income statement for Swedish Airport Infrastructure 1 The figure for the previous year has been restated KB based on the Swedavia Group’s accounting principles: Dec 31, Dec 31, SEK M 2019 2018 NOTE 26 Holdings in associated companies Investment properties 4,844 4,636 and joint ventures Liquid assets 140 393 Group Other assets 409 66 Dec 31, Dec 31, Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 1 3,040 3,040 2019 2018 Current liabilities1 528 185 Accumulated cost Equity 1 1,825 1,870 Opening balance 953 896 The Group’s carrying amount of the holding1 913 935 Acquisition for the year 13 — Share of profit 45 57 SEK M 2019 2018 Dividend –67 — Revenue 396 385 Sale –31 — Depreciation and amortisation –145 –137 Carrying amount, closing balance 913 953 Other costs –114 –87 The acquisition for the year pertains to a shareholder contribution to Net interest –43 –44 Landvetter Logistik Center AB. The sale pertains to the disposal of Profit before tax 94 117 ­holdings in Landvetter Logistik Center AB. Tax1 –4 –11 Profit for the year1 90 106 Other comprehensive income 1 1 7 Total comprehensive income1 91 113 Group’s portion of comprehensive income for the year 45 57 1 The figure for the previous year has been restated In 2019, SEK 67 M (—) in dividends was received from Swedish Airport Infrastructure. SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 113 NOTES NOTE 27 Holdings in Group companies Specification of the Parent Company’s holdings in Group companies Parent Company Owner­ Carrying Carrying Subsidiary, corporate identity Number ship amount amount The Parent Company’s holdings in Group companies Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 number, registered office of shares in % Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Swedavia Real Estate AB, Accumulated cost 556858-9872, Stockholm County, Opening balance 1,035 1,035 Municipality of Stockholm 500,000 100 870 870 Effect of merger¹ –164 — Swedavia Energi AB, 556951-8185, Stockholm County, Closing balance 870 1,035 ­Municipality of Sigtuna 50,000 100 0 — Accumulated impairment losses Swedavia Airport Telecom AB, 556951-8193, Stockholm County, Opening balance, attributable to ­Municipality of Sigtuna 50,000 100 0 — impairment loss and merger –145 –145 Arlanda Development Company AB, Effect of merger¹ 145 — 556653-6628, Stockholm County, Closing balance — –145 ­Municipality of Sigtuna ¹ 10,000 100 — 2 Bromma Stockholm Airport fastigheter Carrying amount, closing balance 870 889 AB, 556932-3537, Stockholm ­County, Municipality of Stockholm ¹ 50,000 100 — 17 ¹ On February 12, 2019, Arlanda Development Company AB and Bromma Carrying amount, closing balance 870 889 Stockholm Fastigheter AB merged with the Parent Company, Swedavia AB ¹ The merger with the Parent Company, Swedavia AB, took place on February 12, 2019 FINANCIAL INFORMATION NOTE 28 Financial assets and liabilities The Group’s financial assets and liabilities, excluding the Group’s derivapayables, with a remaining useful life of less than six months, the carrying tive instruments, are recognised at cost in the balance sheet. The Group’s amount is considered to reflect fair value. derivative instruments are recognised at fair value in the balance sheet. For derivatives, the Group has ISDA agreements, which allow offset Other financial assets and liabilities are measured at fair value for informain the event of a bankruptcy. As of December 31, 2019, there were no tion purposes. For information about fair value regarding derivative instrusignificant financial liabilities or assets that should be offset in the event ments, see the Group’s measurement below as well as Note 20. For curof a bankruptcy. rent receivables and liabilities, such as trade receivables and trade Financial assets Carrying amount Fair value Group Measurement under IFRS 9 Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Other non-current receivables Amortised cost 217 217 217 217 Trade receivables Amortised cost 595 575 595 575 Receivables from associated companies Amortised cost 13 20 13 20 Other receivables Amortised cost 190 64 190 64 Derivative instruments1 Fair value 12 53 12 53 Liquid assets Amortised cost 77 10 77 10 Total 1,104 939 1,105 939 Financial liabilities Carrying amount Fair value Group Measurement under IFRS 9 Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities Amortised cost 7,550 6,000 7,550 6,001 Current interest-bearing liabilities Amortised cost 1,020 2,364 1,020 2,367 Derivative instruments1, 2 Fair value 108 76 108 76 Other non-current liabilities Amortised cost 150 23 150 23 Trade payables Amortised cost 796 651 796 651 Other liabilities Amortised cost 9 55 9 55 Liabilities to associated companies Amortised cost 7 — 7 — Accrued interest expenses Amortised cost 14 14 14 14 Total 9,655 9,183 9,656 9,188 1 The figure for the previous year has been restated 2 Derivative instruments pertain to derivatives that are hedged. 114 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Measurement fair value NOTE 29 Materials and supplies Assets and liabilities measured at fair value are classified in a hierarchy with three different levels based on the information used to determine Group Parent Company their fair value. The Group’s financial assets and liabilities are measured at fair value based on Level 2. For more information about measurement Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 at fair value, see Note 20. Supplies 47 37 44 37 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Gravel stocks 2 2 2 2 Derivative instruments3 — 96 — Supplies, buildings and land 2 3 2 3 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 4 — 7,551 — Other stocks 3 5 2 2 Total — 7,647 — Total 54 47 50 44 3 Recognised at fair value in the consolidated balance sheet. 4 Recognised at cost in the consolidated balance sheet. The amounts above are fair NOTE 30 Current receivables values for information purposes. Parent Company There was no change in levels in 2019 compared to 2018. Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Net gain from items for which hedge accounting is not applied 2019 2018 Trade receivables 576 553 Financial assets/liabilities measured at fair value5 — — Receivables from Group companies 2,154 1,782 Total — — Receivables from associated companies1 5 11 5 The subcategory held for sale. Other receivables 106 119 Tax assets 54 42 Derivative instruments Interest rate swaps Prepaid expenses and accrued income 147 139 The fair value of interest rate swaps is calculated as the present value of Total 3,042 2,645 expected future cash flows based on current market interest rates. 1 The figure for the previous year has been restated Electricity derivatives For electricity derivatives, the fair value is calculated based on listed rates. If there are no listed rates, the fair value is calculated by discounting the NOTE 31 Receivables from Group companies difference between the contracted forward rate and the forward rate available on the balance sheet date for the remainder of the contract Parent Company period. Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Currency futures Swedavia Real Estate AB 604 433 The fair value of currency futures is calculated by discounting the difference between the contracted forward rate and the forward rate that can Logistic City 1 AB 34 35 be contracted on the balance sheet date for the remainder of the contract TreDoffice AB 355 448 period. Discounting is done at a risk-free interest rate based on Swedish sovereign bonds. Airport Hotel 2 AB 551 428 Swedavia Airport Telecom AB 84 76 Interest-bearing liabilities For information purposes, fair value is calculated for interest-bearing liaSwedavia Energi AB 79 62 bilities. The fair value of a loan is calculated by discounting future cash Cargo City 1 AB 49 51 flows. The calculation also takes into account any change in Swedavia’s credit risk since the loan was taken out. For some loan liabilities, the carSky City Arlanda Holding AB 196 117 rying amount is considered to reflect the fair value, given the short Other Group companies 200 132 remaining maturity of the liabilities. Carrying amount, closing balance 2,154 1,782 Other receivables and liabilities For current receivables and liabilities such as trade receivables and trade Swedavia’s wholly-owned Group companies are funded through a payables, with a remaining useful life of less than six months, the carrying ­consolidated account structure. amount is considered to reflect the fair value. NOTE 32 Receivables from and liabilities to associated companies and joint ventures In the Group, receivables from associated companies and joint ventures totalled SEK 13 M (20) and pertain mostly to the receivable from Altuna Hangar KB. Liabilities to associated companies and joint ventures totalled SEK 7 M (0). For the Parent Company, receivables from associated companies and joint ventures totalled SEK 5 M (11) and liabilities totalled SEK 7 M (0). SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 115 NOTES NOTE 33 Other receivables The hybrid bond is not included in the company’s sensitivity analysis for borrowing rates or in the maturity analysis of financial liabilities. Group Dec 31, Dec 31, Hybrid bond 2019 2018 Loan framework (SEK M) 1,000 Tax assets 40 61 Nominal amount issued (SEK M) 1,000 Other receivables 227 160 Currency SEK Total 267 220 Interest rate1 Stibor 3 M + 150 bp First call date November 26, 2024 NOTE 34 Prepaid expenses and accrued 1 The company has no contractual obligation to pay interest. After the time of the first income call date, the interest rate will increase 500 basis points. Group Parent Company Under the terms of the hybrid bond, Swedavia must pay deferred interDec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, est on the hybrid bond if Swedavia chooses to pay a dividend to its 2019 2018 2019 2018 shareholder. In addition, Swedavia has the option but not the obligation Accrued income, Aviation Business 7 10 7 10 to repurchase the hybrid bond if the Swedish State reduces its ownership of Swedavia. If Swedavia chooses not to buy back the hybrid bond, Accrued income retail, food & provided the State reduces its ownership in the company, the interest beverage, car parking & passenger rate will increase 500 basis points. drop-off/pick up facilities 15 54 15 54 Accrued income, energy 9 11 0 — Retained earnings Retained earnings includes profit for the year and the portion of untaxed Prepaid expenses, materials and reserves that constitute equity. This also includes remeasurements of maintenance 23 15 23 15 defined benefit pensions in accordance with IAS 19 (net of deferred tax). Prepaid expenses, operations 34 11 34 11 FINANCIAL INFORMATION Prepaid expenses, property and Capital management 2019 2018 rental 29 7 27 7 Group financial targets Actual Target Actual Target Other accrued income and Return on operating capital 4.6 % 6.0 % 4.6 % 6.0 % prepaid expenses 18 46 42 41 Debt/equity ratio 1.1 times 0.7–1.5 times 1.1 times 0.7–1.5 times Total 135 154 147 139 The Parent Company NOTE 35 Equity Restricted and unrestricted equity Equity is divided between restricted and unrestricted (payable as diviThe Group dends) capital in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. A dividend Equity related to the Parent Company consists of share capital, other may only be paid if there is full coverage for restricted equity after the paid in-capital, hedge reserves, hybrid bond and retained earnings. payment of dividends. Dividends are also regulated by the precautionary principle, which means that a dividend may only be paid if this is Share capital justifiable taking into consideration the risks that the nature and scope Share capital is divided into 1,441,403,026 shares with a stated value of of operations place on the size of the Parent Company’s and consoliSEK 1. dated equity as well as the Group’s consolidation requirements, liquidOther paid-in capital ity and financial position in general. Other paid-in capital pertains to the premium in connection with new In the Parent Company, restricted capital consists of share capital of share issues. SEK 1,441 M (1,441) and a reserve for development expenses of SEK 35 M (44). The unrestricted capital in the Parent Company is SEK 6,000 M Hedge reserves (4,732) and consists of a share premium reserve of SEK 2,162 M (2,162), The reserve for cash flow hedging consists of unrealised changes in the a hybrid bond of SEK 1,000 M (-), retained earnings of SEK 2,580 M value of interest rate, electricity and currency derivatives (net of deferred (2,298) and profit for the year of SEK 258 M (272). tax). Hedge accounting entails that the change in value has been charged to equity in the balance sheet via other comprehensive income. Proposed distribution of profit The following unrestricted equity is at the disposal of the Annual Hybrid bond General Meeting, SEK: On November 26, 2019, Swedavia issued an unsecured hybrid bond for a total of SEK 1,000 M. The hybrid bond has a perpetual maturity, Share premium reserve 2,161,354,539 and thus have no maturity date, but the company is entitled to redeem Hybrid bond 1,000,000,000 the hybrid bond at a determined future point in time and then at every Retained earnings 2,580,555,650 subsequent interest payment date, as well as in the event of specific events. The company is entitled to defer interest payments to a deterProfit for the year 258,442,374 mined time as long as holders of the hybrid bond are informed within the 6,000,352,563 contractual period. The hybrid bond is recognised in equity in the Group and in the Parent Company, and it is subordinate to all liabilities. 116 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 The Board proposes that the profit be appropriated as follows: mortgages of different durations in which an interpolation is made to arrive at an adjusted rate for a duration that corresponds to the length of Brought forward 6,000,352,563 the commitment. The duration was 14 years (14). The assumption on the 6,000,352,563 discount rate used in 2019 was 1.3 per cent (2.5), with the decrease related to the prevailing interest rate situation. The assumption for inflation was 1.75 per cent (2.00), with the NOTE 36 Provisions decrease based on the actual trend and market expectations. Group Parent Company Group Parent Company Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Provisions for pensions 874 765 1,197 1,113 Actuarial assumptions Other provisions 329 302 327 295 The following important actuarial Total 1,203 1,067 1,524 1,408 assumptions have been applied in calculating the obligations (weighted average values): NOTE 37 Provisions for pensions Discount rate 1.3 % 2.50 % –1.40 % –0.80 % The Group has both premium and defined benefit pension obligations. Future changes in price base amount (inflation) 1.75 % 2.00 % 1.75 % 2.00 % Defined contribution pension obligations The defined contribution ITP 1 plan was applied with the formation of the Changes in the present value of company and is secured through payments to insurance companies or defined benefit obligations trust funds. A defined contribution pension plan is a pension plan in Obligation on January 1 833 802 1,113 1,099 which a company pays fixed contributions to a separate legal entity. The Payments made during the year –34 –32 –34 –32 company subsequently has no legal or informal obligations to pay additional contributions related to the pension earned by the employee. Cost of vesting, current period 0 0 0 0 Interest expense 21 21 — — Defined benefit pension obligations Most of the defined benefit pension obligations pertain to PA91 and Actuarial gains (–)/losses (+) 116 42 119 46 PA03 government employee pension agreements that were taken over Obligation on December 31 937 833 1,197 1,113 from LFV in conjunction with the division of operations. No new pension rights accrue for these commitments; instead the commitments are in Less employee income tax asset –63 –68 — — the form of paid-up pension policies. The actuarial bases for calculating Provisions for pensions 874 765 1,197 1,113 the value of capital are the provisions in FFFS 2007:24 adopted by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, which include interest rate assumptions. The remaining defined contribution plans consist mostly Group Parent Company of pension obligations under collective bargaining agreements and penCost recognised in profit for Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, sion obligations as specified in transitional provisions adopted in conthe year 2019 2018 2019 2018 junction with the conversion into a limited liability company of operations run previously under LFV. The company’s obligations are calculated at Defined benefit plans least once a year by independent actuaries. This assumption is based on current expectations of future payments. The Group bears the risk of Cost of pensions vested during ensuring that the payments determined are effected. A special the year 0 0 0 0 employee pension tax is recognised as a receivable or liability dependActuarial gains (-)/ losses (+)1 — — 119 45 ing on whether the pension expense is lower or higher than the pension expense determined by a legal entity and the present-day value is not Cost of defined benefit plans 3 3 5 5 calculated. Unvested pension obligations are entered as a liability at 60 Employee pension tax1 13 4 29 9 per cent in both the Parent Company and the Group. The unvested penInterest expense 21 21 — — sion obligations pertain to a small number of employees who have the option of taking early retirement at the age of 63. Cost of defined benefit plans 37 28 153 59 The Parent Company complies with the statutes in the Swedish Pension Obligations Vesting Act and the instructions of the Swedish Cost of defined contribution plans 120 117 120 117 Financial Supervisory Authority since that is a requirement for making tax deductions. The most significant differences compared to the reguEmployee pension tax 29 28 29 28 lations in IAS 19 are the way the discount rate is determined, the fact Cost of defined contribution that the calculation of the defined benefit obligation is calculated based plans 149 145 149 145 on the current salary level without any assumption of future salary increases, and the fact that actuarial gains and losses are recognised in Total cost of remuneration after the income statement. The Parent Company’s total commitments for termination of employment the defined benefit pensions are covered by credit insurance with FPG/PRI. profit for the year 186 173 302 204 Actuarial assumptions 1 The figure for the previous year has been restated A discount rate curve is used in determining the discount rate used in the Group. The discount rate curve is produced through an analysis of SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 117 NOTES Group NOTE 38 Other provisions Dec 31, Dec 31, Group Parent Company Cost recognised in other comprehensive income 2019 2018 Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, Defined benefit plans 2019 2018 2019 2018 Remeasurement including employee pension tax Restoration reserve, opening balance 235 201 235 201 Actuarial gains (–)/ losses (+) on change in financial assumptions 144 54 Provision for the year 4 36 4 36 Tax –30 –11 Provisions used during the year –7 –2 –7 –2 Recognised in other comprehensive income 114 43 Restoration reserve, closing balance 232 235 232 235 Group of which current portion 75 72 — — 2019 2018 Restructuring reserve, opening Sensitivity analysis Increase Decrease Increase Decrease balance 2 5 2 5 0.5 %0.5 %0.5 %0.5 %Provision for the year 73 7 73 7 perperperpercentage centage centage centage Provisions used during the year –27 –10 –27 –10 Change in discount rate points points points points Restructuring reserve, closing Effect on obligation –63 71 –54 61 balance 47 2 47 2 0.5 %0.5 %0.5 %0.5 %of which current portion 42 2 — — perperperpercentage centage centage centage Change in inflation points points points points Other provisions, opening balance 66 71 58 55 Provision for the year 6 6 6 6 FINANCIAL INFORMATION Effect on obligation 70 –63 60 54 Provisions used during the year –20 –10 –15 –2 Group Reversal of unused provisions The obligation is broken down by Dec 31, Dec 31, during the year — –1 — –1 members in the plan as follows 2019 2018 Other provisions, closing Active members 34 41 balance 50 66 48 58 Paid-up pension policyholders 2,107 2,169 of which current portion 32 47 — — Pensioners 641 601 Total provisions 329 302 327 295 Total number of obligations 2,782 2,811 of which current portion 150 121 — — The duration of the pension liability was 14 years (14). Current provisions constitute SEK 150 M (121) of provisions. The current portion consists of a restoration reserve of SEK 75 M (72), a restructuring Effect of payments for the pension liability on Dec 31, Dec 31, reserve of SEK 42 M (2) and other provisions of SEK 32 M (47). The definiconsolidated cash flow: 2019 2018 tion of provisions can be found in the accounting principles on page 98. Within one year 40 36 Between one and five years 157 154 More than five years 939 1 015 Effect of discounting –195 –366 Total 941 839 Since the defined benefit plans are generally fully vested and the commitment is in the form of a paid-up policy, no payments were made in these pension plans. For plans that are not paid up, no payments are made since they are secured through a provision in the balance sheet. 118 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 NOTE 39 Deferred tax NOTE 40 Interest-bearing liabilities Group Parent Company Deferred Deferred The Group, Dec 31, 2019 tax asset tax liability Non-current interest-bearing Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, liabilities 2019 2018 2019 2018 Temporary difference goodwill — 5 Liabilities to credit institutions 2,700 1,700 2,700 1,700 Temporary difference tangible fixed assets –21 — Bonds and medium-term notes 4,850 4,300 4,850 4,300 Temporary difference right-of-use Liabilities to leasing companies 1,187 40 — 40 assets — 259 Other interest-bearing liabilities — 25 — — Temporary difference biological assets — 7 Total 8,737 6,064 7,550 6,040 Temporary difference financial instruments –20 — Current interest-bearing Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, liabilities 2019 2018 2019 2018 Temporary difference untaxed reserves — 436 Liabilities to credit institutions — 7 — 7 Temporary difference pensions — 64 Bonds and medium-term notes 300 851 300 851 Temporary difference lease liability –272 — Commercial paper 720 1,506 720 1,506 Offset 313 –313 Liabilities to leasing companies 134 13 — 13 Total — 458 Other interest-bearing liabilities 25 — — — Total 1,179 2,376 1,020 2,376 Deferred Deferred The Group, Dec 31, 2018 tax asset tax liability Group Temporary difference goodwill — — Temporary difference non-current ­Changes intangible assets –8 — not ­affecting Temporary difference biological cash flow assets — 6 Changes in liabilities related to Dec 31, New Dec 31, financing activities 2018 Cash flow leases 2019 Temporary difference financial instruments –5 — Liabilities to credit institutions 1,707 993 — 2,700 Temporary difference untaxed Bonds and medium-term notes 5,150 0 — 5,150 reserves — 425 Commercial paper 1,506 –786 — 720 Temporary difference pensions — 70 Lease liabilities 53 –90 1,358 1,321 Offset 13 –13 Other liabilities 25 — — 25 Total — 488 Total liabilities related to ­financing activities 8,440 117 1,358 9,916 Deferred Deferred Parent Company Dec 31, 2019 tax asset tax liability Group Temporary difference tangible fixed assets 37 — ­Changes not Other temporary differences 2 — ­affecting cash flow Total 39 — Changes in liabilities related to Dec 31, New Dec 31, financing activities 2017 Cash flow leases 2018 Deferred Deferred Liabilities to credit institutions — 1,707 — 1,707 Parent Company Dec 31, 2018 tax asset tax liability Medium-term notes 68 — 5,150 Temporary difference tangible fixed Commercial paper 1,451 55 — 1,506 assets 18 — Lease liabilities 61 –9 — 53 Other temporary differences1 7 — Other liabilities 25 0 — 25 Total 25 — Total liabilities related to 1 The figure for the previous year has been restated ­financing activities 6,619 1,821 — 8,440 Cash flow in the Parent Company was SEK 1,823 M (1,839) and changes not affecting cash flow totalled SEK 1,358 M (—). SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 119 NOTES NOTE 41 Non-current and current liabilities NOTE 43 Overdraft facilities Parent Company Group Parent Company Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, Non-current liabilities 2019 2018 2019 2018 2019 2018 Liabilities to credit institutions, bonds Credit amount approved 300 300 300 300 and medium-term notes 7,550 6,000 Unutilised portion –300 –293 –300 –293 Liabilities to leasing companies — 40 Credit amount utilised — 7 — 7 Other non-current liabilities 128 1 On December 31, 2019, Swedavia had an overdraft facility of SEK 300 Total 7,678 6,040 M, of which SEK – M (7) was utilised on the balance sheet date. Dec 31, Dec 31, Current liabilities 2019 2018 NOTE 44 Other liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 0 7 Group Bonds and medium-term notes 300 851 Dec 31, Dec 31, Commercial paper 720 1,506 2019 2018 Liabilities to leasing companies — 13 Current tax liabilities — — Trade payables 732 608 Other liabilities 91 161 Liabilities to Group companies 309 234 Total 91 161 Liabilities to associated companies 7 — Other liabilities 83 193 NOTE 45 Accrued expenses and prepaid Accrued expenses and prepaid income 680 705 income FINANCIAL INFORMATION Total 2,830 4,117 Group Parent Company Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, NOTE 42 Loan liabilities 2019 2018 2019 2018 Group Parent Company Accrued staff-related expenses 210 194 210 194 Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, Accrued interest 14 14 12 13 2019 2018 2019 2018 Accrued construction costs 171 182 140 160 Liabilities to credit institutions 2,700 1,707 2,700 1,707 Prepaid aviation income 10 19 10 19 Bonds and medium-term notes 5,150 5,150 5,150 5,150 Prepaid property income 58 57 55 57 Commercial paper 720 1,506 720 1,506 Prepaid income retail, food & Total 8,570 8,363 8,570 8,363 beverage 68 64 68 64 Prepaid parking income 15 15 15 15 Capital market programme Swedavia has a medium-term note (MTN) programme denominated in Prepaid advertising income 10 14 10 14 SEK for medium-term borrowing in the Swedish capital market. The limit Other accrued expenses and is set at SEK 15,000 M (15,000) and total borrowings in the programme prepaid income 183 192 158 170 were SEK 4,900 M (4,900). Since December 2019, a green bond of one billion kronor with a maturity of five years and three months is included in Total 741 750 680 705 the programme. In addition, Swedavia has corporate bonds of SEK 250 M (250) related to a private placement. Swedavia also has a Swedish commercial paper programme with a limit set at SEK 5,000 M (5,000) and total borrowings in the programme of SEK 720 M (1,506). On the balance sheet date, there was also a loan framework with the Nordic Investment Bank of SEK 2,000 M which allows loans with a maturity of up to ten years, with SEK 1,700 M (1,700) of this utilised. During the year, a loan framework agreement was signed with the German State-owned KfW-IPEX Bank for SEK 2,000 M, which allows loans with a maturity of up to ten years, with SEK 1,000 M (—) of this utilised 120 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 NOTE 46 Assets held for sale Transaction exposure Most revenue is not affected by any foreign exchange fluctuations since Group invoices are largely denominated in SEK. When invoicing is in a foreign currency, an internal match against supplier invoices is made in the corDec 31, Dec 31, responding foreign currency. For other payments in foreign currencies, Assets held for sale 2019 2018 currency hedges are entered into that match the foreign flow. Currency Investment properties 719 413 hedges are entered into in conjunction with the signing of a contract or on receipt of an invoice. According to the company’s Finance Policy, net Trade receivables 47 29 positions above the equivalent value of SEK 1 M per currency are Other receivables 2 — hedged for at least 75% and for a maximum of 100% for those to be paid within two years. Total 768 442 Interest rate risks Interest rate risk is defined as the risk that changes in market interest Group rates will have a negative impact on the Group’s net interest income/ Dec 31, Dec 31, expense. Liabilities related to assets held for sale 2019 2018 On December 31, 2019, Swedavia had external funding of SEK 8,570 Other non-current loans — 0 M (8,363). To reduce the sensitivity to interest rate changes, Swedavia works actively to reduce interest paid through interest rate swaps and Trade payables 2 1 borrowing at fixed interest rates. On December 31, 2019, 80 per cent Other current liabilities 3 — (73) of external funding had fixed interest rates, which consists of loans with fixed interest rates and interest rate derivatives. On the balance Accrued expenses and prepaid income 38 0 sheet date, the nominal amount of interest rate swaps was SEK 3, 500 Total 43 2 M (2,500) with a fair value of SEK –109 M (–76). Funding at fixed interest rates totalled SEK 7,650 M. Based on those hedges, an increase in the In December 2017, Swedavia signed a contract to sell the company interest rate of 1 percentage point would increase Swedavia’s interest Airport Hotel 2 AB, which owns the property at Stockholm Arlanda rate expenses by SEK 19.2 M (22.5), which means that profit after finanAirport where the new hotel Comfort Hotel Arlanda Airport has been cial items would decrease by the equivalent amount. However, a built. The transaction was completed on January 30, 2020, when the decrease in the interest rate of 1 percentage point would decrease hotel was placed in service. Assets held for sale are not depreciated Swedavia’s interest rate expenses by SEK 12.8 M (1.8) and thus improve from the time of reclassification. The assets were funded through profit after financial items by the equivalent amount. Current lock-in periGroup-internal loans. ods and financial instruments have been taken into account in carrying out the sensitivity analysis. According to the company’s Finance Policy, interest rates shall be locked in for a period of not less than one year and not more than four years. On the balance sheet date, the interest rate NOTE 47 Financial risks lock-in period was 3.8 years (2.7). The Group is exposed to a number of different financial risks in its operCommodity price risks ations, which in turn have an impact on the company’s profit, cash flow Swedavia’s commodity price risk is concentrated on the purchase of and valuation. Swedavia’s Finance Policy identifies and defines these electricity, and the way this is handled is governed in its Finance Policy. risks and governs the risk mandate and principles for calculation, There is continuous hedging of electricity prices in accordance with the reporting, monitoring and control. This policy is characterised by a low policy. Hedging is done through electricity derivatives as well as through risk level, and compliance is ensured through quarterly reports to the bilateral agreements with producers. The hedge ratio is correlated with Board of Directors. The Board adopts the policy each year, and assessthe time horizon, and the hedging period may not exceed ten years. On ment is on a continuous basis. the balance sheet date December 31, 2019, the hedge ratio was 78 per The Group’s financing operations and financial risk management are cent (88) of projected use. A 1 per cent increase/decrease in the price of centralised in the corporate economy and finance unit and is part of electricity for the unhedged volume would not have a material effect on Swedavia’s overall risk management methodology. The objective is to profit, less than SEK 0.1 M (0.1), given the current level of hedging. minimise the Group’s capital costs through effective funding solutions while ensuring efficient management and control of the Group’s financial Hedge accounting risks. The Group applies cash flow hedging for its interest rate risk, foreign Swedavia has exposure to changes in exchange rates, commodity exchange risk and electricity price risk. Under Swedavia’s Finance prices and interest rates as well as when current market conditions and Policy, the hedge relationship must be in effect the entire time and not the Group’s capital structure give rise to refinancing and credit risks. To be restarted. In order to apply hedge accounting, hedge relationships minimise the Group’s exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, electricmust satisfy all criteria for hedge accounting. The Group determines the ity prices and exchange rates, different kinds of derivatives are used. economic relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument to assess the effectiveness of the hedge. This is done by assessCurrency risks ing the critical conditions between the hedged item and the hedging Exchange rate risk is defined as the risk that movements in currency instrument, which includes assessing the nominal amount, currency prices will have a negative impact on the Group’s profit, financial posiand cash flow date. If the critical conditions for the hedged item and the tion and/or cash flow. Since all subsidiaries are Swedish and use SEK as hedging instrument match, the hedge relationship is considered to be their currency, there is no translation exposure. effective. The Group uses a one-to-one ratio in the hedge relationship for all current hedges that satisfy the criteria for hedge accounting. The effective portion of the changes in fair value recognised in other comprehensive income during the year was SEK –72 M (57). SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 121 NOTES Group, Dec 31, 2019 Nominal amounts by risk category of hedging instrument – Maturity structure < 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years > 5 years Total Currency risk (EUR) 324 70 — — — — 393 Currency risk (USD) 4 — — — — — 4 Currency risk (NOK) 58 57 — — — — 115 Interest rate risk (interest rate derivatives) — — 250 500 250 2,500 3,500 Currency price risk (electricity – MWh) 271,720 70,080 43,800 26,280 — — 411,880 Group, Dec 31, 2019 Average rate for nominal amounts – Maturity structure < 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years > 5 years Currency risk (EUR) 10.7 10.7 — — — — Currency risk (USD) 9.8 — — — — — Currency risk (NOK) 1.0 1.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Interest rate risk(fixed interest rate) 0.0% 0.0% 0.2% 0.8% 1.2% 1.1% Currency price risk (electricity – SEK/MWh) 294 261 353 355 0 0 On December 31, 2019, Swedavia had a hedge reserve totalling SEK –76 M (–18). The hedge reserve consists solely of current cash flow Group hedges. The change in the hedge reserve for equity pertaining to curEffects of hedge accounting on cash flow hedges for Dec 31, Dec 31, rency risk is mostly related to the expiration of hedges and the start of the company’s financial position and profit 2019 2018 new ones. The change pertaining to interest rate risk is mostly related to FINANCIAL INFORMATION an increase in interest rate derivatives since market interest rates have Currency risk related to purchases risen, and the change in commodity price risk (electricity) pertains to the Hedging instruments fact that electricity futures have a greater value since the price of electricity has gone up. The change in deferred tax is a residual related to all the cash flow hedges and financial risks identified above. No reversals Nominal amount 512 42 were recorded during the period. Carrying amount –2 1 Group Of which financial assets 0 1 Reconciliation of risk ­components in equity Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 Of which financial liabilities –3 –0 Opening balance, hedge reserves –18 –63 Change in fair value of hedging in instrument1 –3 1 Currency risk –3 1 Hedged risk Interest rate risk –33 20 Change in fair value of hedging in hedged item2 3 –1 Currency price risk (electricity) –38 38 Reserve, cash flow hedges –2 1 Deferred tax 15 –13 Hedging income in other comprehensive income –3 1 Closing balance, hedge reserves –76 –18 Interest rate risk related to loans with variable rates Sources of ineffectiveness in hedging relationships for all cash flow Hedging instruments hedges and financial risks are related to the cash flow date, expiration Nominal amount 3,500 2,500 date, credit risk and day count conventions. Ineffectiveness on December 31, 2019, recognised in the income statement, was Carrying amount –110 –76 SEK — M (—). Of which financial assets 0 1 Of which financial liabilities –110 –77 Change in fair value of hedging instrument1 –33 20 Hedged risk Change in fair value of hedged item2 32 –25 Reserve, cash flow hedges –110 –76 Hedging income in other comprehensive income –33 20 122 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Liquidity and refinancing risk Group Liquidity and refinancing risk pertains to the risk that funding opportuniCommodity price risk related to purchase of Dec 31, Dec 31, ties will be limited and the cost will be higher when loans are to be re-­ electricity 2019 2018 negotiated. It also includes the risk that payment obligations cannot be met due to insufficient liquidity. The Group’s target capital structure is to Hedging instruments have the Group’s fixed assets funded by equity and have no more than Nominal amount (MWh) 411 880 302 324 40 per cent of its loan portfolio mature in the same twelve-month period. According to Swedavia’s Finance Policy, its loan portfolio shall have a Carrying amount 14 52 capital tie-up period of not less than two years and not more than five Of which financial assets 15 52 years. The average interest rate lock-in period on its borrowings on Of which financial liabilities –1 –0 December 31, 2019, was 3.8 years (2.7) with an average interest rate of 1.1 per cent (1.0). The liquidity risk is minimised by Swedavia having a Change in fair value of hedging instrument1 –38 38 diversified portfolio of loans, which ensures access to capital and flexiHedged risk bility. Under its Finance Policy, the Group shall have back-up facilities of SEK 1,500 M (1,200). On the balance sheet date, there were unutilised Change in fair value of hedged item2 40 –39 bank loan guarantees of SEK 1,800 M (1,800), including overdraft faciliReserve, cash flow hedges 14 52 ties of SEK 300 M (300), of which SEK — M (7) was utilised. The Group believes there are no risks associated with its refinancing potential. Hedging income in other comprehensive income –38 38 1 change in fair value of hedging instrument used to assess hedging effectiveness for the Group period Key metrics, financial risks Dec 31, 2019 Dec 31, 2018 2 change in fair value of hedged item used to assess hedging effectiveness for the period Average interest rate, % 1,1 1,0 Interest rate lock-in period, years 3,8 2,7 Capital tie-up period, years 5,0 4,2 The tables below show the undiscounted cash flows related to financial liabilities and net settled derivatives at the prices on the reporting date. Variable interest rates on borrowings and interest rate swaps in effect on the reporting date are assumed to apply for the remaining maturity of each instrument. Group, Dec 31, 2019 Financial liabilities (including future interest expenses and derivative instruments) – Maturity structure < 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years > 5 years Total Bonds and medium-term notes 372 1,475 2,057 288 1,143 3,892 9,229 Commercial paper 720 — — — — — 720 Liabilities to leasing companies 134 125 117 111 111 724 1,321 Trade payables 796 — — — — — 796 Other liabilities 0 0 — — — — 0 Derivative liabilities 35 35 35 32 29 82 248 Total 2,057 1,635 2,209 432 1,283 4,699 12,314 Group, Dec 31, 2018 Financial liabilities (including future interest expenses and derivative instruments) – Maturity structure < 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years > 5 years Total Bonds and medium-term notes 895 589 1,337 2,032 263 1,950 7,068 Commercial paper 1,505 — — — — — 1,505 Liabilities to leasing companies 15 38 — — — — 53 Trade payables 651 — — — — — 651 Other liabilities — 25 — — — — 25 Derivative liabilities 152 59 40 23 19 46 340 Total 3,218 711 1,377 2,055 283 1,997 9,640 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 123 NOTES Credit risks and counterparty risks Group Parent Company The Group’s commercial and financial transactions give rise to credit risks. Credit risk refers to the risk of loss if the counterparty does not Provisioning for expected credit Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, meet its contractual obligations. The credit risk that Swedavia is losses 2019 2018 2019 2018 exposed to consists of financial credit risk and credit risk for trade Trade receivables not due 0 1 0 1 receivables. Trade receivables past due 1–30 Financial credit risk days 0 0 0 0 The credit risk for financial transactions arises when the Group invests Trade receivables past due 31–90 liquid assets and when the Group enters into contracts for financial days 0 1 0 1 instruments with banks. The maximum credit risk consists of the carryTrade receivables >90 days 2 3 2 3 ing amount of financial assets including derivatives with a positive market value. The Group’s policy is to work with banks that have a good Total 3 6 3 6 credit rating, and Swedavia has entered ISDA master agreements with its counterparty banks. NOTE 48 Pledged assets and contingent Credit risk in trade receivables liabilities The credit risk for commercial transactions arises when there is a risk that customers will not meet their payment obligations to the Group. For Group Parent Company trade receivables, operations are run in accordance with a provision regulating credit terms and working methods. Terms of payment are in Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, 2019 2018 2019 2018 most cases net 30 days. Reserves are allocated for expected credit losses on first recognition. Swedavia has chosen to use segmenting by Pledged assets 913 935 — — customer type based on forward-looking information and historical data. The method is based on Sweden’s forecast GDP trend and the Group Parent Company effects of this on credit losses relative to historical credit losses in each customer category and interval. On each balance sheet date, the comDec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, pany assesses whether there are objective indicators of a default of pay2019 2018 2019 2018 ment and the need for an impairment loss on first recognition. Objective Contingent liabilities 10 73 10 73 FINANCIAL INFORMATION indicators of impairment can be a breach of contract, such as a default or past due payment of interest or principal, significant financial difficulSwedavia’s pledged assets consist of shares and holdings in the joint ties for the debtor or deterioration in creditworthiness, as well as credit ventures Swedish Airport Infrastructure KB and Swedish Airport risk exposure. Infrastructure AB. The carrying amount was SEK 913 M (935). Swedavia’s contingent liabilities consist of pension obligations in Group Parent Company Company-owned endowment insurance plans of SEK M (6). There is no Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, longer a guarantee recognised for the joint venture Landvetter Logistik 2019 2018 2019 2018 Center AB previously owned with Bockasjö since Swedavia’s holding in Age analysis the associated company was sold in the third quarter, SEK — M (67). In Trade receivables not due 515 522 497 500 addition to the contingent liabilities above, Swedavia has contingent liaTrade receivables past due 1–30 bilities stemming from environmental requirements for running airport days 68 50 67 49 operations. In its operations, Swedavia handles chemical substances and is responsible for waste, emissions, pollution and other effects on Trade receivables past due 31–90 the environment at Swedavia’s airports. Swedavia’s obligations concern days 11 4 10 4 events after the company was formed. Trade receivables >90 days 1 –1 1 –1 Swedavia is a party to ongoing litigation and disputes. Litigation and disputes are unpredictable in nature, and the actual outcome may differ Total 595 575 576 553 from the assessments that Swedavia has made. Group Parent Company Expected credit losses 2019 2018 2019 2018 Expected credit losses, opening balance 6 3 6 2 Reversal of expected credit losses –3 –3 –3 –2 Credit losses declared –2 0 –2 0 Provisioning for feared losses 1 6 1 6 Expected credit losses, closing balance 3 6 3 6 124 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 NOTE 49 Cash flow NOTE 51 Events after the balance sheet date Group Parent Company CORONAVIRUS OUTBREAK Since the end of the year, Swedavia has been closely following events Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, Dec 31, MSEK 2019 2018 2019 2018 around the new Covid-19 coronavirus and is in continuous contact with the authorities involved, mainly the Public Health Agency of Sweden and Adjustments in items not infectious disease doctors in the regions affected. The focus is always ­included in the cash flow the health and safety of employees, passengers and stakeholders. Swedavia complies with directives issued by the authorities in charge. In Profit from holdings in associated March, developments around the Covid-19 virus accelerated, which has companies/Group companies –45 -53 — — had an enormous impact on society in general, in Sweden and in much Capital gain on sale of non-current of the world. This in turn has had a negative impact on airlines, partly in assets –28 –16 — –16 the form of tight restrictions and in some cases even a ban on air traffic, and partly in the form of plunging demand for flights for both business Depreciation, amortisation and and leisure travel. For Swedavia, these developments have entailed a impairment losses 1,227 1,041 1,236 1,050 sharp fall in the number of aircraft movements and passengers, which Change in pension provisions 109 35 84 13 means a sharp fall in revenue from airport charges and car parking & drop-off/pick-up facilities, and rental revenue from retail, food & beverChange in other provisions 26 25 32 33 age operations. Given uncertainty about how this will develop, it is diffiOther –85 –43 20 85 cult for Swedavia to predict how great an impact this will have on the rest of the year. To reduce the negative economic impact of lower reveTotal 1,204 989 1,373 1,162 nue, Swedavia is considering carrying out short-term lay-offs, cost-­ cutting measures and a review of its investment portfolio. It is very diffiInterest paid and dividends cult at present to predict how the demand for flights will change in the received short term and how this could affect Swedavia’s long-term forecast. Dividends received 67 — — — SALE OF HOTEL PROPERTY Interest received 6 3 23 15 On January 30, 2020, Airport Hotel 2 AB, which owns the hotel property Interest paid –127 –120 –107 –97 for the newly opened Comfort Hotel at Stockholm Arlanda Airport, was sold. The buyer is Wenaasgruppen AS. The underlying property value Short-term borrowings (maturity of three months or less) that are raised was SEK 1,344 M and the preliminary capital gain is estimated at SEK and repaid during the same month are offset. 410 M. The capital gain will be recognised during the first quarter of 2020. NOTE 50 Supplementary information for key NEW BOARD MEMBER An extraordinary General Meeting held on February 13, 2020, elected financial metrics Nina Linander as a new Board member and decided that there should be eight Board members and no deputy members. Supplementary information for key financial metrics. For definitions and the reasoning behind them, see pages 134–135, Key metrics and page 137, Definitions. Debt/equity ratio The debt/equity ratio is affected by the pension liability trend. The pension liability and pension provision less the employee pension tax receivable, was SEK 874 M on December 31, 2019, and SEK 765 M on December 31, 2018. Return on operating capital excluding capital gains, ­impairment losses, disposals and restructuring costs In calculating this key metric as of December 2019, operating profit for the rolling twelve months was adjusted by restructuring costs of SEK 81 M, impairment losses and disposals of SEK 82 M, and capital gains of SEK 130 M. Operating profit in 2018 for the rolling twelve months was adjusted by impairment losses and disposals of SEK 84 M and an earnout of SEK 55 M. SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 125 SIGNATORIES TO THE ANNUAL REPORT SIGNATORIES TO THE ANNUAL REPORT The undersigned certify that the consolidated accounts and Annual The Report of the Directors gives a true and fair picture of the Report have been prepared in conformity with international financial performance of the Group’s and the Parent Company’s operations, reporting accounting standards (IFRS) such as have been adopted by financial position and results and describes significant risks and the EU in line with generally accepted accounting principles and give a uncertainty factors faced by the companies included in the Group. The true and fair picture of the financial position and results of the Group Board of Directors adopts the Sustainability Report. and the Parent Company. Stockholm-Arlanda March 18, 2020 Åke Svensson Chairman of the Board Nina Linander Lars Backemar Lottie Knutson Board member Board member Board member FINANCIAL INFORMATION Lotta Mellström Lars Mydland Mikael Norman Board member Board member Board member Lottie Svedenstedt Agne Lindbom Robert Olsson Board member Board member Board member Employee representative Employee representative Jonas Abrahamsson President and CEO Our Auditor’s Report was submitted on March 19, 2020 KPMG AB Tomas Gerhardsson Authorised Public Accountant The income statements and balance sheets of the Group and the Parent Company will be subject to approval at the Annual General on April 29, 2020. 126 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 AUDITOR’S REPORT Auditor’s report To the general meeting of the shareholders of Swedavia AB, corp. id 556797-0818 Report on the annual accounts and consolidated thereon, the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole, accounts but we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. Opinions We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of Swedavia AB for the year 2019, except for the corporate governance Investments in construction in progress statement on pages 74–83 and the sustainability report on pages See disclosure note 15, 19 and 9 and accounting principles on 65–71. The annual accounts and consolidated accounts of the compage 96 in the annual accounts and consolidated accounts for pany are included on pages 61–126 in this document. detailed information and description of the matter. In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act, and present fairly, in all material Description of key audit matter respects, the financial position of the parent company as of December Construction in progress related to tangible fixed assets totals 31, 2019 and its financial performance and cash flow for the year then MSEK 5,113 in the group and MSEK 5,031 in the parent comended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated pany as at December 31, 2019. The group and the parent comaccounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts pany conduct a large number of investment projects at their Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of ten airports, primarily related to Stockholm Arlanda Airport and the group as of December 31, 2019 and their financial performance Göteborg Landvetter Airport. and cash flow for the year then ended in accordance with International The accounting for construction in progress related to tangiFinancial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and the ble fixed assets comprises several judgments, including whether Annual Accounts Act. Our opinions do not cover the corporate govcosts incurred such as own time and borrowing costs are capernance statement on pages 74–83 and sustainability report on pages italizable, completion date, useful lives and future value in use, 65–71. The statutory administration report is consistent with the other which means that changed judgments could result in significant parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. effects on the group’s and the parent company’s result and We therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholders financial position. adopts the income statement and balance sheet for the parent company and the group. Response in the audit Our opinions in this report on the annual accounts and consoliIn our audit, we have built an understanding of processes and dated accounts are consistent with the content of the additional report internal controls for construction in progress related to tangible that has been submitted to the parent company’s audit committee in fixed assets. Furthermore, we have tested the design and impleaccordance with the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 11. mentation of key controls in connection with these investments. We have also evaluated the accounting principles applied Basis for Opinions and, through sampling, substantively tested investment We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on expenditures to assess activability, completion date, useful life Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. and future value in use. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the We have also assessed the disclosures for construction in Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independent of the parent progress related to tangible fixed assets that is included in the company and the group in accordance with professional ethics for annual accounts and the consolidated accounts. accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. This includes that, based on the best of our knowledge and belief, no prohibited services referred Other Information than the annual accounts and consolidated to in the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 5.1 have been provided to accounts the audited company or, where applicable, its parent company or its This document also contains other information than the annual controlled companies within the EU. accounts and consolidated accounts and is found on pages 2–60 and We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient 130-139. The Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer are and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. responsible for this other information. Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts Other Matter does not cover this other information and we do not express any form The audit of the annual accounts for year 2018 was performed by of assurance conclusion regarding this other information. another auditor who submitted an auditor´s report dated March 19, In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and consoli2019, with unmodified opinions in the Report on the annual accounts dated accounts, our responsibility is to read the information identified and consolidated accounts. above and consider whether the information is materially inconsistent with the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. In this proceKey Audit Matters dure we also take into account our knowledge otherwise obtained in Key audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our professional the audit and assess whether the information otherwise appears to be judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the annual accounts materially misstated. and consolidated accounts of the current period. These matters were If we, based on the work performed concerning this information, addressed in the context of our audit of, and in forming our opinion conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other informaSWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 127 AUDITOR’S REPORT tion, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in • Obtain an understanding of the company’s internal control relevant to this regard. our audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. Officer • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reaThe Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer are responsible sonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by for the preparation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer. and that they give a fair presentation in accordance with the Annual • Conclude on the appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ and the Accounts Act and, concerning the consolidated accounts, in accordChief Executive Officer’s, use of the going concern basis of accountance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors and the ing in preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. We Chief Executive Officer are also responsible for such internal control also draw a conclusion, based on the audit evidence obtained, as to as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of annual whether any material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions accounts and consolidated accounts that are free from material misthat may cast significant doubt on the company’s and the group’s statement, whether due to fraud or error. ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material In preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts The uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer are responsible for report to the related disclosures in the annual accounts and conthe assessment of the company’s and the group’s ability to continue solidated accounts or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify as a going concern. They disclose, as applicable, matters related to our opinion about the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting. The Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the going concern basis of accounting is however not applied if the Board date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer intend to liquidate the commay cause a company and a group to cease to continue as a going pany, to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. concern. The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the annual Director’s responsibilities and tasks in general, among other things accounts and consolidated accounts, including the disclosures, and oversee the company’s financial reporting process. whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair FINANCIAL INFORMATION Auditor’s responsibility presentation. Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the • Obtain sufficient and appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from information of the entities or business activities within the group to material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an express an opinion on the consolidated accounts. We are responsible auditor’s report that includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance is a for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted remain solely responsible for our opinions. in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing standards We must inform the Board of Directors of, among other matters, the in Sweden will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. planned scope and timing of the audit. We must also inform of signifiMisstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered cant audit findings during our audit, including any significant deficienmaterial if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be cies in internal control that we identified. expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the We must also provide the Board of Directors with a statement that basis of these annual accounts and consolidated accounts. we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding indeAs part of an audit in accordance with ISAs, we exercise profespendence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other sional judgment and maintain professional scepticism throughout the matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, audit. We also: and where applicable, related safeguards. • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the annual From the matters communicated with the Board of Directors, we accounts and consolidated accounts, whether due to fraud or error, determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the most obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a important assessed risks for material misstatement, and are therefore basis for our opinions. The risk of not detecting a material misstatethe key audit matters. We describe these matters in the auditor’s report ment resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as unless law or regulation precludes disclosure about the matter. fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. 128 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Report on other legal and regulatory requirements As part of an audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing Opinions standards in Sweden, we exercise professional judgment and maintain In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated professional scepticism throughout the audit. The examination of the accounts, we have also audited the administration of the Board of administration and the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit Directors and the Chief Executive Officer of Swedavia AB for the year or loss is based primarily on the audit of the accounts. Additional audit 2019 and the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss. procedures performed are based on our professional judgment with We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that the profit starting point in risk and materiality. This means that we focus the exambe appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory adminination on such actions, areas and relationships that are material for the istration report and that the members of the Board of Directors and the operations and where deviations and violations would have particular Chief Executive Officer be discharged from liability for the financial year. importance for the company’s situation. We examine and test decisions undertaken, support for decisions, actions taken and other circumBasis for Opinions stances that are relevant to our opinion concerning discharge from We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing liability. As a basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ proposed standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those standards are appropriations of the company’s profit or loss we examined whether the further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are indeproposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. pendent of the parent company and the group in accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled The auditor’s examination of the corporate governance statement our ethical responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. The Board of Directors is responsible for that the corporate governance We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and statement on pages 74-83 has been prepared in accordance with the appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. Annual Accounts Act. Our examination of the corporate governance statement is conResponsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive ducted in accordance with FAR´s auditing standard RevU 16 The audiOfficer tor´s examination of the corporate governance statement. This means The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriations that our examination of the corporate governance statement is different of the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, this includes and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance an assessment of whether the dividend is justifiable considering the with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditrequirements which the company’s and the group’s type of operations, ing standards in Sweden. We believe that the examination has provided size and risks place on the size of the parent company’s and the group’s us with sufficient basis for our opinions. equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity and position in general. A corporate governance statement has been prepared. Disclosures in The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organization accordance with chapter 6 section 6 the second paragraph points 2–6 and the administration of the company’s affairs. This includes among of the Annual Accounts Act and chapter 7 section 31 the second parother things continuous assessment of the company’s and the group’s agraph the same law are consistent with the other parts of the annual financial situation and ensuring that the company’s organization is accounts and consolidated accounts and are in accordance with the designed so that the accounting, management of assets and the comAnnual Accounts Act. pany’s financial affairs otherwise are controlled in a reassuring manner. The Chief Executive Officer shall manage the ongoing administraThe auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report tion according to the Board of Directors’ guidelines and instructions The Board of Directors is responsible for the sustainability report on and among other matters take measures that are necessary to fulfill the pages 65–71, and that it is prepared in accordance with the Annual company’s accounting in accordance with law and handle the manageAccounts Act. ment of assets in a reassuring manner. Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR:s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor’s opinion regarding the statutory Auditor’s responsibility sustainability report. This means that our examination of the statutory Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and thereby sustainability report is different and substantially less in scope than an our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit evidence to audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing assess with a reasonable degree of assurance whether any member and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We believe that of the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive Officer in any material the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for our opinion. respect: • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which can A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. give rise to liability to the company, or • in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the KPMG AB, P.O Box 382, SE-101 27, Stockholm, was appointed audiAnnual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. tor of Swedavia AB by the general meeting of the shareholders on April Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations 17, 2019. KPMG AB or auditors operating at KPMG AB have been the of the company’s profit or loss, and thereby our opinion about this, is to company’s auditor since 2019. assess with reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarStockholm March 19, 2020 antee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted KPMG AB auditing standards in Sweden will always detect actions or omissions that can give rise to liability to the company, or that the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss are not in accordance with the Tomas Gerhardsson Companies Act. Authorized Public Accountant SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 129 GRI INDEX GRI – Principles and boundaries Swedavia has used the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)’s guidelines The GRI Index shows where all mandatory information is provided since 2010 and reports its sustainability work in 2019 in accordin this report. Reporting is limited to those areas in which the company ance with GRI’s core standards. This report also includes relevant exercises complete control over the collection of data and the quality ­sector specific indicators in accordance with GRI G4 Airport Operator of information, which means that the entire Group is included unless Disclosures. The sustainability information in the combined report otherwise indicated. Data for companies in which it owns a minority for 2019 has been reviewed as per the Board of Directors’ wishes by interest are excluded. Swedavia publishes a combined Annual and Swedavia’s auditors, KPMG. It has also been approved by Swedavia’s Sustainability Report each year. The reporting cycle is for the full year. Board of Directors. Swedavia’s Annual and Sustainability Report 2019 was published on March 27, 2020. GRI Index Standard disclosures GRI standard disclosure Description Page reference and comments Organisational profile 102-1 Name of the organisation 93 102-2 Activities, bands, products and services 16, 17, 61 102-3 Location of headquarters 93 OTHER 102-4 Location of operations 5, 61 102-5 Ownership and legal form 74 102-6 Markets served 61 102-7 Scale of the organisation 4, 38, 85 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 55, 103. The number of employees regardless of the form of employment is 3,558. 2,538 permanent employees, 2,280 of whom are full-time and 258 part-time. 35 per cent of permanent employees are women. Fixed-term 283, 21 per cent of whom are women. Intermittent 737, 36 per cent of whom are women. 102-9 Supply chain 27 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain 61–64 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 65–67 102-12 External initiatives 8, 14–15, 35, 37, 39, 47, 50–51, 56 102-13 Membership of associations 53–55, 56 AO:G4-7 Environmental permits and other regulations in effect 59, 69–70, 93 AO:G4-8 Catchment area for cargo and passengers 28, 38, 93 AO:G4:9 Direct destinations and other information about the size of the airports etc. 32–38. The number of employees at the airports is about 26,000. The number of airline customers is 108 including scheduled and charter operations. Minimum transfer time is 15 minutes. 130 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Standard disclosures (cont.) GRI standard disclosure Description Page reference and comments Strategy 102-14 Statement from the senior decision-maker 6–9 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour 5, 65, 68 Governance 102-18 Governance structure 74–79 Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 19–21 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 100 per cent of Swedavia’s employees 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 20–21 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 20–21 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 20–21 Reporting practice 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 93 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 130 102-47 List of material topics 20–21 102-48 Restatements of information 20–21, 130, 134–135 102-49 Changes in reporting 20, 130, 134–135 102-50 Reporting period 130 102-51 Date of most recent report 130 102-52 Reporting cycle 130 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 2 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 130 102-55 GRI content index 130–132 102-56 External assurance 130, 136 Topic-specific standard disclosures GRI number Description Page reference and comments Economic results and return 103-1 – 103-3 Management approach 20–21, 26, 28 Own indicator Return on operating capital 4, 24–25, 134 Competitiveness of airport charges 103-1 – 103-3 Management approach 20–21, 51, 134 Own indicator Comparative index 51, 134 Attractive offering of retail and services 103-1 – 103-3 Management approach 20–21, 43 Own indicator Commercial revenue per departing passenger 4, 62, 134 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 131 GRI INDEX Topic-specific standard disclosures (cont.) GRI number Description Page reference and comments Cost-effectiveness 103-1 – 103-3 Management approach 20–21, 26, 134 Own indicator Operating cost per departing passenger 4, 62, 134 Attractive offering of routes and international destinations 103-1 – 103-3 Management approach 20–21, 32–38, 134 Own indicator Number of passengers 25, 32–38, 134 Own indicator Number of international destinations 25, 32–38, 134 Own indicator Number of new routes 32–38, 134 Customer satisfaction 103-1 – 103-3 Management approach 20–21, 29, 134 Own indicator Customer satisfaction, passengers 24, 29, 32–38, 134 Capacity and flows at airports 103-1 – 103-3 Management approach 20–21, 29, 32-38, 134 Own indicator Punctuality (%) 29, 32–38, 134 Own indicator Delays caused by the airport 29, 32–38, 134 Digitalisation and automation 103-1 – 103-3 Management approach 20–21, 134 Own indicator Number of capabilities established 12, 134 OTHER Aviation’s climate impact 103-1 – 103-3 Management approach 20–21, 56–59, 134 305-5 Reduced emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG) 13–15, 25, 56–59, 69, 134 Only fossil carbon dioxide included in key metric, which is in line with Swedavia’s zero target and Swedavia’s boundary for ACA carbon footprint. Own indicator Energy use 58, 69, 134 Own indicator Share of sustainable aviation fuel used for refuelling at Swedish airports 56–57, 69, 134 Customer health and safety 103-1 – 103-3 Management approach 20–21, 52, 134 Own indicator Number of accidents and incidents 25, 52, 134 Own indicator Number of serious deficiencies in Swedish Transport Agency inspections 52, 134 Engaged leaders and employees 103-1 – 103-3 Management approach 20–21, 54-55 Own indicator Engaged leaders and employees 24, 54–55, 70–71, 134 Employee health and safety 103-1 – 103-3 Management approach 20–21, 55, 70–71 Own indicator Number of reported workplace incidents 55, 70 132 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Cross-reference table – UN Global Compact Since 2012, Swedavia supports the United Nations Global Compact and its ten principles. Swedavia’s Sustainability Report 2019 also constitutes Swedavia’s Communication on Progress (COP), which is an annual update on how the Group complies with the ten principles. The table shows where each Global Compact principle can be found in Swedavia’s Annual and Sustainability Report 2019. UN Global Compact’s ten principles Page reference and comments Human rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights in the spheres 53–54, 70–71 they can influence 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 53–54, 70–71 Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 54–55, 70–71 4. Businesses should work to eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour 54 5. Businesses should work to abolish child labour Swedavia complies with the regulations in effect in laws and agreements for the protection of ­underage workers in the labour market. Children under 15 are not employed at Swedavia 6. Businesses should eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 54–55, 70–71 Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 56–59, 69 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 56–59, 69 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 56–59, 69 Corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 54, 65–68 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 133 KEY METRICS Key metrics ACCIDENTS AND SERIOUS INCIDENTS CAPABILITY (DIGITISATION) CUSTOMER SATISFACTION The terms are defined by Regulation (EU) no The degree of digital transformation measCustomer satisfaction is measured through 996/2010. An accident entails that (i) a person ured by the number of initiatives carried out Swedavia’s participation in the ASQ has died or been seriously injured in conneclinked to selected digitisation capabilities. Programme, an international passenger tion with the aircraft during a flight, with the Each capability requires completion of two survey administered by Airport Council exception of natural causes, (ii) an aircraft has initiatives/projects in the area that support International (ACI). The survey measures been subject to damage that seriously affects the establishment of this capability. In 2019, departing passengers’ attitudes to and its performance or (iii) an aircraft is completely Swedavia achieved a new capability – Indoor experience of the airport. Swedavia’s annual unreachable. A serious incident entails that position. In all, Swedavia has achieved two results are weighted based on the airports’ circumstances show there was a high probcapabilities – Data-driven business developresults, weighted by the number of pasability that an accident with an aircraft could ment and Indoor position. The target is four sengers. For Bromma Stockholm Airport, have occurred during the flight. capabilities in 2020. Göteborg Landvetter Airport and Stockholm Arlanda Airport, the period is for the full-year ATTRACTIVE OFFERING OF ROUTES AND CAPITAL TIE-UP PERIOD 2019. For the regional airports, the period DESTINATIONS Volume-weighted average remaining maturity runs from the fourth quarter of 2018 to the Swedavia also measures the number of pasat the end of the period for interest-bearfirst quarter of 2019. sengers, routes and destinations. Threshold ing liabilities. The metric clarifies the Group’s values have been defined in the calculation financing risk. DEBT/EQUITY RATIO* for a twelve-month period in order to filter Net liabilities divided by equity. This finanout flights that take place on an ad hoc-basis COMMERCIAL REVENUE PER DEPARTING cial ratio is what the owner uses as a capital and for which the general public cannot buy PASSENGER* structure/gearing target for the Group. The tickets. Revenue from retail, food & beverage and metric is considered to be directly linked to from car parking & passenger drop-off/ the Group’s actual funding and financial risk. AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES pick-up facilities divided by the number of The average number of employees is calcudeparting passengers for the same period. DESTINATION/INTERNATIONAL lated based on hours worked. The average The Group considers it a key metric for moniDESTINATIONS number of employees is restated as the total toring changes in commercial revenue. Destination is a city served by one or more OTEHR number of hours worked divided by the norairlines in which the total number of deparmal working time as defined by the Swedish COMPETITIVENESS OF AIRPORT CHARGES tures from each Swedavia airport reaches a Accounting Standards Board. Calculated on Swedavia’s competitiveness is estimated given number during a twelve-month period. a rolling twelve-month basis. each year based on a weighted average The number of international destinations is of airport charges for typical flights for the determined by the total of international citAVERAGE OPERATING CAPITAL company’s airports compared to equivalent ies that can be reached by direct flights in The closing balance of operating capital flights at competing and comparable airscheduled service from Swedavia’s airports. on the balance sheet date plus the closing ports. The selection of comparative airports Threshold values have been used in the balance of operating capital on the balance and reference traffic is based on an internal calculation in order to filter out such charsheet date for the previous year divided by assessment approved by Swedavia’s execter flights that take place on an ad hoc basis two. utive management. Comparisons include and for which the general public cannot buy charges for airport users which finance tickets. AVIATION’S CLIMATE IMPACT operations at the airports, including security Swedavia reports GRI indicator 305-5, checkpoints and terminal services. Charges EARNINGS PER SHARE “Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions”, for air traffic management services for flying Profit for the year divided by the average under the framework for Swedavia’s zero the route, ground handling services, aviation number of shares less costs attributable to target for its own fossil carbon dioxide emistaxes and government regulatory taxes are hybrid bond. sions, under Scope 1, 2 and 3 in accordnot included. This index is not adjusted for ance with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. currencies, and Swedavia’s measured comENERGY USE Emissions are reported in tonnes of fossil carpetitiveness is thus affected by changes in The metric includes purchased electricity, bon dioxide. See key metric “Own emissions exchange rates. district heating and cooling. Heating has been of fossil carbon dioxide and carbon footprint”. restated for a normal year. Swedavia measures quantities of renewable CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY jet fuel used for refuelling at Swedish airports To ensure the health and safety of the comENGAGED LEADERS AND EMPLOYEES annually. pany’s customers, Swedavia registers inciEngaged leaders and employees is an index dents at the company’s airports in terms of from Swedavia’s Employee Survey. the number of accidents, serious incidents and serious deficiencies in Swedish Transport Agency inspections. 134 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 INTEREST-BEARING LIABILITIES OPERATING PROFIT EXCLUDING CAPITAL PUNCTUALITY AND DELAYS CAUSED BY THE Interest-bearing liabilities on the balance GAINS, RESTRUCTURING COSTS, AIRPORT sheet consist of liabilities to credit institutions, IMPAIRMENT LOSSES AND DISPOSALS* Punctuality is defined as when an aircraft is bonds, medium-term notes, commercial Operating profit excluding restructuring costs off block, that is, rolls out from the gate/airpaper and liabilities to leasing companies as (mostly attributable to staffing changes), capcraft parking stand, no later than 15 minutes well as other liabilities. ital gains, impairment losses and disposals. and 59 seconds after scheduled departure A key metric since it is considered to provide time. “Delays caused by the airport”, AF87, INTEREST RATE LOCK-IN PERIOD a better understanding of the operating profit is one of the codes airlines can use when Volume-weighted average interest rate lock-in trend. reporting a delay. period for interest-bearing liabilities with regard to interest rate derivatives at the end OWN EMISSSIONS OF FOSSIL CARBON PROFIT FOR THE YEAR of the period. The metric clarifies the Group’s DIOXIDE AND CARBON FOOTPRINT Profit after tax. interest rate risk. Own emissions of fossil carbon dioxide consist of fossil carbon dioxide emissions RETURN ON OPERATING CAPITAL* INVESTMENTS* divided into Scope 1, 2 and 3 in accordance Operating profit plus profit from holdings in Swedavia’s investments in tangible fixed with the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Scope 1 associated companies for a rolling twelveassets and non-current intangible assets includes vehicle propellants, own-produced month period divided by average operatincluding investment projects in progress. (own-used and sold) electricity and heating, ing capital. This financial ratio is the owner’s Swedavia is in an intensive development and firefighting exercises. Scope 2 includes metric for profitability at Swedavia and one of phase and its pace of capital spending is purchased electricity and heating for own the Group’s sustainability targets. The metric important to Swedavia’s management and use. Scope 3 includes purchased heating reflects the Group’s cost of capital. external stakeholders. that is then sold. The carbon footprint for Swedavia’s airports includes emissions from ROUTES NET LIABILITIES air traffic in the landing and take-off (LTO) Route is defined as a route served by an Interest-bearing liabilities plus pension liability cycle (flying below 3,000 feet including taxiing airline in which the number of departures less liquid assets. on the ground), passengers’ ground transreaches a given threshold value in a twelveport to and from the airports and Swedavia’s month period. NET REVENUE own operations, Scope 1, 2 and 3 as defined Swedavia’s net revenue comprises r­ evenue above. Reporting includes Swedavia AB SERIOUS DEFICIENCES IN SWEDISH from Aviation Business and Commercial and Swedavia’s ten airports. Carbon dioxide TRANSPORT AGENCY INSPECTIONS Services. emissions in Scope 1, 2 and 3 with respect For unannounced inspections of operations to the company’s zero target are calculated carried out by the Swedish Transport Agency, OPERATING CAPITAL based on data in Swedavia’s MSIL environassessment levels range from Serious Equity plus net liabilities. mental reporting system. Data for subsidDeficiency to Deficiency to Recommendation iaries or associated companies in which it to Full Compliance with Regulations. A OPERATING COST PER DEPARTING owns a minority interest and the offices in serious deficiency is defined as deviations PASSENGER* Norrköping are excluded. Energy purchased judged to be serious and that could lead to Total of Airport Operations’ external expenses for the office in Norrköping is not measured consideration of restricting/revoking a secuand staff expenses less the company’s own by Swedavia’s landlord since it is included in rity approval. When the inspector in charge capitalised work divided by the number of the rent. These emissions are thus calculated considers classification of deviations as departing passengers for the same period. under Scope 3 in accordance with boundserious, consideration shall be given to the Swedavia considers it a key metric for moniary principles in Airport Carbon Accreditation conditions viewed as system deficiencies toring improvements in cost-effectiveness. Guidance, which is the application of the or that affect a number of safety or security Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol for carbon measures, so-called safety or security chains, OPERATING MARGIN* dioxide certification specifically for the airport before these can be classified as a “serious Operating profit as a percentage of net reveindustry. deficiency”. nue. For the operating margin excluding capital gains, see the calculation for “Operating PASSENGER * Alternative key metrics according to guidemargin excluding capital gains”. Passenger is defined as a statistical event in lines from the European Securities and which a person has departed from or arrived Markets Authority (ESMA) are marked with OPERATING PROFIT EXCLUDING CAPITAL at one of Swedavia’s airports by air. A departan asterisk (*). GAINS* ing passenger is thus a statistical event in Operating profit excluding capital gains as which a person has departed from one of well as impairment losses and disposals. A Swedavia’s airports by air. Departing passenkey metric since Swedavia’s management gers are approximated based on the number monitors operating profit excluding capital of passengers divided by two. gains. SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 135 ASSURANCE REPORT Auditor’s limited assurance report of Swedavia AB’s Sustainability Report To Swedavia AB, corporate identity number 556797-0818 INTRODUCTION The firm applies ISQC 1 (International Standard on Quality Control) We have been engaged by the Board of Directors of Swedavia AB and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control to undertake a limited assurance engagement of Swedavia AB’s including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance Sustainability Report for the year 2019. The company has defined the with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal scope of the Sustainability Report in the areas that are referred to in and regulatory requirements. We are independent of Swedavia AB in the GRI Index on pages 130–132 in this document. accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS these requirements. AND THE EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT The limited assurance procedures performed in a limited assurThe Board of Directors and the Executive Management are responance engagement do not enable us to obtain assurance that we would sible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report in accordance become aware of all significant matters that might be identified in an with applicable criteria and the Annual Accounts Act. The criteria audit. The conclusion based on a limited assurance engagement does are defined on page 130 in the Sustainability Report and consist of not provide the same level of assurance as a conclusion based on an the parts of the framework for sustainability reporting issued by the audit. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) that are applicable to the Sustainability Our procedures are based on the criteria defined by the Board of Report and by the accounting and calculation principles that the comDirectors and Executive Management as described above. We conpany has developed. This responsibility also includes the internal consider these criteria suitable for the preparation of the Sustainability trol processes relevant to the preparation of a Sustainability Report Report. We believe that the evidence obtained is sufficient and approthat is free from material misstatements or errors. priate to provide a basis for our conclusions below. AUDITOR’S RESPONSIBILITY CONCLUSIONS OTEHR Our responsibility is to present a conclusion on the Sustainability Based on the limited assurance procedures performed, nothing has Report based on the limited assurance procedures we have come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Sustainability performed. Report is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance criteria defined by the Board of Directors and Executive Management. with ISAE 3000 Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial information. A limited assurance engagement Stockholm, March 19, 2020 consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the Sustainability Report, and applying analytical and KPMG AB other limited assurance procedures. A limited assurance engagement is different and substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally Tomas Gerhardsson Torbjörn Westman accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Authorised Public Accountant Expert member of FAR 136 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 DEFINITIONS Definitions AIRPORT OPERATIONS GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) REAL ESTATE Airport Operations is one of Swedavia’s two GRI sets guidelines for what a sustainabilReal Estate is the second of Swedavia’s two business segments. It owns, operates and ity report should include, how it should be business segments. It owns, develops and develops Swedavia’s airports. prepared and what indicators should be manages properties and developable land at reported. and in the vicinity of Swedavia’s airports. AIRSIDE Airside is the term for the area at the airport ISO 14001 AND ISO 50001 REGIONAL AIRPORTS that begins at the security checkpoint and ISO 14000 and 50001 are an umbrella term Swedavia’s regional airports consist of extends to the gates, passenger (aircraft) for the internationally accepted standards Kiruna Airport, Luleå Airport, Malmö Airport, bridges, aprons and aircraft parking stands for environmental management and energy Ronneby Airport, Umeå Airport, Visby Airport as well as taxiways and runways. Swedavia management. and Åre Östersund Airport. is responsible for aviation safety and security on airside. LANDSIDE TSFS Landside consists of the area including The Swedish Transport Agency’s regulations. ASQ access roads, car parks and entrances adjaAirport Survey Quality, a passenger survey cent to the airport terminals as well as parts UN GLOBAL COMPACT administered by ACI in which some 150 airof the airport’s terminals. Landside extends Consists of ten principles based on the UN’s ports around the world take part. up to the security checkpoint, which is where Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the airside begins. Swedavia and the police International Labour Organization’s convenAVIATION BUSINESS share responsibility for safety and security on tions on human rights in working life, the Rio Infrastructure services aimed at airlines and landside. Declaration and the UN’s Convention against ground handling companies, such as take-off Corruption. Under the UN Global Compact, and landing services and security screening. MISSION OBJECTIVE businesses are encouraged to embrace, Under its Articles of Association, Swedavia support and enact, within their sphere of COMMERCIAL SERVICES shall help to achieve Sweden’s transport polinfluence, a set of core values in the areas of Services connected to the airports such as icy goals. The overall transport policy objechuman rights, labour standards, the environthe rental of premises for retail, offices, waretive is to ensure socio-economically effective, ment and anti-corruption. housing and logistics as well as leaseholds, long-term sustainable transport for citizens parking operations and rental of advertising and businesses throughout the country. space. NATIONAL BASIC INFRASTRUCTURE OF FACILITIES AND SYSTEMS AIRPORTS Business unit at Swedavia entrusted with Sweden’s national basic infrastructure of the task of administering and developing the airports consists of ten airports that the company’s facilities and systems in a longGovernment decided Swedavia should own. term sustainable manner. The decision is aimed at securing long-term operations under the auspices of the State and a long-term sustainable air transport system that guarantees basic inter-regional access throughout the country. SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 137 GREEN BONDS Green bonds In December 2019, Swedavia was one of the first airport operators in the world to issue its first green bond in order to fund projects and investments in climate change adaptation and sustainability. Swedavia has been an established player in the capital market since 2013, and with its green bonds an important step is now being taken to integrate the sustainability dimension in its financing operations as well. Green financing Swedavia’s mission is to secure the access Sweden needs today and in the future. This work shall be done in as sustainable a way as possible. Swedavia shall continuously reduce its own carbon footprint and help reduce the climate impact of the entire aviation industry. All of Swedavia’s airports are certified for their environmental performance at the top level of Airport Carbon Accreditation (ACA) and all ten airports shall have zero fossil carbon dioxide emissions from their own operations by the end of 2020. Swedavia also works actively to promote the switch to sustainable aviation fuel and has the target that 5 per cent of all fuel used for refuelling at its airports will be fossil-free by 2025. Since 2016, Swedavia purchases sustainable aviation fuel equivalent to the amount used for the company’s flights for business purposes, about 450 tonnes of fuel annually. Swedavia’s sustainability work creates the potential to also introduce the sustainability dimension in its financing operations. As a result, Swedavia can offer the capital market the opportunity to invest in projects while at the same time expanding its funding base. OTEHR Swedavia’s Green Bond Framework In October 2019, Swedavia launched a Green Bond Framework linked to the company’s medium-term note (MTN) programme to enable financing through green bonds. The Green Bond Framework describes how the proceeds from the bond issue are to be used and how management and feedback are to be carried out. One fundamental condition for a project to be financed by green bonds is that it must meet the requirements specified in Swedavia’s Green Bond Framework, which in turn is based on the latest version of the Green Bond Principles (2018). The framework includes the project categoOne of the environmental projects being financed with green bonds ries Green buildings and infrastructure, Renewable energy, Clean is the new BREEAM-certified Sky City Office One complex at transportation, Energy efficiency and Pollution prevention and control. Stockholm Arlanda Airport. Second opinion on Green Bond Framework Swedavia’s Green Bond Framework has been subject to an indeincreased environmental impact related to air traffic. pendent external review by the Center for International Climate CICERO has given the framework’s management and governance Research (CICERO), which has also issued a second opinion for structure an “Excellent” rating. Swedavia’s Green Bond Framework (Swedavia Green Bond Second The Green Bond Framework and Second Opinion can be Opinion, September 26, 2019). Four of the five project categories read in their entirety at www.swedavia.com/about-swedavia/ were given the highest rating, “Dark green”. One of the categories, financial-information/. Green buildings and infrastructure, was given the rating “Light green”, which is also CICERO’s overall rating for the framework. Identified investments under the framework In its assessment, CICERO emphasises that Swedavia is a role Swedavia’s investments approved for green bond funding at yearmodel for airports globally. CICERO has taken into consideration in end 2019/2020 totalled SEK 2,611 M. Of this amount, SEK 1,024 M its assessment the fact that the framework entails investments in was for existing facilities and SEK 1,587 M was for ongoing projects. infrastructure to enhance airport capacity, which can facilitate an SEK 1,000 M of its investments in green assets has been placed in 138 SWEDAVIA I ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Stockholm Arlanda’s aquifer 200,000,000 m3 regulates the indoor climate 9 GWh 3–6 ˚C – and saves energy The aquifer pumps up cold water in the summer, which cools the terminals at Stockholm Arlanda Airport. The heated water is then conveyed back to the aquifer in order to be pumped back up during the winter and heat the terminals. 7,000 The system entails a saving of about 19 GWh of energy and about 7,000 tonnes of CO2. 15–25 ˚C The only energy required is that used to run the pumps. – tonnes of CO2 a year is saved thanks to the aquifer. Swedavia’s green portfolio. This portfolio consists of investments APPROVED INVESTMENTS AND for which the bond proceeds are allocated. ALLOCATION BY CATEGORY Swedavia develops airports for the air travel of the future and Amount has an extensive investment programme. Among other objectives, Investpaid AllocaStockholm Arlanda Airport shall be developed into the leading SEK M ments out tion (%) airport in the Nordic region and be an international role model in Green buildings 450 450 45% sustainability. Representatives of Swedavia’s different business and operational areas are responsible for identifying potential Hotel Scandic, Göteborg Landvetter 100 100 environmental investments, which are then assessed by a comSky City Office One, Stockholm mittee consisting of the president and CEO, CFO, director of Arlanda 150 150 sustainability, the treasurer and Swedavia’s investment portfolio Terminal South, Göteborg Landvetter 150 150 manager. The committee is responsible for ensuring that the proVIP facilities, Stockholm Arlanda 50 50 jects that are classified as green comply with the requirements set Renewable energy 130 130 13% in Swedavia’s Green Bond Framework. Aquifer, Stockholm Arlanda 15 15 Bond issued in December 2019 Production facility, heating, Stockholm Swedavia’s first green bond was for SEK 1,000 M, and the capArlanda 100 100 ital is being used to finance the company’s green buildings and Production facility, cooling, Stockholm change work to meet the target of fossil-free operations by the Arlanda 15 15 end of 2020. The investments include replacing the compaClean transportation 370 370 37% ny’s fleet of vehicles, changing its supply of heating and cooling, Replacement of vehicle fleet 360 360 and developing properties in the form of Sky City Office One at Stockholm Arlanda and Terminal South at Göteborg Landvetter Charging stations 10 10 Airport. Both properties were rated Excellent in a preliminary cerEnergy efficiency 50 50 5% tification under BREEAM environmental performance standards. Pollution prevention and control — — The share of proceeds from the bond issue that has gone to refiTotal amount 1,000 1,000 100% nancing is 45 per cent. Swedavia has a dedicated account for transactions related to the issuance of green bonds. In cases where the approved investment amount falls below the value of outstanding green bonds, Swedavia is obliged to add the corresponding amount to this account. At year-end, the approved investment amount exceeded the value of outstanding green bonds so the balance of the dedicated account for green bonds was zero. This does not constitute a report in accordance with the company’s Green Bonds Framework. An impact report will be prepared in 2020 in accordance with this framework. PRODUCTION Swedavia in partnership with Newsroom AB Cover image: Felix Odell Translation: Susan Long Photos: Daniel Asplund, Brendan Austin, Emma Behrendtz, Orlando Boström, Daniel Bromander, Printing: Arkitektkopia CM, Maskot, Tim Meier, Maria Moustakakis, Felix Odell, Kalle Sanner, Stellan Stephanson Swedavia AB 190 45 Stockholm-Arlanda Sweden Visiting address: Flygvägen 1 Tel: +46 10 109 00 00 Fax: +46 10 109 05 00 E-mail: info@swedavia.se Coordinates: 59°39’14.06”N 17°56’21.51”O www.swedavia.se
