CSR REPORT 2020 Be passionate challengers About the CSR Report 02 Top message 03 ONO's Approach to CSR 04 Governance 16 Corporate Governance 16 Compliance 19 Risk Management 22 Responsible Promotion Activities 29 Society 31 Innovative Pharmaceutical Products 31 Eﬀorts Made for Improving Access to Healthcare 33 Human Resources and Human Rights 40 CONTENTS Cultivation of Employee-friendly Workplaces/Safety and Health 50 Proper Procurement Activities 59 Environment 60 Global Environment Policy/ Environment Challenging Ono Vision（ECO VISION 2050） 60 Environmental Management 78 Environmental Eﬃciency / Environmental Accounting 82 Social Contribution Activities 84 Policies 93 ESG Data 95 External Evaluation 105 Independent Practitioner's Assurance Report 107 About the CSR Report Editing Policy This CSR Report is issued yearly in order to inform in a systematic and faithful manner to all the stakeholders on the basic ideas, targets and plans of ONO's CSR management as well as the contents, progress, and achievement of the efforts we made. Organization covered by the report ONO PHARMACEUTICAL CO., LTD ＊The report partly contains our group companies' activities. Period of time covered by the report FY2019 (from April 2019 to March 2020) ＊The report partly refers to the activities before and after the period above. Publication date September 2020 Reference guidelines GRI（Global Reporting Initiative） ' GRI Standards ' ' ISO26000 ' Ministry of the Environment, Environmental Reporting Guidelines (Fiscal Year 2018 Version) Ministry of the Environment, Environmental Accounting Guidelines (Fiscal Year 2005 Version) Final Report: Recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures Independent Practitioner's Assurance As for the categories of sustainability information, each of which is disclosed and indicated with the icon check in our CSR Report 2020, we have received independent practitioner's assurance so as to bolster the reliability of the information. 2 Top message Contributing to sustainable social development through business activities Since its establishment in 1717, ONO has devoted itself solely to the pharmaceutical industry under the corporate philosophy Dedicated to Man's Fight against Disease and Pain. We aim to contribute to society by pharmaceutical products that truly beneﬁt patients. To this end, we are tackling diseases that remain unconquered as yet and addressing areas that are high in healthcare needs where patient satisfaction with current treatment is low. We believe that it is important to contribute to solving social issues and realizing a sustainable society while listening to the voices of various stakeholders. Under this belief, in addition to endeavoring to create innovative drugs, we continually strengthen our eﬀorts with respect to the environment, society and governance (ESG). In response to changes in the external environment and social demand, such as the adoption of SDGs in 2015 by the United Nations, in FY2018 we set our important CSR issues (materiality) and identiﬁed priority SDGs to which we should intend to speciﬁcally contribute. In carrying out actual activities, we ﬁrst clarify the vision and set speciﬁc goals and targets, and then we collect and analyze information and identify issues. After that, we promote activities while cooperating with people inside and outside the company. The impact of global warming, including extreme weather events, is becoming increasingly serious year by year, and addressing climate change is one of the most President, Representative Director critical challenges facing the international community. We believe that while being fully Gyo Sagara aware of corporate social responsibility for the environment, we should protect the environment in all aspects of our business to realize an abundant global environment. Based on this belief, in June 2019 we formulated the mediumand long-term environmental vision “ECO VISION 2050,” pledging to become a leading company for environmental challenge in the pharmaceutical industry by 2050. To achieve ECO VISION 2050, we determined three priority items, “Realization of a decarbonized society,” “Realization of a water recycling society,” and “Realization of a resource recycling society,” and set speciﬁc mediumand long-term goals for reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, water use and waste generation. We are working vigorously to achieve the set goals. In October 2019, we expressed our support for the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and are working to appropriately disclose information based on the TCFD recommendations. Under the corporate philosophy “Dedicated to Manʼs Fight against Disease and Pain,” we will continue being passionate challengers. We sincerely ask for your continued support. 3 ONO's Approach to CSR Materiality (Important CSR Issues) ONO has striven in CSR by deﬁning important areas of focus based on the ISO 26000. In ﬁscal 2018, in addition to responding to external requirements, we redeﬁned our materiality (important CSR issues) to clarify CSR activity themes which we should emphasize. ONO is actively engaged in CSR according to the new materiality that we have established. Step 1: Identify the Issues We focused on the ISO 26000, the GRI Standards, the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact and the evaluation items for socially responsible investment to broadly grasp and organize CSR issues in the business activities of ONO PHARMACEUTICAL. Step 2: Analyze Materiality We analyze the CSR issues by importance from the point of view of ONO PHARMACEUTICAL and importance based on expectations of our stakeholders, and then map each of those CSR issues on a horizontal and a vertical axis. The importance from the point of view of ONO PHARMACEUTICAL was assessed by our directors, executive oﬃcers and CSR Committee Members based on our corporate policy, and priority and importance were evaluated for each issue. The importance based on expectations of our stakeholders incorporates the feedback received from our shareholders and investors in addition to the evaluation items of institutions that practice responsible investment as the representatives of stakeholders outside of ONO in order to determine the importance of each CSR issue. When we review the items and importance of materiality in the future, we will further incorporate the opinions of even greater number of stakeholders. The results of this materiality analysis were deliberated and determined by the CSR Committee before gaining approval at the management strategy meeting chaired by the CEO. 4 Step 3: Verify Validity We engaged in a dialogue with external experts about the process of our materiality analysis, the themes that are set and future initiatives to verify the validity of each important issue. Materiality Unique to ONO PHARMACEUTICAL I think the process and ﬂow to deﬁne materiality is fantastic. On the other hand, the materiality is hard to see as anything inherent to the “creation of innovative drugs” as a pharmaceutical company to be a bit frank. I think people outside would like to know more about materiality that is unique to ONO PHARMACEUTICAL. When revising the materiality, I hope ONO will incorporate ideas through communication with diverse stakeholders outside of the organization. In particular, by integrating ideas from health care providers, patients and employees who have the opportunity to interact with health care providers and patients, the materiality may become more unique to a pharmaceutical company—more unique to ONO PHARMACEUTICAL. In the future, the importance of access to healthcare, ethical treatment of animals and issues in the supply chain will grow with a mindset toward global expansion. In terms of access to healthcare, eﬀort is required for the treatment of diabetes and other non-communicable diseases. The level of Makiko Akabane commitment and eﬀort to address access to healthcare in low-income economies will also potentially become a very important issue as ONO PHARMACEUTICAL sets its sights on globalization. Japan Representative, CSR Asia Incorporating a Long-term Financial Perspective even in Materiality ONO PHARMACEUTICAL is going in the right direction with the overall ﬂow of deﬁning its materiality. Speciﬁcally, carefully identifying social and environmental issues in the ﬁrst step of deﬁning materiality is a great choice. ONO PHARMACEUTICAL has picked up roughly 30 items from points of view that include the value chain and life cycle of its business. Problems I think will impact the pharmaceutical industry are included in the listed items, so I think ONO has taken the necessary steps. I also do not see any major issues in the ﬂow for deﬁning materiality from social and environmental issues as a whole. However, I would like to see a stronger awareness from a ﬁnancial perspective. The determination of materiality is a process to clarify the important issues for long-term business growth while taking the necessary steps toward the interests of speciﬁc stakeholders who are vital to ONO PHARMACEUTICAL. I suggest that there is a room to improve the communication so that nonpharmaceutical companies can also understand the fact that ONO PHARMACEUTICAL can foster its proﬁtability and ﬁnancial soundness by tackling with the material issues identiﬁes in this occasion. In the same way, indicating information about what ﬁnancial impact can be expected, such as long-term Kenji Fuma business growth is key when setting KPI for the important issues that have been determined as well. I Chief Executive Oﬃcer, Neural Inc. really hope ONO PHARMACEUTICAL will design its KPI with awareness from a ﬁnancial perspective too. Step 4: Review We review our materiality every year to adapt to external as well as internal environmental changes. Although we reviewed our materiality map at the beginning of ﬁscal 2019 and ﬁscal 2020, there were no changes to be made. 5 Materiality Targets and Relevant Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are composed of 17 goals adopted by the United Nations in 2015 to address the challenges faced by the international community. Each materiality and the relevant SDGs are as follows: We report and manage the progress of each materiality target each year at the management strategy meeting. Mediumto longRelevant Materiality Plan and KPI for FY2019 Progress results in FY2019 Targets for FY2020 term targets SDGs ① Speed the drug discovery ①Speed up the drug discovery process and shorten each phase process and shorten each phase Contribute to the of research and development of research and development. health of people all ②Use open innovation to expand over the world by the development pipeline satisfying unmet Creation of ② Use open innovation to Please refer to “Financial focusing on key areas of research innovative drugs needs through the expand the development Results” for details of our R&D including cancer, immune discovery and pipeline focusing on key areas of initiatives and their progress. diseases, central nervous system manufacture of research including cancer, diseases and specialty domains. Relevant innovative immune diseases, central SDGs pharmaceutical Please refer to “Financial nervous system diseases and products Results” for details of our R&D specialty domains initiatives. ①Spread awareness of the crucial nature of intellectual property by holding talks and exchanges of views in each department to uncover new ① Spread awareness of the company-internal intellectual crucial nature of intellectual The department in charge of property, with the aim of property, and hold talks and intellectual property conducted continuing to develop innovative exchanges of views in every awareness-raising sessions on pharmaceutical products while department in order to create intellectual property within respecting othersʼ patents. opportunities to uncover relevant departments and held company-internal intellectual more than 10 discussions. KPI property · Hold talks and exchanges of views at least 10 times a year. In addition to · There are no cases where we uncovering have infringed on othersʼ company-internal intellectual property rights. intellectual property, ②Consider and formulate strengthen product speciﬁc lifecycle management lifecycle plans for all products and management from compounds under development, the standpoint of including plans to improve drug We updated the lifecycle formulation, from the maximizing ② Establish speciﬁc lifecycle Intellectual property management strategies for perspective of intellectual intellectual property management strategies for each property. strategies compounds under development value compound in order to maximize from the perspective of product value intellectual property strategies. ③Engage in external information Consider proactive exchange to build a foundation utilization of for intellectual property intellectual property utilization in order to improve in order to improve healthcare access. healthcare access KPI · Collect information from relevant institutions (such as the ③ Engage in external World Intellectual Property We engaged in continuous information exchange to build a Organization). information exchange with the foundation for intellectual · Consider the expectations of World Intellectual Property property utilization in order to stakeholders for enhancing Organization. improve access to healthcare access to pharmaceutical products and possible measures we can take, and establish a policy to respond to their expectations. We updated and disclosed our approach to intellectual property rights and patents in countries with diﬃculties ensuring healthcare access. 6 Mediumto longRelevant Materiality Plan and KPI for FY2019 Progress results in FY2019 Targets for FY2020 term targets SDGs · We conducted awareness①Continue to engage in raising eﬀorts at all four activities to raise awareness ① Engage in activities to raise awareness about our mission overseas sites. about our mission statement. statement. · Awareness-raising eﬀorts for KPI Rate of employees who mid-career employees in Japan: KPI Prepare and conduct Conducted at a 100% level (54 are highly aware that the awareness raising eﬀorts at four persons) companyʼs mission statement is overseas sites and for all · We held employee training their principle for taking action: programs at medical institutions At least 50% employees in Japan who are and lectures delivered by mid-career employees patients to deepen their ②Conduct cross-sectional understanding of medical needs. training for seven ranks of ② Conduct cross-sectional employees, from new employees training for seven ranks of to managers, in order to develop employees, from new employees human resources that behave to managers, in order to develop according to the behavioral human resources that behave Attendance rate: 100% characteristics required of each according to the behavioral Total No. of attendees: 603 rank, with the aim of facilitating characteristics required of each persons changes in their behavior. rank, with the aim of facilitating KPI Rate of behavior change changes in their behavior. recognized in the evaluation Develop human KPI 100% acceptance rate. made by their superiors after the resources able to actively participate ③ Develop independent human training: At least 80% on the world stage resources by expanding elective so that each and training that employees can ③Develop human resources that every employee can choose to participate in and can act independently by take their own enhance support for selfexpanding elective training in Promotion of human which employees can choose to initiative in their improvement by employees. ONO resource Participation rate: 27.8% (910 participate, and enhancing duties and carrier also nurtures a climate of growth development persons / 3,272 persons) support for self-improvement of and take action as where employees stimulate passionate learning in one another. employees. ONO also nurtures a challengers to climate of growth where KPI At least 20% for the employees are stimulated by deliver better pharmaceutical participation rate in selflearning from each other. products to improvement programs KPI Attendance rate for selfpatients. improvement programs: At least 33% ④Develop human resources and build an organization able to adapt to harsh environmental ④ Develop human resources and changes worldwide. build an organization able to adapt to harsh environmental No. of attendees for the global KPI changes worldwide. development programs: 87 · In the global skills assessment persons KPI Provide global (BISA test) after the global No. of attendees for the future development programs that development programs, 80% of management candidate training: the attendees reach at least 700 include language education and 69 persons points (a level that allows for future management candidate overseas assignment). training · Rate of behavior change recognized in the evaluation made by their superiors after the future management candidate training: At least 80% 7 Mediumto longRelevant Materiality Plan and KPI for FY2019 Progress results in FY2019 Targets for FY2020 term targets SDGs Accurately and reliability execute quality management and safety management operations. · Safety management operations: The incidence of deviation from safety standards that should be improved fell below the in-house limit of ① Identify and eliminate the 0.01% (also decreased ①Keep the rate of incidents in causes of problems as well as compared to ﬁscal 2018). Raise awareness in safety management operations prevent recurrence in addition to · Quality assurance operations: each and every below a certain level. strengthening Corrective and The incidence of deviation from employee about the Preventative Actions (CAPA) that quality standards at each KPI importance of the measure potential factors that production site fell below the · The compliance rate for Assurance of reliability and safety cause those problems. predetermined limit. There was product reliability of products by reporting to regulatory properly promoting a case where the incidence of and safety KPI Reduce the number of authorities within the prescribed quality management incidents and recurrence of deviation exceeded the in-house period is at least 99.9%. and safety limit of 0.01% and which problems in quality management required the consideration of a management and safety management response, including possibly ②Keep the rate of incidents and operations. improving the drug formulation recurrence of problems in quality operations compared to ﬁscal of the relevant product. management operations below a 2018. However, the deviation was so certain level. slight as to have no impact on KPI safety, and the necessary · Zero product recall measures have been taken. · The quality claim rate is below ② Conduct internal training. 0.01%. KPI Conduct training at least ③Conduct internal training. once a year with a 100% Quality management training: attendance rate as follows: CMC-Production Division and Quality Assurance Department Quality management training: Safety management training: All of the target employees Other programs to be CMC Production Division and participated the internal training. undertaken by implementing Quality Assurance Department; (Attendance rate: 100%) departments in addition to Safety Management Training: employees companywide other programs to be undertaken by implementing departments in addition to employees companywide. 8 Mediumto longRelevant Materiality Plan and KPI for FY2019 Progress results in FY2019 Targets for FY2020 term targets SDGs Implement the following initiatives, with the aim of reducing the number of signiﬁcant compliance violations※1 to zero. ※1 Compliance violations that ① Use materials reviewed and have a great impact on sales and approved by the department proﬁts auditing activities to disseminate KPI No. of signiﬁcant marketing information for We achieved a 100% usage rate compliance violations: Zero promotional purposes. of reviewed and approved materials. ①Conduct internal training for all KPI Achieve a 100% usage employees involved in sales rate of reviewed and approved activities so that they act in materials compliance with the guidelines for activities to disseminate marketing information. KPI Four times a year Engage in activities ②At company-hosted lectures, that properly request that presenters provide disseminate information appropriately in information in keeping with internal company Implementation of accordance with the rules that conform to the responsible guidelines for guidelines, and check slides in marketing and activities to advance. promotion activities disseminate KPI Rate for prior marketing ② At company-hosted lectures, conﬁrmation of slides: 100% information about request that presenters provide pharmaceutical ③The director of each sales information appropriately in The acceptance rate was 100%. products. oﬃce conducts an assessment to keeping with company-internal (The rate for prior conﬁrmation check whether the following rules that conform to guidelines. of slides was 61%.) activities are appropriately KPI Acceptance rate: 100%. conducted at the time of accompanying his/her oﬃce members. 1) Activities to disseminate information at the time of interview 2) Check slides used at company-hosted lectures in advance If the activities are inadequate, clarify the reasons for such activities and consider ③ Conduct internal training for countermeasures against them. all employees involved in sales The training was conducted six Then report the activities. times a year. countermeasures to the Head KPI Four times a year Oﬃce for discussion. KPI Conduct an assessment once a month. ①Continue to incorporate on-site medical demand as well as Create product treatment needs into product designs able to improvements and new ensure reliable products. quality and establish a stable supply We incorporated medical needs Actively use frameworks to KPI system. obtained from medical sites into rapidly extract on-site medical · Departments in charge conduct Provision of a stable product designs for four demand as well as treatment on-site investigations at medical supply of highproducts. needs to employ the medical sites to identify medical needs.: quality, easy-to-use For advice on medical needs, we needs that we discover in new At least 24 times products collected views from 10 products and product · Aim to improve institutions with which we signed Understand new modiﬁcations. packagingmaterials to be newly an advisory agreement. medical needs and designed for at least four expand product products. designs. ②Supply products to the market in a stable manner. KPI Reset and ensure proper inventory levels according to product characteristics. 9 Mediumto longRelevant Materiality Plan and KPI for FY2019 Progress results in FY2019 Targets for FY2020 term targets SDGs ①Work to promote diversity and improve work-life balance as well as build a workplace environment in which diverse human resources can actively participate with motivation by establishing and operating human resource policies as well as other programs. KPI ① Work to promote diversity and · Rate of employee use of annual improve work-life balance as well as build a workplace paid leave: 70.0% in fiscal 2020 environment in which diverse (65.0% in fiscal 2019) human resources can actively · Return-to-work rate after childparticipate with motivation by · We acquired the Platinum care leave: 100% establishing and operating Kurumin Certification. · Maintain a low turnover rate human resource policies as well · The rate of employee use of annual paid leave increased from (below 3%). as other programs. 57.5% in fiscal 2018 to 65.0% in · Reduce average overtime work fiscal 2019. hours by promoting reform of KPI Acquire the Platinum Kurumin Certification and working practices, including improve employee use of annual setting an interval (a certain paid leave. amount of rest) between working hours. (13.6 hours/ month in 2019 ⇒ 13.0 hours/ Instill pride in all of month in 2020) our employees ②Promote awareness of and about working in engage in health management the pharmaceutical initiatives. industry, help employees reach Building a work their full potential environment that KPI in diverse ensures and · Earn inclusion in the Health & situations, and sustains further establish a Productivity Stock for two employment as well workplace consecutive years. as fosters environment motivation · Increase labor productivity by where everyone improving presenteeism. can actively participate to aid Productivity loss per employee in ensuring and per month: Fiscal 2019 (33,120 sustaining yen) employment. Fiscal 2020 target: 5% reduction (31,450 yen) · Improve the health age of ② Promote awareness and engage in health management employees by increasing their · We were selected for inclusion initiatives. degree of health. in the 2020 Health & Productivity Stock for the ﬁrst time and Diﬀerence between health age KPI Consistently earn continued to be recognized as a and actual age (Aged 35 or recognition as a Certiﬁed Health Certiﬁed Health & Productivity older; average): & Productivity Management Management Outstanding Fiscal 2020 target: − 2.0 Outstanding Organization Organization (White 500). years(Fiscal 2019: − 1.5 years) (Health and Productivity · We implemented a non· Reduce the smoking rate. Management 500), encourage smoking policy during work 【Target of the entire ONO hours. employees to stop smoking Group】 · Rate of employees undergoing during work hours as well as Fiscal 2020 target: 17.0%(Fiscal physical examinations: 99.7% achieve at least a 95% rate of · Rate of employees undergoing 2019: 18.2%) employees undergoing physical stress checks: 99.8% · Maintain a low occupational examinations and stress checks accident frequency rate (0.3%). Fiscal 2020 target: 0.10%(Fiscal 2019: 0.15%) · Rate of employees who realize that they are working with motivation, leveraging their diversity: At least 50% (Targets ① and ②) 10 Mediumto longRelevant Materiality Plan and KPI for FY2019 Progress results in FY2019 Targets for FY2020 term targets SDGs ①Continue to work to reduce GHG emissions. KPI A reduction of 12.6% Establish goals that integrate compared to ﬁscal 2017 (Scope scientiﬁc knowledge, and 1 and 2) ①We obtained approval of the undertake CO2 emissions Reduce CO2 SBT target set. ②Increase the usage rate of reductions toward meeting those Response to climate emissions by 55% ②We achieved a 4% reduction in renewable energy. goals change by 2030 (compared CO2 emissions compared to the KPI Increase the usage rate by to FY2017 ﬁgures) KPI Obtain approval of the previous ﬁscal year (Scope 1 and 12.6% compared to ﬁscal 2017. 2).(8.4% reduction relative to SBT target set a 4% reduction in FY2017) ③Announce our participation in CO2 emissions compared to the RE100 (an international initiative previous year that aims for 100% usage of renewable energy in business operations by 2050). ①Improve initiatives for CSR procurement in the companies that were subject to the survey conducted in the previous ﬁscal year. Conduct surveys for our business Promote CSR partners about CSR KPI Increase the overall Promotion of CSR activities together procurement. We conducted surveys of our average score of all companies procurement in with our suppliers to business partners that make up subject to the survey in ﬁscal supply chain build a sound and KPI Conduct surveys of 86% of purchases. 2020, compared to ﬁscal 2019. management robust (resilient) business partners that make up supply chain. ②Support the companies that 70% of purchases have not met our standards to improve their initiatives. KPI Increase the overall score of each company subject to the survey in ﬁscal 2020, compared to ﬁscal 2019. Implement the following ① Conduct compliance training. We achieved 100% of the target. initiatives with the aim of KPI Achieve a 100% (All employees participated in maintaining no occurrence of the training.) signiﬁcant compliance attendance rate of all employees violations※2. ① · Conduct all department leader training based on the legislation covering prevention of power harassment. · Conduct an employee awareness survey on compliance ② Work through the and harassment to incorporate companywide compliance PDCA survey results on the formation Improve awareness cycle with a compliance of measures by each about organizational We held four compliance committee in which members of department. compliance and meetings. company management · Conduct sales department strengthen auditing Thorough participate. training (rules, guidelines, code systems in an eﬀort Compliance of conduct). to eliminate any KPI At least four times a year · Conduct e-learning training regulatory or (twice a year). compliance · Distribute an email magazine violations. on compliance. ②Hold a compliance meeting in which members of company management participate every quarter to work through the companywide compliance PDCA We acquired the whistleblowing cycle. compliance management system KPI certiﬁcation (self-declaration of · No. of signiﬁcant compliance conformity registration system) violations: Zero administered by the Japan · Training attendance rate: Institute of Business Law. 100% ※2 Compliance violations that have a great impact on sales and proﬁts * ONOʼs eﬀorts against the spread of the coronavirus infection (COVID-19), which has had a strong impact on our materiality in this ﬁscal year 11 The spread of the coronavirus infection (COVID-19), which began in ﬁscal 2019, has had a strong impact on our CSR issues, identiﬁed as materiality (improvement of access to healthcare, provision of a stable supply of high-quality, easy-to-use products, implementation of responsible marketing and promotion activities, the building of a work environment that ensures and sustains employment as well as fosters motivation, etc.). As a life-related pharmaceutical company, we are implementing the eﬀorts in a stable supply of products and contribution to the R&D of therapeutic drugs. We are also taking various measures to ensure the safety and health of employees, their families, and all of our stakeholders, as well as to prevent the spread of infection. 1. Stable supply of products We maintain a stable supply of products in and outside of Japan. 2. Contributions to the R&D of therapeutic drugs We are implementing clinical trials with camostat mesilate (CM), an oral protease inhibitor approved for the treatment of chronic pancreatitis and postoperative reﬂux esophagitis. In addition, we supply investigational drugs of CM for clinical studies based on requests from medical institutions and research organizations both in Japan and abroad. Although the substance patent for CM expired in 1996, we are involved in the further development of CM partly from the perspective of improvement of access to healthcare. 3. Activities to provide information to healthcare workers While refraining from visiting medical institutions, we are shifting to develop the working system where we can provide information to healthcare workers and to collect drug safety information. 4. Measures to prevent the spread of the coronavirus infection We have implemented a work system for preventing the spread of the coronavirus infection (COVID-19). In order to challenge toward the realization of the corporate philosophy of “Dedicated to Manʼs Fight against Disease and Pain”, we all work together to ensure a stable supply of products, and continue to provide the necessary support for the treatment and early end of coronavirus infection of this situation. Please visit our website for the latest information and details. · ONO's Eﬀorts against the Spread of the Coronavirus Infection (COVID-19) (posted on April 20, 2020) · FOIPAN® Tablets, a Protease Enzyme Inhibitor, ONO Has Started Clinical Studies for Novel Coronavirus Infection (COVID-19) (posted on June 5, 2020) CSR Promotion Structure To promote CSR activities, we have the CSR Committee in place, chaired by the Corporate Executive Oﬃcer in charge of CSR / Head of Corporate Communications, with the President, Representative Director, and Chief Executive Oﬃcer serving as the responsible person. The Committee, which mainly consists of managers from various divisions, deliberates and makes decisions on important issues and subjects for CSR activities. The activities of the Committee are regularly reported to the management. Important matters requiring consideration and decision-making by the management and further important subjects are reported to and discussed at the management strategy meeting and by the Board of Directors, respectively. 12 Participation in the United Nations Global Compact In November 2017, we participated in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), which is composed of 10 principles advocated by the UN concerning human rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption. We comply with relevant laws and disseminate the Ten Principles of the Global Compact through our daily activities to ensure that all employees follow them. The Ten Principles of the UNGC 《Human Rights》 Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 《Labour》 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the eﬀective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the eﬀective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 《Environment》 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diﬀusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 《Anti-Corruption》 Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 13 Our Contribution to the SDGs Contribution by ONO PHARMACEUTICAL to the SDGs We contribute to Goal 3, Goal 9 and Goal 17 in the SDGs through the creation of innovative drugs. We strive to realize Goal 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being at all ages as a research and development company specializing in prescription drugs based on our corporate philosophy to be dedicated to manʼs ﬁght against disease and pain. In response to the mortality rate of non-communicable diseases raised as a goal of the SDGs, we began to concentrate our research area into diseases such as cancers, immunological diseases and central nervous system disorders to contribute to the creation of original and innovative therapeutic medications for diseases for which medical needs have still not yet been satisﬁed. Furthermore, in addition to aid for diphtheria, whooping cough, diphtheria toxoid and tetanus toxoid vaccines as well as the hepatitis B vaccine to address infectious diseases, ONO PHARMACEUTICAL contributes to therapeutic medications with low marketability, such as malaria, tuberculosis, neglected tropical diseases, as well as new development, such as vaccines and diagnostic pharmaceuticals, through participation in the Global Health Innovative Technology Fund. In terms of Goal 9: Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation, ONO PHARMACEUTICAL contributes to encouraging innovation and building research and development infrastructure. To vitalize research and development in order to create new drugs, we of course not only invest in internal research and development but also provide grants, such as those for investigator-initiated clinical trials. Furthermore, the ONO Medical Research Foundation and ONO Pharma Foundation promote research to help build a bedrock for innovation through research grants to researchers overseas. Moreover, we cannot separate ourselves from the duty to promote innovation or from Goal 17: Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development. We will not only provide innovative drugs independently but also seek out and achieve a wide range of partnerships. Before “open innovation” became a commonly used phrase, ONO PHARMACEUTICAL advanced the development of new drugs through the use of state-of-the-art technology and expertise from various ﬁelds worldwide. At the same time, we have been actively working to introduce and draw on new candidate compounds for pharmaceuticals. In addition to alliances with venture companies and other pharmaceutical companies, we form partnerships with a wide range of stakeholders from universities and research institutes to government agencies, local communities and NPOs in an eﬀort to resolve problems via open innovation. A list of our main partnerships can be found here. 14 Stakeholder engagement We have to ensure legal compliance, corporate governance, and transparency. We believe that we also have to build and continue strengthening relationships with all stakeholders through business activities respecting their interests and dialogues with them, to attain sustained growth toward becoming a Global Specialty Pharma. We adhere to the policy of disclosing necessary information accurately, fairly, impartially, and promptly to all stakeholders including patients, healthcare professionals, shareholders, investors, suppliers, local communities, employees, relevant governmental agencies, and industrial associations to promote communication/constructive dialogues with them. Stakeholder Opportunity to Build/Strengthen Relationship Discovery of pharmaceutical products that bring true beneﬁt to patients Patients and healthcare professionals Stable supply of high-quality pharmaceutical products Information collecting and provision for proper drug usage Stable return on investment through sustained growth Shareholders and investors Information disclosure and dialogues to promote understanding Provision of information on R&D and ESG Oﬀering fair and transparent competitive opportunities Suppliers Promoting CSR procurement Contributing to economic development Local communities Activities for environmental conservation and for local communities Provision of opportunities for personal growth Creating an environment where employees work with peace of mind Employees Promote health maintenance and promotion Provide information through internal publications and intranet Information provision and dialogue Governments and industry organizations Information exchange and activities at related organizations such as the Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers' Associations of JAPAN Collaboration through various programs to improve access to healthcare NPOs/NGOs Participation in various initiatives As an R&D-based pharmaceutical company, we would like to fulﬁll the expectations of stakeholders. We continue to meet various challenges that face us to become a company undergoing growth in middle and long term. 15 Governance : Corporate Governance ONO believes that, in order to respond to the trust of all of our stakeholders and build our corporate value, it is vital not only to comply with laws and regulations but also to enhance management transparency and strengthen corporate governance. Corporate Governance Structure We have adopted a management structure with a Corporate Auditor (or Board of Corporate Auditors) and we working to enhance our corporate governance with a focus on strengthening the functions of the Board of Directors and the Board of Corporate Auditors. In addition, to ensure the independence and objectivity of decisions related to the nomination, compensation, etc. of directors and senior management, we have established the Executive Appointment Meeting and the Executive Compensation Meeting, both with outside directors making up the majority. Regarding business execution, we have adopted a corporate oﬃcer system to improve management eﬃciency and speed up decision-making. On the other hand, depending on the importance and contents of the management issues, important matters related to business execution are deliberated and determined by the Management Meeting and other meetings chaired by the responsible Members of the Board of Directors or Corporate Oﬃcers. Thus we strive to achieve optimal business operations by ensuring eﬀective working of mutually supervisory functions. Corporate Governance Structure Board of Directors As for board members, we select the candidates taking into consideration the balance and diversity of their knowledge, experience, and proﬁciency, so that the Board of Directors as a whole can make technical and comprehensive management decisions. The term of oﬃce for each director is limited to one year. This serves to clarify their responsibility, and it allows the board to respond ﬂexibly to changes in the management environment. The board system are determined in a way that is optimally suited to enforcing management transparency, enhancing corporate governance, and expediting the decision-making process. Currently, the board consists of eight members, including three outside directors. The board holds meetings every month in principle to deliberate and make decisions on important management issues and to assess how each board member is conducting his or her duties. In addition, the board places great weight on the opinions of the auditors, and also incorporates the perspectives of legal, ﬁnancial and accounting experts, as well as gender perspectives, into its deliberations 16 Board of Auditors To maintain a strong auditing function, the Board of Auditors comprises two independent outside auditors along with two full-time auditors who have expert knowledge on our business operations and who are highly skilled in collecting auditing information. These full-time and outside auditors work together to achieve high auditing eﬃciency. The Board of Auditors holds meetings regularly. Working with the internal auditing department (Business Audit Department) to enforce auditing eﬃciency, the Board of Corporate Auditors endeavors to improve its functions of the management oversight by enhancing the eﬀectiveness of audits in cooperation with the accounting auditor. Executive Appointment Meeting The Executive Appointment Meeting comprises the company president, one internal director and three external directors. It is charged with deliberating our companyʼs approach to corporate governance, including ensuring transparency and objectivity in the nomination of members of senior management, as well as candidate board-members and auditors. Its duties also include formulation of plans for succession for the chief executive oﬃcer (president/CEO) and other senior management. Executive appointments, requiring consultation by the Board of Directors, are decided after being placed on its agenda upon deliberative review by the Executive Appointment Meeting. Executive Compensation Meeting The Executive Compensation Meeting comprises the company president, one internal director and three external directors. Its duties include ensuring transparency and objectivity in the determination of the methods by which compensation is to be calculated for each individual board-member. It also deliberates the appropriateness of the compensation system for board-members and our companyʼs ongoing approach to maintaining the system. Executive compensation, requiring consultation by the Board of Directors, is decided after being placed on its agenda upon deliberative review by the Executive Appointment Meeting. Outside Directors / Outside Auditors The outside directors attended all meetings of the Board of Directors held in FY2019. From an independent and objective standpoint, they oversee our business operations and take part in our decision-making process. They are involved in the process of making important decisions such as nomination of oﬃcers and executive compensation, help to ensure the transparency and objectivity and enhance the functions of the board by serving as members of the Executive Appointment Meeting and the Executive Compensation Meeting. In FY2019 the Executive Appointment Meeting was held three times and the Executive Compensation Meeting was held twice, and all meetings were attended by the outside director. The outside auditors (excluding Corporate Auditors who designated due to Medical Treatment) attended all meetings of the Board of Directors and the Board of Auditors held during FY2019. As experts in law and corporate accounting, the outside auditors carry out the audits from an independent and objective standpoint to ensure that our management remains sound and strong. Outside oﬃcers provide useful advice and suggestions for our business management based on their abundant experience and profound knowledge. There is no special interest relationship between these outside oﬃcers and ONO such as personal relationships, capital relationships, and business relationships, based on which we believe there is no risk of conﬂict of interest with general shareholders. Corporate Governance Code We adhere to all principles of the Corporate Governance Code stipulated by the Tokyo Stock Exchange. In accordance with the intent of the Corporate Governance Code , we continue to improve the eﬃciency, soundness and transparency, etc. of the management, and promoting our system more suitable for our business operations, through the evaluation on the eﬀectiveness of the annual meeting of the Board of Directors. Corporate Governance Report Please refer to the “Corporate Governance Report” below for details on our corporate governance situation. Corporate Governance Report（726KB） 17 Internal Control System We have laid out our operational system in compliance with the corporate governance guidelines set out by the board of directors. Implementation of the system is inspected regularly by the Internal Auditing Department (Business Audit Department). Results are reported to the board of directors with the aim of constantly improving the system. Furthermore, we adopt a ﬁrm stance of ﬁghting against any antisocial forces or organizations that may threaten social order or security. Operational Management Structure For the improved eﬃciency and accuracy of our decision making and business operations, we hold Management Meetings and other meetings attended by the president, board members, corporate oﬃcers in charge of each division, and managers of relevant departments. At these meetings, we take a multifaceted approach to addressing important management issues, including those that are to be deliberated on at board meetings. We also aim to maintain and improve management eﬃciency and make quicker decisions by introducing a corporate oﬃcer system and promoting transfer of authority. Auditors are obliged to attend Management Meetings and inspect their minutes, as these meetings are also subject to auditing. Information Disclosure As speciﬁed in our Codes of Conduct, we strive to establish transparent corporate management and recognize the importance of taking various opportunities to disclose information on our business activities in a timely and appropriate manner. We actively conduct investor relations (IR) activities based on a policy of pursuing accuracy, promptness, fairness, and impartiality. We disclose ﬁnancial results and other timely disclosure information on our website and at the same time through TDnet, the timely disclosure network of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. Information that is not subject to the timely disclosure rules is also disclosed swiftly through our website and by other means. For securities analysts and institutional investors, we actively hold individual meetings and phone conferences in addition to a ﬁnancial results brieﬁng or a conference call at the time of each quarterly statement, having held 220 meetings in total in FY2019. We also participate diligently in investor conferences sponsored by securities ﬁrms and the like in order to facilitate individual investorsʼ understanding of our business activities and management strategy. Our website contains an IR library that provides useful current and past data, including development progress updates, as well as ﬁnancial highlights for the last ﬁve years. Also, we endeavor to convey our corporate information to a wider range of people in an easy-to-understand manner by issuing business reports (shareholder newsletters) and corporate reports. We continue to disclose the information more accurately and promptly. 18 Governance : Compliance Being aware of responsibilities as a pharmaceutical company dealing in pharmaceuticals upon which human lives depend, ONO has established the ONO Pharmaceutical Code of Conduct to ensure all its members act in compliance not only with laws and regulations but also with high ethical standards. We also promote fair procurement activities by thoroughly training employees on compliance education and by closely cooperation of our suppliers. ONO PHARMACEUTICALʼs Compliance System Being aware of its responsibility as a pharmaceutical company dealing in pharmaceuticals upon which human lives depend, We have established the ONO Pharmaceutical Codes of Conduct to ensure all its members act in compliance not only with laws and regulations but also with high ethical standards. Our compliance system consists of the ONO Pharmaceutical Codes of Conduct, which sets out basic guidelines for corporate activities; the Compliance Program Policy, which provides standards of conduct for corporate activities; and the Code of Practice, which is based on the pharmaceutical industry standards on promotion and other activities. In practicing the compliance system into practice, we repeatedly informing our employees ensuring transparency, preventing fraud and corruption, constantly being conscious of domestic and international social conditions. For details, please refer to the ONO Pharmaceutical Codes of Conduct, ONO Pharmaceutical Compliance Program Policy, and ONO Pharmaceutical Code of Practice below. see here  The ONO Pharmaceutical Codes of Conduct ONO Pharmaceutical Compliance Program Policy(486KB) ONO Pharmaceutical Code of Practice(202KB) 19 Compliance Promotion Initiatives Compliance Promotion System To promote compliance, we have appointed a Corporate Compliance Oﬃcer and set up a Compliance Committee. The Compliance Committee examines and deliberates on compliance-related issues, plans and promotes relevant training programs, and checks to what extent such compliant related matters are shared and understood within the company in cooperation with the internal auditing department. We have a whistleblowing system with several internal and external contact points (refer to the chart below), including the 24-hour external contact “ONO Hotline,” set up in 2015. Our whistleblowing system aims to prevent the occurrence or recurrence of harassment and other compliance violations, to create a healthy working environment, and to enable prompt action to be taken in the event of violation of compliance rules to minimize the damage or loss of our social credibility. We also have a system in place that enables whistleblowers to directly report to or consult with top management, including the President, Corporate Compliance Oﬃcer, and Corporate Auditors. From the perspective of protection of whistleblowers, matters related to the privacy of whistleblowers, such as their name, and the reported content are kept strictly conﬁdential and only disclosed to relevant persons involved in investigation. Anonymous reports are also accepted. We also ensure that employees who make whistleblowing reports are not subject to disadvantageous treatment only for the reason that they made such reports. We has acquired the Whistleblowing Compliance Management System(WCMS)(a system for self-declaration of conformity). In particular, with regard to harassment, we incorporate harassment issues not only in annual training for management-level staﬀ but also in training programs by external instructors, thereby enhancing employee awareness of compliance. We instruct our group companies to establish systems and rules to prevent any compliance violations. We also strongly request our aﬃliated companies and suppliers to do the same. We have expanded our whistleblowing system to all group companies so that anyone working in our group can report or consult on compliance-related matters without hesitation. 20 Ethical Considerations We always give consideration to ethical treatment in various stages of research and development. For research using human-derived samples (blood, tissue, cells, genes, etc.), we have established internal ethical rules based on the basic guidelines issued by the Japanese government. We have also established the Ethics Committee for Medical and Health Research Involving Human Subjects, as an advisory body comprising members from inside and outside the company, to ensure that such research is conducted only after the Committee conducts strict assessment of its ethical and scientiﬁc validity. For research using laboratory animals, we have established the Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee. The Committee reviews submitted animal experimentation plans in advance to determine whether they have been prepared based on the principles of the 3Rs--Replacement (use of alternative methods), Reduction (reducing the number of test animals) and Reﬁnement (alleviation of pain)-to ensure that animal experiments are carried out appropriately, with respect for the lives of animals and taking into consideration animal welfare. In addition, we conduct self-inspections and assessments of the implementation status of animal experiments. In recognition of these initiatives, we have acquired third-party certiﬁcation from the Center for Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care and Use, Japan Health Sciences Foundation. We ensure that clinical trials, which are essential for verifying the safety and eﬃcacy of pharmaceuticals under development, are carried out in a highly ethical manner, with particular attention to the rights, safety and welfare of study subjects. Clinical trials are a long process. We ascertain the true value of a new drug step-by-step by taking all necessary and appropriate procedures that comply with Japanʼs Act on Securing Quality, Efficacy and Safety of Products Including Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices（Pharmaceutical and Medical Device Act）” and other related legislation, as well as the global standards speciﬁed based on the spirit of the Declaration of Helsinki. In the past, many drug-induced injury cases occurred due to inadequate safety monitoring of pharmaceutical products. We regularly provide education on drug-induced injuries to all employees so that they will never forget patientsʼ pain, the drug-induced toxicity, and the grave responsibility of a pharmaceutical company. For more information, see the web pages below:  Considerations to ensure human rights during research see here  Ethical considerations in animal experiments see here Fair and Transparent Business Activities In order to conduct fair and transparent business activities, we establish a training month for providing e-learning and training in each division every year to provide education thoroughly to all employees concerning the prevention of fraud and corruption. To contribute to healthcare and peopleʼs health around the world through continuous new drug R&D and a stable supply of our products, we need to cooperate with research and medical institutions and engage in collaborative activities (support for patient organizations) to help patients overcome disease and pain. To enhance the fairness and transparency of these cooperation and collaborative activities, it is important to ensure transparent relationships with our partners. We therefore disclose information on the costs of our assistance to medical institutions and patient organizations in accordance with our transparency guidelines, which were developed in line with the relevant guidelines of the Japan Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association (JPMA). Regarding tax compliance, we have established the ONO Pharmaceutical Global Tax Policy, in strict accordance with which all tax-related activities are undertaken under the responsibility of the director in charge of compliance, namely the Corporate Executive Oﬃcer/Executive Director of the Corporate Strategy & Planning Division. For details, refer to the ONO Pharmaceutical Global Tax Policy below. ONO Pharmaceutical Global Tax Policy（161KB） Amid a globally mounting interest in compliance with laws governing unfair and corrupt practices, we established the ONO Pharmaceutical Global Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy and the Regulations on Bribery Prevention in 2017 to clearly deﬁne and state our companyʼs stance and system in preventing bribery and corruption. We endeavor to ensure strict implementation of the policy and regulations. Furthermore, we support Transparency Internationalʼs Business Principles for Countering Bribery, an international anti-bribery standard. As for publicly funded research, we have formulated the Action Guidelines for Publicly Funded Research and the Regulations on Publicly Funded Research, in compliance with the relevant guidelines established by the Japanese government, to ensure further appropriate implementation and management of research projects. For the details of our system for preventing bribery and corruption, refer to the ONO Pharmaceutical Global Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy (hereinafter the Global Policy ) below. ONO Pharmaceutical Global Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy（118KB） No facilitation payment deﬁned the Global Policy was exercised in FY2019. For more information, see the web pages below: For more information, see the web pages below:  Operation and management system of public research funds, and procurement policy see here 21 Governance : Risk Management We work to identify potential major risks to prevent them from occurring, and we have a structure in place to ensure that appropriate actions are taken in case of their occurrence. In addition, we establish a company-wide risk management system with President, Representative Director as the chief risk management oﬃcer and Executive Director, Corporate Strategy & Planning (Member of the Board of Directors, Executive Oﬃcer) as the risk management director in charge. In this way, we tackle issues related to risk management, recognizing them as important management strategic issues. Risk Management Establishment of the Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) System We started preparations for the introduction of Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) in ﬁscal 2018 and introduced it in ﬁscal 2019, aiming for total, rather than partial, optimization of risk management. In conjunction with the introduction of ERM, we have appointed a Chief Risk Management Oﬃcer (President, Representative Director, and Chief Executive Oﬃcer) and a Head Risk Management Oﬃcer (Member of the Board of Directors). Furthermore, in addition to newly establishing the Risk Management Oﬃce in 2019, we have also formulated the Risk Management Regulations to promote ERM. Basic Policy on ERM. (1) With the aim of ensuring stable business continuity and achieving our business objectives, we develop and implement an enterprise risk management system to minimize losses to our company and its stakeholders including customers, while fulﬁlling our accountability to society. (2) Each division assesses its risks and those in divisions under its jurisdiction, using the risk assessment sheet, and autonomously promotes risk management. (3) We identify the most important and urgent risks that could have a considerable impact on business management as material risks, and promote companywide risk management activities. (4) In the event a risk materializes, we take measures to minimize the damage and ensure prompt recovery in order to solve problems as quickly as possible. ERM Promotion System (1) Basic Approach 1. The Head of each division supervises the risk management of the entire division through the divisionʼs Risk Management Promotion Meeting. 2. Division Managers conduct daily risk management as risk owners. 3. Every quarter, Risk Management Oﬃce monitors the risk management status of each headquarters from the viewpoint of ERM.The results of monitoring are shared and examined for issues at the Company-Wide Risk Management Committee (Chairperson: Director, Risk Management Oﬃce) held twice a year. The monitoring results are also reported to the Management Committee (Composed of directors, executive oﬃcers, division managers, etc.) and the Board of Directors. (2) Risk Management Promotion Meeting The Risk Management Promotion Meeting in each division assesses the risks of their division and extracts issues using the risk assessment sheet, and develops prevention measures for identiﬁed risks according to their materiality and urgency, as well as risk response plans. Thus, each division autonomously promotes risk management by considering, developing and implementing appropriate risk measures. The risk assessment sheet covers a wide range of risks, not only business risks, but also risks related to the environment, major disasters, human rights, pharmaceutical aﬀairs laws and regulations, and bribery. (3) Response to Material Risks The Management Meeting identify important and urgent risks as “material risks” every ﬁscal year, and consider, develop and implement measures to control the identiﬁed risks, while monitoring the identiﬁed risks on a company-wide scale. In the event a risk arises, we take action in accordance with the response plan to minimize the damage and ensure prompt recovery, thereby solving problems as quickly as possible. (4) Crisis management In the event a material risk arises and crisis management becomes necessary, the President sets up an Emergency Response Committee to take measures to minimize damage and facilitate speedy recovery. (5) Risk management education We provide education on risk management for all employees to raise their awareness and sensitivity toward risks. In ﬁscal 2019, we conducted e-learning training to help employees acquire basic knowledge about risks, risk assessment, and ERM, and learn about our companyʼs ERM system. We also commenced workshop-style training regarding risk management methods in the second half of ﬁscal 2019; so far, inside directors, risk managers of all divisions, and leader-class employees in some divisions have completed the training. This training is planned to be provided to all employees. We will continue to promote education on risk management. 22 ONO Pharmaceuticalʼs risk management system ONO Groupʼs Risk Management To promote risk management activities across the Group, we provide our subsidiaries with guidance and advice on risk management, while respecting their autonomy. We provide such guidance and advice through various opportunities including regular meetings where we receive reports from subsidiaries regarding their business operations and discuss important matters. We are currently working to expand our ERM system to our subsidiaries in Japan and overseas by the end of ﬁscal 2020 to further enhance the risk management of the entire Group. System to ensure proper business operations of the ONO Group To ensure legal compliance across the Group, we provide appropriate consultation and guidance to our subsidiaries. . While respecting their autonomy, we request that each company provide us with regular business reports and consult with us on important business issues in advance. 23 Business Continuity Plan (BCP) According to the instructions of the Emergency Response Committee chaired by the President, Representative Director, we have organized the BCP Management Headquarters and established a system designed to minimize the impact of an emergency on operations even in the case where an emergency occurs such as a natural disaster or serious accident, so that we can continue business activities or recover promptly and resume them if they are suspended. The BCM Committee, which is chaired by Executive Director, Corporate Strategy & Planning (Member of the Board of Directors, Executive Oﬃcer) and in charge of business continuity management (BCM), and the Management Oﬃce have been formed to maintain and strengthen our abilities to respond to crisis and continue our business operations, and promote relevant management activities during normal times. We have installed systems prepared for disasters such as emergency generators and duplicate power service in our head oﬃce, the Tokyo Building, and all of our plants and research institutions, and we also have introduced seismic isolation systems to prepare for earthquakes in our head oﬃce, the Tokyo Building, the Minase Research Institute, and the Yamaguchi Plant. As we have transferred some of the Osaka Head Oﬃceʼs functions to the Tokyo Building, we can use resources such as internal systems and inventories at either base in the event of natural disasters in one area. The development of our two-base system prevents us from having to stop our business activities and improves our ability to continue our business operations. 24 Business Risks The Group's business performance may be signiﬁcantly aﬀected by various risks that could in the future occur in its business activities. The major risks that have the potential to aﬀect the Group's business are listed below. However, this list does not cover all risks, and there are risks other than those described below that could potentially inﬂuence investor decisions. The matters in this document relating to the future are based on the judgment of the Group as of the end of ﬁscal 2019. <Major Risks> (1) New product development Upholding our corporate philosophy ”Dedicated to Manʼs Fight against Disease and Pain,” ONO Pharmaceutical strives to develop unique and innovative new drugs that deliver true beneﬁt to patients in order to satisfy as-yet unmet medical needs. With the aim of becoming an R&D-based global pharmaceutical company specializing in speciﬁc ﬁelds, we not only pursue development of innovative pharmaceutical products independently but also promote open innovation that incorporates world-leading technologies and knowledge. However, it is possible that a long-term and large amount of R&D investment will not lead to the market launch of an innovative drug, and will cause the discontinuation of development midway. If such a situation occurs, expected revenue may not be realized, and the Group's operating results and ﬁnancial position may be signiﬁcantly aﬀected. (2) Response to changes in the market environment The Group is striving to maximize product value through proactive R&D activities, swift inter-departmental cooperation across the entire company, and strengthening of human resource development functions. To that end, we constantly analyze the market environment while paying attention to the factors aﬀecting the product life cycle and review strategies to achieve a competitive advantage at every stage of the product life cycle, thereby responding appropriately to changes in the market. We also secure the necessary resources to maximize the potential of every product we oﬀer. However, the Groupʼs operating results and ﬁnancial position may be signiﬁcantly aﬀected depending on the sales situation of competing products and generic products. (3) Compliance In conducting business activities, the Group is subject to various laws and regulations, such as those related to product quality, safety, the environment, chemical substances, transactions and labor, as well as accounting standards and tax laws. In the future, we will need to respond to ever-stricter climate change mitigation policies and regulations around the world. In addition to formulating the Compliance Program Policy, etc. based on the Codes of Conduct, the Group has established a robust compliance system, which includes the Compliance Committee and internal reporting and consultation desks, to ensure that all business activities are conducted in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. However, if the Group or its contractors violate any laws or regulations materially, the Groupʼs reputation, as well as its operating results and ﬁnancial position, may be adversely aﬀected. In addition, if the Groupʼs business activities are restricted due to changes in laws and regulations, and as a result additional investment costs are incurred, the Group's operating results and ﬁnancial position may be signiﬁcantly aﬀected. (4) Product quality control In line with its policy of contributing to society through stable supply of pharmaceuticals that are quality-assured to a high standard, the Group not only meets the legal requirements relating to the quality of pharmaceutical products but also has established a robust quality system based on its own quality manual and continually improves the system to stably supply high-quality pharmaceutical products from the perspectives of patients, caregivers and healthcare professionals. Also, we have a robust product recall system in place. If concerns arise regarding the quality, eﬃcacy and safety of any of our products, investigation will be conducted promptly, and if a recall is decided upon, such recall information will be communicated immediately to medical professionals and the relevant product will be recalled as required. However, if a serious quality problem that exceeds the Groupʼs expectation arises or a concern is raised about the safety and security of our product due to the discovery of new scientiﬁc knowledge, it could reduce trust not only in the relevant product brand but also in the entire Group, possibly causing a signiﬁcant adverse impact on the Groupʼs operating results and ﬁnancial position. (5) Securing and developing human resources The Group strives to secure and foster diverse and competent human resources to ensure sustainable growth. We are continuously committed to the development of support systems and working conditions that help employees work in various styles so that each and every person in our diverse workforce can work energetically and demonstrate his or her full potential. We also work to continually enhance training programs to match the individual needs and levels of ability and development. Thus, through various activities, we seek to become an attractive company that attracts and retains excellent employees. To respond quickly and ﬂexibly to environmental changes and increase corporate value, we believe it is important to enhance the diversity of attributes, values, and behavioral characteristics of the members who make up the organization and recognize their individualities. Under this belief, we are implementing various initiatives to promote the active participation of women and persons with disabilities in the workplace and to promote midcareer employment. However, possible failure to attract and retain diverse and talented human resources over the medium to long term could cause the Groupʼs business activities to stagnate, resulting in a signiﬁcant impact on the Groupʼs operating results and ﬁnancial position. 25 (6) Large-scale earthquakes, climate change-related natural disasters, and accidents In preparation for earthquakes, ﬂoods associated with climate change (water risks) and other natural disasters, the Group formulates disaster prevention measures and business continuity plans for its manufacturing plants and major business sites and addresses climate change-related risks in accordance with the TCFD recommendations. The Group has a manufacturing plant, the Fujiyama Plant, in Shizuoka Prefecture. In addition to this, a new plant, the Yamaguchi Plant, was constructed in Yamaguchi Prefecture to accommodate future business expansion, as well as to reduce risks and ensure business continuity during large-scale disasters. Also, the Head Oﬃce, the Tokyo Building, and all manufacturing plants and research institutes are equipped with emergency power generators and two-line power receiving systems to ensure uninterrupted operations in the event of a power failure. The Head Oﬃce, Tokyo Building, Minase Research Institute and Yamaguchi Plant are equipped with seismic isolation systems to prepare for earthquakes. Furthermore, we have established a system to handle emergency situations at two bases, in Osaka and Tokyo, in the event of a large-scale disaster. We have also introduced a safety conﬁrmation system to speedily conﬁrm the safety of our employees. In addition, we conduct periodical disaster drills to raise employeesʼ awareness of disaster prevention and improve their ability to respond to an emergency situation. Despite our eﬀorts, however, a large-scale earthquake or natural disaster resulting from climate change may cause problems in our raw material procurement, manufacturing and logistics operations, thus hindering the supply of products and our R&D activities. In each case, the Groupʼs operating results and ﬁnancial position may be signiﬁcantly aﬀected. Furthermore, the spread of infectious diseases, such as novel coronavirus, and the occurrence of an explosion or ﬁre accident at production plants, information/control system failures, problems at suppliers of raw materials, malfunction of social infrastructure such as electricity and water, environmental pollution from harmful substances, terrorism, political disturbances, riots, etc. may hinder the supply of products, R&D activities and other business activities. This may have a serious impact on the Groupʼs operating results and ﬁnancial position. (7) Health insurance system reform The pharmaceutical manufacturing and sales business of the Group is subject to various regulations under the pharmaceutical administration and regulations of each country in which it operates. The changes are being made in Japan to the downward revision of drug prices under the oﬃcial drug pricing system and the medical system, including promotion of use of generic drugs. Overseas, the pressure to limit healthcare spending is increasing. Due to the above-mentioned factors, in the event the revenue is decreased in consequence of falling sales prices of pharmaceuticals which cannot be covered by increased sales volumes or other measures, the Groupʼs operating results and ﬁnancial position may be adversely aﬀected. (8) Reliance on speciﬁc products Of the Group's revenue, revenue from OPDIVO Intravenous Infusion and anti-PD-1 antibody-related royalties account for about 60% of the total revenue (ﬁscal year ended March 31, 2020). If the revenue from OPDIVO Intravenous Infusion and anti-PD-1 antibody-related royalties decrease due to drug price revisions, the emergence of other promising competing products, the expiration of protection period of patents, and other unforeseen circumstances, the Groupʼs operating results and ﬁnancial position may be adversely aﬀected. (9) Newly discovered side eﬀects The Group develops a risk management plan and collects and evaluates safety (side eﬀects) information on a continual basis for each pharmaceutical. We analyze the collected data to determine the seriousness of the safety information and the necessity of issuing warnings, and if necessary, we revise the cautions on package inserts and make announcements about proper use. However, there is a possibility that new side eﬀects that had not been experienced in clinical trials will be reported after marketing. In the event that a new serious side eﬀect is discovered, the Groupʼs operating results and ﬁnancial position may be adversely aﬀected by the payment of damages and a decrease in revenue due to revocation of drug approval. (10) Intellectual property rights The Group takes great care to ensure that products it manufactures or sells do not infringe upon third-party intellectual property rights. However, if the Group is found to have infringed upon a third-party intellectual property right, the Groupʼs operating results and ﬁnancial position may be adversely aﬀected by the payment of damages and a decrease in revenue due to the suspension of manufacturing and sale, etc. In addition, the Group identiﬁes and manages the inventors, etc. appropriately and pays the appropriate amount of compensation determined by internal regulations and contracts. However, if a lawsuit is ﬁled by an inventor, etc., the Group's operating results and ﬁnancial position may be adversely aﬀected by the payment of damages In September 2015, the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in the United States of America ﬁled a suit in the U.S. District Court for Massachusetts against ONO Pharmaceutical, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, and Professor Tasuku Honjo for addition of inventors for patent applications on anti-PD-1 antibodies and anti-PD-L1 antibodies that the Company owned. On May 17, 2019, in the ﬁrst instance, the Court ruled that Clive R. Wood, PhD, and a Dana-Farber Cancer Institute scientist, Gordon J. Freeman, PhD, should be named as inventors on the patents. The Company was dissatisﬁed with the decision and appealed. Similar lawsuits have been ﬁled in Europe. In addition, on June 21, 2019, the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, the assignee of Gordon J. Freemanʼs rights and interests in the present inventions, ﬁled a lawsuit against the Company and Bristol-Myers Squibb in the US District Court for Massachusetts, claiming that it has the right to receive a portion of the licensing revenue that the Company and Bristol-Myers Squibb have received by suing, as exclusive patent owners, their competitors for patent infringement and later reaching a settlement or concluding license agreements with the competitors. It is not possible to estimate the impact of the court rulings for these lawsuits on the Groupʼs operating results, etc. at this stage. (11) Litigation The Group may be subject to litigation over pharmaceutical side eﬀects, product liability (PL), labor issues, fair trade issues, environmental issues, or other issues associated with its business activities. Unfavorable court decisions may adversely aﬀect the Groupʼs operating results and ﬁnancial position. (12) Information management The Group holds a lot of important information, including personal information. To ensure proper management of such information, the Group has implemented various measures, including establishing and disseminating related rules, educating employees on the importance of information management, and taking security measures on IT systems. However, if information in the possession of the Group is falsiﬁed, misused or leaked due to computer virus infection, system failures caused by cyber attacks, accidents, etc., the Group's operating results and ﬁnancial position may be adversely aﬀected due to a signiﬁcant loss of social credibility. 26 (13) Overseas business expansion The Group is actively expanding its operations overseas with the aim of becoming a “Global Specialty Pharma Company” capable of oﬀering innovative new drugs developed in-house around the world. In South Korea and Taiwan, we have already set up wholly owned subsidiaries and have started selling our products. In the future, we will work to develop and strengthen our development system, etc., with a view to marketing through our own sales organizations in Europe and the United States. In conducting global business activities, we obtain information on each country or region where we operate, including legal restrictions, economic conditions, political instability, region-speciﬁc natural disasters and uncertainties in the business environment, and consider necessary measures. However, if these risks cannot be avoided completely, the Groupʼs operating results and ﬁnancial position may be adversely aﬀected. (14) Alliance with other companies The Group cooperates with other companies in various forms, such as joint research, joint development, in-and-out licensing of developed products, and joint sales. Changes in or cancellations of alliances with other companies for any reason may have an adverse impact on the Groupʼs operating results and ﬁnancial position. (15) Fluctuations in ﬁnancial market conditions • Foreign exchange ﬂuctuations The Group conducts business internationally and receives royalties and makes payment of expenses, etc. in foreign currencies. Foreign exchange rate ﬂuctuations expose the Group to risks, such as a decline in sales revenue, an increase in purchasing costs, an increase in R&D expenses, and foreign exchange losses. To mitigate the above risks, based on its market risk management policy, the Group hedges foreign exchange risk through forward exchange contracts, for a certain percentage of foreign currency denominated transactions. However, foreign exchange ﬂuctuations that exceed assumptions may adversely aﬀect the Groupʼs operating results and ﬁnancial position. • Stock price ﬂuctuations The Group is exposed to risk of stock price ﬂuctuations arising from equity instruments. The Group holds equity instruments to smoothly execute its business strategies but no equity instruments are held for short-term trading purposes. These equity instruments are periodically reviewed to assess their fair values and the ﬁnancial status of the issuing companies, and the portfolio is revised as required, taking into account the relationships with the relevant companies. However, if the market value of equity instruments ﬂuctuates substantially more than expected, the Group's operating results and ﬁnancial position may be adversely aﬀected. (16) Response to environmental issues As part of eﬀorts to address global environmental issues, the Group has established an environmental vision (ECO VISION 2050) based on its Global Environmental Policy. In line with the ECO VISION 2050 and Global Environmental Policy, the Group is making group-wide eﬀorts to realize a decarbonized society, a water recycling society, and a resource recycling society. In addition, being keenly aware of corporate social responsibility toward the environment, we carry out all our business activities in an environmentally responsible way to preserve a rich global environment. Some of the chemical substances used in pharmaceutical research and manufacturing processes include substances that have a negative impact on human health or the ecosystem. Therefore, we strive to comply with environmental laws and regulations regarding the use, handling, manufacture, storage, and disposal of hazardous substances of countries and regions in which we conduct business activities. However, costs may increase in the future if new carbon taxes are introduced or greenhouse gas emission limits are tightened to combat global warming. Also, should unexpected contamination by harmful substances or collateral damage occur, the Group may face exclusion from insurance coverage or have to bear expenses that exceed compensation and legal liability. In addition, changes of environmental laws and regulations in the future may limit the Groupʼs business activities, including research and development and manufacturing. In such cases, the Groupʼs operating results and ﬁnancial position may be adversely aﬀected. (17) Spread of COVID-19 infection As a life-related company, the Group strives to ensure a stable supply of pharmaceutical products. We are working vigorously to maintain a stable supply in cooperation with our aﬃliated companies and business partners. For the time being, there is no problem regarding the production and supply of our pharmaceutical products to medical institutions. Also, in an eﬀort to contribute to the research and development of therapeutic drugs, etc., we have started clinical trials with “camostat mesilate (CM),” an oral protease inhibitor for the treatment of chronic pancreatitis and postoperative reﬂux esophagitis. In addition, we are supplying investigational drugs of CM for clinical studies based on requests from medical institutions and research organizations both in Japan and abroad. Furthermore, to ensure the safety and health of patients, healthcare professionals and our employees, as well as to prevent the spread of infections, we refrained from visiting medical institutions, but from June we started to resume sales activities step by step at medical institutions and in areas less aﬀected by COVID-19. In addition to conventional physical visits, we have also used new measures, such as web-based meetings and remote lectures, so that MRs can carry out their responsibility to provide pharmaceutical information to healthcare professionals. We have taken the utmost preventive measures, such as prohibiting business trips in Japan and overseas, cancelling or postponing events (lectures, seminars, in-house/external training, etc.), or holding events online. However, further spread of infection and prolongation of the pandemic in the future could hinder the supply of products and R&D activities. In such case, the Groupʼs operating results and ﬁnancial position may be adversely aﬀected by the stagnation of its business activities, etc. (18) Deferred tax assets and impairment treatment The Group records various tangible ﬁxed assets and intangible assets, as well as deferred tax assets used in business operations. If any of the risks described in the Business Risks section were to materialize, deviations from the business performance plan could occur, making it impossible for the Group to generate expected cash ﬂows. In this case, there is a possibility that tangible ﬁxed assets and intangible assets may be impaired, and deferred tax assets may decrease. In such cases, the Groupʼs operating results and ﬁnancial position may be adversely aﬀected. 27 Information Security Management Basic Approach Information assets are very important management resources. ONO Pharmaceutical and its group companies have established, and implement and maintain the Information Securities Global Policies to strictly protect and not divulge the information assets, including R&D information, external information obtained for business use, and personal information of customers/suppliers, as well as to share and utilize information properly within the group. Information Security Global Policy (163KB) Information Security Management System The ONO Group has established the Information Security Global Policies and related regulations. To ensure their eﬀectiveness, an information security management system has been established, including speciﬁc actions to be taken in the event of an information security incident. Overall responsibility for information security rests with the Information Security Director (Member of the Board of Directors, Executive Oﬃcer / Executive Director, Corporate Strategy & Planning). The Information Security Director is responsible not only for formulating the groupʼs information security management strategy, but also for creating, revising, implementing and managing related regulations, etc., while taking into account changes in the environment surrounding ONO and the latest trends in information security-related laws and regulations. Under the Information Security Director, the Information System Department Manager and the Division Directors of Information Security are appointed to perform information security management duties at each division and group company. Organizational Structure for Information Security Management Click Click here our Privacy for our here for Policy Privacy Policy. 28 Governance : Responsible Promotion Activities Basic approach Our vision of our sales activities is to work as a team, think from the patient's perspective, and respond to the real needs of healthcare professionals, based on the belief of For the smiles of patients and their families”. As a life-related company, we always maintain high ethical standards. In order to provide appropriate information on pharmaceutical drugs, the Sales and Marketing department and each department (Compliance Management Department, Corporate Regulatory Compliance,Safety and Quality Assurance ,etc.)collaborate to promote responsible promotion activities. We pursue promotion activities in accordance with the “ONO Pharmaceutical Code of Practice (hereinafter the “Code”)”, which has been formulated as our corporate action guidelines in compliance with the JPMA Code of Practice. ONO Pharmaceutical Code of Practice（202KB） Pursuit of fair promotion activities We define Promotions” as Providing and transmitting drug information to healthcare professionals and promote the proper use and spread of ethical drugs based on such information”. All employees involved in promotion carry out fair promotion activities, while always examining whether they are acting in accordance with the spirit of the Code regardless of whether there are speciﬁc provisions or descriptions in the Code. Furthermore, based on the Code, we not only comply with the “Guidelines on Activities to Provide Sales Information on Prescription Drugs” (hereinafter the “Guidelines”) issued by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare of Japan, and the “Promotion Code for Prescription Drugs” established by the Japan Pharmaceutical Manufacturers Association (JPMA), but also respect the IFPMA (International Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & Associations) Code of Practice. Review system related to promotion In promotion, the provision of accurate information is required to promote the proper use and spread of pharmaceuticals. All materials used for promotion undergo a review process by the Compliance Management Department, which involves a review by external third parties. We also strive to provide appropriate information on slides used by speakers in sponsored and co-hosted lecture meetings,by checking in advance whether the Compliance Management Department contains any unapproved information on pharmaceuticals. The Sales and Marketing Department is not involved in any of these processes. 29 Training for thorough implementation of fair promotion activities We provide training not only for the members of the department in charge of the creation of promotional materials, but also for all employees involved in promotion, to enhance their awareness of compliance. Every year, we set up a Compliance Promotion Month (three months) to raise awareness of compliance in general, and the Compliance Management Department visit a sales oﬃce and conduct training twice a year. Furthermore, we organize lecture training sessions given by the leaders of various departments as well as e-learning training courses in order to improve employeesʼ knowledge and understanding of compliance in general. In the event of a violation of the Code, we promptly conduct special training sessions on a company-wide scale to prevent the occurrence and recurrence of violations. The Compliance Management Department and the Sales and Marketing Department hold coordination meetings once a month with compliance promotion staﬀ from each region to share information and provide training. We have a system in place to communicate shared information and training contents within the department through meetings where the leaders of the sales divisions meet. Frequency Scope Main contents Operating rules of lectures hosted and co-hosted by Training by Compliance Promotion Twice a Code, Guidelines, Fair Competition our company, and appropriate promotional Department year Code materials and activities Appropriate provision of information (Company Twice a Records) Training by leaders in departments Guidelines year Rules for lectures hosted by our company (Prior conﬁrmation of slides) For Implementation of responsible marketing and promotion activities please refer to ONO's Approach to CSR. Training for promoting proper use of pharmaceuticals and collecting safety information In promotion activities, it is important to quickly collect safety information on prescribed drugs and provide appropriate information, based on collected information, to healthcare professionals to further promote proper use of pharmaceuticals. We conduct introductory training on Ministerial Ordinance on Post-Marketing Safety Management of Drugs (GVP Ordinance) in a lecture format for all employees involved in promotion activities. Even after that, training on drug risk management plans (RMP) for each product is conducted at the time of launch of a new product, and training on pharmaceutical damage is conducted every two years. In addition to e-learning education on the collection of post-marketing side eﬀect information is conducted every year. All employees involved in promotion activities are fully aware of safety characteristics of each drug as well as the importance of safety management, and promote the proper use of drugs and collect safety information in order to minimize the occurrence of side eﬀects in patients. 30 Society : Innovative Pharmaceutical Products Dedicated to Manʼs Fight against Disease and Pain is our corporate philosophy as a pharmaceutical company dedicated to the development of new drugs. In line with this philosophy, we work to bring world-class innovative drugs as soon as possible to patients across the globe through collaboration between all our divisions including research, development, business strategy, manufacturing, safety/quality assurance, and marketing, as well as through the dedication of all employees to the eﬀorts with passion and conviction. Research ONOʼs mission, policy, and structure regarding research and development are introduced.  Drug development policy see here  Research structure see here Business Strategy ONOʼs licensing activities and major partners are introduced.  Drug discovery alliances see here  Global business and licensing activities see here  Partners see here 31 Development ONOʼs development structure and progress on new drugs being developed are introduced.  Development structure see here  IR library see here *Please refer to the status of development pipeline. Manufacturing and Safety/Quality Assurance ONOʼs manufacturing and safety/quality assurance initiatives are introduced.  Manufacturing and safety/quality assurance see here Marketing ONOʼs marketing initiatives and main products are introduced.  Marketing (scientiﬁc information) see here  Product information see here 32 Society : Eﬀorts Made for Improving Access to Healthcare Basic Policy Even today as we see remarkable developments in the medical ﬁeld, there are many diseases against which no eﬀective treatment exists. Also, in lowand lower middle-income countries, there are many people who have diﬃculty receiving necessary medical care due to various reasons such as inadequate medical infrastructure and poverty. Under the corporate philosophy “Dedicated to Manʼs Fight against Disease and Pain,” we aim to improve access to healthcare by pursuing these goals: the development of innovative pharmaceutical products, improvement of medical infrastructure, and establishment of partnerships with outside parties. We currently sell our pharmaceutical products ourselves in Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan; in Asia, including Japan, we will make eﬀorts for improving access to healthcare including the treatment of rare diseases. In regions other than Asia, we will make eﬀorts to provide pharmaceuticals with the help of our partner companies. We will also work on supporting mediumto long-term activities to strengthen medical systems by means such as medical education and the development of medical infrastructure through partnerships with NPOs and the Global Health Innovative Technology Fund. The Direction of our eﬀorts  Promotion of research and development for measures against diseases for which patientsʼ medical needs are not yet met, rare diseases, and intractable diseases  Local medical education, training of medical personnel, improvement of medical supplies in countries and regions where medical infrastructure is not fully developed  Strengthening the medical system through partnerships with external parties Our Policies on Intellectual Property Rights and on Patents in Countries with Limited Access to Healthcare We strive to continually develop innovative drugs through appropriate protection and use of various types of intellectual property generated during the course of drug development, while at the same time respecting intellectual property rights owned by third parties. In some countries, people have diﬃculty access to healthcare due to economic reasons. To deliver our innovative drugs to more patients worldwide, we will neither apply for nor enforce patent rights in Least Developed Countries deﬁned by the United Nations and Low Income Countries deﬁned by the World Bank. We also will not ﬁle patent applications or enforce rights in Lower Middle Income Countries deﬁned by the World Bank with the exception of some countries. * Least Developed Countries deﬁned by the United Nations: https://www.un.org/development/desa/dpad/least-developed-country-category.html Low Income Countries deﬁned by the World Bank: https://data.worldbank.org/income-level/low-income Lower-middle Income Countries deﬁned by the World Bank: https://data.worldbank.org/income-level/lower-middle-income Promotion Management System The management team oversees the directions for the improvement of access to healthcare and the details of the eﬀorts. New eﬀorts associated with access to healthcare will be deliberated on and approved by the CSR Committee, chaired by the Corporate Executive Oﬃcer / Head of Corporate Communications. Its activities are periodically reported to the Management Meeting which is chaired by the CEO. 33 Examples of working on the creation of pharmaceuticals Eﬀorts to obtain approval for pediatric use Working on the treatment of rare diseases is important so as to improve access to healthcare. We make the following eﬀorts to develop and provide pharmaceuticals for rare diseases. （As of July 24,2020） Date designated as an Product name Therapeutic indication Status orphan drug Malignant melanoma that has no possibility of radical 2013.06.17 Approved resection OPDIVO intravenous Recurrent or intractable classical Hodgkin lymphoma 2016.03.16 Approved infusion Progressing or metastatic malignant pleural mesothelioma 2017.12.01 Approved that has no possibility of radical resection Mitigation of excess catecholamine secretion in patients Demser Capsules 2015.05.25 Approved with pheochromocytoma Kyprolis for intravenous Recurrent or intractable multiple myeloma 2015.08.20 Approved infusion The kinds of life-threatening cardiac arrhythmia in Onoact for intravenous intractable and urgent cases: ventricular ﬁbrillation and 2016.08.24 Approved infusion hemodynamically unstable ventricular tachycardia Treatment of unresectable malignant melanoma with a Mektovi Tablets 2018.03.30 Approved BRAF mutation Treatment of unresectable malignant melanoma with a Braftovi Capsules 2018.03.30 Approved BRAF mutation Primary central nervous system lymphoma (PCNSL) 2019.08.20 Approved Velexbru Waldenstrom macroglobulinemia (WM) and 2019.11.19 Under developing lymphoplasmacytic lymphoma (LPL) In addition, Opdivo is designated as a target item under the Priority Assessment Designation System, speciﬁed by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare, that targets bile duct cancer. Eﬀorts to obtain approval for children Medication evaluated appropriately for children should be used for pediatric patients. Aiming to improve pediatric patientsʼ access to healthcare products, we are working on the ﬂexible approval for children as follows. （As of July 24,2020） Product name Pharmaceutical indication Status Onon Dry Syrup Bronchial asthma and allergic rhinitis Approved Digestive symptoms (nausea, vomiting) resulting from the administration of Emend Capsules Approved antineoplastic agents (cisplatin, etc.) (including the delayed phase) Digestive symptoms (nausea, vomiting) resulting from the administration of Proemend for intravenous injection. Approved antineoplastic agents (cisplatin, etc.) (including the delayed phase) Orencia for intravenous infusion Active polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis Approved Onoact for intravenous infusion Tachyarrhythmia in patients with deteriorated cardiac function Under developing 34 Eﬀorts Made against Intractable Diseases Together with Keio University, Kochi University, the National Institute of Biomedical Innovation, Health and Nutrition, Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation, and Daiichi Sankyo Co., Ltd., we established the Immune-mediated Inﬂammatory Diseases Consortium for Drug Development for the purpose of drug development research targeting intractable immuno inﬂammatory diseases in May 2018. It is expected that the achievements of this consortium will lead to the creation of next-generation pharmaceuticals with high utility against intractable immunoinﬂammatory diseases and also enable the provision of new treatment options for patients and healthcare professionals. Initiatives for supporting medical systems (capacity building) ONO SWITCH Project As an initiative to promote both medical system support and work style reform, we started ONO SWITCH Project in August 2018. Under this initiative, donations are made to medical-related NPOs/NGOs using the money saved by reducing overtime payments through work style reform. The Project aims to contribute to the promotion of work style reform and healthcare, and peopleʼs health around the world, thereby further promoting our corporate philosophy “Dedicated to Manʼs Fight against Disease and Pain. —Project name and concept— Save the World by our work style ImprovemenT and CHange The project was named “SWITCH” by extracting the uppercase letters from “Save the World by our work style ImprovemenT and CHange.” The project name also expresses switching working styles, switching the funds obtained through work style reform to donations, and switching on the process of reviewing our working style. * We have been working on the realization of work style reform since 2014. To promote work style reform on a company-wide scale, we appoint a promotion committee member in each department. The committee members conduct various activities in their respective departments to raise awareness and encourage employees to improve their work eﬃciency and take paid holidays. Thanks to these eﬀorts, in ﬁscal 2019, the average monthly overtime hours per employee decreased by 2.3 hours and the paid leave acquisition rate increased by 24.7% compared to ﬁscal 2014. (The amount raised in donations from ONO SWITCH Project is calculated based on the decrease in overtime payments compared to ﬁscal 2014.) The NPOs/NGOs to which donations are made are determined each year based on a questionnaire targeting all employees. In ﬁscal 2019, we donated to the following NPOs. 35 Partner Description of initiatives Area of operation Bhutan does not yet have the ability to prepare all the vaccines needed in the country, and there are some children who die from vaccine-preventable infections. Also, Bhutan does not have suﬃcient cooling equipment to store vaccines, which is necessary to ensure access to vaccines. Japan Committee, Vaccines for the We support the following activities undertaken to address these issues. Bhutan Worldʼs Children 1. Providing mixed diphtheria/pertussis/tetanus (DPT) vaccines and hepatitis B vaccines to be used in Bhutan throughout the year 2. Providing vaccine refrigerators (to ensure a mediumto long-term supply of vaccines) We support the following activities in Cambodia, where medical infrastructure is lacking. 1. Support for the expansion and improvement of medical infrastructure: Improving the infrastructure/equipment of Japan Heart Children's Medical Center, the base hospital for Japan Heartʼs activities 2. Support for healthcare professional education: Activities aimed at improving the knowledge and skills of Cambodian doctors and nurses • To strengthen Japan Heart Children's Medical Centerʼs emergency care and Japan Heart obstetric care systems, we provide training to the relevant staﬀ on initial Cambodia responses to a sudden deterioration in a patientʼs condition, focusing on cardiopulmonary resuscitation, as well as neonatal resuscitation and delivery assistance. • We provide ﬁnancial support for several years for senior high school students coming from rural areas in Cambodia who aim to become doctors or nurses in order to develop competent healthcare professionals, thereby reinforcing the foundation of local healthcare in the medium to long term. 3. Prevention and treatment of dengue fever. We support the following activities undertaken by Future Code, an NPO involved in medical support activities in disaster and poor areas around the world, to improve access to healthcare in Bangladesh. 1. Constructing facilities at the medical institution that will be newly established by Future Code※4 Bangladesh the said NPO in the Mirpur area in Dhaka, the capital of Bangladesh (This medical institution plans to use part of its proﬁts to treat poor people.) 2. Conducting medical examinations and providing hygiene education, including hand washing, at orphanages and elementary and junior high schools In rural areas of Myanmar, the maternal mortality rate and the newborn mortality rate are high due to poor access to healthcare. We support the following activities People's Hope Japan※4 undertaken by the said NPO under the Maternal and Newborn Health Care System Myanmar Improvement Project. 1. Training and skill monitoring for midwives and assistant midwives ※4 Activity plan from FY2020 36 Each Partnerʼs targets and progress Partner FY2019 targets FY2019 progress FY2020 targets • DPT vaccines: Vaccines for 50,000 • Provide DPT people were provided. (100% Provide DPT vaccines for 50,000 people, (diphtheria/pertussis/tetanus) vaccines elimination of the shortage of vaccines hepatitis B vaccines for 8,000 people, Japan Committee, and hepatitis B vaccines. for two-year-old children) and 5 vaccine refrigerators. Vaccines for the • Provide vaccine refrigerators. • Hepatitis B vaccines: Vaccines for Worldʼs Children 8,000 people were provided. (100% KPI Number of vaccines and KPI Number of vaccines and elimination of the shortage of vaccines refrigerators provided refrigerators provided for babies within 24 hours of birth) • Provided 5 vaccine refrigerators. 1. Provide accurate and high-quality tests to all patients who need testing with the newly installed CBC measuring device. Continue to achieve zero deaths from dengue fever at the Center (as per last year), by treating patients in a timely manner. KPI Percentage of patients whose blood test results were promptly reﬂected in their treatment out of all dengue patients at the Center 2. Support for students who aim to 1. Replaced the aging CBC measuring become healthcare professionals. device, which frequently Continue support for a Cambodian malfunctioned, with a new one, nursing student whom we have enabling accurate tests to be supported since FY2018. 1. Improve equipment/infrastructure at performed within the Center in a 3. Prevention of dengue fever Japan Heart Children's Medical Center. timely manner. Without relying on Conduct awareness-raising activities • Introduce a new CBC measuring other hospitals, the Center has for residents of the area where Japan device※5(automated blood cell become able to detect severe dengue Heart Childrenʼs Medical Center is analyzer). infection early, perform accurate tests located to prevent an epidemic of on child cancer patients and 2. Provide support for healthcare dengue fever, which occurs every Japan Heart postpartum mothers, and obtain professional education. year. (Especially for families with reliable results. Also, not relying on • Support for students who aim to children. All of the deaths from other hospitals for testing has led to a become healthcare professionals. dengue fever in Cambodia in 2019 reduced ﬁnancial burden for patients. Continue support for a nursing involved children.) student whom we have supported 2. Support for students who aim to • Before the start of the dengue fever since ﬁscal 2018. become healthcare professionals. epidemic season (October 2020), The Cambodian nursing student Japan Heart Childrenʼs Medical Center whom we are supporting are working will distribute awareness-raising hard learning about nursing care and materials and disseminate information improving her language skills. via social media to raise awareness of dengue prevention and early detection to suppress any dengue epidemic. KPI Number of people who received awareness-raising materials (target: 4,000 people) Number of times awareness-raising posts were viewed on social media (target: 20,000 people) *Infectious diseases such as dengue fever are said to increase as global warming progresses. We also support this program from our perspective on climate change. 37 Partner FY2019 targets FY2019 progress FY2020 targets • Donate PCR testing equipment for COVID-19 or X-ray equipment to the new hospital. (KPI: In the case of PCR testing equipment, conduct 50 PCR tests a day, of which at least 10% should be given to the poor.) The NPO and ONO discuss the details of Conﬁrmed the content of the project activities to be undertaken from 2020 Future Code starting from 2020 and set targets for and establish the direction of the • Conduct health checkups at activities. activities. orphanages and hygiene education at orphanages and elementary and junior high schools. KPI Number of participants in hygiene education sessions: 50 (number of times sessions are conducted: at least once a year) Conduct training for and monitor the skills of all midwives (83 people) and assistant midwives (55 people) in Lewe Township of Nay Pyi Taw Union Territory. KPI • One-time skill monitoring using the assessment sheet • One-time training (a 3-5 day training program), in cooperation with the local The NPO and ONO discuss the details of health authorities Conﬁrmed the content of the project Aim to ensure that mothers and children activities to be undertaken from 2020 People's Hope Japan starting from 2020 and set targets for receive appropriate health services and establish the direction of the activities. (maternity checkups, assisted delivery activities. by trained professionals, institutional delivery, postpartum checkups) through the synergy eﬀects generated by the above-mentioned measures and other measures implemented by the NPO (improvement of the knowledge and health behavior of pregnant women, recognition of danger signs and prompt treatment-seeking behavior, as well as the training and appropriate allocation of volunteers to connect residents and health facilities). ※5 CBC measuring device refers to an automated blood cell analyzer or automated blood cell counter which measures red blood cells, white blood cells, platelets, etc. in blood. A Basic Life Support (BLS) training session run by Japan Heart Support for vaccinations by the Japan Committee, Vaccines for the Worldʼs Children 38 Past activities ■ Progress of activities in FY2018 Partner Targets Progress 1. A symposium was held in Tokyo in January 2019. Lectures about school Nanbyo no Kodomo Shien Zenkoku Hold symposia to promote life and the education of children under medical treatment were held. Network (Nationwide Network to understanding of intractable Support Children with Intractable diseases. 2. A camping event was held on Awaji Island, targeting families with Diseases) children with intractable diseases. Sixty people participated in the event. Provide DPT vaccines and hepatitis B vaccines to be used in Bhutan throughout the year. Funds were contributed for the provision of DPT vaccines and hepatitis B Start developing an infrastructure Vaccines for the Worldʼs Children vaccines to be used in Bhutan next ﬁscal year, as well as Ice Line coolers for for cold chains (a system to refrigerating the vaccines. transport vaccines at low temperatures to points of consumption). 1. A nursing student was selected, to whom we will provide support. We will pay all the studentʼs tuition and living expenses for six years, covering university life and training at a hospital. 2. BLS training was provided to 266 people. Provide one person with healthcare Participant breakdown: professional education every year. 190 seniors from Cambodia-Japan Friendship High School Japan Heart※6 Have 100 people receive healthcare 24 Japan Heart scholarship students professional education. 37 staﬀ from Japan Heart Childrenʼs Medical Center 15 staﬀ from Ponnel Hospital Neonatal cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) training was provided to 24 local medical professionals. A child birthing simulator was used in a delivery training workshop for two Cambodian midwives. ※6 Results achieved in FY2019 as a result of our support for Japan Heart Children's Medical Center in FY2018  Cambodian healthcare practitioners who received BLS training in FY2018 at the Center using BLS mannequins (donated by ONO) conducted BLS training as instructors for newly joined staﬀ and local residents. Young healthcare professionals who were trainees last ﬁscal year became able to provide training as instructors. (All medical staﬀ working at Japan Heart Children's Medical Center have already received training using BLS mannequins.) KPI 16 local residents, 55 Cambodian staﬀ (including non-medical staﬀ) from Japan Heart Children's Medical Center  The midwives who received neonatal CPR training using CPR mannequins (donated by ONO) in FY2018 conducted neonatal CPR training as instructors using infant mannequins for medical staﬀ other than midwives. KPI KPI: 33 medical staﬀ from Japan Heart Childrenʼs Medical Center, 1 staﬀ member from the public Ponnel Hospital  In preparation for a full-ﬂedged start of labor and delivery services at the Center, Japanese midwives conducted training on child delivery assistance (practice for safe delivery, checking danger signs during labor and birth, etc.), using a child birthing simulator (donated by ONO in FY2018). KPI KPI: Training was given once every two months to all of the nine Cambodian midwives at the Center 39 Society : Human Resources and Human Rights We believe that “People make the company,” and actively supports the development of individual abilities and positive action taken without fear of failure. We promote eﬀorts to improve safety and health conditions, and to create a working environment where the company and its employees can live in harmony and individual abilities blossom to their full extent. We also respect everyoneʼs human rights in all business activities and aim to establish a company with no discrimination either inside or outside the company due to race, nationality, ethnicity, gender, age, colour, religion and belief/philosophy. Development of Human Resources Concept of Human Resource Development We aim to develop human resources who become source for us to grow to be a global R&D oriented pharmaceutical enterprise as well as act in an ethical manner with a strong sense of responsibility as a member of a pharmaceutical enterprise involved in pharmaceutical products, which are closely related to the lives of people. Desired characteristics of ONO Employees are those who: are motivated, proactive, self-disciplined, independent and make conﬁdent choices  are innovative, aspirational and persistent  can work collaboratively in a global team environment  have a strong sense of ownership for, and take pride in their roles  always has a positive attitude and seeks opportunities for professional growth  act in an ethical, honest and trustworthy manner Having over 300 years of history since our foundation, we desire human resources who will be the fountainhead for us to continue to make bold eﬀorts for the future. Our approach to human resource development There are three key elements of personal growth: “experience in the workplace (experience learning)“, “guidance from supervisors (social learning)”, and “Selfdevelopment and training program (self-learning)”. We believe that these three elements are also important to develop individuals with our desired attributes; i.e., those who make bold eﬀorts and act independently based on self-discipline. With regard to “training program,” we have two main types of program. The ﬁrst is voluntary training program that employees can choose to participate in based on their interests and needs. A variety of training courses are oﬀered to help employees acquire various business skills such as presentation skills and marketing skills. The second is hierarchical training program, such as orientation for newly hired employees, annual training, and training for newly promoted employees. In these training programs, employees reﬂect on “the experiences in the workplace” and “the feedback from their supervisors”, and share their individual reﬂections with the other participants. By doing so, learning is not be conﬁned to oneself, but spread across the entire spectrum of employees, like a network. Hierarchical training programs thus provide a great social learning opportunity for all employees. By strategically combining the three elements of growth, we seek to promote the autonomous growth and career development of individual employees. 40 Our approach to human resource development There are three key elements of personal growth: “experience in the workplace (experience learning)“, “guidance from supervisors (social learning)”, and “Selfdevelopment and training program (self-learning)”. We believe that these three elements are also important to develop individuals with our desired attributes; i.e., those who make bold eﬀorts and act independently based on self-discipline. With regard to “training program,” we have two main types of program. The ﬁrst is voluntary training program that employees can choose to participate in based on their interests and needs. A variety of training courses are oﬀered to help employees acquire various business skills such as presentation skills and marketing skills. The second is hierarchical training program, such as orientation for newly hired employees, annual training, and training for newly promoted employees. In these training programs, employees reﬂect on “the experiences in the workplace” and “the feedback from their supervisors”, and share their individual reﬂections with the other participants. By doing so, learning is not be conﬁned to oneself, but spread across the entire spectrum of employees, like a network. Hierarchical training programs thus provide a great social learning opportunity for all employees. By strategically combining the three elements of growth, we seek to promote the autonomous growth and career development of individual employees. Experience in the workplace（experiential learning）: “Teamwork” We value teamwork. This attitude is based on our values such as “ONO aims to be a world-changing team.” When setting annual work goals, our employees set not only personal goals, but also the goals of the team. By encouraging employees to maintain close communication with other members of the team and help each other, we create an environment where employees are motivated and ﬁnd it easy to challenge higher goals. Feedback from the supervisor (social learning): “One-on-one communication” To develop individuals who can demonstrate their abilities in the team, in addition to promoting individual development and self-learning and encouraging employees to accumulate various experiences, whether large or small, by working together with various members in the workplace, it is extremely important to allow employees to have one-on-one communication with their immediate supervisor, with whom they liaise and work closely in their daily work. In one-on-one communication, employees can not only consult about issues they are facing in their work, but also discuss in depth their job satisfaction, strengths and future career aspirations. Such opportunities not only enable employees to learn how to proceed with their work, but also help them maintain a high level of motivation toward their work, improving teamwork throughout the entire company. Click here for more information on development support from the supervisor 41 Self-development and elective training (self-learning): ”Source of challenge” In order for patients to continue taking on challenges into the future, it is essential that each individual member thinks, learns, and grows. We seek to develop individuals who embody our vision, “Be passionate challengers” by providing our employees not only with places for team collaboration, but also the opportunity to reﬂect on themselves and learn. Click here for more information on self-development learning Click here for more information on elective and Voluntary training Provision of Growth Opportunities We organize a wide range of training programs to provide employees with growth opportunities. For example, collective training is given in each phase of their career growth, we have introduced company-wide joint training for new employees along with all divisions, departmental introductory training, and annual training for young employees. We also organize training programs to cultivate global human resources who can work actively under any circumstances, and send employees to overseas aﬃliates. For management staﬀ, we provide training focusing on management skills required for their respective roles and managerial positions and for the growth of the organization, and we continuously enhance the training programs. Furthermore, to develop individuals with our desired attributes, i.e., “those who are self-disciplined, independent and make conﬁdent choices,” we work to expand voluntary training programs in which employees can choose to participate according to the interests and skills they want to develop. Also, to encourage the self-development of employees, we have introduced “a subsidy program for self-enrichment”. In addition, to provide growth opportunities for our employees, mainly medical representatives (MRs), we conduct on-site training at medical institutions and patient associationsʼ lecture meetings. These trainings enable our staﬀ to listen ﬁrsthand to the opinions of patients and medical professionals and deeply understand the needs of people working at the medical frontlines. In this way, by oﬀering a wide range of opportunities for learning, we provide opportunities for growth through mutual stimulation. Summary of common education and training programs for all divisions in FY2019 42 Activities to disseminate the mission statement In keeping with our corporate philosophy—Dedicated to Manʼs Fight against Disease and Pain—we aim to ensure that each individual employee moves in the right direction, with full understanding of how patients and their families feel about and confront the illness and treatment. And we organize training programs and other activities to ensure that employees always think about patients and perform their duties from the patientsʼ perspective. Workshop for deep understanding our mission statement This workshop aims to ensure that all employees embrace the mission statement and act accordingly. In the workshop, the CEO talks about the background to the establishment of the mission statement and the history of ONOʼs bold endeavors which lie behind it, or managers talk to their subordinates about the challenges they have experienced. Such talks evoke empathy and inspire employees to voluntarily put the mission statement into practice. Click here for Mission Statement. On-site training at medical institutions To deliver pharmaceutical products that truly beneﬁt patients, it is necessary to understand the pain of patients and the true needs of medical professionals. To provide our staﬀ with the opportunity to listen ﬁrsthand to the opinions of patients and medical professionals, we conduct on-site training at medical institutions. This training gives our staﬀ an opportunity to directly see and feel how medical professionals interact with patients every day, enabling our staﬀ to understand the true needs of the medical frontlines. Patient associationsʼ lecture meetings Having the opportunity to directly contact patients is extremely important, for employees of pharmaceutical companies delivering medicines to patients. At lecture meetings, patients talk about how they coped with their initial diagnosis, what symptoms they are experiencing, what impact those symptoms have on their daily living, their perceptions of eﬃcacy and side eﬀects, and how they live with the illness day-to-day. By hearing the voices of patients directly, our employees better understand and develop empathy for the patientsʼ feelings and perform their daily work with the patientʼs perspective in mind. Virtual Reality (VR) patient experience We conduct experience-based training using VR devices to allow our staﬀ to better understand the patientʼs perspective. For example, dementia patients experience anxiety by seeing hallucinations, causing them to be unable to carry out their normal activities. However, even small changes in care practices—for instance, whether a medical worker stands in front of the patient or beside the patient—can make a big diﬀerence. In some cases, by just changing the position of the medical worker, the hallucinations disappear and the patient becomes able to move around smoothly. VR enables learning through experience instead of through lectures. With VR, our staﬀ can experience what it is like to have a certain health condition and notice things that they would otherwise not be able to notice. The VR experience helps our staﬀ learn the patientʼs perspective. Training programs for future top management candidates (training program for selected employees) For the purpose of fostering future top management candidates, we have implemented this program for selected employees in four levels, from general employees to senior managers. The main purpose of this program is learning management's perspectives and ideas which is common to all levels, but the curriculum is set up according to the level, and the training period is also diﬀerent from 2-4 years. For example, in training for general employees, leadership development is conducted from an early stage before they become managers, and job rotation is conducted after this training. For senior managers, we provide training aimed at fostering their awareness of being a potential top manager, and we also take part in discussion based opinion exchange meetings with executives of other companies that transcend industries. Global Human Resource Development Special training program for global business (training program for selected employees) This program targets employees who are nominated by their department head as potential future global business leaders. This training aims to develop individuals who will inﬂuence the entire company while demonstrating strong leadership within the team and cooperating eﬀectively with others, in any workplace, whether it be in Japan or overseas. Trainees acquire the ability to adapt to the speciﬁc environment they ﬁnd themselves in, leadership skills, logical thinking, and global business skills. The training lasts about one year. Speaking skill of English training program (training program for selected employees) This is a training program to acquire English skills essential for global business. With the purpose to strengthen the capability of performing English-related work, we have three programs: a one-week camp-style English conversation training program in Japan, a three-month study abroad language training program, and weekly lectures by dispatched English instructors (two-year course). Also, in order to accelerate our organizational globalization, we conduct English conversation training for our managers. 43 Training by hierarchy Orientation for newly hired employees, follow-up training for newly hired employees, third-year employee training, and ﬁfth-year employee training The orientation for newly hired employees is a two-week course provided for all newly hired employees to get together, learn basic business manners and rules, along with roles, responsibilities, and cooperation in a team, and learn about the mission statements (corporate philosophy, our vision, and our values), information security, the personnel system, mental healthcare, the Act on the Protection of Personal Information, regulations on insider trading, and CSR activities to acquire consciousness as members of society. We also incorporate global training and diversity training in order to broaden the vision of employees, after which they undergo education specialized for the divisions they are separately assigned to. In addition, after 10 months of being employees, follow-up training for newly hired employees is provided for them to take time to review events in the ﬁrst year as members of society, to refresh their minds for the second year. The third-year employee training is designed to help third-year employees realize the necessity of changing their mentality―more speciﬁcally, moving one step forward from being independent to being autonomous― and to promote their voluntary actions and proposals as well as more active involvement in training junior colleagues. This training focuses on improving communication skills and other abilities necessary to perform their assigned job functions. The goal of the ﬁve-year employee training is to further raise motivation for work by having employees view their work in a multifaceted manner and review it from creative perspectives. The training includes experiential learning cycles for them to grow themselves while achieving outcomes, and contents that help the participants digest tacit knowledge to establish their cherished opinions, leading to eﬀective practices and outward development. In the training for the newly hired employees of the sales department, which takes half a year after they enter the company, they acquire knowledge of medicine, pharmacology, and the medical system and knowledge on diseases that have to do with our products, all of which are necessary for MRs (persons in charge of medical information), and take practical output-focused training. In addition, we allocate a certain time period for on-the-job training, during which newly-hired MRs accompany senior MRs on their hospital visits to learn about the work of MRs and rules at the medical frontlines. Also, to develop competent MRs who are highly sought after by frontline medical workers, we provide the opportunity to listen directly to doctors and wholesalers. As for the MR accreditation test, aiming to have all our examinees pass, we support them with a carefully operated backup system not only during the training period but also after assignment to a speciﬁc post, which allows us to keep a top-class pass rate for the industry. Training for promoted employees The highest level individual contributors training makes participants understand the roles required for a manager, and develop awareness and attitudes concerning proactive team management. In addition, the training helps participants acquire the skills to identify problems and understand what is necessary to become an inﬂuencer. The training for new management staﬀ is provided to understand the personnel evaluation system, and to acquire the management skills required for being the next candidates for managers, which improves their abilities to build relationships of trust with others and to get things done. In the training for new managers who are appointed from among core employees, participants review the personnel evaluation system, deepen their understanding of labor management, and learn the roles that managers are expected to play, as well as team building, and team management. After the training program, newly promoted employees implement their action plans with the support of their supervisors. Also, to examine the eﬀects of the training, we survey traineesʼ immediate supervisors. In FY2019, 79.3% of surveyed supervisors said that their subordinateʼs behavior had changed after the training according to Kirk Patrick level 3 . Manager training The manager training provides a program that incorporates understanding and practicing the mission statement and human resource development. Various kinds of training are held every year. For example, management skill training at which managers from all departments get together for the purpose of intensifying interactions between departments, training for evaluators aiming to eﬀectively use a goal-setting interview system and evaluate employees in a fair and accurate manner, and training regarding compliance and eﬀorts for mental health care conducted by managers for employees, aiming to establish a working environment where it is easier to work. Self-development training Self-development learning (Correspondence courses/Online foreign language conversation/ support for qualiﬁcation tests) We provide employees who desire to proactively learn with opportunities for self-development learning. Through correspondence education, we have over 500 courses such as leadership and management, accounting, ﬁnance, and English conversation, and we arrange an environment on a steady basis for those proactive learners with wide range of ﬁelds. In addition, we promote self-development learning by aiding online foreign Language conversation classes and qualiﬁcation tests. Elective and Voluntary training We provide voluntary training for employees who desire to proactively learn and can make their own choices of the training that they need. This includes training to develop managersʼ perspectives in the early stages of their careers, using tools such as management simulation games that allow participants to learn accounting and ﬁnance, we also provide training for leadership and team building that prepares employees to lead others. These training programs gather employees across rank and departmental boundaries, constituting those who work at diﬀerent departments, and training to also help participants raise awareness on cooperation between departments. 44 Other Diversity management training We are always pursuing innovation to continuously create the innovative pharmaceuticals. As a source of ideas leading to creation of innovation, broad diversity regardless of specialized ﬁelds, gender, and nationality is increasingly required in the future. In this seminar, we not only understand the signiﬁcance of diversity, but also improve the skills of interviewing to make better use of it, and acquire management capabilities. For this purpose, the training is conducted for all of our management positions. Career planning training We provide opportunities for employees to review their individual careers and think positively about career afterwards as a form of training. They learn various career theories and participate in a group work format for them to develop their future career plans, leading to better results by discovering their unnoticed qualities and strengths, along with values that personally feels rewarding to them. Coaching training We oﬀer coaching training to managers. Managers receive one-on-one coaching training from a professional trainer twice a month in addition to group training through online classes. Coaching training lasts about eight months. In parallel with the training they receive, managers also practice coaching their team members. These activities lead to improved communication in the workplace. ■ Implementation status of common education and training programs for all divisions in FY 2019 Training Name Participants×hours Participants Workshop for deep understanding our mission statement 317 54 On-site training at medical institutions 822 105 Patient associationsʼ lecture meetings/ Virtual Reality (VR) 2,743 1,704 patient experience Special training program for global buisiness (training 3,634 61 program for selected employees) Speaking skill of English training program (training program 15,912 216 for selected employees) Orientation for newly hired employees 6,253 70 Follow-up training for newly hired employees Third-year employee training 2,148 173 Fifth-year employee training Training for individual contributors promoted to the highest level Training for new core employees 4,400 357 Training for new managers Manager training Self-development learining (Correspondence courses / Online foreign language 532 conversation /support for qualiﬁcation tests) Elective and Voluntary training 5,963 681 Diversity management training 32 48 Career planning training 345 115 Coaching training 858 32 In addition to these training programs, training sessions to acquire specialized skills required by each division have been provided separately. In FY2019, the annual training hours per employee were 30.7 hours. As employees of pharmaceutical companies, we have also provided basic e-learning training programs on matters such as phytotoxicity education, which is essential for employees of pharmaceutical companies, collecting safety information, handling personal information, and the prevention of bribery. 45 Activities for the development of future human resources (Internship program) We oﬀer an internship program for undergraduate and graduate students looking to gain work experience. In addition to providing an introduction to the pharmaceutical industry, our internship program provides students with various opportunities such as simulating the activities of a medical representative (MR) and interacting with employees, to allow them to gain ﬁrsthand experience working at a pharmaceutical company. We hope that by participating in the internship program, students will understand the mission that pharmaceutical companies should fulﬁll and feel the signiﬁcance and value of working at a pharmaceutical company. We also hope that the internship experience will help interns shape their future career decisions. Respect for Human Rights Our approach to human rights In every area of our business activities, we understand and respect the human rights of each individual in terms of the diversity of values, personalities, and characteristics and will act accordingly. Upholding these principles, we internally and externally prohibit discrimination and bullying of any type on the basis of race, nationality, ethnicity, gender, age, colour, religion, or belief/philosophy, and establish and administer the personnel system. We also prohibit any form of harassment and conduct compliance training. Furthermore, as a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact, We support its ten principles of UNGC. In addition, we also support and respect the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, the International Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the International Labour Organization (ILO)ʼs Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. We pursue human rights initiatives in compliance with these international standards. For details, see ONO Pharmaceutical Human Rights Global Policy. ONO Pharmaceutical Human Rights Global Policy (191KB) Human rights due diligence In accordance with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, we have established and is continuously implementing a human rights due diligence system, to prevent and mitigate any adverse human rights impacts it may have on society. We utilize a third-party EcoVadis's CSR Assessment System (EcoVadis) to objectively and continually monitor the CSR management status of key suppliers in our supply chain. The use of EcoVadis enables us to obtain highly reliable information regarding suppliersʼ CSR management at least once a year, and thereby propose appropriate corrective actions to our suppliers.In the FY2019 evaluation, none of our suppliers were classiﬁed as having a high risk in terms of CSR. 46 Diversity Promotion Initiatives To respond quickly and ﬂexibly to environmental changes and increase corporate value, we believe it is important to enhance the diversity of attributes, values, and behavioral characteristics of the members who make up the organization and recognize their individualities. We conduct “diversity management training” for all managers so that they can understand the signiﬁcance of diversity and utilize it in the management of diverse human resources. In addition, we are also working to promote employee awareness and understanding of diversity by incorporating diversity and inclusion-related contents in our training programs (entrance year-based training, hierarchical training, etc.). In addition to implementing internal activities, we also encourage participation in cross-industry seminars and study sessions to share know-how and information on diversity promotion activities. Activities to promote female employee participation in the workplace We are committed to establishing a system that enables female employees to achieve their full potential at work. As part of such eﬀorts, we have actively hired women and taken measures to prevent female employees from quitting their jobs due to major life events. As a result, the number of female employees has been steadily increasing, and the employment rate of female employees as of March 2020 had risen by 4.3% compared to that as of March 2013. To create an environment where female employees can play more active roles, we have also incorporated diversity and inclusion-related contents in our training programs (management staﬀ training, entrance year-based training, hierarchical training, etc.). In addition, since 2015, we participate in the “Diversity Western Japan Study Group,”which is voluntarily organized and operated by about 60 companies, mainly those located in western Japan. In addition to this, we also actively participate in various cross-industry seminars and events to share experiences, know-how and information with other companies about diversity promotion. In line with the Act of Promotion of Women's Participation and Advancement in the Workplace, established in 2015, we have formulated a ﬁve-year action plan (April 1, 2016 to March 31, 2021), in accordance with which we have been working to increase the number of female employees and build a system that helps them develop their careers. The male-to-female ratio of new employees Medirabi-san ONOʼs mascot promoting diversity initiatives Features in ONOʼs booklet on systems for balancing work and child-raising. Promotes initiatives to improve diversity. Retention rate of female※1 ※1 Retention rate＝100-(Turnover rate of each years) 47 ■ Overview of Action Plan Based on the Act of Promotion of Women's Participation and Advancement in the Workplace (Targets, Eﬀorts) Targets Eﬀorts Annual Results 1. Improve systems and strengthen training aimed at developing human resources 2. Introduce a recruiter system FY2019: 34％ Have women account for 40% of newly hired （70 employees, 24 of whom are women） university graduates in career-track positions 3. Provide wide range of information to job FY2018: 49% starting in ﬁscal 2017 applicants FY2017: 34% 4. Create an environment in which young employees can more easily plan their careers 1. Ensure employees can continue working at ONO after various life events Create an environment where employees can balance work, childcare, and nursing care 2. Create a corporate climate where women utilize their talents Have the retention rate of women in career-track Promote career-building support measures FY2019: 98.9% positions who joined ONO in the last ﬁve years be FY2018: 95.6% at least 90% that of men 3. Assist employees in achieving work-life balance FY2017: 95.1% Expand support systems for women taking maternity leave and employees raising children 4. Help employees return to work at the earliest possible date Introduce childcare support services of external service providers 48 Eﬀort made for promoting active participations of persons with disabilities and employing mid-career persons As part of our commitment to diversity promotion, we have been actively recruiting persons with disabilities. Our disability employment rate as of March 31, 2020 was 2.20%, which exceeds the legally stipulated rate. Currently, about 50 employees with disabilities are playing an active role in their respective departments. We have also been expanding mid-career recruitment to obtain industry-ready human resources with relevant skills, knowledge, and experience needed to work as full-ﬂedged members of our company. Especially since FY2014, when we started to actively promote mid-career employment in view of changes in the business environment, the number of mid-career employees has increased substantially in a broad range of jobs, including MR, development, safety information management, and managing section . In FY2019, about 20 midcareer recruits joined our company. Many mid-career employees are playing their respective roles by applying their experience and expertise. Employment rate of persons with disabilities Mid-career employment results（Cumulative） 49 Society : Cultivation of Employee-friendly Workplaces/Safety and Health Promoting the Creation of an Employee-friendly Working Environment ONO promotes the creation of an employee-friendly working environment where every employee can work comfortably with peace of mind. We are continuously committed to the development of support systems and working conditions that help employees work in various styles, as well as the improvement of their worklife balance, so that all persons in our diverse workforce can work energetically and demonstrate their full potential. Promoting Work Style Reform We reform work-style with the purpose of increasing productivity by balancing improvements in operational eﬃciency with the creation of an attractive work environment. We appoint a promotion committee member in each department to involve the whole company in the activities, and the members work to raise awareness and encourage employees to improve operational eﬃciency and take paid holidays. At the same time, we have improved the systems by making use of IT and introduced a ﬂexible working hours system and a telecommuting system. Thanks to all these eﬀorts, in FY2019, overtime hours decreased by 14.5% and the paid leave acquisition rate increased by 24.7% compared to FY2014, the year before the start of the company-wide initiatives. In FY2020, we aim to achieve the targets of 13 hours for the average monthly overtime hours per employee and 70% for the paid leave acquisition rate. Regular feedback on evaluations for employees Our company incorporates a target-setting meeting system for the purposes of raising employeesʼ motivation for work and the development of human resources. At the beginning of the ﬁscal year, employees set their targets through meetings with their supervisors, and the goals/directions are negotiated and adjusted based on the companyʼs vision. We are working on appropriate implementation of the system, which consists of progress checks and necessary adjustments for the sake of employeesʼ achievement of targets during the ﬁscal year and the provision of feedback on activity summaries and evaluations through wrap-up meetings and evaluation feedback meetings held at the end of the ﬁscal year, so that employees can easily understand the evaluations and develop further in the end. In addition, the results of evaluations are reﬂected in employee compensation. Evaluation consists of performance evaluation and behavior evaluation; the performance evaluation evaluates the degree of achievement against individual goals based on the outcomes and process each employee used, and the behavior evaluation is based on how the employees behaved compared to the required behaviors determined according to each employeeʼs roles; results that combine the performance evaluation and the behavior evaluation are the ﬁnal evaluation. In addition, multiple evaluators evaluate in principle, which ensures objectivity and fairness, and the results of evaluations are reﬂected in employee compensation. Employee satisfaction levels (from an engagement aspect) We believe that “People make the company.” Based on this belief, in order to ﬂexibly respond to future changes in the business environment and suceed in this market, we strive to promote human resource development and diversity while at the same time working to develop the abilities of individual employees. As part of such eﬀorts, with the aim of objectively measuring the progress of our eﬀorts to strengthen our corporate infrastructure, which is one of our four growth strategies, and improving our organizational power, we outsource organizational surveys and these have been conducted every two years since 2014. Based on the survey results, we identify issues to be addressed and as a result, formulate development programs and consider the introduction of various systems. Summary of FY2018 survey results (Implementation period: June 25 to July 5, 2018) Number of respondents 3,108 (response rate: 97%) Method Either online or paper-based form Engagement score※1 66% (Male: 68%, Female: 57%) Previous reference value: 62% 59 questions in total (50 questions with a 7-point rating scale, grouped into 12 categories, 3 questions with Number of questions 2 choices, 6 description-type questions) ※1 Questions relating to employee engagement in the organizational survey are used as indicators. The next survey is scheduled for FY2020. We aim to create a workplace environment where each and every employee is motivated to actively improve and demonstrate their abilities to the fullest extent, and thereby attain job satisfaction and realize their own growth. 50 Childcare Support Initiatives We believe that society as a whole should support families raising children and that creating an environment that supports childbearing and childrearing is one of the challenges that companies should address. In 2005, we formulated an action plan based on the “Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising NextGeneration Children” established by the Japanese government, and are working to support employees balance work and childrearing. As a result, in 2008, 2012, 2014 and 2017, the company was certiﬁed by the Minister of Health, Labor and Welfare as a standard-compliant general company, and the certiﬁcation mark (Kurumin※２) was acquired as a childcare support company. Furthermore, in 2015, in recognition of the eﬀorts made over the years, we received the Osaka Labor Bureau Director-Generalʼs Award of Excellence in the Equal Opportunity Promotion Company Division and the Osaka Labor Bureau Director-Generalʼs Encouragement Award in the Family-Friendly Company Division at the 2015 Equal Opportunity and Work-Life Balance Promotion Awards organized by the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare. After April 2017, we introduced a new childcare support system, “Encouraging Leave for Childcare Participation,” and as a way to promote understanding of the workplace among male employees who take childcare leave, child-rearing is a life event for both men and women. We are also promoting the creation of an environment where men can actively participate in childcare. In recognition of these activities to support a balance of work and childcare and create a supportive work environment, we were awarded the Platinum Kurumin certiﬁcation in November 2019. ※2 Kurumin Certiﬁcation:A certiﬁcation by the Minister of Health,Labour and Welfare for childcare support company. Period  Introduction of shortened work hour programs for employees raising preschool children 1st phase of action plan April 1, 2005 to March 31, 2008  Introduction of Nursing care leave  Encouragement of employees to take annual paid holidays  Expansion of the shortened work hour programs for employees raising 2nd phase of action plan April 1, 2008 to March 31, 2012 children  Implementation of measures to reduce overtime work  Provision of information to encourage male employees to take childcare leave 3rd phase of action plan April 1, 2012 to March 31, 2014  Introduction of a re-employment scheme for employees who have left their jobs due to childcare and other reasons  Examination of a new program to support female employees to continue their careers, and introduction and dissemination of the program 4th phase of action plan April 1, 2014 to March 31, 2017  Implementation of measures to reduce overtime work  Survey of the current situation on annual paid holidays taken by employees and implementation of measures to encourage employees to take the holidays  Introduction of support systems that encourage men to take childcare leave and participate in child-raising and dissemination of them 5th phase of action plan April 1, 2017 to March 31, 2019  Encouragement of employees to take annual paid holidays to achieve their work-life balance  Promotion of childcare leave among male employees  Creation of a system to support career formation for employees 6th phase of action plan April 1, 2019 to March 31, 2021 returning to work after childcare leave or engaged in childrearing  Encouragement for employees to take annual paid holidays oﬀ in order to achieve work-life balance 51 Various Support Systems for Employees In addition to the systems stipulated by laws and regulations, we have also established various support systems to create a comfortable working environment. By listening to the voices of employees, we have developed systems that meet their actual needs. For legally required systems, we have established systems that exceed the statutory standards. Thus, we continuously improve our support systems so that employees have more options in the way they work. Furthermore, we have also created a handbook that describes the systems and posted it on the intranet to help employees understand the details and application procedures for each system. [Systems that exceed the standards speciﬁed by labor-related laws]  Childcare leave Although Japanese law stipulates that childcare leave can be taken until the child becomes one year old (Up to 2 years old for certain reasons), we allow employees to take childcare leave until the end of the month when the child becomes three years old.  Shortened work hours for childcare Although Japanese law stipulates that shortened work hours for childcare can be utilized until the child becomes three years old, we allow employees to shorten their working hours by up to two hours per day until March 31 of the year in which their child ﬁnishes the third grade of elementary school.  Nursing care leave Although Japanese law stipulates that nursing care leave can be taken up to 93 days in total per family member in need of care, we allow employees to take nursing care leave for up to a year in total. [Legally required systems]  Shortened work hours for nursing care An employee caring for a family member in care-requiring condition may shorten his/her working hours by up to two hours per day for up to three years, aside from the period of nursing care leave.  Family care leave An employee who takes care of a sick or injured preschool-age child or a family member in care-requiring condition may obtain leave (unpaid) of up to ﬁve days per year if he/she has one such child or family member, or up to 10 days per year if he/she has two or more such children or family members. This leave may be taken in half-day units. [System that promotes ﬂexible work styles]  Flexible working hours We have introduced a ﬂexible working hours system for the entire company, excluding some job types, departments and ranks. By allowing employees to choose diverse work styles, we improve their work eﬃciency and help them better balance work obligations and family obligations, such as childcare and nursing care.  Telecommuting system We have introduced a telecommuting system on a company-wide basis to support work-life balance of employees who work while raising children or caring for family members. The system is designed to enable employees to work ﬂexibly and eﬃciently in their own working style.  Annual paid leave in hourly units Although annual paid leave may be taken in half-day units, we have made changes so that up to three daysʼ worth (eight hours per day) of paid leave per year can be taken in hourly units. This system is designed to enable employees to work ﬂexibly to suit their needs. 52 [Various leave and subsidy systems] (extract) While employees may take leave when they cannot come to work due to attendance to weddings, funerals, and other ceremonies of their own or their family members, moving for job transfer, and accidents, disasters, and other events of force majeure, we also have systems in which special paid holidays can be taken under other circumstances.  Accumulated leave Employees can accumulate their expired annual paid leave under certain conditions and use accumulated paid leave for various reasons, including treatment of a personal injury or illness, caring for a family member, and infertility treatment. This system allows employees to take paid leave even when their children suddenly become ill.  Childcare participation encouragement leave We allow employees to take up to two days of leave for child-raising until the child reaches the age of 1. This system can be used in a wide range of situations such as regular health checkups and immunization.  Maternity protection leave A female employee who is pregnant or within one year after childbirth can take leave up to the number of days speciﬁed according to the pregnancy period to receive health guidance or a health examination. Besides reasons such as health guidance and a health examination, this leave may be taken up to ﬁve days during the pregnancy period when work is not possible due to morning sickness, threatened premature delivery, etc.  Volunteer leave, and bone-marrow donor leave To encourage employees to participate in volunteer activities, we have introduced a volunteer leave system, under which special paid leave of up to ﬁve days a year may be granted. We have also introduced a bone marrow donor leave system to grant special paid leave (necessary period for bone marrow donation) to employees who donate bone marrow.  Subsidies for day-care centers and babysitting A subsidy is available upon application to eligible employees with preschool children whose spouse is also working when they use day-care centers or babysitting services. Even if the spouse is not working, a subsidy will be provided when such a facility or service is used due to the spouseʼs illness.  Subsidies for sick child care A subsidy is available upon application to eligible employees with children under the age of two whose spouse is also working when it becomes necessary to use a sick child care facility or service. Even if the spouse is not working, a subsidy will be provided when such a facility or service is used due to the spouseʼs illness. [Other systems]  Support for employees with cancer Employees who have been diagnosed with cancer will be forced to work while being confronted with many challenges, including regular hospital visits, side eﬀects from treatment, and ﬁnancial problems. To support employees who wish to continue working while receiving cancer treatment, we have established various systems, including a leave of absence extension system, an income guarantee system to eliminate non-earning periods, a system that allows employees to take their accumulated leave in half-day units, and a system that allows employees to work shorter hours for cancer treatment. Furthermore, we have established a workplace support system to ensure employees with cancer receive adequate support in their workplace. To disseminate this workplace support system widely to our employees, we have created a handbook and posted it on our intranet. We are also working to improve colleaguesʼ understanding and provide necessary work adjustments to enable employees with cancer to continue working while receiving treatment. Thus, we are implementing multifaceted initiatives to support employees with cancer.  Use of company cars to pick up and drop oﬀ children MRs are allowed to use company cars for the purpose of drop-oﬀ and pickup of their children from day-care centers.  Day-care Center Concierge [day-care center enrollment support system] As part of eﬀorts to support smooth returning to work after childcare leave, we provide information through an external organization to employees on childcare leave to help them enroll their children in day-care centers.  Reemployment registration system We provide an opportunity for former employees who left the company because of diﬃculty in balancing work and family life due to major life events, such as marriage, childbirth, childcare or family care, to return to the company when certain conditions are met.  Temporary reemployment system Employees who have retired after reaching the mandatory retirement age of 60 may be reemployed as temporary employees up to the age of 65 when certain conditions are met. 53 Eﬀorts made regarding wages We strictly comply with the Minimum Wages Law and strive to protect the lives of our employees and create a workplace environment where they can work comfortably and with peace of mind. Safety and Health We hold safety and health committee meetings on a regular basis to identify issues and continuously improve the working environment. At our production sites and research institutes, safety and health patrols are conducted, and the issues pointed out during patrols are shared and improvement proposals are discussed at the committee meetings to ensure appropriate corrective actions are taken. Check items in a safety and health patrol include the following: ﬁre and disaster prevention measures/equipment, safe handling of machinery, implementation of safe work procedures and practices, transportation operations, and workplace cleanliness and tidiness. All our business sites are inspected annually. At the ONO Headquarters and other company sites where a Health Committee is established the committee deliberates measures to maintain employeesʼ health, taking into account the results of workplace environment measurements. In addition, the Central Safety and Health Committee meets every half term to share information and exchange opinions regarding the progress of health management initiatives, company-wide health issues, and the contents and issues discussed at the safety and health committee and the health committee of each business site. The Committee discusses and decides on safety and health activities to be implemented across the entire company. Number of lost-time injuries and lost-time injury frequency rate※3 * Scope of data collection: Employees at all worksites in Japan (excluding business vehicle accidents before FY2016) ※3 Lost-time injury frequency rate = (number of lost-time injuries / total number of actual working hours) × 1,000,000 Relationship with the Labor Unions We have two labor unions: the ONO Pharmaceutical Labor Union, which is a nationwide organization, and the ONO Pharmaceutical Chemical & General Workersʼ Union at the Joto Plant (renamed Joto Pharmaceutical Product Development Center in FY2020). As of March 31, 2020, the ONO Pharmaceutical Labor Union had 1,984 members and the ONO Pharmaceutical Chemical & General Workersʼ Union had 14 members. Both unions have good relationships with the company. 54 Composition of employees (non-consolidated) The table below shows the number, average age, and average service years of our employeesas of March 31, 2020. Number of employees Average age Average service years Total 3,287 41.9 15.0 Male 2,676 42.7 15.9 Female 611 37.9 11.1 Number of employees (Non-consolidated data) As of March 31, 2020, the percentage of contract workers was 0.1% and that of temporary staﬀ was 8.0%. (Not included in the above number of employees) Full-time employee turnover rate The voluntary turnover rate (regardless of reason for leaving) for full-time employees in each ﬁscal year, as of the end of March, was as follows. FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Voluntary turnover rate 1.1% 1.0% 1.3% 1.5% 1.6% Mandatory retirement rate, etc. 1.0% 0.9% 0.7% 0.6% 0.2% Total turnover rate 2.1% 1.9% 2.0% 2.1% 1.8% 55 Eﬀorts made to promote employeesʼ health Health Up Declaration 2018 Based on our corporate philosophy, Dedicated to Man's Fight against Disease and Pain, we desire to contribute to society through the creation of innovative medicines. In order to continue to make bold eﬀorts toward the realization of our corporate philosophy, it is important to ensure that all employees are both mentally and physically healthy, that their workplaces allow them to fully demonstrate their abilities, and that the daily lives of employees and their families are fulﬁlling. We declare that employees, companies, labor unions, occupational health staﬀ, and health insurance society will actively engage as a single team in maintaining and improving the health of employees and their families. April 2018 Gyo Sagara President, Representative Director ONO PHARMACEUTICAL Co., Ltd. Basic policy 1. We will promote the maintenance and improvement of the health of employees and their families through the Health Up Committee, consisting of representatives from the company, labor unions, occupational health staﬀ, and health insurance society. 2. Employees will actively engage in health management for themselves and their families. Major eﬀorts being made: 1. To realize completely non-smoking premises according to passive smoking countermeasures. 2. To proactively support measures from disease prevention and early detection and treatment to reinstatement. 3. To promote supports for the prevention of mental disorders, early detection, and prompt responses, to reinstatement and the prevention of recurrence. 4. To develop an environment where employees proactively work on health maintenance/improvement. 56 Organizational structure to promote health management Support for Disease Prevention, Early Detection and Early Treatment  All our employees are required to receive an annual health checkup once a year, of whom those aged 35 years and older are required to undergo a thorough medical checkup, instead of a statutory health checkup. The thorough medical checkup receipt rate was 99.7% in FY2019, up from 99.4% in FY2018, excluding those who had unavoidable reasons, such as leave of absence.  We hold contracts with medical facilities nationwide for thorough medical checkups. The number of contract facilities as of April 2020 was 184. We work to make it easier for our employees and their family members to receive thorough medical checkups.  We assist with expenses for cancer screenings. Many employees receive optional cancer-related screenings at the time of a thorough medical checkup. We provide mail-in cervical cancer screening kits to female employees under 35 years old. Medical examination rate Target Stomach cancer screening 97.7% 100% Lung cancer screening 99.9% 100% Colorectal cancer screening 95.8% 100% Breast cancer screening 86.7% 100% Cervical cancer screening 47.3% 70%  After health checkups, industrial health staﬀ provide health guidance and recommend seeking medical attention, as required. They also advise employees with a high risk of lifestyle-related disease and their families to participate in speciﬁc health guidance sessions. Mental Health Measures  To promote prevention, early detection and early treatment of mental health problems, we conduct in-house training on mental health and individual consultations by industrial health staﬀ. We also work in cooperation with industrial physicians to promote employeesʼ mental well-being.  We conduct stress checks once a year for all employees. The ratio of employees who received stress checks was 99.6% in FY2018, and 99.8% in FY2019, approaching the target of 100%. After the checks, we conduct a stress check group analysis and work to continuously improve each workplace based on the analysis results.  We have also established a free consulting service counter operated by an external company, and we have developed systems where employees can consult with mental health professionals either face-to-face or by telephone or email. 57 Measures against Passive Smoking and Promotion of Health  Since April 2019, we have completely banned smoking on its premises. We also conduct in-house questionnaire surveys on tobacco and publicize the results to raise awareness and motivate employees to quit smoking. We are promoting awareness-raising activities systematically, including producing and displaying original posters that use illustrations written by employees.  Also, to support employees who try to quit smoking, we provide subsidies for outpatient smoking cessation treatment and an online smoking cessation program. We are taking various anti-smoking measures to promote and maintain our employeesʼ health. The percentage of our employees who were smokers in FY2019 was 18.2%, down from 20.0% in FY2018. We aim to achieve 17.0% or lower in FY2020.  We conduct a company-wide walking campaign every year. The campaign targets not only regular employees but also temporary and subcontract workers. The event is designed to encourage voluntary participation by allowing participants to participate individually or as a team with their family. Participants who achieve certain targets will receive a local specialty of a disaster-hit area as a prize of achievement. The number of participants is increasing year by year. The campaign leads employees to make a habit of walking. The participation rate in FY2019 was 44%, up from 35% in FY2018. We aim to achieve a participation rate of 50% in FY2020.  Sessions to measure body composition, blood vessel age, bone density, etc. are held each year at major business sites. Participants can check the conditions of muscles and bones that are not made clear by health checkups alone, and they can also receive individual advice on diet and exercise from medical staﬀ members. The number of participants is increasing year by year. Number of participants in walking campaign Health Management Support  We have opened a portal site where employees can check the results of their thorough medical checkups and periodic health checkups at any time with their terminals. The contents of the portal site include information to help employees accurately understand checkup results and improve their lifestyle habits and personalized advice on lifestyle according to individual health conditions. We work to enhance the contents of the portal site to raise employee awareness of health. Health Management Eﬀorts In March 2020, We were selected for the inclusion in a “2020 Health & Productivity Stock” for the ﬁrst time by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) and the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE), who jointly select enterprises strategically engaged in their employeesʼ health management from a management perspective. We were also certiﬁed by the METI and the Nippon Kenko Kaigi, for 2 consecutive years, as a “2020 Certiﬁed Health & Productivity Management Outstanding Organization in the large enterprise category (White 500)”.  External Evaluation see here 58 Society : Proper Procurement Activities Promoting CSR in procurement ONO believes that it is important to build a sound network with all business partners in the supply chain in order to achieve sustainable social development. Under this belief, we have established a “Basic Policy for Procurement Activities” and “CSR Procurement Guidelines” to promote CSR procurement. The Basic Policy for Procurement Activities is the basic policy of all employees involved in procurement activities. The CSR Procurement Guidelines summarizes items we would like suppliers to cooperate with. We seek to enhance the corporate value of both us and its suppliers by establishing a sound network for further cooperation with suppliers through CSR procurement. Basic Policy and CSR Guidelines on Procurement Activities（94KB） Procurement Activities We utilize a third-party EcoVadis's CSR Assessment System (EcoVadis) to objectively and continually monitor the CSR management status of key suppliers in our supply chain. The use of EcoVadis enables us to obtain highly reliable information regarding suppliersʼ CSR management at least once a year, and thereby propose appropriate corrective actions to our suppliers.In the FY2019 evaluation, none of our suppliers were classiﬁed as having a high risk in terms of CSR. We also hold CSR procurement brieﬁng sessions for suppliers to explain our approach to CSR procurement. We continue to further strengthen our partnerships with our suppliers through brieﬁng sessions, and the use of EcoVadis, feedback on results, and proposals for corrective actions. For more details on our supply chain management through promotion of CSR procurement, also see ONOʼs Approach to CSR. Animal experiment outsourcing policy When we outsource animal experiments, we ensure that the outsourcing contractor complies with the laws and standards of the relevant country concerning animal welfare. We also make every eﬀort so that such an outsourcing contractor complies with our standards as much as possible. Please click here for our thoughts on ethical considerations in animal experiments. Anti-bribery due diligence for third parties Before appointing a third party such as a subcontractor or an agent, we perform due diligence using an Anti-bribery Check Sheet to see if there are any red ﬂags. We have developed a process through which we submit the third partyʼs replies to our detailed question sheet to the Corporate Compliance Oﬃcer to get his/her approval before appointing the third party in case we identify a red ﬂag. 59 Environment : Global Environment Policy/Environment Challenging Ono Vision（ECO VISION 2050） Global Environment The impact of global warming, including extreme weather events, is increasing year by year, and eﬀorts to prevent global warming have become an important challenges for the international community. The Paris Agreement at COP21 calls for limiting the average global temperature increase to less than 2 degrees Celsius compared to pre-industrial levels, with the goal of essentially reducing greenhouse gas emissions from human activities to zero. To this end, we have established an environmental vision (ECO VISION 2050) based on our Global Environmental Policy . Recognizing the corporate social responsibility for the environment, we will promote environmentally friendly activities in all of our business activities in order to realize a richer global environment. Global Environment Policy Under the corporate philosophy Dedicated to Man's Fight against Disease and Pain,” ONO group contributes to the realization of a sustainable and prosperous society by creating innovative medicines and working on solving environmental issues such as climate change. 1. Recognizing corporate social responsibility for the environment, we conduct environmentally friendly activities at entire stages of product research, development, procurement, production, distribution, sales, use, and disposal. 2. We comply with environmental laws and agreements in each country and region, and our voluntary standards. 3. Under the environmental management system, we set goals and action plans, monitor regularly, and disclose information. 4. We actively introduce the latest science and technology to reduce environmental impacts. 5. To conserve the natural environment and biodiversity, we pursue eﬃcient use of resources and energy, eﬃcient use of water and appropriate wastewater management, reduction of waste, promotion of recycling, and prevention of pollution. 6. We communicate with internal and external stakeholders and produce eco-friendly products in cooperation. 7. We build all employeesʼ environmentally sensitive minds through education to promote environmentally friendly initiatives. 60 Environmental Vision ONO has established a mediumand long-term environmental challenge vision for 2050, named “Environmental Challenging Ono Vision (ECO VISION 2050)” to realize a sustainable society. Background for the establishment of vision In recent years, the global environmental issues including climate change and other issues have become serious. In the future of 2050, it is expected that people's healthy and sound life will be threatened due to various threats such as water and food shortages, increase of new diseases, devastating natural disasters and so on. In order to promote the creation of a healthy and sound society through the discovery and development of innovative pharmaceutical products under the corporate philosophy to be Dedicated to Man's Fight against Disease and Pain , it is important that we recognize that our business activities are supported by a sound global environment and that we will strengthen our activities toward the resolution of environmental challenge. We believe that such activities are not only our corporate responsibility for the environment, but also lead to build the foundation for sustainable business activities. ONO will challenge to reduce the environmental burden in anticipation of 2050 based on the ECO VISION 2050 so that people can welcome a healthy and sound society. 61 Mediumto Long-term Targets In order to realize “ECO VISION 2050”, we have deﬁned three important items as Realization of a decarbonized society, Realization of a water recycling society, and Realization of a resource recycling society, and have set up speciﬁc mediumand long-term goals for greenhouse gas, water consumption and waste. Greenhouse gas Our mediumto long-term greenhouse gas reduction targets are classiﬁed by the SBTi as the strictest 1.5 °C target. For more information, please see here (Environmental Initiatives). As for energy, we will increase the use of renewable energy in line with the RE100 target that we joined in June 2020. Water consumption 1. Reduce water resource consumption (water intake) per production volume unit by 15% in FY2030. <compared to FY2017> 2. Reduce water resource consumption (water intake) below the previous year. <FY target> Waste 1. Maintain the ﬁnal landﬁll disposal rate of industrial waste 1% or less every year. *Deﬁning the ratio of non-recycling (landﬁll and simple incineration) to less than 1% of the total amount as a standard of ONOʼs “zero emission.” 2. Reduce the volume of industrial waste per production volume unit by 15% in FY2030. <compared to FY2017> 3. Reduce the volume of industrial waste below the previous year. <FY target> 4. Promote reductions in the environmental burden in business activities. 62 Towards a decarbonized society The realization of a decarbonized society is one of our key priorities in our business activities, and we are undertaking various company-wide initiatives toward this end. Regarding the risks and opportunities associated with climate change, we expressed our support in October 2019 for the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD)(click here for details). The TCFD is a task force established by the Financial Stability Board (TSB) to help companies understand and disclose the ﬁnancial impact of climate change on their business. In June 2017, the TCFD announced its recommendations on how companies should detail climate-related impacts in their ﬁnancial reports. In accordance with the TCFD recommendations, we will evaluate and manage climate change-related risks and opportunities and disclose information appropriately. Governance We appoint a member of the Board of Directors in charge of the environment as the officer responsible for climate change issues. The oﬃcer serves as the chairperson of the Environmental Management Committee, which meets at least once a quarter to discuss climate change issues. The oﬃcer, who also serves as the chairperson of the CSR Committee and a member of the Management Meeting, presents a report at least once a half year on the results of the Environmental Management Committeeʼs activities to the CSR Committee and the Management Meeting for discussion. The results of discussions at the CSR Committee and the Management Meeting are reported by the oﬃcer at the Board of Directorsʼ meeting and shared with all directors more than once a year. In FY2019, the TCFD Study Working Group was established, with the oﬃcer in charge of the environment as its head. The Working Group considered issues related to the identiﬁcation and evaluation of climate change-related risks/opportunities and countermeasures. We include the heads of major relevant departments (Finance, Corporate Strategy & Planning, and Corporate Communications) and the head of the Company-Wide Risk Management Committee as members of the Working Group, thereby integrating climate-related issues into our business strategy. Strategy —Analysis and evaluation of risks and opportunities related to climate change— Analysis and evaluation of climate change-related risks and opportunities were performed using the 1.5°C and 4°C scenarios※1, under the leadership of the TCFD Study Working Group headed by the oﬃcer in charge of the environment. The analysis results found, in either scenario, no risks that would have a material ﬁnancial impact on our business. We will continue to check trends in the international community and closely monitor the impact of risks and opportunities that may have a relatively material ﬁnancial impact. ※1 For the 1.5°C scenario, the “Sustainable Development Scenario” developed by the International Energy Agency (IEA) was used; for the 4°C scenario, the RCP 8.5 scenario (one of the Representative Concentration Pathways [RCP] scenarios, where global average temperature is predicted to increase by approximately 4°C by 2100), the Stated Policies Scenario of the IEA, etc. were used. 63 <Risks related to climate change> Financial Factor Value chain Risk and impact Management approach impact※2 ・Achieve the greenhouse gas Our burden of carbon tax levied emissions reduction target (Scope Increased on greenhouse gas emissions 1+2) in line with the 1.5°C JPY 1.9 ONO carbon tax may increase due to the possible target. billion burden tightening of climate change・Implement energy saving and related regulations. renewable energy investment plans to achieve the target. Society Regulatory Suppliersʼ burden of the carbon aiming for risk tax levied on greenhouse gas below 1.5°C emissions may increase due to ・Achieve greenhouse gas Carbon tax the possible tightening of climate emissions reduction target (Scope passed on to change-related regulations, and JPY 0.6 Suppliers 3). procurement suppliers may pass on the carbon billion ・Strengthen engagement with prices tax burden to us through higher suppliers to achieve the target. procurement prices, potentially resulting in an increase in our materials costs. Acute damage (ﬂood) risk from ・Introduce emergency power typhoon, etc. may increase, and generators at main bases and an interruption of operations conduct periodic maintenance. Flood risk JPY 4.6 caused by damage to production · Integrate climate risks into ERM. (acute) billion facilities or damage to storage ・Maintain a cooperation system facilities may potentially result in with business partners. ONO, If the a decrease in revenue. ・Secure multiple suppliers. Physical manufacturing temperature risk contractors, rises by 4°C Strengthen water risk suppliers Water-use restrictions due to management throughout our Water long-term depletion of water supply chain (considering the shortage resources may cause an JPY 2.1 impact of water shortages caused risk interruption of our operations, billion by climate change in the supplier (chronic) potentially resulting in a decrease selection process, securing in revenue. multiple suppliers). *2 The maximum value during the period from 2020 to 2030 in the 1.5°C or 4°C scenario (Regulatory risk is cumulative.) 64 <Opportunities related to climate change> Value Financial Factor Opportunity and impact Management approach chain impact※2 Introduction of high-eﬃciency pharmaceutical process (green sustainable chemistry ※3 etc.) technology can be an Opportunity High-eﬃciency opportunity to reduce raw Society ・Deﬁne indicators for from pharmaceutical material costs. JPY 2.3 aiming for ONO assessing resource eﬃciency. resource manufacturing billion below 1.5°C ・Develop systems. eﬃciency process ※3 Green Sustainable Chemistry is a concept that aims to reduce environmental impacts throughout the life cycle of chemical substances in order to realize a sustainable society. If disease trends change due to global warming, demand ・Additional indications for for existing drugs (for existing pharmaceuticals. If the melanoma due to ozone layer Business Preventive/treatment JPY 0.5 ・Enhance the new compound temperature Customers depletion caused by global opportunity products billion library. rises by 4°C warming, etc.) may increase, ・Make use of partnerships, or the development and sales etc. of new drugs may have a favorable impact on revenue. It is possible that our eﬀorts to tackle climate change will help us earn customer trust, retain employees, improve (Contributing Investors, Society our reputation in the to the Appropriately disclose the Reputation customers, Corporate value aiming for recruitment market, and creation of results of activities opportunity recruitment improvement below 1.5°C improve ESG investorsʼ corporate undertaken to the public. market evaluation of our value) performance, thus contributing to the creation of corporate value. ※2 The maximum value during the period from 2020 to 2030 in the 1.5°C or 4°C scenario ( Opportunity from resource eﬃciency is cumulative.) Risk and opportunity management The risk/opportunity identiﬁcation process involves identifying potential risks and opportunities and analyzing each risk and opportunity in terms of the timing and probability of occurrence and the extent of the consequences. We determine the priorities for risks comprehensively by also evaluating risk mitigation measures. We prioritize and identify risks that would have a high impact on our business, those that have a high probability of occurrence, and those whose measures have high cost eﬀectiveness. The identiﬁed risks are managed eﬀectively by the Environment Management Committee. Regarding disaster risks such as ﬂoods, the Company-Wide Risk Management Committee discusses and develops measures and presents them to the Management Meeting for approval. The measures approved by the Management Meeting are communicated to the responsible persons at the plants and research institutes, who will then implement the measures at their respective organizations. The risks are thus managed in a systematic and comprehensive manner. The impacts of risks and opportunities are reviewed each year, and the risk and opportunity management status is reported to the CSR Committee and the Management Meeting. Indicators and targets To mitigate the identiﬁed risks, we have created a roadmap to achieve the greenhouse gas emission reduction targets newly established based on our mediumto long-term environmental vision. We discuss measures to be taken to achieve the targets and estimate the costs. Our mediumto long-term greenhouse gas reduction targets have been approved as science-based by the international initiative “Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi).” For Scope 1+2, our targets are classiﬁed by SBTi as the strictest, “1.5°C target.” To achieve our mediumto long-term targets, we set a single-year target and evaluate the results (progress) against the target (ﬁscal 2019 target: at least a 8.4% reduction compared to ﬁscal 2017). In ﬁscal 2019, vigorous eﬀorts were made toward the medium-term greenhouse gas reduction target (target year: ﬁscal 2020) and the new mediumto long-term greenhouse gas reduction targets. We also calculate greenhouse gas emissions across the entire value chain (Scope 3). Since ﬁscal 2014, we have calculated greenhouse gas emissions for our business sites in Japan by dividing Scope 3 emissions into 15 categories, in accordance with the guidelines of the Ministry of the Environment. As for water risks, we conduct risk assessment once a year. Recognizing water risks among the company-wide risks, we implement measures based on the BCP, including maintaining a suﬃcient stock. In the future, we will also work to establish a mutually complementary system and secure multiple suppliers. * Details on risks/opportunities regarding Climate Change, as well as CO2 emissions are included in CDP climate change. These can be conﬁrmed at the CDP website (CDP ID required). We responded to CDP Climate Change 2019 in Japanese. This PDF is a translation of our response into English. CDP Climate Report（736KB） 65 Carbon Pricing We have incorporated carbon pricing into our environment-related investment decisions. Progress towards a decarbonized society In ﬁscal 2019, energy-derived greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from our production and research sites were 19,800 tons on a location basis※4, a 25.8% reduction from 26,700 tons compared to ﬁscal 2005, achieving our medium-term GHG emission reduction target (target year: ﬁscal 2020). (When the amount of increase due to the operation of the Yamaguchi Plant, newly established in ﬁscal 2018, is included, GHG emissions for ﬁscal 2019 were 23,700 tons, a 11.2% reduction compared to ﬁscal 2005.) As for the results (progress) against the new GHG emission reduction targets established based on our mediumto long-term environmental vision, our Scopes ※5 1 and 2 GHG emissions (on a market basis ) for ﬁscal 2019 were 27,300 tons, a 8.4% reduction compared to ﬁscal 2017. Regarding the use of renewable energy, in line with the RE100 international initiative (ONO joined in June 2020), we worked to promote the use of renewable energy and achieved the ﬁscal 2019 target (increasing the share of renewable energy in total energy consumption by at least 8.4%). (The renewable energy usage rate in ﬁscal 2019 was 11.2%.) Since we achieved the medium-term GHG emission reduction target in ﬁscal 2019, from ﬁscal 2020 we will accelerate our eﬀorts to further reduce emissions, aiming to achieve the GHG emission reduction targets newly established based on the mediumto long-term environmental vision. ※4 Location-basis: GHG emissions calculated based on the progress management coeﬃcient released by the Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturersʼ Associations of Japan ※5 Market basis: GHG emissions calculated using the emission factors released by each electric power company Energy-derived GHG emissions (Scopes 1+2) * Sites where data on GHG emissions were collected: Fujiyama Plant, Joto Plant (current, Joto Pharmaceutical Product Development Center), Yamaguchi Plant (added from ﬁscal 2018), Minase Research Institute, Fukui Research Institute, Tsukuba Research Institute, Head Oﬃce, sales oﬃces and other oﬃces, etc. GHG emissions are calculated using the following formula. GHG emissions = Purchased electricity (10,000 kWh) × progress management coeﬃcient of the Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturersʼ Associations of Japan (t-C/10,000 kWh) × 44/12 + Σ (Fuel consumption × Unit caloriﬁc value × Carbon emission factor × 44/12) For the unit caloriﬁc value and carbon emission factor, the values stipulated by the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures are used; for the carbon emission factor for electricity, the progress management coeﬃcient of the Federation of Pharmaceutical Manufacturersʼ Associations of Japan is used. Before ﬁscal 2010: Post-adjustment carbon emission factor, presented by Keidanren (Japan Business Federation) in the “Carbon Emission Factors for Electricity Consumption (Receiving End)” (FY2005 (base year): 1.152 t-C/10,000 kWh (4.224 t-CO2/10,000 kWh)) Fiscal 2011-2012: The receiving-end emission factor converted from the generating-end emission factor, which has been calculated on the assumption that the Great East Japan Earthquake had not occurred and presented by Keidanren in ﬁscal 2011: 0.927 t-C/10,000 kWh (3.4 t-CO2/10,000 kWh) From ﬁscal 2013: Fiscal 2020 target carbon emission factor released by the Federation of Electric Power Companies of Japan before the Great East Japan Earthquake: 0.900 t-C/10,000 kWh (3.3t-CO2/10,000 kWh) The target range for 2005 (base year) and 2020 (target year) is energy-derived GHG emissions from production sites and research institutes. Due to the revision of the Company's greenhouse gas emissions calculation rules in ﬁscal 2019, emissions are recalculated back to previous years. 66 GHG emissions (Scopes 1+2) * Sites where data on GHG emissions were collected: Fujiyama Plant, Joto Plant (current, Joto Pharmaceutical Product Development Center), Yamaguchi Plant (added from ﬁscal 2018), Minase Research Institute, Fukui Research Institute, Tsukuba Research Institute, Head Oﬃce, sales oﬃces and other oﬃces, etc. GHG emissions are calculated using the following formula. GHG emissions = Purchased electricity (10,000 kWh) × adjusted emission factor published by the electric company + Σ (Fuel consumption × Unit caloriﬁc value × Carbon emission factor × 44/12)+Σ (Fluorocarbon leakage amount x global warming potential) The amount of green electric power certified under the Green Energy Certificate and renewable energy certified under J-Credit Scheme are deducted. GHG emissions were managed on a location basis in and before ﬁscal 2016 and on both location and market bases in and after ﬁscal 2017. Due to the revision of the Company's greenhouse gas emissions calculation rules in ﬁscal 2019, emissions are recalculated back to previous years. Breakdown of GHG emissions by scope (Market-basis) Energy consumption * Sites where energy consumption data were collected: Fujiyama Plant, Joto Plant (current, Joto Pharmaceutical Product Development Center), Yamaguchi Plant (added from ﬁscal 2018), Minase Research Institute, Fukui Research Institute, Tsukuba Research Institute, Head Oﬃce, sales oﬃces and other oﬃces, etc. 67 Initiatives for a decarbonized society Creating a road map for reduction of GHG emissions  Participation in the “Fiscal 2019 Model Project for Supporting Development of CO2 Emission Reduction Plans to Achieve SBT” (sponsored by the Ministry of the Environment of Japan) As of the end of March 2020, there were only seven Japanese companies whose GHG reduction targets were classiﬁed as the SBTiʼs “1.5°C target.” To achieve our challenging GHG reduction targets, we have participated in the “Fiscal 2019 Model Project for Supporting Development of CO2 Emission Reduction Plans to Achieve SBT” (sponsored by the Ministry of the Environment of Japan) and created a highly feasible GHG reduction road map, incorporating new technologies based on the research and advice of experts. Promoting energy conservation  Adopting those of Top Runner Equipment, which is aimed at reducing GHG emissions, at the time of replacement (replacing ﬂuorescent lights with LEDs, replacing heat source equipment with module-type heat pump chillers, etc.)  Reviewing and adjusting the operating hours and temperatures of the equipment  Implementing the Cool Biz and Warm Biz clothes initiative advocated by the Japanese Ministry of the Environment. Module-type heat pump chiller (Minase Research Institute) Introducing renewable energy  Introducing and operating solar power generation facilities: Head Oﬃce building (ﬁscal 2003), Minase Research Institute (ﬁscal 2015), Tokyo Building (ﬁscal 2017)  Purchasing electricity under a renewable energy-based electricity menu contract: Minase Research Institute (ﬁscal 2019)  Purchasing Green Energy Certiﬁcates (from ﬁscal 2018) and J-Credits (from ﬁscal 2019) We are promoting the use of renewable energy by purchasing certiﬁcates for electricity generated by renewable energy (Green Energy Certiﬁcates) and J-Credits. Solar panels at the Minase Research Institute Solar power monitoring system at the Minase Research Institute Green Energy Certiﬁcate 68 Fuel conversion  Completion of fuel conversion from heavy oil and kerosene to city gas and LNG at all plants and research institutes (GHG emissions from the combustion of fuels to produce energy depends on the source of the fuel. GHG emissions from city gas/LNG combustion are less than those from heavy oil/kerosene.) Power load leveling  Shifting the peak power usage from daytime hours to nighttime through the use of the nighttime heat storage system and cogeneration system  Introducing large-capacity power storage system (NAS battery system) at the Yamaguchi Plant Large-capacity power storage system (Yamaguchi Plant) Energy management  Establishing an energy management system with a view to the introduction of FEMS (factory energy management system) and BEMS (building energy management system) Although we have always measured energy consumption at our production plants and research institutes, we are making steady eﬀorts to upgrade our energy management systems, with a view to the introduction of FEMS or BEMS. External evaluation of our climate change-related eﬀorts  In the survey conducted by the UK-based CDP on climate change, we were selected as an A-List company, the highest rating, for two consecutive years (in ﬁscal 2019).  We won an award in the Activity Implementation and Promotion category of the Minister of the Environmentʼs 2019 Commendation for Global Warming Prevention Activity (the Ministry of the Environment).  We were introduced in a collection of case studies on energy eﬃciency & conservation (published by the Kansai Bureau of Economy, Trade and Industry) as among speciﬁed businesses who have remarkable achievements in various aspects of energy conservation.  Under the Act on the Rational Use of Energy (Energy Conservation Act), we have received the highest S rank for four consecutive years in corporate energy conservation excellence. See the External Evaluation section for details.  External Evaluation see here 69 GHG Emissions in the Value Chain (Scope 3) ONO divides GHG emissions in the value chain (Scope 3) into 15 categories under the Ministry of the Environmentʼs guidelines, and since FY2014 it has been calculating them for sites in Japan. FY2018 emissions FY2019 emissions Category (10 thousand (10 thousand Calculation method※6 Notes tons-CO2) tons-CO2) GHG emissions(scope 1,2) volume of our Covers production raw materials and major materials and research sites suppliers (accounting for 80% or more of our raw materials or materials purchase costs) multiplied by the ratio of the sales to Figures for FY2019 ONO out of the total sales of the supplier. are not calculated Purchased goods and services 0.81 ― Ratios for other business suppliers are because our major assumed to follow the same trend as for business partners major suppliers, and are calculated using had not published the ratio of GHG emissions to the their CSR reports at transaction amount at major suppliers.(The the time of calculation method has changed since calculation. FY2017. Please see the ESG Data for details.) Amount of capital investment, multiplied by Capital goods 6.04 2.69 ― emission factor Fueland energy-related activities Amount of non-renewable electricity 0.15 0.28 ― not included in scope 1 or scope 2 purchased, multiplied by emission factor Transport data on deliveries from ONO Upstream transportation and 0.01 0.01 factories and distribution centers to ― distribution destinations, multiplied by emission factor Weight of each type of industrial waste Waste generated in operations 0.03 0.03 ― generated, multiplied by emission factor Covers travels by Business trip allowances, multiplied by airplane or Business travel 0.23 0.40 emission factor Shinkansen bullet train Employeesʼ commuting costs, multiplied by Employee commuting 0.04 0.05 ― emission factor Cost of gasoline for leased company cars, Upstream leased assets 0.33 0.29 ― multiplied by emission factor Figures for FY2019 are not calculated GHG emissions stated in CSR reports on because our major ONOʼs major pharmaceutical wholesalers, Downstream transportation and pharmaceutical 0.53 ― multiplied by percentage of ONO net sales distribution wholesalers had included in all net sales of major not published their pharmaceutical wholesalers CSR reports at the time of calculation. ONO makes only Processing of sold products Not relevant Not relevant ― ﬁnished products No energy is consumed during Use of sold products Not relevant Not relevant ― the use of ONO products 70 FY2018 emissions FY2019 emissions Category (10 thousand (10 thousand Calculation method Notes tons-CO2) tons-CO2) Weight of each type of ONO product End-of-life treatment of sold 0.02 0.02 container or packaging disposed of as ― products waste, multiplied by emission factor Floor space of asset (building) owned and Downstream leased assets 0.03 0.03 rented out categorized by use, multiplied ― by emission factor ONO does not Franchises Not relevant Not relevant ― operate franchises There is no investment involving large Investments Not relevant Not relevant ― amounts of greenhouse gas emissions. Figures for FY2019 are not calculated because our major pharmaceutical Total 8.22 ― ― wholesalers had not published their CSR reports at the time of calculation. ※6 Figures stated in the “Emission Factor Database on Accounting for Greenhouse Gas Emissions throughout the Supply Chain (Ver. 2.6 in FY2018 and ver. 3.0 in FY2019),” published by the Ministry of the Environment, Government of Japan. 71 Toward creating a water recycling-oriented society The availability of high-quality fresh water is one of the important factors for us in conducting business activities. We are making eﬀorts for reducing water use so as to mitigate the load on limited water resources. As for water risks, the Environmental Management Committee leads and conducts surveys on the risks, and identiﬁes/analyzes/evaluates the business risks. Risk evaluation at important sites that use large volumes of water is conducted using the WRI AQUEDUCT risk assessment tool of the World Resource Institute. As of the end of FY2019, none of our companyʼs important sites operate or conduct water intake in areas categorized as being at “extremely high risk” for water stress. We continue to operate in areas where it is possible to use good quality fresh water as needed for business operations, and our business activities are therefore not aﬀected. While grasping the volumes of water use at our important sites, we conﬁrm that our water supply and emission pipes are free of leakage, and endeavor to use appropriate amounts of water. In ﬁscal 2019, we received an improved rating of “A-” (up from B in ﬁscal 2018) in the Water Security survey conducted by CDP, a U.K.-based nonproﬁt organization. Analysis and Evaluation of Water-related Risk and Opportunity Risk Factors Period Details Impact Management Method  Assurance of pharmaceutical products Use of good quality fresh Restrictions on use supplied water becomes impossible, Increase in Regulatory risk of good quality Long-term restricting production and operating costs fresh water  Risk diversiﬁcation due to research activities. establishment of new facilities  Assurance of pharmaceutical products Use of good quality fresh Rationing/shortage supplied water becomes impossible, Increase in of good quality Long-term restricting production and operating costs fresh water  Risk diversiﬁcation due to research activities. establishment of new facilities  Investment in plant and Risk from physical Use of good quality fresh equipment impact Decline in water water becomes impossible, Increase in Long-term quality restricting production and operating costs  Water quality analysis research activities. and management  Assurance of Facilities are ﬂooded due to pharmaceutical products Flooding and/or ﬂooding or heavy rainfall in Increase in supplied Long-term heavy rain disaster the vicinity of a production operating costs site.  Investment in plant and equipment A poor external evaluation Appropriate external of our handling of water Decline in share Other risks Reputation risk Short-term publicity on the results of exerts an adverse impact price our activities on the share price. Opportunity Factors Period Details Impact Management Method Demand increases for existing pharmaceutical  Changes in formulation Increased demand products that can be used of existing Opportunity from for existing drugs Water shortage Long-term without water, or new drug pharmaceutical products physical impact and services, new development opportunities drugs and services New Drug Development lead to positive impact on  revenue. We have posted details such as the water-related risks and opportunities, water intake and wastewater volumes at CDP Water. They can be conﬁrmed at the CDP website (A CDP ID is required). We responded to CDP Water 2019 in Japanese. This PDF is a translation of our response into English. CDP Water Report（749KB） 72 Progress towards a water recycling society To achieve our medium-term environmental target of reducing water resource consumption (water intake) per production volume unit by 15% by ﬁscal 2030 (compared to ﬁscal 2017), we are working vigorously to reduce water consumption in business activities. The volume of water intake in ﬁscal 2019 was 296,700 m3, a 14.7% reduction (51,300 m3) compared to ﬁscal 2018. These results are due to our eﬀorts to reduce water intake, including optimization of the number of operating cooling towers for production equipment at the Yamaguchi Plant. Also, a recycled water system has been installed at the Fukui Research Institute to reduce water use. Furthermore, water-saving sanitary equipment (water-saving coolant spray nozzle, upgraded boiler wastewater neutralization system, etc.) has been installed at our relatively newly constructed facilities, including production plants, research institutes and the Tokyo Building. The water intake per production volume unit in ﬁscal 2019 increased by 32.3% compared to ﬁscal 2017. This is due to a decrease in the number of boxes produced, which is used as a denominator for calculation. Water intake (water resource consumption) and water intake per production volume unit * From FY2019, the head office and other domestic offices have been added retroactively to FY2017. Wastewater * Sites where data on water consumption and wastewater volume were collected: Fujiyama Plant, Joto Plant (current, Joto Pharmaceutical Product Development Center), Yamaguchi Plant (added from fiscal 2018), Minase Research Institute, Fukui Research Institute, Tsukuba Research Institute, Head Office, sales offices and other offices, etc. From FY2019, the head office and other domestic offices have been added retroactively to FY2017. 73 ■ Water intake and wastewater volume by site (unit: 10 thousand m3) Wastewater 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 River in the Site drainage Water Wastewater Water Wastewater Water Wastewater Water Wastewater Water Wastewater area intake intake intake intake intake destination volume volume volume volume volume volume volume volume volume volume Fujiyama Plant Fuji River River 20.55 13.02 19.57 12.89 20.56 14.86 24.02 17.84 18.50 14.51 Joto Plant (now Joto Pharmaceutical Yodo River Sewerage 1.09 1.09 0.72 0.72 0.55 0.55 0.60 0.60 0.51 0.51 Product Development Center) Yamaguchi Plant Fushino River River 0.82 0.82 1.81 1.81 Minase Research Yodo River Sewerage 4.28 4.28 4.52 4.52 5.13 5.13 4.12 4.12 3.91 3.91 Institute Fukui Research Kuzuryu River Sewerage 5.37 1.13 3.94 0.75 3.87 0.52 3.13 0.50 2.73 0.57 Institute Tsukuba Lake Research Sewerage 1.07 1.07 1.09 1.09 0.81 0.81 0.60 0.60 0.71 0.71 Kasumigaura Institute Head Oﬃce and Rivers/Lake in other business the areas sites (including where major Sewerage － － － － 1.64 1.64 1.51 1.51 1.50 1.50 some tenants) in business sites Japan are located※7 total 32.36 20.58 29.84 19.97 32.56 23.51 34.80 25.99 29.67 23.52 ※7 Rivers/Lake in the areas where major business sites are located: Toyohira River, Okura River, Arakawa River, Sakawa River, Kiso River, Lake Biwa, Yodo River, Ota River, Yoshino River, Naka River 74 Toward creating a resource recycling society Regarding resource recycling as one of the top priorities in our business activities, we are promoting various activities on a company-wide basis. The Environmental Management Committee takes the lead in conducting surveys, analyses and evaluations and promoting environmental protection activities toward building a sustainable society. Progress toward a resource recycling society In ﬁscal 2019, the ﬁnal landﬁll disposal rate of industrial waste was 0.05% against the mediumto long-term targets, achieving zero emissions※8. Also, the volume of industrial waste per production volume unit decreased by 11.7% compared to ﬁscal 2017. The total volume also decreased by 15.6 tons from the previous year. These results are due to waste reduction activities, including thorough waste separation. ※8 ONO deﬁnes zero emissions as the condition where the ﬁnal landﬁll disposal rate is kept at 1.0% or less as a result of recycling industrial waste generated from business activities. (Final landﬁll disposal rate = amount of landﬁll disposal ÷ amount of industrial waste x 100). Note that certain materials, including some hazardous substances and waste reagents, are excluded from the calculation for zero emissions because their safe disposal is a higher priority. Industrial waste: Final landﬁll disposal volume and ﬁnal landﬁll disposal rate * Sites where data on ﬁnal landﬁll disposal volume and ﬁnal landﬁll disposal rate of industrial waste was collected: Fujiyama Plant, Joto Plant (current, Joto Pharmaceutical Product Development Center), * Yamaguchi Plant (Added from ﬁscal 2018), Minase Research Institute, Fukui Research Institute, and Tsukuba Research Institute. Of FY2017 ﬁnal industrial landﬁll disposal volume in, the amount of waste (5.8 tons) from renovation of the Joto Plant (current, Joto Pharmaceutical Product Development Center) was included. Volume of industrial waste per production volume unit (kg/production unit volume) FY2030 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 (Target) Volume of industrial waste per 0.197 0.128 0.174 0.167 production volume unit * Of FY2017 industrial waste volume, the amount of waste (25.64 tons) from renovation of the Joto Plant (current, Joto Pharmaceutical Product Development Center) was excluded from the calculation. Industrial waste volume and special management industrial waste volume (hazardous waste volume) * Sites where data on industrial waste volume and special management industrial waste volume (hazardous waste volume) was collected: Fujiyama Plant, Joto Plant (current, Joto Pharmaceutical Product Development Center) Yamaguchi Plant (Added from ﬁscal 2018), Minase Research Institute, Fukui Research Institute, and Tsukuba Research Institute * Special management industrial waste (hazardous waste) is deﬁned under the Waste Management and Public Cleansing Law as waste that has properties of explosiveness, toxicity, infectiousness, and/or possibly causing damage to human health or the living environment. We strive to manage this type of waste properly. 75 Eﬀorts toward a resource recycling society We inspect our intermediate processing contractors and ﬁnal disposal contractors to make sure that our industrial wastes are processed and disposed of properly. As part of eﬀorts to increase recycling of industrial waste, we also ask certiﬁed heat recovery service providers to conduct thermal recycling and choose companies involved in materials recycling as our ﬁnal waste disposal contractors. Recycling of product containers and packaging materials Upholding the reduction of environmental impact of our business activities as one of our mediumand long-term goals, we are working to reduce our environmental impact by changing container materials and packaging styles. In ﬁscal 2019, we changed the packaging material for some products from plastic to paper to reduce post-disposal environmental impact. Products with this new packaging have been sold from ﬁscal 2020. In addition, pursuant to the Containers and Packaging Recycling Law, some of the containers and packaging materials for the products we sell are recycled. ■ FY2019(Unit: tons) Container and packaging usage Obligatory recycling amount Plastic 162.8 31.2 Paper 200.9 1.5 Glass (colorless) Glass (brown) 0.3 Commissioning fee paid for recycling︓1,546 thousand yen Management of Chemicals ONO is committed to reducing chemical emissions to the lowest possible level not only in compliance with laws and regulations but also in recognition that these emissions may impact human health and the ecosystem. Compliance with the PRTR Law In FY2019, the Minase Research Institute made reports on Class I designated chemical substances. These chemicals are managed in appropriate amounts and in compliance with the Law concerning Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (PRTR). For details, please see the ESG data.  ESG Data see here 76 Amount of Chemical Substances Handled In FY2019, the volume of Class I designated chemical substances under the Law concerning Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (PRTR) that we handled remained extremely low, at just 11.49 tons. This is partly because ONO does not conduct any synthesis of pharmaceutical substances. We will continue to make every possible eﬀort to reduce the amount that we handle and to keep down the amount released. Handling of PCBs ONO manages waste polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) properly in accordance with the Law Concerning Special Measures for Promotion of Proper Treatment of PCB Waste in Japan. The company submits a report on the storage and disposal of waste PCBs to the Osaka municipal government every year. Site Status Type Number of units Joto Plant (current, Joto Stored Fluorescent lamp 0 Pharmaceutical Product Development Center) Disposed※9 Condenser 558 Minase Research Institute Disposed※9 Condenser 2 ※9 Joto Plant (current, Joto Pharmaceutical Product Development Center) in FY2007 and in FY2019 and Minase Research Institute in FY2014 delivered PCBs to the Japan Environmental Storage and Safety Corporation, a PCB waste treatment service provider. Fluorocarbon Management In April 2015, amendments to the Act on Rational Use and Proper Management of Fluorocarbons came into force, and the reporting of leakage from and inspection of air conditioning equipment and refrigerators/freezers for business use became obligatory. Therefore, we conduct activities such as the identiﬁcation of such equipment, simple inspections / periodic inspections, generation of records, and calculations of leakage. In FY2019, the calculated leakage of ﬂuorocarbons was 443.56 tons-CO2. We will continue to prevent leakage and promote the introduction of non-CFC (chloroﬂuorocarbon) and low-GWP (globalwarming potential) equipment when updating equipment. Prevention of Air Pollution and Water Pollution The production sites comply with the Air Pollution Control Act, the Law concerning Pollutant Release and Transfer Register (PRTR), agreements on pollution prevention with local governments, and other related laws and regulations in order to reduce environmental impact. They periodically measure the concentration of exhaust gas and noise from boilers and CGSs as well as wastewater from the plants, in accordance with related laws and other regulations, in order to ensure that levels are within regulatory limits. They also strive to reduce environmental risk. The PDCA cycle is followed in the plants, and employees are provided with the necessary environmental management training in operations in which there is a risk of environmental impact. Emergency drills are also conducted regularly. These drills use scenarios such as high concentrations of soot due to faulty equipment and leakages of oil into the ground, giving employees practice in the necessary preventative and responsive measures for such situations. In recent years, extreme weather events are occurring as a result of global warming. We have formulated manuals to prepare for accidents and emergency situations caused by such weather, and we organize training sessions to minimize environmental impacts. In particular, to address any accidents and emergency situations that may cause water or soil pollution, we systematically review and implement the backup and reinforcement of relevant equipment. Green Purchasing In December 2004, we started purchasing on a company wide basis-from @oﬃce, an online oﬃce supply purchasing service provided by Kokuyo Co., Ltd. This service oﬀers a wide range of environmentally friendly oﬃce supplies, including Green Mark and Eco Mark certiﬁed products, and we use this service to promote green procurement. In FY2019, 75.7% of the oﬃce supplies purchased by ONO were environmentally friendly products. 77 Environment : Environmental Management Results (progress) against targets Every year, we assess the results (or progress) against the targets. Item Target FY2019 results 1. The amount of GHG emissions in FY2019 was 19,800 tons, a 25.8% reduction from 26,700 tons in FY2005. [Medium-term target for energy-derived (The amount of increase due to the operation of the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (target year: Yamaguchi Plant, newly established in FY2018, was FY2020)] excluded. If the Yamaguchi Plant is included, GHG emissions for FY2019 was 23,700 tons, a 11.2% 1. Reduce GHG emissions (on a location basis※1) by 23% from the FY2005 level in FY2020. reduction compared to FY2005.) *GHG emissions from production and research sites *Since we achieved the target this ﬁscal year, from next ﬁscal year we will accelerate our eﬀorts to further reduce emissions, aiming to achieve the GHG reduction targets newly established based on the mediumto long-term environmental vision. 【ECO VISION 2050】 【ECO VISION 2050】 Greenhouse gasses 1. Reduce GHG emissions (Scopes 1+2) (on a 1. Reduce GHG emissions (Scopes 1+2) by 8.4% market basis※2) by 55% by FY2030 and to zero compared to FY2017. by FY2050 (compared to FY2017). (FY2019 2. GHG emissions (Scope 3) increased by 9.5% target: a 8.4% or more reduction compared to compared to FY2017. (As for Scope 3, there are FY2017.) some categories for which FY2019 data were not 2. Reduce GHG emissions (Scope 3) by 30% by calculated because our major suppliers and FY2030 and by 60% by FY2050 (compared to wholesale distributorsʼ CSR reports for FY2019 FY2017). were not available at the time of calculation.) 3. Increase the share of renewable energy in total 3. Increase the share of renewable energy in total energy consumption to 55% or higher by FY2030 energy consumption by 11.2%. and 100% by FY2050 (FY2019 target: at least 8.4% ). 【ECO VISION 2050】 【ECO VISION 2050】 1. Reduce water resource consumption (water 1. Water resource consumption (water intake) per intake) per production volume unit by 15% by production volume unit increased by 32.3% Water consumption FY2030 (compared to FY2017). compared to FY2017. 2. Reduce water resource consumption (water 2. Water resource consumption (water intake) intake) to below the previous yearʼs level (ﬁscal decreased by 14.7% (51,300 m3) compared to target). FY2018. 78 Item Target FY2019 results 【ECO VISION 2050】 1. Maintain a ﬁnal landﬁll disposal rate of 1% or less 【ECO VISION 2050】 every year ※3. ※3 ONO deﬁnes zero emissions as the percentage of non1. The ﬁnal landﬁll disposal rate of industrial waste recycled waste (sent for landﬁll disposal or simple was 0.05%, continuing to achieve zero emissions. incineration) being 1% or less of the total volume of waste. 2. Industrial waste volume per production volume unit decreased by 11.7% compared to FY2017. Waste 2. Reduce the volume of industrial waste per 3. Industrial waste volume decreased by 15.6 tons production volume unit by 15% by FY2030 compared to FY2018. (compared to FY2017). 4. Reduced environmental impact by changing 3. Reduce industrial waste volume to below the packaging materials for some products from previous yearʼs level (ﬁscal target). plastic to paper. 4. Promote reduction of environmental impact through business activities.  The release and transfer volume of the registered Chemical substance Reduce the amount of PRTR Class I designated chemical chemical substances was 11.49 tons, which we have kept management substances released into the environment. at an extremely low volume.  All analyses of air and water pollution revealed that we Thoroughly comply with emission standards, and continue Pollution control complied with emission standards. Also, there were no to make eﬀorts to prevent any environmental accidents or management environmentally related complaints from local complaints from local communities. communities.  Disclosed data on environmental cost, capital investment, economic eﬀect, and environmental conservation eﬀect. Evaluation of environmental Comply with guidelines issued by the Ministry of the  Evaluated environmental eﬃciency. eﬃciency Environment of Japan.  Environmental eﬃciency was up by 57.3 points over FY2005. ※1 Location-basis GHG emissions volumes are calculated based on progress management coeﬃcients of the Federation of Pharmaceuticals Manufacturersʼ Associations of Japan (FY2005 values). ※2 Market-basis GHG emissions volumes are calculated based on emissions coeﬃcients published by each electric power company. Environmental Initiatives SBT Initiative (Science Based Targets initiative） Our mediumto long-term greenhouse gas reduction targets were approved in June 2019 as science-based greenhouse gas reduction targets from the international initiative Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi). Our targets are categorized as the strictest “1.5℃ target.” ＊ For details, please see the SBTi Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) ONO expressed our support in October 2019 for the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), which was established by the Financial Stability Board to encourage the disclosure of climate-related risks and opportunities. ＊ For details, please see the TCFD 79 Water Project The Water Project is a public-private partnership project launched after the Basic Law on the Water Cycle enacted in 2014, which states that governments and companies should work together to protect the water cycle in Japan. ONO participated in October 2019. ＊ For details, please see the “Water Project” RE100 (Renewable Energy 100%) RE100 is an international initiative, aiming to source 100% of the electricity consumed in its business activities with renewable energy, which is operated by The Climate Group, an international environmental NGO which promotes climate change countermeasures, in partnership with CDP, an international NPO, that encourages companies to disclose and manage environmental impact information. ONO participated in RE100 in June 2020. ＊ For details, please see the RE100 Overall Picture of Environmental Impact (ONO's Involvement in Environmental Protection) Annual inputs and outputs are grasped on a regular basis to use as reference data for our eﬀorts to reduce environmental impact (Scope: production and research sites, FY2019). 80 Promotion of Environmental Management Our environmental management promotion structure consists of the Member of the Board of Directors, Senior Executive Officer, the CSR Promotion Section, and the Environmental Management Committee. The Senior Executive Officer company-wide environmental management, and the CSR Promotion Section manages the Committee. Members of the Committee are chosen from relevant departments and are responsible for speciﬁc on-site monitoring and promoting environmental management. Each production and research sites with a major environmental impact has a subcommittee to work on environmental issues. Each production site makes continuous eﬀorts to reduce environmental impact under an ISO 14001-compliant environmental management system. We have also acquired ISO 14001 certiﬁcation for all production sites in operation. In addition, under the subcommittee, which is a subordinate organization of the Environmental Management Committee, for the three priority items, realization of a decarbonized society, realization of a water recycling society, and realization of a resource recycling society, we have started to study the measures to reduce the environmental impacts. The progress of these eﬀorts is to be reported at least once a year at the Executive Committee chaired by the President. In addition, to reduce environmental risks, employees involved in operations that could have an impact on the environment receive necessary training on environmental management. We also have a structure to minimize environmental impact arising from emergencies by providing training and on-site education and formulating emergencypreparedness manuals. ■ Status of acquisition of ISO 14001 certiﬁcation Production site name First acquired in Fujiyama Plant November 2002 ISO 14001 acquisition percentage for production sites 100% ＊ Production sites in operation are 100% ISO14001 certiﬁed. 81 Environment : Environmental Eﬃciency / Environmental Accounting We conduct environmental eﬃciency assessments to quantitatively measure the eﬃciency of environmental conservation activities at our production and research sites. We also disclose information on environmental accounting in reference to the Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005, issued by the Ministry of the Environment of Japan. Assessment of Environmental Eﬃciency We use an integrated indicator that can measure the reduction in environmental impact achieved through environmental conservation activities. To calculate this indicator, we classify environmental impacts generated from our activities into ﬁve categories: chemical substances, global warming, waste, water quality, and air quality. We then select a representative environmental factor for each of the categories and divide their amount of environmental impact by revenue in the relevant ﬁscal year. The result of this indicator is disclosed each year. The environmental eﬃciency indicator for ﬁscal 2019 improved by 57.3 points compared to ﬁscal 2005. This is primarily because despite an increase in BOD and PRTR emissions from the previous year, the amount of waste landﬁlled decreased from the previous year due to waste reduction activities, including thorough separation of waste. We will continue to strive to reduce environmental impact and thereby improve the environmental eﬃciency indictor. Changes in the environmental eﬃciency indicator (Indicator with a score of 100 representing the level in FY2005) Environmental Costs and Eﬀects in Fiscal 2019 Environmental investments made at our production and research sites during ﬁscal 2019 were related to global warming prevention measures and other environmental measures. Environmental Costs (Including Depreciation Costs) ■ (Thousands of Yen) Amount of investment in environmental Environmental costs equipment Category FY2018 FY2019 FY2018 FY2019 1: Pollution prevention cost (air, water, soil, groundwater, 118,662 161,626 668,927 16,062 hazardous chemicals, noise, vibration, and odor) 2: Global environment conservation cost (cost for preventing global warming, cost for environmental 424,006 862,909 2,679,921 2,100,004 conservation activities) 82 Amount of investment in environmental Environmental costs equipment Category FY2018 FY2019 FY2018 FY2019 3: Resource circulation cost (waste reduction, proper 91,983 107,254 7,570 207 treatment of waste, eﬃcient use of resources) 4: Administration cost (time and cost spent for committee 7,290 5,536 ― ― and ISO activities, and environmental management) 5: Research and development cost 130,436 115,961 ― ― 6: Social activity cost (cost for environmental improvement activities, including beautiﬁcation and tree-planting, with 1,835 3,668 ― ― the exception of those conducted at or in the vicinity of the business sites) Total 774,212 1,256,953 3,356,418 2,116,272 Environmental conservation eﬀects Change in the amount of environmental Environmental impact impact Environmental performance indicators FY2018 FY2019 FY2018 FY2019 SOx emissions (tons) 0 0 0 0 NOx emissions (tons) 0.57 -0.28 8.38 8.10 Water use (10,000 m3) 2.37 -5.12 33.29 28.17 BOD load (tons) -0.95 0.04 1.27 1.31 Eﬀects corresponding to key business area costs CO2 emissions (10,000 -0.15 -0.15 2.52 2.37 tons-CO2) Energy use (10,000 GJ) -0.11 8.26 52.54 60.80 Total waste discharge -361.04 -23.69 622.85 599.16 (tons) Final landﬁll disposal (tons) -8.69 -2.60 9.35 6.75 Economic Eﬀects Associated with Environmental Conservation Activities ■ (Thousands of Yen) Economic eﬀects Details FY2018 FY2019 1: Reduction in costs through energy-saving activities 11,703 3,954 2: Reduction in waste costs through recycling activities 0 0 3: Proﬁt from sale of recycled materials 1,205 4,874 Annual total 12,908 8,828 83 Social Contribution Activities Approach to social contribution activities We recognize social contribution activities as initiatives for the sustainable development of society. In addition, we promote our initiatives in identiﬁed priority areas considering their relationship to current and future business. ONOʼs global policy for social contribution activities We commit to contributing to sustainable social development as well as to the advancement of medicine and pharmacy as “a good corporate citizen”, under the corporate philosophy of “Dedicated to Manʼs Fight against Disease and Pain”. We also contribute to the achievement of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) through these activities. This Global Policy also applies to overseas subsidiaries.  Contributing to the advancement of medicine and pharmacy  Supporting health of patients and their families  Contributing to environmental conservation for the health of everyone  Contributing to an education for the childrenʼs health  Contribute to an improvement of the medical ecosystem We are committed to transparency about any charitable donations that are made in relation to our CSR activities. ※1 The target areas are the areas where we operate and areas where the medical infrastructure is immature . ※1 Low-income countries and low-middle-income countries set by the World Bank low-income countries: http://data.worldbank.org/income-level/low-income low-middle-income countries: https://data.worldbank.org/income-level/lower-middle-income We promote social development through partnering with parties who share our vision. Eﬀorts for the advancement of medicine and pharmacy We are making eﬀorts to meet unmet medical needs and contribute to medical advancement. Research grants through foundations and donated courses In 1988, the ONO Medical Research Foundation was established with donations from ONO. The Foundation provides grants for research activities in the ﬁeld of lipid metabolism disorders and also aims to promote research and treatment in that ﬁeld through various projects and thereby contribute to the health and welfare of the public. Since its establishment, the foundation has provided research grants and research encouragement grants every year. In FY2019, 1 person was awarded the Osamu Hayaishi Memorial Award, 12 persons were awarded research grants, and 16 persons were awarded research encouragement grants (Under age of 40). In FY2019, we newly funded or continued to fund 36 courses across Japan, primarily in areas where there is concern about a rapid increase in the number of patients due to the aging of the population such as cancer, diabetes, neurological diseases, bone and motor organ diseases, and so on. In addition, we have supported the Japanese Biochemical Society's Osamu Hayaishi Memorial Scholarship for Study Abroad, which assists researchers who are willing to research biochemistry-related life sciences in general in studying abroad, for 10 years from FY2017. And as the recipients of support in FY2020, support for 8 researchers was selected in October 2019. Through the Ono Pharmaceutical Foundation's research grants to overseas researchers, we also contribute to promoting research and the foundation of innovation. 84 Eﬀorts for supporting health of patients and their families We conduct various health-related activities to provide a wide range of support for people such as patients and the families of patients. Dissemination of medical information Through contents and applications, the latest information useful for healthcare is continuously posted and disseminated widely. We also cooperate with and hold seminars for citizens to raise awareness of diseases and provide accurate information. In FY2019, 11 sessions were held, focusing on areas such as cancer, diabetes, and rheumatism, with approximately 1700 participants. Delivered Content and Applications Description Explain the speciﬁc symptoms and treatment of the disease in your To Patients and Their Families immediate surroundings and the things you should keep in mind in your daily life With the cooperation of supervising physicians, we operate a website where ONO ONCOLOGY (Information for the general we can learn about the concepts of diseases and treatments in the ﬁeld of public and patients) cancer and cancer immunity Medical Care for Dementia Connecting Smiles Managing a website to think about dementia with people involved in and Minds treatment and nursing care Grandma's world Public release of a dementia education short movie Application for patients with lifestyle-related the free provision of smartphone application software to support patients diseases suﬀering from lifestyle-related diseases Relay for Life We have been participated in Relay for Life as a part of CSR activities since FY2014. Relay for Life is a charity activity project conducted by the Japan Cancer Society and the National Action Council of Relay of Life aiming to deal with and overcome cancer. We have been actively participating in the Relay of Life events mainly at the locations where our research institutes, plants, and sales oﬃces reside. Implementation of Communicating Works Exhibition (Initiatives in the Dementia Field) We continue to implement the Communicating Works Exhibition on the website, which introduces paintings, calligraphy, and other works created by people with dementia at medical institutions, etc., with the aim of contributing to the joy of people with dementia and their families and to the fulﬁllment of medical professionals. In FY2019, at the 11 exhibition, 350 works were applied from all over Japan, and 1 piece each received handwritten comments and a commendation certiﬁcate from the reviewer. This exhibition was completed in FY2019. 85 Initiatives at Overseas Subsidiaries In December 2019, ONO Pharma Korea (OPKR) members conducted volunteer activities for children with pediatric cancer and their families, visiting the Hanbit Love-sharing House run by the Hanbit Love-sharing Supportersʼ Association (a private nonproﬁt organization supporting children with pediatric cancer and their families). Forty-some people, including all OPKR employees and those from headquarters in Japan, participated in the activities, such as painting the outer walls of the Hanbit Love-sharing House, where the patient children and their families were staying; and beautiﬁcation activities to clean up the House and its surrounding area for the children with weakened immunity. They also presented somewhat early Christmas gifts suitable for each child. It was a meaningful opportunity for OPKR employees to conduct volunteer activities. In December 2019, employees of ONO Pharma Taiwan (OPTW) experienced decoupage, a decorative handicraft art that gives us “hope for the future,” together with the Formosa Cancer Foundation, which is a cancer patient association. In addition to about 30 cancer patients, all OPTW employees and members from the CSR Promotion Section of ONO in Japan also participated in this program. This decoupage hands-on experience was planned with the aim of motivating patients that have been undergoing cancer treatments by decorating handicrafts with “hope for the future.” Patients who have joined this program gave us some favorable comments: “I got a sense of accomplishment through completing the decoration of handicrafts” and “Having an opportunity to communicate with many people made me feel more positive.” OPKR OPKR OPTW Supporting Members Since FY2014, we have been supporting the Solaputi Kidsʼ Camp , dream camp with medical care for children who have a serious illnesses, as a supporting member. We continue being involved in activities that help people keep healthy. Eﬀorts toward environmental conservation for the health of everyone In conducting our business activities, we recognize the impact on ecosystems and take on challenges to address environmental issues such as biodiversity and climate change. To realize a sustainable and prosperous society, it is important to promote activities that consider biodiversity at entire stages of product research, development, procurement, production, distribution, sales, use, and disposal. Eﬀorts at each worksite In our role as a corporate citizen, we have each of our business sites take part in various activities to contribute to local communities such as cleanups, disaster prevention activities, and conservation of the natural environment. The Fujiyama Plantʼs recent activities for improving the environment involved cleanup at Mt. Fuji 5th Station in August 2019. We also provided trash bags for “Operation Trash Clean-sweep,” a clean-up activity of the municipal neighborhood associations of Fujimiya City. At the Joto Plant（current Joto Pharmaceutical Product Development Center）, in November 2019, staﬀ took part in the cleanup of the periphery of the plant and a neighboring elementary as well as parks as part of the ”Osaka Marathon Cleanup campaign” by the Osaka Municipal Government. In the same month, we also participated in the Higashinari Autonomous Fireﬁghting Brigade Council Technical Competition's ﬁre extinguisher reporting/initial ﬁre extinguishing training, and hose tip transfer from the ﬁre hydrant pump/water discharge training. In the training, we prepared for an actual ﬁre under the guidance of the Higashinari Fire Department. 86 The Minase Research Institute, staﬀ joined the Rikyu no Mizu Conservation Society to protect the famous water source found on the premises of Minase Jingu Shrine which has been selected as one of the 100 best springs in Japan. Staﬀ members took part in the joint cleanup activities which are organized twice a year. In addition, the private ﬁre brigade members at the institute participated in ﬁreﬁghting training in a ﬁre-prevention festival in Shimamoto-cho which is held to raise awareness of ﬁre prevention among local residents every November as well as in the New Year parade of the ﬁreﬁghting brigade of Shimamoto-cho, which is organized on the second Sunday of January every year. At the Fukui Research Institute staﬀ took part in cleanup activities including picking up of litter around the boundary of the site on a regular basis. The private ﬁre brigade members at the institute joined a volunteer ﬁre brigade competition which is held every year to raise awareness of ﬁre prevention and improve ﬁreﬁghting skills and conducted ﬁreﬁghting training. And, the gymnasium and tennis courts on the premises are opened to the public as places for communication. At the Tsukuba Research Institute employees regularly pick up litter in its neighborhood in an eﬀort to maintain the beauty of the area. Trash clean-up near Mt. Fuji 5th Station The Osaka Marathon Cleanup campaign Eco-Cap Activities Our head oﬃce and the Minase Research Institute (from June 2014) and the Fukui and Tsukuba Research Institutes (from July 2018) have been taking part in an “Eco-cap” campaign. The caps of plastic bottles are disposed of in special garbage containers near vending machines and are recycled. The proceeds from this recycling are used, for example, to buy vaccines for children in developing countries and help communities recover from earthquakes. Amount collected FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 at each worksite 28,380caps 20,210caps 33,250caps head oﬃce （66.0kg） （47.0kg） （77.3kg） Special Garbage Containers Minase Research 10,750caps 26,875caps 23,220caps Institute （25.0kg） （62.5kg） （54.0kg） Tsukuba Research 2,365caps 1,290caps ― Institute （5.5kg） （3.0kg） Reference value: About 800 plastic bottle caps correspond to 1 vaccine dose. Sponsorship of 'Water Stranger Expeditions' (Organized by local governments around Fujiyama Plant/intended for elementary school students) We have supported the Fujinomiya City sponsored hands-on learning 'Water Stranger Expeditions' (Organized by local governments around Fujiyama Plant/intended for elementary school students) since FY2015. This event aims to boost childrenʼs awareness the natural environment around Mt. Fuji and to get children thinking about how they can contribute to preserving the environment. Water Wonder Expedition 87 Eﬀorts toward an education for the childrenʼs health We are proactively engaged in activities to support the development of children, who will be responsible for the future. “Sukoyakarada project（Healthy Body Campaign）” We started the healthier body project (We call “Sukoyakarada project”) as a reconstruction assistance activity from the Great East Japan Earthquake in 2015. This project is aimed at reducing childhood obesity, one of social issues in three prefectures of the Tohoku region (Fukushima, Miyagi and Iwate) as well as promoting health and supporting healthy mental and physical development among the children that will lead the next generation. In FY2018, the ﬁfth year of the project, this project was held in Higashi Matsushima City, Miyagi prefecture. At the Kick-oﬀ event on March 30, 2019 the children experienced three types of sports with top athletes, and the heath seminar was held by a medical specialist on lifestyle-related illnesses for their parents, and a nutrition education session was given soup kitchen using local ingredients. In four Follow-up sessions from April to June, the children experienced a variety of sports and help them establish healthy exercise habits. Through this project, implemented in partnership with the Speciﬁed Nonproﬁt Corporation Sports We have implemented this project with SCIX, a non-proﬁt organization called Sports Community and Intelligence. In FY2019, this project was postponed due to the COVID-19, but it is scheduled to be held in Iwate Prefecture around March 2021. ■ Implementation results Year Location Total participants Aizumisato, Onuma district, FY2014 233 Fukushima prefecture FY2015 Ishinomaki, Miyagi prefecture 381 FY2016 Ofunato, Iwate prefecture 207 FY2017 Soma, Fukushima prefecture 131 Higashi Matsushima, Miyagi FY2018 287 prefecture FY2019 Delayed by COVID-19 ― FY2018 Kick-oﬀ Event (Conducted in March 2019) 88 FY2018 Follow-up Programs (Conducted from April to June 2019) Session 1: Exercise basics (run, jump, throw) Session 2: Relay race baton-pass and longdistance running Session 3: Para-sport competition (blind Session 4: Spaceball experience soccer) Educational Program on Dementia (For junior high and high school students) The purpose of this program is for students to understand dementia as an immediate issue and acquire accurate knowledge through providing a short movie about dementia awareness produced by our company, titled Grandma's world and lectures given by specialists. As of the end of March 2020, more than 3,000 junior and senior high school students have participated in the program. Implementation FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Total status Number of junior high and high 7 1 3 2 3 5 21 schools Number of participating 1,025 162 278 137 483 1,043 3,128 student “Kusuri no Himitsu Manabu(Secrets of Pharmaceuticals!)” (outreach class program) With the aim of arousing childrenʼs interest in science, our researchers have conducted outreach classes on pharmaceuticals, serving as instructors. We have carried out this program continuously since FY2015 for the sixth-grade students of Shimamoto Municipal Third Elementary School (near the Minase Research Institute). In FY2019, the program was conducted also for the sixth-grade students of Hoei Elementary School (near the Joto Plant, current Joto Pharmaceutical Product Development Center). According to the questionnaires answered by the children after the classes, they seemed to have a deeper understanding of technical ingenuity in pharmaceuticals. It is also a valuable opportunity for our employees to realize their connection with the local communities and become motivated through communication with elementary school students. 89 Number of Participants per FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Total Year Students 71 64 59 72 141 407 Research Support 10 10 9 12 25 66 Staﬀ members Secretariat 9 10 7 10 22 58 staﬀ members After the classes, we gave questionnaires to the children, teachers and our employees to utilize them for reviewing future programs. Implemented at Hoei Elementary School Implemented at Shimamoto Municipal Third Implemented at Hoei Elementary School Elementary School Donation of toothbrushes We have donated toothpaste sets and toothbrushes to children in elementary schools, kindergartens, and day care centers (A total of 9 sites) in Shimamoto-cho, Mishima County, Osaka Prefecture, where Minase Research Institute is located since FY2014. And we have donated toothpaste sets to elementary schools next to the Joto Plant (current Joto Pharmaceutical Product Development Center) in FY2018. Toothpaste sets and toothbrushes are manufactured by our company aﬃliate, BeBrand Medical Dental Co., Ltd. This activity is in line with the June 4 to 10th Dental and Oral Health Week and our desire to assist as much as possible in Toward a world free of dental caries In FY2019, we donated 3,366 sets and 376 toothbrushes. We continue this initiative from the perspective of sustainability, where local communities and companies coexist and develop sustainability. Sponsoring the performance Kokoro no Gekijo (Theatre of the Heart), which is performed in Kansai and hostedby the Shiki Theatre Company / Butai Geijyutu (Performing Arts) Center We are sponsoring the performance Kokoro no Gekijo (Theatre of the Heart), which is performed in Kansai and hostedby the Shiki Theater Company / Butai Geijyutu (Performing Arts) Center. Theatre of the Heart is a project to invite children (mainly elementary sixth grade students) from various regions in Japan to theaters for free and demonstrate the excitement of theater aiming to bring the most important thingｓ for people to live, such as the importance of life, the heart to consider a person, the joy to believe each other to children's heart through the performance. We understand such philosophy and support activities. Kamome ni tobukoto wo oshieta Neko (A cat that taught gulls to ﬂy), a family musical performed by Shiki Theatre Company Photo by Takashi Uehara Donations to Kodomo Hon no mori Nakanoshima (Nakanoshima Childrenʼs Book Forest) We donated to a project to help stop children being away from reading Kodomo Hon no mori Nakanoshima . Kodomo Hon no mori Nakanoshima is build a library designed by the architect Tadao Andou and built in Nakanoshima Park to encourage children to pursue creativity through books and the arts/culture. 90 Eﬀorts for improvement of the medical ecosystem We are working to improve the medical environment in partnership with outside parties. ONO SWITCH Project In order to promote both work style reforms and social contribution activities, we launched the ONO SWITCH project in August 2018. This initiative aims to contribute the amount of money corresponding to the reduced overtime allowance through the promotion of work style reforms to healthcare-related NPOs and NGOs. In FY2019, we decided to donate money to 4 NPOs based on employee questionnaires. For the ONO SWITCH project, please see Eﬀorts Made for Improving Access to Healthcare . Other eﬀorts Blood Donation Employees at the Head Oﬃce, plants, and research institutes actively donate their blood to the Japanese Red Cross Society. Support for People with Disabilities On the fourth Wednesday of every month, our head oﬃce has been holding a sale of bread and cookies made at workplaces that support the independence of people with disabilities,since January 2013.About 100 employees use it every time. 91 List of Activities Related SDGs Activities ・Donations through related foundations Eﬀorts for the advancement of ・Contribution to the GHIT Foundation medicine and ・Support for Public Interest Incorporated pharmacy Associations ・Dissemination of medical information through websites and applications ・Cooperation with and holding seminars open to the public Eﬀorts for supporting ・Participation in Relay for Life health of patients and ・Implementation of Communicating Works their families Exhibition ・Initiatives at ONO Pharma Korea (OPKR) ・Initiatives at ONO Pharma Taiwan (OPKW) ・Supporting Member (Soraptit Children's camp) ・Nature Conservation Activities at each worksite (Cleaning and disaster prevention activities, etc.) Eﬀorts toward ・Donation through Eco-Cap Activities (Vaccines, environmental disaster countermeasures, etc.) conservation for the health of everyone ・Sponsorship of 'Water Stranger Expeditions' (Organized by local governments around Fujiyama Plant/intended for elementary school students) ・“Sukoyakarada project（Healthy Body Campaign）” ・Educational Program on Dementia (For junior high and high school students) ・“Kusuri no Himitsu Manabu (Secrets of Eﬀorts toward an Pharmaceuticals!)” (outreach class program) education for the ・Donation of toothbrushes childrenʼs health ・Sponsoring the performance Kokoro no Gekijo (Theater of the Heart), which is performed in Kansai and hostedby the Shiki Theater Company / Butai Geijyutu (Performing Arts) Center ・Donations to Kodomo Hon no mori Nakanoshima (Nakanoshima Childrenʼs Book Forest) Eﬀorts for improvement of the ・ONO SWITCH Project medical ecosystem ・Blood Donation Other ・Support for People with Disabilities 92 Policies ONO Pharmaceutical Codes of Conduct See here for the ONO Pharmaceutical Codes of Conduct.  The ONO Pharmaceutical Codes of Conduct see here ONO Pharmaceutical Compliance Program Policy See here for the ONO Pharmaceutical Compliance Program Policy ONO Pharmaceutical Compliance Program Policy（486KB） ONO Pharmaceutical Global Tax Policy See here for the ONO Pharmaceutical Global Tax Policy. ONO Pharmaceutical Global Tax Policy（161KB） ONO Pharmaceutical Global Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy See here for the ONO Pharmaceutical Global Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy. ONO Pharmaceutical Global Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy（118KB） ONO Pharmaceutical Code of Practice See here for the ONO Pharmaceutical Code of Practice. ONO Pharmaceutical Code of Practice（202KB） 93 Information Security Global Policy See here for the Information Security Global Policy. Information Security Global Policy（163KB） Privacy Policy See here for our Privacy Policy.  Privacy Policy see here ONO Pharmaceutical Human Rights Global Policy See here for the ONO Pharmaceutical Human Rights Global Policy. ONO Pharmaceutical Human Rights Global Policy (191KB) Basic Policy for Procurement Activities and CSR Procurement Guideline See here for Basic Policy for Procurement Activities and CSR Procurement. Basic Policy and CSR Guidelines on Procurement Activities（94KB） Global Environment Policy See here for Global Environment Policy.  For more information on Global Environment Policy see here ONOʼs global policy for social contribution activities For more information on our ONOʼs global policy for social contribution policy.  ONOʼs global policy for social contribution activities see here 94 ESG Data Governance Data ■ Corporate Governance Category Item Scope Unit FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 NonDirectors (Total) Persons 7 7 8 8 consolidated Independent outside NonBoard structure Persons 2 2 3 3 directors consolidated NonFemale directors Persons 0 0 0 0 consolidated NonAuditors (Total) Persons 4 4 4 4 consolidated Board of Auditors Independent outside NonPersons 2 2 2 2 structure auditors consolidated NonFemale auditors Persons 1 1 1 1 consolidated NonTotal Million yen 345 336 360 368 Corporate Governance consolidated Structure Director President, Remuneration Representative NonMillion yen 114 116 Director, and Chief consolidated Executive Oﬃcer Auditor NonTotal Million yen 71 76 77 78 Remuneration consolidated NonNumber of Board of Directors meetings Times 15 13 13 13 consolidated NonNumber of Board of Auditors meetings Times 13 13 14 14 consolidated NonBoard attendance rate（directors） % 100.0 100.0 100.0 consolidated NonBoard attendance rate（auditors） % 100.0 92.3※1 consolidated NonNumber of bribery cases Cases 0 0 0 0 consolidated NonNumber of disciplinary actions Cases 5 9 consolidated NonNumber of facilitation payments Cases 0 0 0 0 consolidated Compliance NonCompliance training attendance rate % 100 100 consolidated NonNumber of reports Cases 44 68 consolidated NonNumber of compliance violations Cases 5 9 consolidated ※1 The attendance rate of Audit & Supervisory Board Members excluding the Audit & Supervisory Board Member who resigned due to illness on March 27, 2020 was 100%. 95 Social Data ■ Innovative Pharmaceutical Products Category Item Scope Unit FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 NonR&D expenses Million yen 57,506 68,821 70,008 66,497 consolidated Research Development NonRatio of R&D expenses to net sales % 23.5 26.3 24.3 22.7 consolidated ■ Human Resources and Human Rights Category Item Scope Unit FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 NonParticipants × Workshop for deep 943 317 317 consolidated hours understanding our mission statement NonParticipants 145 56 54 consolidated NonParticipants × 822 On-site training at consolidated hours medical institutions NonParticipants 105 consolidated Patient associationsʼ NonParticipants × 2,743 lecture consolidated hours meetings/Virtual Reality (VR) patient NonParticipants 1,704 experience consolidated NonParticipants × Special training 1,388 2,704 3,341 3,634 consolidated hours program for global business NonParticipants 30 39 52 61 consolidated NonParticipants × Speaking skill of 11,988 19,215 15,912 consolidated hours English training program NonParticipants 111 260 216 consolidated Orientation for NonParticipants × newly hired 9,408 7,682 6,253 consolidated hours Company-wide joint employees/ Provision of Growth training Follow-up training NonOpportunities implementation for newly hired Participants 98 86 70 consolidated status employees Third-year employee NonParticipants × 3,040 1,667 2,148 training/ consolidated hours Fifth-year employee Nontraining Participants 190 164 173 consolidated Training for individual NonParticipants × contributors 11,968 11,653 4,400 consolidated hours promoted to the highest level/ Training for new core employees/ NonTraining for new Participants 748 1,027 357 consolidated managers/ Manager training Self-development learning (Correspondence courses/Online NonParticipants 223 324 378 532 foreign language consolidated conversation/ support for qualiﬁcation tests) NonParticipants × 2,604 2,513 5,963 Elective and consolidated hours Voluntary training NonParticipants 217 231 681 consolidated 96 Category Item Scope Unit FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 NonParticipants × Diversity 108 1,529 32 consolidated hours management training NonParticipants 27 734 48 consolidated NonParticipants × 1,362 426 345 Career planning consolidated hours training NonParticipants 190 142 115 consolidated NonParticipants × 1,950 992 858 consolidated hours Coaching training NonParticipants 78 37 32 consolidated Annual training NonHours 35.5 30.7 hours per employee consolidated Promoting active NonEmployment of persons with disabilities % 2.30 2.24 2.28 2.20 participation of persons consolidated with disabilities/midNoncareer employment Mid-career employment（Cumulative） Persons 322 380 440 446 consolidated NonMale ratio of new graduates % 57 66 51 66 consolidated NonFemale ratio of new graduates % 43 34 49 34 consolidated NonEmployee（Male） Persons 2,358 2,629 2,682 2,676 consolidated NonEmployee（Female） Persons 524 570 602 611 consolidated NonEmployee（total） Persons 3,062 3,199 3,284 3,287 consolidated NonContract workers ratio % 0.3 0.1 0.1 consolidated NonEmployee composition Temporary staﬀ ratio % 8.8 8.9 8.0 consolidated NonAverage age (male) Years old 41.1 42.1 42.6 42.7 consolidated NonAverage age (female) Years old 37.1 37.9 38.0 37.9 consolidated NonAverage age (total) Years old 40.4 41.4 41.8 41.9 consolidated Average consecutive years of employment NonYears 15.9 16.0 16.3 15.9 （male） consolidated Average consecutive years of employment NonYears 12.3 11.8 12.0 11.1 （female） consolidated Average consecutive years of employment NonYears 15.3 15.3 15.5 15.0 （total） consolidated NonAverage annual salary JPY 10,000 897 906 917 928 consolidated NonCollective bargaining rights holding rate % 97.3 consolidated NonLabor union participation rate % 68.6 66.8 65.1 60.8 consolidated NonEmployee information Employee satisfaction rate (male) % 68 consolidated NonEmployee satisfaction rate (female) % 57 consolidated NonEmployee satisfaction rate (all) % 62 66 consolidated NonFemale manager rate % 3.4 3.9 4.0 4.6 consolidated 97 Category Item Scope Unit FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 NonRetention rate after 3 years（male） consolidated % 93.1 98.4 96.1 95.4 Retention rate after 3 years（female） Nonconsolidated % 85.4 96.9 100.0 90.9 Retention rate after 3 years（total） Nonconsolidated % 89.9 97.8 97.8 93.9 Turnover and retention rate Full-time employee turnover rate Nonconsolidated % 1.0 1.3 1.5 1.6 （voluntary resignation） Full-time employee turnover rate Nonconsolidated % 0.9 0.7 0.6 0.2 （Mandatory retirement, etc.） NonFull-time employee turnover rate（total） consolidated % 1.9 2.0 2.1 1.8 ■ Safety and Health Category Item Scope Unit FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 ％ compared ▽5.7% ▽14.5% Overtime hours Non-consolidated to previous N/A ▽0.5％ （compared （compared year to FY2014） to FY2014） ％ compared △17.2％ △24.7％ Percentage of paid vacation taken Non-consolidated to previous N/A △6.4％ （compared （compared year to FY2014） to FY2014） All Japanese operation sites Incidents 1 1 1 0 （Employees）※2 Number of lost-time injuries All Japanese operation sites Incidents 1 （Temporary Enhancing cultivation employees）※6 of employee-friendly workplaces All Japanese operation sites 0.16 0.16 0.15 0.00 Occupational （Employees）※2 Lost-time injury injuries All Japanese frequency rate※3 operation sites 2.09 （Temporary employees）※6 Number of All Japanese occupational operation sites Incidents 0 illnesses※4 （Employees）※6 All Japanese Occupational illness operation sites 0.00 frequency rate※5 （Employees）※6 Medical checkups received Non-consolidated % 99.1 99.4 99.7 Stomach cancer Non-consolidated % 97.2 97.3 97.7 screening Supporting disease Lung cancer Non-consolidated % 99.3 99.7 99.9 prevention, early screening detection and early Cancer screening Colorectal cancer treatment rate Non-consolidated % 93.9 93.6 95.8 screening Breast cancer Non-consolidated % 90.0 88.3 86.7 screening Cervical cancer Non-consolidated % 43.4 42.3 47.3 Mental health Stress checks received Non-consolidated % 95.1 99.4 99.8 Employees Non-consolidated Persons 887 1,088 1,169 1,450 Number of Family Non-consolidated Persons 256 472 771 987 participants in Health promotion walking campaign Temporary staﬀ, Non-consolidated Persons 68 99 90 124 etc. Walking campaign total employee Non-consolidated % 34 35 44 participation rate ※2 Scope before FY2016: Domestic plants and research institutes ※3 Lost-time injury frequency rate = (number of lost-time injuries / total number of actual working hours) x 1,000,000 ※4 Occupational illness: Diseases on the occupational disease list of the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare, excluding those reported as occupational illnesses. ※5 Occupational illness frequency rate = (number of occupational illnesses / total number of actual working hours) x 1,000,000 ※6 The data on the number of lost-time injuries and the lost-time injury frequency rate for temporary employees, and the data on the number of occupational illnesses and the occupational illness frequency rate, are subject to disclosure from FY2019. 98 Environmental Data ■ Energy Saving and Global Warming Prevention The scope of environmental data is non-consolidated basis Category Item Scope Unit FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Production and 10,000 t2.06 2.07 2.17 2.37 research sites CO2 Headquarters and other Sites in Japan 10,000 tEnergy-derived GHG emissions（Location-basis） 0.17 0.17 0.18 0.17 （including CO2 tenant locations） 10,000 tTotal 2.23 2.24 2.35 2.54 CO2 All operation 10,000 tEnergy-derived Scope 1 0.85 0.85 0.90 0.97 sites CO2 GHG emissions scope breakdown All operation 10,000 t（Locati on-basis） Scope 2 1.38 1.39 1.45 1.57 GHG sites CO2 emissions Production and 10,000 t2.73 2.72 2.61 2.52 research sites CO2 Headquarters and other Sites in Japan 10,000 tGHG emissions (Market-basis) 0.26 0.26 0.24 0.21 （including CO2 tenant locations） 10,000 tTotal 2.99 2.98 2.85 2.73 CO2 All operation 10,000 tGHG emissions Scope 1 0.85 0.87 0.95 1.02 sites CO2 scope breakdown (Market-basis) All operation 10,000 tScope 2 2.14 2.11 1.90 1.71 sites CO2 All operation 10,000 tCat1 Purchased goods and services ※7 9.71 0.85 0.81 ※8 sites CO2 10,000 tCat2 Capital goods 2.70 5.26 6.04 2.69 CO2 Fueland energy-related activities 10,000 tCat3 0.15 0.15 0.15 0.28 not included in scope 1 or scope 2 CO2 Upstream transportation and 10,000 tCat4 0.01 0.01 0.01 0.01 distribution CO2 GHG emissions in 10,000 tCat5 Waste generated in operations 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.03 the value CO2 chain 10,000 t(Scope3) Cat6 Business travel 0.22 0.25 0.23 0.40 CO2 10,000 tCat7 Employee commuting 0.03 0.04 0.04 0.05 CO2 10,000 tCat8 Upstream leased assets 0.35 0.35 0.33 0.29 CO2 Downstream transportation and 10,000 tCat9 0.62 0.53 0.53 ※8 distribution CO2 10,000 tCat10 Processing of sold products Not relevant Not relevant Not relevant Not relevant CO2 99 Category Item Scope Unit FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 10,000 tCat11 Use of sold products Not relevant Not relevant Not relevant Not relevant CO2 End-of-life treatment of sold 10,000 tCat12 0.02 0.01 0.02 0.02 products CO2 10,000 tCat13 Downstream leased assets 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.03 CO2 10,000 tCat14 Franchises Not relevant Not relevant Not relevant Not relevant CO2 10,000 tCat15 Investments Not relevant Not relevant Not relevant Not relevant CO2 10,000 tTotal 13.87 7.51 8.22 ※8 CO2 Production and 10,000 GJ 52.72 52.65 55.42 60.80 research sites Headquarters and other Japan Energy consumption oﬃces/sites 10,000 GJ 5.04 5.09 5.13 4.95 （including tenant locations） Energy consumption Total 10,000 GJ 57.76 57.74 60.55 65.75 Solar power generation MWh 53.96 55.29 64.97 63.03 (by private power generation) Solar power generation Renewable energy All operation MWh 2,427 (by purchase) amount sites hydroelectric generation MWh 1,278 Biomass power generation (by MWh 2,900 2,460.90 purchase) ※7 Calculation method of category 1 in Scope 3, “Purchased goods and services”, was changed from FY2017. FY2016 and previous ﬁscal years: Purchase cost of raw materials, materials, etc., multiplied by emission factor stated in “Emission Factor Database on Accounting for Greenhouse Gas Emissions throughout the Supply Chain (ver. 2 .4),” published by the Ministry of the Environment, Government of Japan. Since FY2017: CO2 emissions(Scope 1,2) volume of our raw materials and materials suppliers (accounting for 80% or more of our raw materials or materials purchase costs) multiplied by the ratio of the sales to ONO out of the total sales of the supplier. Ratios for other business suppliers are assumed to follow the same trend as for major suppliers, and are calculated using the ratio of CO2 emissions to the transaction amount at major suppliers. ※8 Because our major business partners had not published their CSR reports at the time of calculation. ■ Eﬀorts Made for Reducing Water Use Category Item Scope Unit FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Water intake per site Fujiyama Plant/Joto factory (current Joto Pharmaceutical Product Development Center)/ MinaseResearch Institute/Fukui 3 10,000 m 29.84 32.56 34.80 29.67 Research Institute/Tsukuba Research Institute/Headquarters, other (Basin) Japan oﬃces and sites Fuji river Fujiyama Plant 10,000 m3 19.57 20.56 24.02 18.50 Joto factory (current Joto Pharmaceutical Yodo river 10,000 m3 0.72 0.55 0.60 0.51 Product Development Water intake Center) Minase Research Yodo river 10,000 m3 4.52 5.13 4.12 3.91 Institute Kuzuryu river Fukui Research Institute 10,000 m3 3.94 3.87 3.13 2.73 Tsukuba Research Lake Kasumigaura 10,000 m3 1.09 0.81 0.60 0.71 Institute Fushino river Yamaguchi Plant 10,000 m3 0.82 1.81 Headquarters and other Basins of major Japan oﬃces/sites 10,000 m3 1.64 1.51 1.50 oﬃces※9 (including some tenant locations) 100 Category Item Scope Unit FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Fujiyama Plant/Joto factory (current Joto Pharmaceutical Product Development Center)/MinaseResearch Institute/Fukui 10,000 m3 19.97 23.51 25.99 23.52 Research Institute/Tsukuba Research Institute/Headquarters, other Japan oﬃces and (destination) sites River Fujiyama Plant 10,000 m3 12.89 14.86 17.84 14.51 Joto factory (current Wastewater Wastewater site Joto Pharmaceutical Sewer 10,000 m3 0.72 0.55 0.60 0.51 Product Development Center) Minase Research Sewer 10,000 m3 4.52 5.13 4.12 3.91 Institute Sewer Fukui Research Institute 10,000 m3 0.75 0.52 0.50 0.57 Tsukuba Research Sewer 10,000 m3 1.09 0.81 0.60 0.71 Institute River Yamaguchi Plant 10,000 m3 0.82 1.81 Headquarters and other Japan oﬃces/sites Sewer 10,000 m3 1.64 1.51 1.50 (including some tenant locations) Percentage of reused Production and research % 5.90 4.60 5.51 water sites ※9 Basins of major oﬃces: Toyohira River, Okura River, Arakawa River, Sakawa River, Kiso River, Lake Biwa, Yodo River, Ota River, Yoshino River, Naka River ■ Waste Management, and Recycling Containers and Product Packaging Category Item Scope Unit FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Waste Production Waste generated and research t 534.6 719.1 446.4 430.8 sites Specially Production management and research t 138.1 137.0 145.6 161.9 industrial waste sites Industrial waste Production ﬁnal landﬁll disposal and research t 0.7 7.4 0.4 0.2 sites Production ﬁnal landﬁll disposal and research % 0.13 1.02 0.09 0.05 rate sites Production ﬁnal landﬁll disposal and research t 10.66 18.04 9.35 6.75 (Non-industrial waste is included) sites Container and Production packaging usage Plastic and research t 164.7 171.7 162.8 sites Production Paper and research t 192.0 202.7 200.9 sites Production Glass (colorless) and research t 0 0 0 sites 101 Category Item Scope Unit FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Production Glass (brown) and research t 0.3 0.3 0.3 sites Production Plastic and research t 34.7 35.5 31.2 sites Production Paper and research t 1.6 1.6 1.5 Obligatory recycling sites amount Production Glass (colorless) and research t 0 0 0 sites Production Glass (brown) and research t 0 0 0 sites Production Commissioning fee paid for recycling and research 1,000 yen 1,723 1,650 1,546 sites Production PRTR substance and research t 10.94 11.79 9.76 11.34 sites ■ Prevention of Air Pollution and Water Pollution Category Item Scope Unit FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Production SOx and research t 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 sites Production NOx and research t 13.80 7.812 8.38 8.10 sites Emissions into the air Production Particulate matter and research t 0.42 0.34 0.28 0.33 sites Production PRTR substance and research t 0.20 0.36 0.25 0.15 sites Production Wastewater and research 10,000 m3 19.97 21.87 24.48 22.02 sites Production Emissions into water BOD and research t 2.38 2.22 1.27 1.31 sites Production PRTR substance and research t 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 sites ■ Management of Chemicals Category Item Scope Unit FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 PRTR substances Production Acetonitrile and research t 8.29 8.98 7.19 8.51 sites Production Normal-hexane and research t 2.95 2.97 2.82 2.98 Amount handled by sites the notiﬁed facilities Production Total and research t 11.24 11.95 10.01 11.49 sites Production Dioxins and research mg-TEQ sites 102 Category Item Scope Unit FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Production Acetonitrile and research t 0.20 0.36 0.25 0.15 sites Production Normal-hexane and research t 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Notiﬁed release sites （into the air） Production Total and research t 0.20 0.36 0.25 0.15 sites Production Dioxins and research mg-TEQ 0.27 0.00 sites Production Acetonitrile and research t 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 sites Production Normal-hexane and research t 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Notiﬁed release sites （into public waters） Production Total and research t 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 sites Production Dioxins and research mg-TEQ 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 sites Production Acetonitrile and research t 8.09 8.82 6.94 8.36 sites Production Normal-hexane and research t 2.85 2.97 2.82 2.98 Notiﬁed transfer sites （contained in waste） Production Total and research t 10.94 11.79 9.76 11.34 sites Production Dioxins and research mg-TEQ 16.75 0.00 sites Production Acetonitrile and research t 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 sites Production Normal-hexane and research t 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Notiﬁed transfer sites （Into public sewage） Production Total and research t 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 sites Production Dioxins and research mg-TEQ 0.00 0.00 sites Production Acetonitrile and research t 8.29 8.98 7.19 8.51 sites Production Normal-hexane and research t 2.95 2.97 2.82 2.98 Notiﬁed release and sites transfer (total) Production Total and research t 11.24 11.95 10.01 11.49 sites Production Dioxins and research mg-TEQ 17.02 0.00 sites 103 Category Development Item Scope Unit FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Center) Production Stored（Fluorescent Joto factory (current and research Stand 552 552 552 0 lamp） Joto Pharmaceutical sites Product Production PCB Disposed and research Stand 6 6 6 558 sites Minase Research Production Institute Disposed and research Stand 2 2 2 2 sites Production CFC calculated leakage of ﬂuorocarbons and research t-CO2 197.9 494.4 443.56 sites ■ Green Purchasing Category Item Scope Unit FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 All operation Green Purchasing oﬃce supplies purchased ％ 83 80 76 76 sites ■ Environmental Management Category Item Scope Unit FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Production Management Acquisition status of ISO14001 site 100% 100% 100% 100% site * Production sites in operation are 100% ISO14001 certiﬁed. ■ Environmental Violations Category Item Scope Unit FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Environmental Violation cases (with ﬁnes of USD 10,000 All operation Cases 0 0 0 0 Violations or more) sites Social Contribution Activities Data ■ Social Contribution Activities Category Item Scope Unit FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 FY2019 Osamu Hayaishi Memorial Award － Persons 1 1 1 Recipients of theresearch grant － Persons 12 12 12 12 Initiatives for medical Recipients of theresearch scholarship grant advancement － Persons 16 16 16 16 （40 years old and below） Recipients of the Osamu Hayaishi Memorial － Persons 8 8 8 8 Scholarship for Study Abroad 104 External Evaluation External Evaluation External evaluation of environmental, societal and corporate governance eﬀorts FTSE4Good Index Series This index was developed by FTSE Russell, wholly owned by the London Stock Exchange. Selected from companies that satisfy criteria from the perspectives of environment, society and governance, we have been included since 2018. FTSE Blossom Japan Index This index was developed by FTSE Russell, wholly owned by the London Stock Exchange. Selected from Japanese companies that satisfy criteria from the perspectives of environment, society and governance, we have been included since 2018. MSCI Japan ESG Select Leaders Index This is an index by the U.S. Inc ,MSCI. This index selects Japanese companies that are superior in terms of environment, social and governance ratings ,from among the stocks that comprise the MSCI Japan IMI top-700 index. We were selected in 2019. THE INCLUSION OF ONO PHARMACEUTICAL CO., LTD. IN ANY MSCI INDEX, AND THE USE OF MSCI LOGOS, TRADEMARKS, SERVICE MARKS OR INDEX NAMES HEREIN, DO NOT CONSTITUTE A SPONSORSHIP, ENDORSEMENT OR PROMOTION OF ONO PHARMACEUTICAL CO., LTD. BY MSCI OR ANY OF ITS AFFILIATES. THE MSCI INDEXES ARE THE EXCLUSIVE PROPERTY OF MSCI. MSCI AND THE MSCI INDEX NAMES AND LOGOS ARE TRADEMARKS OR SERVICE MARKS OF MSCI OR ITS AFFILIATES. CDP CDP is a global NGO based in the United Kingdom working environmental ﬁelds such as climate change. CDP drives major companies and cities around the world to disclose information about how they tack on climate change and water management through surveys and evaluations. In 2019 we have been selected as a “Climate Change A List” ,the highest climate change evaluation, following on 2018. Environment Minister's Award for Global Warming Prevention Activity This is an award to the remarkable achievements of individuals and organizations towards the prevention of global warming. We received 2019 Environment Minister's Award in the Implementation and Dissemination of Countermeasures category of Global Warming Prevention Activity from the Ministry of the Environment for its eﬀorts toward the realization of the mediumand long-term environmental vision ECO VISION 2050 . 105 Osaka Stop Global Warming Award This is a program honoring companies and business oﬃces that serve as models to others in terms of restricting the greenhouse gas and artiﬁcial exhaust heat emissions generated by their business activities, as well as helping equalize electric power demand. In ﬁscal 2018, we received the Award for Excellence. 2020 Health & Productivity Stock In 2020, ONO was selected for the inclusion in a “2020 Health & Productivity Stock” for the ﬁrst time by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) and the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE), who jointly select enterprises strategically engaged in their employeesʼ health management from a management perspective. This program selects, in principle, on a one-company per industry basis. Health & Productivity Management Outstanding Organization In 2020, ONO was also accredited by the METI and the Nippon Kenko Kaigi, for the second consecutive year, as a “2020 Certiﬁed Health & Productivity Management Outstanding Organization in the large enterprise category (White 500)”. Under the recognition program, the Nippon Kenko Kaigi examines large enterprises engaging in initiatives for overcoming health-related challenges in communities or for promoting health-conscious activities led by the Nippon Kenko Kaigi, and recognizes top 500 outstanding enterprises engaging in eﬀorts for health and productivity management. Nikkei Smart Work Management Survey This survey has been conducted by Nikkei Inc. since 2017, targeting listed companies and leading unlisted companies across Japan. Smart Work Management is deﬁned as initiatives for maximizing the performance of the organization through eﬀorts in three areas: diverse and ﬂexible work styles, a system for creating new businesses, and market development capability. Companies are evaluated in these three areas, in addition to management foundation, which includes corporate governance, and companies with a deviation value of 50 or more are rated on a scale of 3 to 5 stars. Our company was rated 4 stars in the Third Nikkei Smart Work Management Survey. Nikkei SDGs Management This survey was initiated by Nikkei Inc. in 2019 to recognize companies that are actively addressing societal, economic, and environmental issues through business by integrating SDGs in their management so as to enhance corporate value. The survey reviews companiesʼ eﬀorts to promote SDGs management, and companies with a deviation value of 50 or more are rated on a scale of 3 to 5 stars based on three factors: economic value, social value, and environmental value. Our company was rated 4.5 stars in the First Nikkei SDGs Management Survey. 106 Independent Practitioner's Assurance Report 107
