Communication on Progress Report Grant Thornton Greece March 2020 Grant Thornton International Who we are Global We’re a network of independent assurance, tax and advisory firms, made up of 56,000 people in over 143 countries. And we’re here to help dynamic organisations unlock their potential for growth. For more than 100 years, we have helped dynamic organisations We’ve got scale, combined with local market understanding. That realise their strategic ambitions. Whether you’re looking to finance means we’re everywhere you are, as well as where you want to be. growth, manage risk and regulation, optimise your operations or realise stakeholder value, we can help you. Grant Thornton Greece 3 The scale you need to meet your changing needs With presence on every continent, we are where you need us. Through our more than 600 office locations in the Americas, Europe, Middle East, Africa, Commonwealth of Independent States and Asia Pacific, we bring our knowledge to you. Our teams offer advice and insight grounded in a deep understanding of the challenges you face – wherever you do business. Our local knowledge helps you stay one step ahead. Grant Thornton Greece 4 From one growing business to another Grant Thornton is the fastest growing large global accounting organisation over the last years. We understand what it means to be a growing company. Your challenges are our challenges. Grant Thornton Greece 5 International business centres International business centres (IBCs) fill a IBCs regularly assist clients in the following unique role as gateways to worldwide ways: resources. Exploring overseas opportunities They provide Grant Thornton member firm clients with concentrated, specialised Conducting due diligence in relation to third parties services while operating as a hub for global communications, strategy and regionally focused business expertise. Meeting local tax and reporting requirements The infrastructure to enable you to draw on our deep global expertise Managing resources and resolving issues 28 IBCs covering every region. Providing access to in-country professionals with a deep understanding of the local marketplace Coordinating multinational assignments Advising on member firm capabilities Grant Thornton Greece 6 Grant Thornton Greece Statement of continued support A statement by the CEO, renewing the company’s ongoing commitment to the Global Compact’s principles As one of the largest professional services companies in Greece, we are aware of our obligation to take a leadership role in promoting Corporate Social Responsibility, as well as revealing Sustainable Development opportunities for all customers and business partners. We are very proud to be a member of the United Nations Global Compact, the world’s largest corporate citizenship and sustainability initiative. Publishing for the fourth year our Communication on Progress Report (COP) we are presenting our activity around the ten UN Global Compact’s Principles covering human rights, labour standards, environmental responsibility and business integrity and transparency. Our responsible business initiatives embody our values and demonstrate how they are embedded in the way we Vassilis Kazas engage with our people, our clients and our communities. Our people is the most important asset of our Managing Partner organization and we are committed to retain a healthy, high-performance culture where all feel valued, respected and encouraged to contribute their unique abilities. We have created a corporate culture that promotes equal opportunities, recognizing also the importance of the role of women in senior management positions. We are proud of the high percentage of women in administrative positions reaching 35%, i.e. 11 points higher than the average business in Greece and 5 points higher than the average business in Europe (source: IBR Women Business: Implementation of the action plan in practice ). Responsible Business at Grant Thornton means looking for opportunities to use our strength to make a positive contribution in our local and global economies and communities. We always welcome new challenges and opportunities, as we are ready to turn them into key factors to grow business and achieve prosperity. Grant Thornton Greece 8 Grant Thornton Greece With presence in 4 cities and 5 offices, we are where you need us. Through our offices in Athens, Thessaloniki, Heraklion of Crete and Ioannina and with more than 600 employees, we bring our expertise closer to you. Our teams offer advice and insight grounded in a deep understanding of the challenges you face – wherever you do business. Grant Thornton Greece 9 Greece A focus on Greece Grant Thornton in Greece is a leading provider of national audit, tax and advisory services. With 5 offices in Greece and approximately 600 people, we apply strong technical guidance and breadth of experience to ensure that clients receive a truly different experience. Our approach is built on a genuine interest in our clients – their challenges, growth ambitions and commercial context. Rather than push ready-made solutions, we ask questions and listen. In this way, we get closer to the issues and provide sharper, more meaningful advice for the long-term. Revenue growth (FY 2009 – 2018)* €13.5 m 2009 156% €34.6 m increase in revenues over the last years 2018 (FY 2009 2018)* Personnel growth (FY 2008 – 2018)* 120% Personnel growth (FY 2008 – 2018)* 2008 285 5 office locations 2018 > 600 Athens, Thessaloniki, Heraklion, Ioannina *Fiscal Year 1/7 – 30/6 Grant Thornton Greece 10 Why Grant Thornton No.1 75% 37 Partners 5 offices in Greece more than 60 fastest growing professional NPS – Net Promoter Score listed companies services firm 159% increase in total turnover 34,6m revenue in 2018 fiscal year* over 50 multinationals No.1 in listed entities* Over 145% Personnel growth (FY 2009 – 2018)* (FY 2008 – 2018)* 25 years track record 1:11 Partner to professional staff 81% 3 91% growth in Tax over the last dedicated departments for growth in Advisory ratio, compared to 4 years Financial Services Energy (2014-2017) 1:16 among the Big 4 & Public Sector *Total Number of Audit Reports Hellastat, May 2018 (using data from 2016) Grant Thornton Greece 11 Our distinctions Πιστοποιήσεις Grant Thornton Greece Grant Thornton Greece BS EN ISO 9001:2015 & “Best managed workplace 2016”, National Champion (The Business of the Year €0-25m) of the ISO/IEC 27001:2013 second place European Business Awards 2014/2015 Thought leadership Initiative of Grant Thornton International Ltd Grant Thornton International Ltd the year in 2017, International “Global Most Attractive Employers in 2018, 2017, “Global Employer of the Year in 2017, 2015, 2014 Accounting Bulletin 2016, 2015 and 2013 by Universum” and 2013, International Accounting Bulletin” Best Programme for Leadership Development, 2015 winner, Managing Partners' Forum Awards For Management Excellence Grant Thornton Greece 12 Surveys We are committed to inform clients about all recent developments in every aspect of the economic and business environment and focus on the key issues that entrepreneurs are facing. For copies, please contact the Marketing & Client Experience Dpt. Grant Thornton Greece 13 IBR Surveys The Grant Thornton International Business Report (IBR) is the world's leading mid-market business survey. Launched in 1992 in nine European countries, the report now surveys more than 10,000 senior executives in 35 economies on an annual basis, providing insight into the economic and commercial issues affecting both listed and privately-held businesses. For copies, please contact the Marketing & Client Experience Dpt. Grant Thornton Greece 14 Books Based on the needs of our clients, as well as given the shortage in updated and integrated Greek publications on this subject, we made an attempt to narrow this gap with the Grant Thornton IFRS books. The books were available both through the company's network and major Greek bookstores and received very good reviews. Grant Thornton's bibliography: • International Financial Reporting Standards (2016) • International Financial Reporting Standards – IFRS, detailed presentation (2009) • International Financial Reporting Standards – advanced topics (2007) • International Accounting Standards– IFRS, detailed presentation (2006) • International Accounting Standards– IFRS, detailed presentation (2004) 2006 2009 2004 2007 2016 Grant Thornton Greece 15 Newsletters Forodoxies IFRS Newsletter Financial Sector Newsletter GrowthIQ International Business Report To subscribe, please contact the Marketing & Client Experience Dpt. Grant Thornton Greece 16 Publications Brochures We produce publications in a variety of issues regarding our services as well as on current developments and a broad range of subjects that are of interest to the business community; giving the opportunity to our executives and our customers to be informed on the latest developments. Grant Thornton Greece 17 A different approach to the market Our approach is built on a genuine interest We discover what’s important to you and make it important to us in our clients – their challenges, growth ambitions and commercial context. Rather than push ready-made solutions, we Agile and responsive service ask questions and listen. In this way, we get closer to the issues and provide sharper, more meaningful advice for the long-term. Pragmatic solutions to help you improve and grow Collaborative teams with a different mindset Grant Thornton Greece 18 A different approach to the market Greater partner attention for clients High NPS score (member firm partner to people ratio) (Client satisfaction metric that measures the degree to which clients would recommend Grant Thornton to other companies/organisations) 1:11 Grant Thornton 75% Net Promoter Score (NPS) 1:16 Other companies in Among the Top the sector NPS across Grant Thornton’s network Grant Thornton Greece 19 Grant Thornton Greece – Acting responsibly Our culture Our global values Grant Thornton, is distinguished by a culture of openness and transparency, where our people make the difference. Vision To become the world's leading adviser to dynamic organisations by helping them to unlock their potential for growth. We commit to our global values (CLEARR): Grant Thornton Greece 21 Growing Together – Global Strategy 2020 Unlock the potential for growth Sustain our long term growth & profitability Grant Thornton Greece 22 Stakeholder engagement Communication channels Engaging with our stakeholders evolves our decision-making and help us deliver better results. We strongly believe that open and transparent communication with our stakeholder groups is the most effective way to enhance the positive impacts of our performance, while minimizing all negative aspects of our operation. Shareholders Frequency of communication • Publication of Financial statements • Publication of annual Transparency report Monthly • Publication of COP Report Clients • Client satisfaction survey • Continuous physical & telephone communication Frequency of communication • Company website • Newsletters (Advisory, IFRS, Tax, TAS, Financial Insights) Everyday • Surveys Employees • Open door policy • Annual Employee Engagement Survey Frequency of communication • Information sharing via e-mails • Newsletters & mailbags on various subjects • Intranet Everyday • Annual corporate meeting Grant Thornton Greece 23 Stakeholder engagement Communication channels Frequency of communication Suppliers • Supplier management by category Monthly • Contact for financial matters Frequency of communication Community • Participation in activities, donations, volunteering for local communities When necessary • Participation at CSR Hellas network Frequency of communication NGOs, Foundations, Associations When • Participation in activities, donations, volunteering for local communities necessary Frequency of communication Mass media • Press releases When necessary Governmental & Institutional bodies Frequency of communication • Participation in various organisations and chambers When • Participation in conferences and events that are organised by Government and Institutions necessary • Participation in surveys and public consultations of institutions Grant Thornton Greece 24 Corporate Social Responsibility Grant Thornton recognizes the important Grant Thornton makes the best of For one more year, Grant Thornton Greece contribution the Corporate Social participations in networks, organizations, keeps rendering free of charge tax, Responsibility’s actions have on achieving agencies, unions and associations of assurance and consulting services to Sustainable Growth and has proceeded industry or broader business interest to selected companies participating in NBG’s with signing and adopting the 10 principles exchange expertise, views and best Business Seeds and EGG (Enter-Go-Grow) of UN’s Global Compact. Our Company practices. In addition, through our programs. follows up on its commitments made since participation in Corporate Social In addition, we take part in workshops, 2013 participating in the initial Global Responsibility networks, we monitor trends conducted twice a year in the context of Compact National Declaration in Greece, and developments in sustainable “Innovation & Technology” competition, coordinated by CSR Hellas. development in order to develop and providing information and consultancy promote responsible practices. regarding the current issues faced by the Grant Thornton is one of the founding Grant Thornton is a member of the Greek participants. members of the new Sustainability CSR Network and actively participates in operators in Greece of the Global Compact working groups promoting corporate Network Hellas. responsibility practices in modern business. Hellenic Network for Corporate Social The newly founded Global Compact Responsibility (CSR HELLAS) aims to Network Hellas legal entity is one of the 70 develop the principles and practical Global Compact Networks around the world applications of responsible entrepreneurship which form the global organization’s 2020 to enhance sustainability, innovation and strategy. social cohesion at national and local level. Grant Thornton Greece 25 Corporate Social Responsibility Growing Together in the community We believe we have the global scale and expertise to make a real difference and positive change in the communities we work and live in. Our people support the communities through a wide range of educational, environmental, healthcare and charity based initiatives. 2019 Global CSR Day 2018 Global CSR Day Once again, our company has proven to have a strong sense of During 2018 Global CSR day, our company supported the message solidarity and volunteering. Occasioned by the International Day of of solidarity and selfless offer. The pillar of our action was based on Corporate and Social Responsibility of our network, our voluntary volunteerism and the unique experiences that have the power to action took place on September 20th, 2019. More specifically, this impart to us. year Grant Thornton, alongside Ethelon, helped redevelop two The purpose of the conference was to raise awareness and schools, one in Kaisariani and one in Sepolia. information about volunteering through our guest speakers and to Grant Thornton's team in Kaisariani helped paint the school and activate all of us through voluntary activities throughout the year. create a library for its students. Through donating spare books our At the end of the action, the “Be My Hero” team has sample bone people managed to collect about 130 books for the library. marrow from those who wanted to become donor volunteers. In Sepolia, Grant Thornton’s team helped remodel the school's outdoor environment and paint the playroom. Grant Thornton Greece 26 Growth Awards Growth Awards , envisioned and presented by Grant Thornton & Eurobank, aspiring to be the leading engine of business excellence in the market and drive growth for the dynamic companies in Greece, based on their distinctive industry performance. The evaluation process was performed based on specific analysis of key financial figures and trends of 8,000 companies under Grant Thornton’s Financial Growth/Health Matrix evaluation model and Eurobank's credit assessment tools, combined with the real stories of the shortlisted entities. During the 3rd award ceremony, with the presence of more than 2,000 guests in the main hall of the Athens Concert Hall, the following winners were announced and celebrated: • CHIPITA S.A. (Category “Entrepreneurial Excellence”) • PLAISIO COMPUTERS (Category “Operational Business Improvement”) • JUMBO S.A. (Category “Product & Market Development”) • V. KAFKAS S.A. (Category “People and Culture”) • ELVALHALCOR S.A. (Category “Investments”) • CHITOS S.A. | ZAGORI Natural Mineral Water (Category “Corporate Social Responsibility”) • OTE GROUP (Category “Digital Transformation”) Grant Thornton Greece 27 Endorsing Global Compact Principles Human rights Respecting labor rights and human rights is a critical element of doing business responsibly. That has been our strong belief for a long time. Our company respects and is committed towards all its shareholders to protect the nationally declared human rights, establishing a safe working environment of equal opportunities, meritocracy and respect for diversity. The company strictly applies the Greek and European legislation and provides protection on collective labor contracts. Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Grant Thornton Greece 29 Human rights Protecting human rights in the working environment is in full accordance with the European and the Greek Legislation, thus Grant Thornton Greece provides and secures a fair working environment, focusing primarily on equal opportunities. The Company adheres to the International Ethics and Quality Equal opportunities Control Manual (EQCM), which deals with the IFAC Code of Recruitment and career development are based strictly on Ethics, ISQC no.1, local professional standards and risk qualifications and performance, without any discrimination being management issues. made on the grounds of gender, nationality, age, marital status or other characteristics. Human rights We do not tolerate discrimination, child or forced labour, or any form of harassment, applying the principles of un Global Compact on human rights. Grant Thornton Greece 30 Human capital – Whistleblowing Grant Thornton Greece strives to achieve a transparent business climate and a high level of business ethics. Our employees are the most important source of insight for revealing possible misconduct that needs to be addressed. Internal Whistleblowing Policy Our whistleblowing scheme offers a possibility to alert the company • Infringement of our Code of Ethics or any of our policies about suspicions of misconduct in confidence. It is an important tool • Acts that may constitute fraud and/or corruption for reducing risks, detecting and preventing malpractices, discouraging unethical behaviour and maintaining trust in our • Serious irregularities in the company’s internal processes operations by enabling us to act on possible misconduct at an early • Violations of the applicable anti-money laundering legislation, such stage. as non-compliance with customer due diligence measures or with The purpose of the Policy is to clarify the scope and operation of the reporting obligations whistleblowing scheme and the investigation process and to encourage our employees to blow the whistle on suspected misconduct without any risk of retaliation, anonymously. Whistleblowing can be used to report suspicions for serious irregularities or malpractices, relating to: • Infringements of laws and regulations on accounting, internal accounting controls, auditing matters • Major deficiencies affecting the security at the workplace • Serious forms of discrimination or harassment, such as verbal or physical disrespect of a person because of his/her origin, religion, sexual orientation, special condition or otherwise Grant Thornton Greece 31 Labor practices Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Grant Thornton Greece 32 Human capital policies Internal regulation Grant Thornton Greece has developed certain policies, in order to consistently manage and address the majority of aspects regarding all employees. The Company’s Internal Regulation was updated during 2019. In particular, the Internal Regulation document, which is available SharePoint to all personnel via the SharePoint, includes the Human Capital Management Policies, such as: Open and transparent communication is endorsed through Grant Thornton SharePoint, the Company’s intranet. The SharePoint is continuously updated, while all policies and relevant documents • Selection and hiring policy are easily accessible to all employees. • Whistleblowing policy • Training and Continuous development policy • Performance Management policy • Employee development policy • Remuneration and Benefits policy • Ethics and Quality Control Manual EQCM • Sanctions for violations of the Regulation • Employees' leave Grant Thornton Greece 33 Human capital at a glance – Hierarchical levels Partner levels Women in senior management positions There are five (5) levels of Partners that are differentiated according to the number of shares held, managerial bodies in 2017-2018 2018-2019 which they participate, the way they are awarded, the way of BoD members 1 2 bonus distribution, the time they have held the title of Partner Partners & Principals 6 13 Senior executives (Directors, Senior 51 50 Managers & Managers) Personnel ranking is as follows: • Partner TOTAL 58 65 • Principle • Director • Senior Manager • Manager • Supervisor Growing together • Senior with our people • Associate • Assistant Grant Thornton Greece 34 Human capital at a glance Local dimension Employees per geographical region 2012-2013 2013-2014 2014-2015 2015-2016 2016-2017 2017-2018 2018-2019 Attica 344 388 393 427 436 500 568 Thesaloniki 23 21 21 21 25 27 31 Crete 19 23 27 31 31 35 36 Ioannina 0 0 0 0 8 8 10 TOTAL 386 432 441 479 500 570 645 % increase 15% 11% 4% 4% 14% 13% Grant Thornton Greece 35 Human capital at a glance We recognize that our people are the driving force behind the economic growth and development of Grant Thornton Greece. Guided by shared values, the entire workforce is committed to operational excellence and to meeting our clients’ demanding needs. Workforce by gender People with disabilities 2016-2017 2017-2018 2018-2019 2016-2017 2017-2018 2018-2019 Men 281 309 343 Men 1 1 1 Women 219 261 302 Women 0 0 0 TOTAL 500 570 645 Grant Thornton Greece 36 Human capital at a glance Employee turnover 2016-2017 2017-2018 2018-2019 Men 44 70 101 Recruitments Women 44 76 94 Men 56 42 66 Departures Women 40 34 51 Grant Thornton Greece 37 Human capital at a glance Employees' age distribution 2018-2019 <30 30-50 51+ Men 117 199 27 Women 125 121 56 Total 242 320 83 Employees' age distribution 2017-2018 <30 30-50 51+ Men 85 199 25 Women 98 153 10 Total 183 352 35 Employees' age distribution 2016 2017 <30 30-50 51+ Men 104 160 17 Women 93 120 6 Total 197 280 23 Grant Thornton Greece 38 Human capital at a glance Number of employees by employment contract & gender 2016 2017 2017-2018 2018-2019 Employment Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total contract Permanent 278 215 493 300 244 544 316 270 586 Temporary 3 4 7 9 17 26 27 32 59 Total 281 219 500 309 261 570 343 302 645 Number of employees by employment type & gender 2016-2017 2017 2018 2018-2019 Employment Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total type Full-time 279 218 497 308 260 568 341 299 640 Part-time 2 1 3 1 1 2 2 3 5 Total 281 219 500 309 261 570 343 302 645 Grant Thornton Greece 39 Human capital policies – Remuneration policy The remuneration policy of the company includes: • special benefits according to professional level • educational incentives as allowances (for successful fulfillment of professional exams) • bonus • monthly food vouchers • additional benefits In particular: • Following the promotion to a higher rank, all employees are entitled to an additional amount in the monthly salary. The amounts pertaining to each rank are defined and described in the company’s «HR Policies manual». • All executives are entitled to monthly increase in wages following successful achievement of objectives pertaining to professional examinations. The amounts, designated as incentives for professional exams, are defined and described in “HR Policies manual”. Grant Thornton Greece 40 Human capital – Training & CPD Grant Thornton Greece offers extensive opportunities for career growth and development, as our highly trained employees are the basis of our competitive advantage. The company fully finances the training programs attended by its personnel. Training policy Our training policy provides guidance regarding training activities and outlines relevant procedures and targets. We believe that the skills developed will reinforce personal development and enable Grant Thornton professionals to provide clients with high quality, distinctive and differentiated services. In this context, we opt for financing special professional training programs, thus motivating its people to continuously improving their knowledge and skills. This policy covers two main pillars of educational benefits: • Internal seminars • External seminars and professional certifications Grant Thornton Greece 41 Human capital – Training & CPD Number of employees trained externally 2018-2019 Hierarchical level Men Women Board of Directors 0 0 Partners & Principals 1 1 Senior executives (Directors, Managers & 34 23 Senior Managers) Executives (Seniors, Associates, Assistants) 92 77 Administrative Staff 0 1 Total 127 102 Number of employees trained (internal seminars) 2018-2019 Hierarchical level Men Women Board of Directors 6 3 Partners & Principals 19 10 Senior executives (Directors, Managers & 102 81 Senior Managers) Executives (Seniors, Associates, Assistants) 193 149 Administrative Staff 0 10 Total 320 253 Grant Thornton Greece 42 Human capital – Training & CPD All our people are entitled to educational benefits in compliance with the terms and conditions recorded in the relative module of the current policy. Internal Seminars Professional External Seminars certifications • The company organizes special • The company has opted for • The company provides a wide induction training sessions to the relying on external training range of global and local new hires. providers regarding certain recognized professional • On annual basis, the company special professional subjects. certifications and qualifications implements internal training • External seminars are also that grants annual financing, seminars program in selected provided by GTIL network. such as ACA, ACCA, CIA, CFA, modules for its people. • External seminars providers are CIMA, CISA, PMP etc. • The range of topics is defined upon selected by the P&C team and • The programs are selected suggestions from Heads and approved by the MC. following the proposals of the identified needs of departments. The departments’ Heads along with People Experience & Culture (P&C) P&C team and are approved by team suggests the program to the the MC. MC (Management Committee) to be approved. 89% of Grant 36% of Grant Thornton Thornton employees are employees are trained internally trained externally Grant Thornton Greece 43 Human capital – Educational benefits Educational benefits include: Training hours by subject • registration fees 2018-2019 Number of • annual fees seminar by Total of training Average of training hours hours by subject • lecture fees subject Accounting 4 40 10,00 • book fees Audit 14 291,5 20,82 • exam fees Policies 4 10 2,50 • paid educational leaves Quality Control 1 2 2,00 • educational allowance (if applicable) Soft skills 7 95,5 13,64 The company covers lecture fees for up to two certifications for every Tax 1 8 8,00 employee, at a certain cost. The company also covers all book and Technical skills 26 139 5,35 exam fees for the first attempts, while each employee is entitled to Other 5 16 3,20 educational leaves for achieving better preparation for the exams. Total 62 602 9,71 Educational allowances after the completion of the certifications Upon completion of certain certifications, employees are entitled to an educational allowance, whose amount fluctuates according to the certificate. All employees are eligible for the allowance offered by the company. Grant Thornton Greece 44 Human capital Counseling At Grant Thornton we believe that our people are our greatest asset, thus we have appointed Counselors, selected employees who help our employees grow to their full potential, while supporting the organization in fairly managing its talents. Counselors’ appointment Role and responsibilities of Counselors Counselors are appointed by the Human Capital Department, with Coaching for performance – constructive feedback regarding the approval of the Management Committee. The appointment of strengths and areas for development. counselees to Counselors is taking into consideration the following factors, among others: Coaching for development – discussing interests, opportunities for personal and career development. • Counselors should be from the same Department as their counselees Performance Appraisal – Annual Appraisal (taking into account • Counselors should have a maximum number of 5 counselees, to all available information), Round-tables (calibration for fair and ensure that sufficient time is devoted to the counselees’ meritocratic management of all employees). development. Motivate and inspire employees -'extra mile’, engagement & • The gap between counselees and Counselors level seniority commitment. should not be too small or too large. Communicate upward & downward Counselor’s Manual All of the above are thoroughly described in the Counselor’s Manual. Grant Thornton Greece 45 Human capital Counseling Coaching for performance Grant Thornton Greece 46 Human capital – Annual evaluation Improving effectiveness and efficiency Employees performance annual evaluation 2018 2019 Number of employees Men Women Total Board of Directors 0 0 0 Partners & Principals 6 2 8 Senior executives (Directors, 53 38 91 Senior Managers & Managers) Executives (Supervisors, Seniors, 146 110 256 Associate, Assistants) Administrative Staff 4 4 Total 205 154 359 Grant Thornton Greece 47 Human capital – Annual evaluation Improving effectiveness and efficiency Employees performance annual evaluation 2017 2018 Employees performance annual evaluation 2016 2017 Number of employees Number of employees Men Women Total Men Women Total Board of Directors 0 0 0 Board of Directors 0 0 0 Partners 3 1 4 Partners & Principals 2 0 2 Senior executives (Directors, Senior executives (Directors, Senior Managers & 59 38 97 65 41 106 Managers) Senior Managers & Managers) Executives (Supervisors, Executives (Supervisors, Seniors, Seniors, Associate, 120 108 228 113 94 207 Associate, Assistants) Assistants) Administrative Staff 0 8 8 Administrative Staff 0 8 8 Total 180 143 323 Total 182 155 337 Grant Thornton Greece 48 Human capital – PeopleVoice Global engagement programme Benefits of participating in PeopleVoice • We can benchmark our responses to data from the Global To achieve our strategic goals and meet business needs, we have to Professional Services Firms index and across participating Grant attract, engage and retain our people, unlocking the potential for Thornton member firms. growth for our clients and want to make a difference. • We can promote our strengths and competitive advantages. The most recent survey took place from February 27, 2019 until • We can identify key levers that impact engagement among our March 21, 2019 in collaboration with the Global Research employees and partners to drive our business. Center of Grant Thornton. The purpose of the survey is to allow • We can create and execute action plans to address weak areas in our People’s Voice to be heard, giving them the opportunity to engagement and leverage strengths. change things and create a exceptional People Experience. • We can significantly impact our financial performance when we achieve high levels of engagement. Grant Thornton Greece 49 Human capital – PeopleVoice summary Demographic overview 416 responses to 508 surveys sent (82%) Grant Thornton Greece 50 Human capital – PeopleVoice summary Demographic overview 416 responses to 508 surveys sent (82%) Grant Thornton Greece 51 Human capital Work Life Balance Return on Investment Resting time Why focus on WLB Programs? through Annual Leaves • Reduce talent turnover (workload is a key driver for turnover) • Annual planning from all employees (ERP) • Decrease cost (replacement hiring, onboarding, training) • GT closed: 13-17 August • Reduce workload placed on leavers' team members • Annual leave guidelines • Increase employee satisfaction (→ willingness to go the 'extra • Monthly follow-ups from HR (monthly mandatory leaves, for mile') pending) • Improve employer branding (→ attract talents) and WLB free hours • Increase eNPS (global metric for all member firms) • Spring WLB: Friday 8th of March • Reduce risk for overtime fine • Easter WLB: Thursday 25th of April • Increase employee productivity (productivity drops when • Summer WLB: Friday 14th of June and 12th of July overworking) • Fall WLB: Friday 25th of October Health & Wellness Initiatives • Xmas WLB: Tuesday 24th of December • New Year's Eve WLB: Tuesday 31st of December Yogurt & Juices | Spring Mondays Fresh Fruits | Summer Mondays GT Lottery | Cinema & Theater tickets Grant Thornton Greece 52 Environment Environment Our priority is to spread the awareness of the fight against climate change and the impact that modern economic activity has on the natural environment. Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Grant Thornton Greece 54 Environmental protection Although our environmental footprint is limited we always seek ways to reduce our impact on the environment. Sustainability is key for planning Grant Thornton’s business strategy. We are responsible to influence communities, our clients and the marketplace to implement sustainable principles and develop new approaches as well as set clear objectives to account for environmental and social capital. Since our primary energy use derives from our buildings, we monitor and measure our consumption of electrical energy in all offices. Our operation by numbers tCO2 per capita Total buildings floor space 4,525 m2 0,39 0,42 2018 2019 Grant Thornton Greece 55 Environmental protection By applying the precautionary principle, we aim to operate sustainably and make a positive contribution to the fight against climate change. Quantities for water usage for our premises in Thesaloniki, are not included in the above table, as they are calculated in the building’s total measurements Grant Thornton Greece 56 Environmental protection Our energy and resource use per region Electricity use per region Water consumption per region 2% 5% 7% 2% 0% 3% 90% 91% Athens Thessaloniki Ioannina Crete Athens Thessaloniki Ioannina Crete Grant Thornton Greece 57 Environmental protection By monitoring and measuring our electricity use in our premises, we aim to identify energy saving opportunities and reduce our operational costs. 3% 0% kWh/year tCO2e/year Lighting Lighting 213,270 166.3 Laptops and Printers 58,204 45.4 32% Laptops and Printers Heating and Cooling 134,407 104.8 Heating and Cooling 51% Refrigeration 10,512 8 equipment Refrigeration Kitchen equipment 1,683 1.3 equipment Kitchen equipment Total 418,076 326.0 14% SharePoint – environmental attitude Our web-based system SharePoint and the relevant updated approval workflow for employee expenses, eliminates the journey of paper documents, enabling all procedures to be monitored electronically. In this way, we encourage employees to use paper efficiently and go paperless by automating almost all management tasks. Grant Thornton Greece 58 Anticorruption Anticorruption For Grant Thornton Greece, the development of practices that promote transparency and the systematic fighting of corruption are key elements of the activities it develops. The strict rules according to which the Company operates, the policies pursued and the procedures applied, are presented in detail in this COP Report. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Grant Thornton Greece 60 Transparency Report Transparency in respect of audit firms is a key element underpinning the confidence of the world’s capital markets in the audit process, and Grant Thornton will continue to play its part in creating a more accountable and robust accounting profession. The Transparency Report is published within the regulatory framework for corporate governance and transparency set out by the European Jurisdiction on statutory audits in compliance with the provisions of Article 13, Regulation (EU) 537/2014. The Transparency Report provides information on the legal structure and operations of our firm, corporate governance, systems of independence, quality control and training we have developed and implemented, as well as our financial performance and practices of corporate social responsibility followed by the firm. Grant Thornton Greece 61 Corporate Governance Grant Thornton Greece fully applies the principles of corporate governance in compliance with high professional standards set by Grant Thornton International and more generally, with international best practices, under which the Internal Regulations have been set. General principles of the company’s management The Company’s objective is the creation of relations between the Board of Directors shareholders (partners) based on the triptych of trust, meritocracy, The BoD is responsible for establishing the company’s and security. The Company is administrated by three mutually development strategy and policy, according to the approved three dependent bodies that are responsible for supervisory, auditing, year business plan, while it monitors the decisions made by the managerial and executive operations of the management. Management Committee. The executive members of the BoD constitute the Executive Committee (EC) that decides on the These bodies are: allocation of bonus of partners per level. • General Assembly of Partners (Partners Meeting) Management Committee (MC) • Board of Directors The Management Committee is elected by the General Assembly • Management Committee (MC) of Partners and is authorized to manage the company, to design The general management principles are analytically presented in the its strategic and policy development based on the particular internal regulations of the company, which content is disclosed to the business plan and to manage the company’s property. The MC is total of its staff. responsible for monitoring the work and realization of the corporate General Assembly of Partners (Partners Meeting) strategy, supervision of the overall operation of departments, It is the supreme body of the company, responsible for approval and committees and divisions, preparation of budget and management ratification of strategic decisions. All the shareholders participate in of the corporate resources. the General Assembly and obtain information about the course of operation of the company and realization of its strategic planning. Grant Thornton Greece 62 Corporate Governance – Organizational chart Grant Thornton Greece 63 Corporate Governance Committees Committees Internal Control Anti-money Laundering (AML) Internal Control ensures compliance with the law and sound effective Anti-money Laundering (AML) Law 4557/2018 on the Prevention and organization and operation of the company. Internal Control team Suppression of Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing conducts three month controls and prepares the relative report that is transposed Directive 2015/849/EU into the Greek legislation. The submitted to the Management Committee and the BoD. Company, since it is considered an “obliged person” by the provisions of law, proceeded with the preparation of a relevant Quality & Risk Management Committee Policy, which it fully complies with, to ensure its full compliance with Responsibilities of the Quality & Risk Management (Q&RΜ) the applicable regulatory framework. The Policy applies to all the are as follows: Company’s executives and employees, who should be informed about the procedures to be followed when carrying out any • Risk Management transaction with clients. The Company takes care of the training of its • Quality Control employees in order to properly and in practice implement the provisions of Law 4557/2018 and the internal policies, aiming at fully • Anti Money Laundering complying with the applicable regulatory framework. • Ethics and Governance Ethics and Governance (Governance, Disciplinary, Crisis) Risk Management Crisis Management describes procedures implemented with a view Risk Management describes policies & procedures established to to minimize the risks that might harm the company’s reputation due minimize professional and business risks arising from the services to crisis incidents arising from events that concern the company and we offer to our clients. cause public concern (crisis events). According to the requirements Quality Control of GTIL and with a view to handling any crisis that might harm the reputation of Grant Thornton in Greece or globally. A Crisis Quality Control is responsible for determining the degree of Management committee is formed to identify possible crisis events , compliance of the conducted audits with the regulations prescribed in estimate the level of risk concentration and prepare an action plan International Standards on Quality Control (ISQC 1). for crisis situations. Grant Thornton Greece 64 Independence, integrity & objectivity Grant Thornton Greece policies and procedures have been designed in order to ensure independence, integrity and objectivity of the company and its members while rendering services. Quality & Risk Management • monitor and implement the principles, regulations and procedures prescribed by GTIL for Key Assurance Assignments The objective of Quality & Risk Management is to minimize (KAA) professional and business risks arising from the services we offer to our clients. • prepare -in compliance with GTIL standardsthe Advisory Services Manual as well as the Tax Manual with the total of the Basic principles and Bodies for performing Quality & Risk principles, regulations and procedures of Advisory services and Management Tax & Outsourcing services According to the requirements of GTIL and with a view to complying • establishes the quality management system & quality control with independence and quality assurance, the Quality & Risk procedures. Management Committee is formed with the following objectives in view: Additionally, the company has established and operates the Disciplinary Committee, which manages cases of the staff non• prepare, update and disclose to all personnel the AQCM compliance with policies and procedures of quality and (Assurance Quality Control Manual). The AQCM is the manual independence applied by our company and GTIL network. The comprising the total of policies and procedures defining the Disciplinary Committee is informed by the Quality & Risk company operation; Management Committee on any potential violations of policies and • establish policy for undertaking or rejecting clients procedures, quality and independence of the company, assesses the significance and any consequences of any cases and imposes • estimate the risk of undertaking/ retaining clients penalties. In respect of particularly crucial cases, it also informs • communicate with GTIL on risk management issues the Management Committee in order to make the final decision on the penalty to be imposed. Grant Thornton Greece 65 Independence, integrity & objectivity Financial interests are defined as any income or payment arising from stock, stock options, warrants, loans or any other investment or ownership interest including rights and obligations pertaining to acquisition of securities and derivatives of direct associates/clients. All the executives of Grant Thornton International member firms are required to maintain a portfolio of their financial interests and update it on monthly basis. Global Independent System (GIS) The Global Independence System (GIS) is GTIL’s automated solution (secure website) for assisting member firms and their professionals in the identification and management of potential independence threats arising from financial interests that Grant Thornton executives owns. Grant Thornton Greece 66 Quality control Quality Management System Our objective is to establish the rigorous quality system designed to provide us with reasonable assurance that the firm and its personnel Our Quality Management System has been certified under the new comply with professional standards and regulatory and legal Quality Management system Standard BS EN ISO 9001:2008. The requirements and render high quality services. The independence Quality Management System is applied to provision of assurance, and quality of services that the company provides are very important tax business compliance and advisory services and is effective factors for the future of our activities. Therefore, we have designed regarding the operation of the central office as well as the company and implemented a range of policies and procedures in respect of branches. The 3 year certification, updated by Lloyd’s Register quality management systems and internal control processes, risk Quality Assurance on September 2016. This certification validates assessment measures and monitoring systems that ensure we all the high performance in terms of quality of service we render to our live up to the high standards we set ourselves – the standards our clients. clients expect. Information Security Management Systems Information Security Incident Management Grant Thornton’s Information Security Management System was Policy certified with the ISO/IEC 27001:2005 standard, which is an The objective of the policy is that all information security events international specification for an information security management are reported in a timely manner and through the correct company system (ISMS). The ISO/IEC 27001 is the only international standard channel, in order to ensure that corrective actions are taken to that can be inspected and that defines the requirements for an ISMS. remediate any incidents and that relevant information is collected The ISO/IEC 27001 certification helps an organization manage and and preserved for investigation, as appropriate. The policy applies protect its valuable assets that contain information. The standard is to all employees of the Company, also to all third parties designed to secure the selection of sufficient and well balanced (consultants, partners, contractors and clients) who have access security control. to the Company’s information. Grant Thornton Greece 67 Quality control GTIL’s audit review & quality control procedures GTIL’s audit review Every member firm is subject to Audit Review at regular intervals – following the relative selection– conducted by GTIL. This review is a systematic check of the quality of member firms’ audit procedures carried out at least once every three years by independent and suitably qualified partners and managers from other member firms under the overall direction of GTIL. The review process is designed to monitor member firms’ compliance with professional standards and GTILs audit quality control policies and procedures. GTIL’s quality control procedures In addition to our own quality control procedures and in line with the GTIL, all member firms are required to abide by a system of quality control. It encompasses the standards issued by the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) and GTIL’s quality control policies and procedures. All member firms are obliged to follow Grant Thornton International “Ethics and Quality Control Manual (EQCM)”. Grant Thornton Greece 68 Quality control Quality control review | Quality Control Committee The Quality Control Committee is responsible for organizing and implementing the quality control program in our company. The Quality Control Committee includes the supreme executives of the company that possess expertise in quality control conduct through participation in seminars and working groups of GTIL conducting quality controls in other Grant Thornton member firms. The Quality Control Committee shall, on an annual basis, prepare a relative report to the Managing Director, Assurance Partner, Management Committee and the authorized quality control committee of GTIL. Members of the Quality Control Committee are by designation independent reviewers in respect of the firm under quality control. Grant Thornton Greece 69 Quality control External monitoring Our profession is highly regulated. In June 2003 the Hellenic In December 2016, a quality review was conducted by the Accounting and Auditing Standards Oversight Board (HAASOB) Institute of Certified Public Accountants of Greece regarding nonwas established and one of its main activities is to monitor the listed entities files. The results of the quality reviews conducted quality of statutory audits conducted by the members of the Institute by supervising authorities are assessed by the Quality & Risk of Certified Public Accountants of Greece (SOEL). Management Committee in order to provide the basis for ongoing improvement of quality controls. As starting from 16/5/2006, In May 2019, Hellenic Accounting and Auditing Standards Oversight the company is also registered in the Public Company Accounting Board (HAASOB) conducted thematic review of a non-listed Oversight Board (PCAOB) but no reviews have been conducted company audit file. Grant Thornton’s response to the findings was so far. sent to the Supervisory Authority in October 2019 and the final findings report is expected. The last quality review for Grant Thornton was conducted by the Supervisory Authority in October 2013 and covered policies and procedures developed by the company in the context of its operations. . Grant Thornton Greece 70 Athens Athens Headquarters Advisory & Industries 56, Zefirou Str. Syggrou Av. & 2, Amfitheas Av. 175 64, P. Faliro 171 22, N. Smirni T: +30 210 7280 000 T: +30 210 7280 000 F: +30 210 7212 222 F: +30 210 7212 222 Thessaloniki Heraklion Ioannina 17A Politechniou Str. 121, Eth. Antistasseos & Tenedou Str. 65-67, Dodonis Av. 546 26, Thessaloniki 713 06, Crete 45 221, Ioannina T: +30 2310 551 743 T: +30 2310 551 743 T: +30 26510 49382 F: +30 2310 552 269 F: +30 2310 552 269 Contact person: Katerina Katsouli CSR & Sustainability Director Katerina.Katsouli@gr.gt.com © 2020 Grant Thornton. All rights reserved. ‘Grant Thornton’ refers to the brand under which the Grant Thornton member firms provide assurance, tax and advisory services to their clients and/or refers to one or more member firms, as the context requires. Grant Thornton Greece is a member firm of Grant Thornton International Ltd (GTIL). GTIL and the member firms are not a worldwide partnership. GTIL and each member firm is a separate legal entity. Services are delivered by the member firms. GTIL and its member firms are not agents of, and do not obligate, one another and are not liable for one another’s acts or omissions. grant-thornton.gr
