Staying the course SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 Golden Agri-Resources Ltd Contents 01 About This Report 02 Chairman’s Statement 04 Key Targets and Performance 09 Our Approach 09 About GAR 14 Our Approach to Sustainable Palm Oil 21 Our Materiality Assessment 25 Stakeholder Engagement 26 Transforming our Supply Chain 33 Caring for our Customers and Consumers 37 Our People 44 Engaging and Empowering the Community 50 Our Environmental Management 61 United Nations Global Compact COP Glossary Feedback and Contact The cover photo shows employees at one of our oil palm nurseries About This Report [102-50, 102-54, 102-55] This is the ninth edition of the GAR disclosures are included throughout ASSURANCE Sustainability Report. It provides the report using the notation: [XXX-XX] [102-56] a summary of our progress and and the full GRI content index can be We have not sought third party assurance challenges in managing our most critical found on the GAR website. on our sustainability report. However, sustainability issues in FY2019. Unless the information related to our material otherwise stated, this report does not This year, our report also contains topics including High Carbon Stock include the Company’s activities outside disclosures recommended in the (HCS), High Conservation Value (HCV) of Indonesia, where the majority of Agricultural Products Sustainability and Free, Prior and Informed Consent our operations are based. We have Accounting Standard (Industry (FPIC) is reviewed by certification bodies prepared this report in accordance Standard, Version 2018-10) that such as the Roundtable on Sustainable with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) was developed by the Sustainability Palm Oil (RSPO). This provides verification Standards – Core option. We have Accounting Standards Board (SASB). and credibility to the information used the GRI reporting framework These disclosures are referenced and data submitted in this report. since we began reporting on our ESG throughout the report using the We have also commissioned PT performance in 2011 and continue notation: [FB-AG-XXXX.X], and are Lloyd’s Register Indonesia to verify to use it as it is the most widely-used included in the SASB disclosure index the greenhouse gas emissions for our reporting framework globally. GRI found on our website. subsidiary PT SMART Tbk. 02 Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   Chairman’s Statement [102-14] Dear Stakeholders, prices during the year. This validates progress towards compliance with our As we move into the decisive decade to GAR’s strategy of investing in and growing sustainability commitments. achieve the UN’s vision of sustainable a diverse, fully integrated business over development, Golden Agri-Resources the last several years, providing business In 2019, we forged ahead (GAR) continues to work steadily resiliency against price fluctuations of the with our Traceability to the towards achieving our sustainability type seen for most of the FY2019. Plantation (TTP) efforts. commitments. Guided by the GAR Social and Environmental Policy (GSEP), our Over the years, we have successfully As of end 2019, 78% approach to sustainability is centred on broadened the global market for palmbalancing the need for environmental based value-added products. This covers conservation and economic an extensive portfolio of sustainably development. This is no easy task as produced and quality products for food, the challenges faced by the industry are industrial and bio-energy usage. We multi-faceted and success in facing them also plan to expand the capacity of our relies upon the collaboration of many biodiesel facility in Kalimantan in order of the FFB processed stakeholders. to support the government’s biodiesel in GAR-owned and programme. A full report on our financial third party supplier mills As we look back at our performance performance can be found in the GAR is fully traceable. over the last decade, we have seen Annual Report 2019. much progress in areas such as helping To help accelerate the TTP process our supply chain transform through ON TRACK TOWARDS FULL amongst our suppliers, we were pleased Franky Oesman Widjaja Chairman and Chief Executive Officer our traceability efforts. We have also TRACEABILITY AND SUPPLY CHAIN to launch the Ksatria Sawit programme. progressed on other fronts such as TRANSFORMATION The programme reaches out to areas delinking deforestation and production. In 2019, we forged ahead with our where many of our supplier mills are At the same time, we recognise that Traceability to the Plantation (TTP) efforts. buying from smallholders and traces much remains to be done and we As of end 2019, 78 percent of the FFB their agents and farmers. Since its will continue to carry out work on the processed in GAR-owned and third party launch in April 2019, we have covered ground to ensure that what we started in supplier mills is fully traceable. provinces such as Aceh, North and South previous years is followed through. Sumatra, Riau, Jambi, Lampung, and Aside from providing our customers with Bangka Belitung. We estimate that the ROBUST 2019 PERFORMANCE verified information on where and from programme will help us trace almost GAR ended 2019 on a high note. The whom we source our raw materials, we 60,000 smallholders. Through this good performance of our downstream have been using traceability to strengthen programme we also hope to develop new business balanced the adverse impact our relationship with our suppliers. This mechanisms to help smallholders and of lower average Crude Palm Oil (CPO) has enabled us to help them further agents adopt sustainable practices. Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd 03  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   We continue to support our suppliers Looking ahead, we will continue to Longer-term measures include through targeted training on key issues work on our many initiatives including maintaining our many partnerships and like human rights, Free, Prior and achieving full TTP. alternative livelihood programmes with Informed Consent (FPIC) implementation local communities aimed at diversifying and responsible labour practices. We Our efforts continue to strategically their income streams and building have also shared and emphasised the support the UN Sustainable food security and resilience. The global importance of adhering to GSEP with all Development Goals especially goals pandemic has shown us that it is critical our 424 suppliers. 2, 12 and 15 which focuses on food to ensure that farming communities, who security, responsible production and form the basis of food supply chains and We extended support to independent consumption and protection of life global food security, are taken care of smallholders through the Independent on land. and empowered. Farmers Replanting Programme and other schemes. These programmes are FUTURE OUTLOOK This crisis will be a true test for aimed at improving their productivity, As I write this, the world is facing companies. GAR’s strong vertically livelihoods and income. unprecedented challenges due to the integrated business model and COVID-19 pandemic. The disruptions and sustainable operations provide resilience PROGRESS ON OTHER FRONTS uncertainties experienced by communities during industry volatility and disruption, In 2019, GAR joined a pioneering and businesses have been and continue including the current COVID-19 industry initiative to improve surveillance to be profound. It is during such times that pandemic. With the momentum we of deforestation in Indonesia. Together we need to remain true to our values and have gained over the years, we remain with nine major palm oil producers and keep all our stakeholders at the heart of our hopeful that we will stay on track buyers, we are funding the development decision-making. Our immediate priority and continue to provide sustainably of a new, radar-based forest monitoring is to safeguard the wellbeing of everyone, produced and superior quality palm oil system known as Radar Alerts for including our employees and smallholders products, while creating value for all Detecting Deforestation (RADD). This will and local communities, while minimising our stakeholders. make it easier for us to see deforestation business disruptions. We are committed happening in near-real-time and to take to addressing the need for protective speedy follow-up actions. and 99.5 percent of our area was not equipment for our employees and local affected. With Global Forest Watch communities surrounding all our operational A challenging fire season in 2019 put reporting that the vast majority of fires locations globally during the pandemic. our fire management procedures to the occurred outside palm oil plantations, Especially in Indonesia, we are working test. With our strict adherence to the we remain committed to long-term fire together with the Government of Indonesia Zero Burning Policy and our strengthened prevention with communities around us to alleviate the pandemic in collaboration Franky Oesman Widjaja fire management processes, we were able through our Desa Makmur Peduli Api with Indonesia Chamber of Commerce and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer to keep the fire-affected areas contained, programme. Tzu Chi Foundation Indonesia. 30 June 2020 04 Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   Key Targets and Performance [103-3] Key Material Issues 2019 Performance Future Targets/Commitments Status • Conservation planning with communities temporarily • Resume rollout of conservation planning with NEEDS on hold to prioritise completion of Participatory communities. See schedule on GAR website WORK CO2 Mapping (PM) (subject to delays due to COVID-19 pandemic) • Physical rehabilitation of 2,600 ha Peat Ecosystem at • Continue the physical rehabilitation of 500 ha of peat ON Conservation of High Carbon Stock PT AMNL, West Kalimantan: maintaining water levels area and revegetation of the surrounding area TRACK (HCS) and peatlands; Conservation of and buffer zone/revegetated area of 350 ha • Run peat awareness programme in two schools in biodiversity and High Conservation PT AMNL Value (HCV) areas; Preventing Fire • Maintained over 2,700 ha of rehabilitated riparian • Complete revegetation of riparian zones ON and Haze buffer zones • Continue maintaining riparian buffer zones TRACK • Replanting of native plant species carried out in 18 Contributing to UN SDGs concessions (96% of the rehabilitated riparian zones) • 99.5% of GAR area NOT affected by fire • Continue to strengthen fire mitigation procedures ON • Strengthened fire mitigation procedures focusing • Continue to work with communities on long-term TRACK on preparedness; early warning systems and quick fire prevention through the Desa Makmur Peduli Api response team programme • Released 8 orangutans under renewed programme • Release 160 orangutans by 2021 ON with Orangutan Foundation International (OFI). TRACK Released total of 116 since 2011 • Rolled out Participatory Mapping (PM) to respect • Continue with PM programme. See schedule ON and safeguard community FPIC rights in 93 villages on GAR website TRACK to date (subject to delays due to COVID-19 pandemic) • No incidents of FPIC violations or violations of rights Rights of communities of indigenous peoples in 2019 and indigenous peoples Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd 05  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   Key Material Issues 2019 Performance Future Targets/Commitments Status • No significant incidents of discrimination or abuse • Continue to maintain peaceful and productive industrial ON reported in 2019 relations through open dialogue, fair labour practices, TRACK • 121 unions representing 81,000 workers (79%) and respectful communication in the workplace Labour relations and Human rights; • Six fatalities involving our workers (representing a • Continue to instil awareness of OHS and safe ON Occupational Health and Safety and year-on-year drop) practices in all operations & amongst contractors TRACK Employee wellbeing; Talent Retention, • Aim for zero fatalities and declining trend in workplace Development and Training accidents • Maintained 100% Traceability to the Mill (TTM) • 100% TTP for third-party suppliers mills by 2020 ON • Achieved 78% Traceability to Plantation (TTP) (subject to delays due to COVID-19 pandemic) TRACK for GAR’s third-party suppliers • Launched Ksatria Sawit programme to accelerate TTP Traceability and Supply Chain (see p 30) Transformation; Supplier Inclusiveness • Assessed all 424 third-party mills through and smallholder livelihoods desk research and spatial analysis • 167 suppliers engaged through deep engagement Contributing to UN SDGs and targeted training • 165 engaged suppliers with time-bound action plans • 65 suppliers showing improvement on time-bound action plans • Conducted annual SMART SEED and SMART SPOT • Continue with capacity building events to assist and ON workshops in traceability, responsible labour practices, support suppliers to improve practices TRACK implementation of FPIC and human rights • Extend engagement and sustainability support • Began guiding suppliers to design more targeted efforts beyond the mill to suppliers at plantation and needs-based CSR programmes using Social level, including Tier 2 suppliers such as agents and Impact Assessments smallholders • Shared the GSEP with 100% of our suppliers • Facilitate collaborations on a landscape level between • Support provided to 100% of plasma smallholders GAR, suppliers, farmers, government, and civil society • Supported Independent Farmers Replanting to improve responsible practices Programme and other financial and technical schemes • Continue to promote smallholder support schemes to help independent smallholders 06 Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   Key Targets and Performance Key Material Issues 2019 Performance Future Targets/Commitments Status • No significant cases of bribery or corruption in 2019 • Continue to aim for zero cases of bribery and ON • Continued online refresher courses and mandatory corruption TRACK e-testing on the Code of Conduct for employees • Continue to ensure employees understand the standards of ethical behaviour required Corporate governance, ethics and integrity • Produced about 2.5 million clones of Eka 1 and Eka 2 • Continue cloning programme for replanting ON capable of producing more than 10 tonnes/ha/year of • Continue R&D into other aspects of yield TRACK CPO to date improvement including climate change resilience/ adaptation Yield Improvement Contributing to UN SDGs Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd 07  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   Key Material Issues 2019 Performance Future Targets/Commitments Status • Reformulated nearly all (98%) margarine, shortening • Fully remove trans fatty acids from products by 2023 ON and specialty fat products to be trans-fat free • Continue R&D into new high oleic palm oil hybrid TRACK • Continued with mitigation processes to eliminate co-contaminants (for e.g., 3-MCPD) • Conducted R&D activities into new high oleic palm oil Product quality and safety hybrid to meet demand from global customers • Maintained social and community programmes • Continue to empower communities and multiply the ON for 100% of our estates positive impacts of our business through a range TRACK • Supported 40 Alternative Livelihood programmes to of educational, healthcare, social and economic improve community livelihoods and resilience empowerment programmes • Continue to support Alternative Livelihood Community relations programmes to improve rural community resilience and empowerment especially in light of COVID-19 pandemic • No significant incidents of discrimination or • Continue to ensure equal opportunities regardless of NEEDS harassment race, colour of skin, religion, gender, national origin or WORK • Achieved an average female to male salary ratio of any other class 1.04 • Increase women representation in Senior Women, diversity and Management and Board inclusion 08 Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   Key Targets and Performance Key Material Issues 2019 Performance Future Targets/Commitments Status • Reduced 40-55% of methane emissions through • Continue to explore the expansion of methane NEEDS methane capture at mills capture activities WORK • Water consumption not decreasing • Explore the use of advanced technology (e.g. AI) to NEEDS maximise the efficient use of water and fertiliser WORK • Continued with Intergated Pest Management to • Intensify efforts to develop practices that reduce the ON Operational footprint: Greenhouse minimise use of herbicides and pesticides (see p 56) use of pesticide TRACK Gas (GHG) emissions; water; use of • Continue Integrated Pest Management to minimise fertilisers, pesticides and chemicals; herbicide and pesticide use waste • Reused or recycled 100% of liquid and solid waste • Maintain 100% reuse of solid and liquid waste ON Contributing to UN SDGs from CPO production process (see p 55) generated from CPO production process TRACK • Explore further reduction/recycling of waste in downstream ops • Continued R&D efforts to produce more drought and • Continue R&D on adaptive planting materials and ON disease resistant seeds at SMARTRI agronomic practices TRACK • Continued R&D on adaptive agronomic practices to adapt to climate change Climate change adaptation Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd 09  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   About GAR [102-2, 102-5] Listed on the Singapore Exchange since range from cultivating and harvesting oil Per 31 March 2020, GAR’s shares are A simplified corporate structure including 1999, GAR and its subsidiaries form one of palm trees, through processing fresh fruit 49.48 percent publicly owned and 50.52 principal operating subsidiaries can be the leading integrated palm oil plantation bunches (FFB) into crude palm oil (CPO) percent owned by Flambo International found on our website. companies in the world. GAR’s primary and palm kernel (PK), to refining CPO into Ltd, an investment company owned by activities are located in Indonesia and industrial and consumer products. The Widjaja Family Master Trust (2). 10 Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   About GAR VALUE CHAIN OF OUR BUSINESS IN INDONESIA [102-7] [FB-AG-000.B, FB-AG-000.C] 424 7 Manages third-party supplier mills downstream O RE T H A N M 498,000 across Indonesia locations in hectares of palm oil estate — 4% Indonesia: bulking stations, crushing plants 30 CONSUMER BRANDS of Indonesia’s planted estates and refineries Products sold in more than 21% 46 70 of our managed estates are owned by our plasma Operates smallholders palm oil mills countries world-wide Research and Development Plantation and Harvesting Milling Basic Product Processing Processed Product Seedling Crude Palm Oil Refining Branded and Unbranded Cooking Oil Margarine and Specialty Fats Biodiesel Palm Kernel Kernel Crushing Palm Kernel Meal Palm Kernel Oil Oleochemicals Fatty Acids Glycerine Upstream Downstream Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd 11  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   OUR FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OUR OPERATIONAL CAPACITIES IN INDONESIA OUR JOB CREATION IN INDONESIA REVENUE [102-8] USD 6.43 Sumatra 165,986 ha Kalimantan 213,694 ha billion 77,426 ha 27,325 ha 6.4 million tpa 6.7 million tpa Papua 2.8 million tpa 900,000 tpa 13,156 ha EBITDA1 1.1 million tpa 675,000 tpa 300,000 tpa USD 697 440,000 tpa 300,000 tpa Over million 171,100 jobs in Indonesia UNDERLYING PROFIT 2 USD 272 70,120 million Java 1.3 million tpa permanent employees 300,000 tpa 30,623 fixed-term employees 1 EBITDA = earnings before tax, non-controlling Nucleus planted area (in hectares) interests, interest on borrowings, depreciation and amortisation, net gain from changes in fair value Plasma planted area (in hectares) of biological assets, foreign exchange gain and CPO mills capacity (in tonnes per annum) exceptional items. Refinery (in tonnes per annum) 2 Underlying profit = net profit attributable to owners of the Company, excluding net effect of net gain from changes in fair value of biological assets, depreciation of bearer plants, exceptional Kernel crushing plant (in tonnes per annum) Oleo-chemicals plant (in tonnes per annum) including operations under JV Biodiesel plant (in tonnes per annum) 70,300 plasma smallholders items, foreign exchange gain, and deferred tax income. 12 Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   About GAR PALM OIL’S IMPACT ON INDONESIAN ECONOMY OUR ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2019 16million Jobs (direct/indirect) • Ranked as an Achiever in the Children’s • Winner of the Indonesia Most Rights Benchmarck assessment by Innovative Business Award 2019, Global Child Forum and Boston as the most innovative company USD 19billion palm oil exports from Consulting Group (GAR) in deforestation monitoring technology (PT SMART Tbk, GAR’s main subsidiary) Indonesia in 20191 • Winner of the Winsemius Award 2019 in the Manufacturing and Supply Chain category, awarded by ADB-DutchCham (GAR) Palm oil farmer earns at least 7x more than subsistence farmer • Merit winner of the SEC-CITIC Telecom • Finalist in Asia Sustainability Singapore Environmental Achievement Reporting Awards for: Asia’s Best Awards (GAR) Sustainability Report (Digital) and Asia’s Best Materiality Reporting • Awarded Special Recognition, Community, at the Sustainable Business Awards 2019 (GAR) 1 Source: GAPKI Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd 13  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   Palm oil and its place in sustainable oil. It is extremely versatile and can be for rural, remote areas allowing access to Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) we development processed to form a wide range of products healthcare and education, further improving are committed to working collaboratively Palm oil attracts more controversy than with different melting points, consistencies standards of living. with all stakeholders along our value chain to many other agricultural commodities with and characteristics, serving a myriad of uses, create a responsible palm oil industry. many detractors claiming it has detrimental from food to cosmetics to cleaning products. The challenge for the sector is to correct impacts on the environment and rural unsustainable practices in some parts of We believe that when done right, palm oil communities. Yet, at the same time, palm Economically, the development of palm the industry while strengthening its positive can take the lead, amongst agribusinesses, oil which is responsibly produced has a oil plantations has been a boon to tropical role in contributing to socio-economic to delink production from deforestation crucial role to play in sustainable production, developing countries. In Indonesia, the development. and contribute to a more sustainable future consumption and food security. sector has helped to lift millions of rural focused on conserving the environment, farmers out of absolute poverty. A palm oil GAR, as a leader in responsible and ending poverty, providing decent work and The tropical crop has the highest yield of any farmer can earn up to seven times more sustainable production, recognises these economic growth, reducing inequalities, and oil crop and makes more efficient use of land than a subsistence farmer. Palm oil estates challenges and opportunities. As we enter championing responsible production and in its production than any other vegetable provide critical infrastructure and facilities this decisive decade in meeting the UN consumption. PALM OIL CAN CONTINUE TO FEED AND LAND REQUIRED TO PRODUCE OIL PALM PRODUCES FUEL THE WORLD SUSTAINABLY 1 TONNE OF MAJOR TYPES OF OIL: 37% OF ALL VEGETABLE OIL ON 8% OF THE 37% Global demand for vegetable oils LAND ALLOCATED TO 1T Palm Oil = 0.30 ha OIL CROPS 307 MT 1T Rapeseed Oil = 1.27 ha 1T Sunflower Oil = 1.23 ha Other Oil Crops 165 MT 1T Soybean Oil = 1.86 ha NOW 2050 Palm oil Source: IUCN and Oilworld 8% 14 Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   Our Approach to Sustainable Palm Oil [102-11, 102-12, 103-2] As an agribusiness, GAR understands that we are aware that growth in the palm oil our belief that economic growth, social up with emerging concerns, as well as our long-term success relies on adopting industry supports millions of livelihoods in progress and environmental protection global and local trends. sustainable business practices. Indonesia. Our business needs to balance can and should go hand-in-hand. both realities. GAR provides ongoing training for We recognise the value of conserving The GSEP establishes firm commitments employees on the GSEP. In 2019, around the natural environment, which houses At the heart of our approach to sustainability that support these beliefs and we have set 1,230 employees received GSEP training. rich biodiversity and provides vital is the GAR Social and Environmental stretching targets to drive progress. Over We have also shared the GSEP with all our ecosystem services. At the same time, Policy or the GSEP. The GSEP embodies time, we will update our approach to keep 424 third-party suppliers. Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd 15  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   OUR SUSTAINABILITY MILESTONES 1997 January 2005 February 2010 February 2011 April 2011 May 2011 November 2011 February 2012 March 2013 First Indonesian SMART Zero development GAR launches GAR GAR GAR launches GAR and SMART GAR and SMART palm producer joins RSPO on peat regardless pioneering joins RSPO publishes first Social and launch Yield implement to establish of depth Forest Sustainability Community Improvement HCS Forest Zero Burning Conservation Report Engagement Policy (YIP) Conservation Pilot Policy Policy (FCP) Policy (SCEP) February 2014 May 2014 September 2014 March 2015 April 2015 September 2015 November 2015 November 2015 December 2015 GAR’s FCP GAR GAR endorses GAR GAR and HCS GAR rolls out GAR launches GAR launches GAR completes extends to launches New York implements Approach updated Social peat rehabilitation Community 100% mapping downstream Sustainability Declaration Participatory Steering Group and Environmental project in Conservation of supply chain to operations Dashboard on Forests Mapping as publish HCS Policy (GSEP) PT AMNL Partnerships mills (Traceability part of FPIC Approach Toolkit to the Mill) February 2016 April 2016 January 2017 April 2017 September 2017 December 2017 June 2018 October 2019 GAR launches GAR announces GAR expands Launch of super GAR debuts GAR-owned GAR debuts GAR joins & funds Desa Siaga Api Traceability fire-free programme high-yielding on Dow Jones mills complete on FTSE4Good RADD deforestation to help villages to the Plantation into Desa Makmur non-GMO clonals Sustainability 100% TTP Index radar monitoring stay fire-free (TTP) Plan Peduli Api Eka 1 & Eka 2 Indices initiative 16 Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   Our Approach to Sustainable Palm Oil GAR AND THE UN SUSTAINABLE ACTIONS SUPPORTING THE SDGS DEVELOPMENT GOALS (SDGS) With the global population expected to continue Achieving responsible consumption and Forests provide critical ecosystem services, host growing exponentially, reaching an estimated production is essential to ensure that the natural a large amount of biodiversity and support the 10 billion by 2050, food security is becoming resources we depend on are not depleted and are livelihoods of indigenous peoples. As a palm In 2015, the 193 member states of the increasingly challenging. More food will have to be used efficiently, while minimising the impact to oil company, we acknowledge that we have an United Nations adopted the Sustainable grown in the face of decreasing arable land and human health and the environment. important role to play in ensuring the protection Development Goals (SDGs), a new climate change. of forest areas. This is an area which we have been At GAR we do this through actions that include working on for many years. agenda for sustainable development. As an agribusiness, GAR is committed to the minimising waste through recycling and reuse, as The SDGs represent an interrelated and sustainable production of palm oil as a key food well as phasing out harmful chemical substances in GAR oversees and supports the conservation of holistic framework of the most pressing ingredient. While palm oil is already the highestour operations. Since 2015, we have recycled 100 144,000 hectares of conservation areas, directly yielding vegetable oil crop in the world, we have percent of waste from the production of CPO in and indirectly. This includes 72,000 hectares of challenges facing humanity and require continued with R&D of even better yielding seeds our upstream operations. We have stopped using HCS and HCV areas across our operations. On a urgent actions from all actors. and planting materials. These will reduce pressure the herbicide paraquat, while continuing to use landscape level, through partnerships with local on the need for more agricultural land. We are also a combination of natural solutions and biological communities, we have obtained agreements to As a business operating in the palm exploring the development of seed stock that is controls for pests. protect over 7,700 hectares of forests. Through the more resilient to the increasing threat of droughts engagement of our suppliers we are supporting oil industry, GAR has a role to play in and diseases stemming from climate change. These commitments which are in our GSEP also their commitments to conserve 65,000 hectares supporting many of the 17 SDGs. As apply to our supply chain. We are currently guiding of forests. part of our strategic approach, we have Another area of R&D involves developing high our suppliers to improve their processes in these oleic palm oil which has a better nutritional areas. GAR is also taking part in an industry initiative chosen to focus our efforts on the goals profile. Our focus on productivity and improving to fund radar monitoring aimed at improving where we can make the most meaningful agronomic practices extends to our plasma and surveillance of deforestation in Indonesia. contributions. independent smallholders. We support them to earn decent incomes, while adopting practices that protect the environment. Following an assessment of the goals (Relates to SDG Targets: 2.3; 2.4) (Relates to SDG Targets 12.2;12.4;12.5) (Relates to SDG Targets 15.1;15.2;15.3;15.5) and their underlying targets, we have identified three SDGs – SDG 2, SDG 12 For more information please see, p 31-32, 36, 49, 57 For more information please see p 29-32, 55-57 For more information please see p 51-56 and SDG 15 – which we believe align best with our strengths and our areas To achieve sustainable All of our efforts are underpinned by local to help smallholders improve livelihoods and of impact as a company. They also development, partnerships and global partnerships. These range sustainability. represent the greatest opportunities to between governments, the from collaborations with communities and (Relates to SDG Targets 17.16) private sector and civil society suppliers on conservation; working with partner with other stakeholders and work is required. top research facilities and universities on For more information please see p 20, 32, 49, together on sustainable development in improving biodiversity; and with customers 51, 52, 53 support of SDG 17. Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd 17  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   GOVERNANCE AT GAR Mr Franky O. Widjaja, and meets OUR SUSTAINABILITY AND STRATEGIC STAKEHOLDER DIRECTORATE [102-18, 102-19, 102-20, 102-21, 102-22, 102-23, regularly to oversee the development, 102-26, 103-2] implementation and monitoring of the We are committed to the highest GSEP and our performance across all our MD Sustainability and Strategic standards of corporate governance, and business operations. Stakeholder Engagement to complying with the principles of the Code of Corporate Governance, reviewed Over the years we have continued to Advisor last in 2018. invest additional resources with the aim of embedding responsible palm practices The make-up of our board is an important in our day-to-day operations. We have part of our approach to corporate a sustainability team of about 370 staff Sustainability Sustainability Implementation Policy and Compliance governance. Currently, the board has eight in Jakarta and in the field working to members, including five independent implement our sustainability measures. directors, who exercise objective judgment in our corporate affairs. The board is We employ specialists to oversee and Conservation Sustainability headed by GAR’s Chairman and CEO, handle key areas such as conflict resolution, Management and Compliance and Mr Franky O. Widjaja, and is responsible HCS/HCV management, fire prevention, Monitoring Improvement for overseeing all aspects of our business. community consent (FPIC), responsible A full list of our board of directors and their sourcing, grievance management and Community Sustainable Palm Oil profiles can be found on our website and in health and safety. The sustainability Engagement Certification and Low the GAR Annual Report. department also works with colleagues GHG Strategy in Human Resources on labour issues to Responsible The board and senior management ensure fair labour practices are upheld, in Sourcing Occupational are fully involved in and support GAR’s line with the GSEP. Health and Safety sustainability commitments under the GSEP. A Sustainability Committee (SC), Sustainability which is chaired by Ms Jesslyne Widjaja, Capacity Building Corporate Strategy and Business and SOP Officer Development Director, oversees all matters Management Head related to responsible business. The SC comprises the senior leadership team from Sustainability the upstream, downstream and corporate Reporting and business units as well as the head and Knowledge other staff members of the Sustainability Management Head Department. The SC reports directly to 18 Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   Our Approach to Sustainable Palm Oil ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE The Code also emphasises the involve our third-party suppliers. It helps [102-16, 102-17, 205-3, 406-1, 415-1] Company’s commitment to fair us to address a wide range of concerns, At GAR, we are committed to employment practices; diversity; and its including those related to our most pursuing our business objectives with stand against discrimination and zero material issues. The full list and details of integrity and in compliance with the tolerance for harassment or abuse. No our grievances, both closed and ongoing, law. We comply with applicable laws significant cases of harassment and is updated regularly, and can be viewed in all the countries in which we do abuse were reported in 2019. on the GAR Sustainability Dashboard. business, including all anti-bribery and corruption regulations. Additionally, Following internal review as a result Grievances raised in 2019 32 GAR does not make any corporate of a closed corruption case in 20181 political contributions. No significant involving three former employees at Grievances closed in 2019 11 cases of bribery or corruption were a GAR subsidiary, PT BAP, we have Pre-2018 grievances closed in 2019 2 reported in 2019. continued with annual mandatory Verification site visits 29 refresher courses and online e-testing We expect all our employees, on the Code of Conduct for our Suppliers showing progress 24 contractors, suppliers and business employees. Executives also signed (time-bound action plans) partners to adhere to the GAR Code Integrity Pacts committing them to of Conduct, which is communicated ethical and lawful behaviour. As of May 2020, Mighty Earth, to our existing and new employees. an organisation which carries out The Code is purposefully designed We also require our suppliers to comply environmental protection campaigns, to be practically applicable to our with the Supplier Code of Conduct, ranked GAR top amongst palm oil trading day-to-day business, with definite which obligates them to adhere to our companies for tackling and resolving guidelines on acceptable and policies including the GSEP. complaints with a 76 percent rate of unacceptable behaviour. It applies resolution. to all employees as well as Board RESPONSIBLE HANDLING OF members. It also details avenues for COMPLAINTS AND GRIEVANCES We also have a grievance mechanism raising concerns and whistleblowing [103-2, 103-3] in place for stakeholders including procedures, encouraging employees In 2015, GAR established a Grievance employees to raise grievances involving to report any possible improprieties, Procedure to ensure that as a company, our own operations as well as social in confidence and without fear of we are responsive to any grievances conflict handling procedures. retaliation. raised by external parties which may 1 The 2018 case is considered closed following the end of the court case and court ruling. See our statement on p 42 of the GAR Annual Report 2018. Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd 19  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   OUR GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE Develop an approach for handling the specific grievance. Identification of if required, commence Prepare action plan to Implement and monitor the action plan potential grievance Initial engagement field verification resolve grievance until the grievance is resolved External Grievance The Grievance Unit engages with the Grievance Raiser1 Potential grievance Communicate Raiser. If field verification is necessary, and when (NGO, Media, reported to GAR, found outcomes to external relevant and appropriate, the Grievance Raiser Stakeholders etc.) by GAR or published stakeholders Implement action will be invited to participate plan and monitor in consultation with external parties Grievance Unit until the grievance (GAR) Confirm the issue is Record in the (publicly Prepare Grievance a grievance using the available) Grievance Memo setting out is resolved simple Decision Tree List & engage with key details and relevant parties recommendations Grievance Committee Prepare Monitor progress Decide against action plan (GAR & TFT) response action plan to resolve grievance and communicate Refer for Enact with relevant Assess action immediate recommenplan implementation Grievance resolved parties Internal action dation after agreed and closed Stakeholders Progress on Action Target of grievance Discuss grievance action plan plan (GAR-owned unit or and obtain further warrants implemented Third Party Supplier) information Request extension verification Verification Team No progress Commence field Prepare verification on action (GAR, TFT & optional verification report plan third party) Suspension If immediate action is If the action plan is Committee required but not being not agreed to or (GAR) taken (e.g. stopping executed as intended, forest clearance), consider suspension/ consider suspension termination 1 week 2 weeks 4 weeks Agreed time period2 1 The Grievance Raiser may nominate a third party to act on their behalf. 2 Action plans will work to agreed timelines of no more than three months to reach resolution. However, where circumstances prevent resolution within that time – for example, where legal proceedings are involved – progress at three months will be reviewed to assess whether there is clear evidence of a resolution process being actively implemented. 20 Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   Our Approach to Sustainable Palm Oil MONITORING, EVALUATION AND Climate-related Financial Disclosures such as local communities, smallholders, CSOs such as Greenpeace, Rainforest REPORTING (TCFD) recommendations, and elements government, Civil Society Organisations Action Network (RAN), Forest [103-3] of the Accountability Framework (CSOs), academia, suppliers, the Peoples Programme (FPP) and our Under the GSEP we are committed to Initiative), SPOTT, FTSE4Good and DJSI. Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil implementation partner, Earthworm monitoring, evaluating and reporting (RSPO), our industry peers, customers, Foundation (formerly The Forest Trust). our performance. We provide regular PARTNERSHIPS FOR RESPONSIBLE and implementation partners. We continue to improve our Standard updates on our progress on several PALM OIL Operational Procedures (SOP) for key using a variety of channels. For Finding the best way to operate In several instances, we have worked carrying out FPIC, handling grievances, example, our Sustainability Dashboard sustainably often requires new, with CSO stakeholders like Greenpeace conflict resolution and participatory initiatives is regularly updated with innovative solutions to thorny issues. to develop new guidelines and standards mapping, often with input from information on TTP, fire incidents, We recognise that this is only possible such as the High Carbon Stock Approach external stakeholders such as CSOs. conservation, community engagement through working collaboratively (HCSA) to address deforestation and grievance cases. Other channels of with relevant experts and key concerns. This approach is increasingly We also have several partnerships with reporting include the GAR website, as stakeholders. Partnership (UN SDG17) being adopted, not only in our industry, customers and academic institutions well as reports such as the GAR Annual is the cornerstone of our approach but also in other sectors such as forestry. designed to further our progress Report and the GAR Sustainability to achieving our goals. We do this in towards responsible production. Report. We also participate in several recognition of our limits as a private Our main sustainability roadmap, the Read more about our partnerships on disclosure platforms including CDP company and we seek to learn and gain GSEP, was developed with feedback and our website. (which incorporates Task Force on valuable feedback from our stakeholders input from key stakeholders including Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd 21  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   Our Materiality Assessment [102-29, 102-46, 102-47] Key to our approach in responsible palm our success and that are of greatest our understanding of our material a balance of internal and external oil is our identification and management importance to our stakeholders. sustainability issues. Our approach stakeholder perspectives, through a mix of material issues. This ensures that we followed the principle of materiality as of qualitative and quantitative methods. are prioritising and focusing on the most In 2017, we worked with specialist set out in the GRI Standards and included This included desk research, surveys and significant economic, environmental, sustainability consulting firm Corporate the assessment of sustainability issues interviews. The detailed process can be social and governance issues that shape Citizenship to update and refresh across our entire value chain. We gathered seen on the GAR website. 22 Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   Our Materiality Assessment OUR MATERIALITY MATRIX MATRIX KEY • Priority issues are the most material Environmental Management sustainability issues with high impact Fire and haze High Carbon Stock (HCS) Marketplace and Supply Chain on society and the environment, and forests and peatlands Work Environment and of high concern to stakeholders. These Rights of communities and Industrial form the focus of GAR’s sustainability Biodiversity and High Labour relations indigenous peoples Relations policy, strategic approach to Importance to external stakeholders Conservation Value and human (HCV) areas rights Social and Community responsible palm oil, and sustainability Traceability and supply Engagement reporting. Reporting on priority issues chain transformation Governance Corporate governance, aims to fully meet the requirements of Supplier inclusiveness and Occupational the GRI Standards: Core Option. ethics and integrity smallholder livelihoods health & safety • Significant issues are of ongoing and employee Community relations wellbeing Issues that have grown in importance to GAR and typically of and empowerment Yield improvement importance since our last medium concern to stakeholders. Greenhouse Gas materiality assessment They are actively managed by the Women, diversity Use of fertilisers, (GHG) emissions and inclusion Talent retention, business. Updates on management pesticides and development and training and performance in relation to these chemicals Climate Product quality and issues is included in external reporting Labour relations and change adaptation safety Water human rights as relevant, based on sustainability Women, diversity and context and stakeholder interest. Talent retention, inclusion • Moderate issues are of lower relative development and Occupational health & importance to both GAR and external Waste training safety and employee stakeholders. However, these issues Moderate Significant Priority wellbeing are still part of GAR’s responsible business practices and are managed Current or potential impact on business as part of the company’s sustainability agenda. These are reported where relevant, based on sustainability context and stakeholder interest. Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd 23  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   Understanding where impacts (actual or potential) occur in our value chain [102-15, 102-47, 103-1] Value Chain Plantation Processing Distribution & consumption Material Issues Description Fire and haze No burning in our operations, working with the community to prevent forest fires and responding to any fires that occur in order to minimise the harmful effects on the environment and people. High Carbon Stock (HCS) Identifying, protecting and restoring HCS forests, as well as protecting and managing forests and peatlands peatlands storing high levels of carbon. Biodiversity and High Preventing deforestation or development of HCV areas with high biological, ecological, Conservation Value (HCV) areas social or cultural values; to protect habitats and maintain biodiversity. Labour relations and Promoting fair, ethical, and positive relations with our workforce, respecting human and human rights labour rights, ensuring no child or forced labour. Rights of communities and Respecting community rights through the Free, Prior and Informed Consent (FPIC) indigenous peoples approach. Maintaining community dialogue and engagement, and promoting peaceful resolution of any conflicts. Occupational health & safety Fostering a safe and healthy work environment, preventing any work-related illness, injury and employee wellbeing and accidents, and promoting the wellbeing of employees. Traceability and supply chain Achieving traceability of palm oil products to mill and to plantation, and engaging with transformation suppliers to ensure compliance with our policy to promote responsible and ethical practices. Corporate governance, Conducting all business activities with integrity and in accordance with the highest ethical ethics and integrity and governance standards, in line with the Company Code of Conduct. Supplier inclusiveness and Supporting the socio-economic development and inclusiveness of smallholder suppliers. smallholder livelihoods 24 Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   Our Materiality Assessment Value Chain Plantation Processing Distribution & consumption Material Issues Description Yield improvement Investing in research and development to improve yield and reduce pressure on opening new land. Community relations and Empowering the community and supporting livelihoods by employing locals, implementing empowerment community programmes in education, healthcare, and building and providing public infrastructure, housing and facilities, etc. Women, diversity and inclusion Empowering women across the business and promoting a culture of diversity and inclusion in our workforce and operations. Product quality and safety Adherence to best practice product quality and safety standards, as well as safeguarding consumers’ health. Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions The measurement, monitoring and reduction of GHG emissions across our operations. Climate change adaptation Developing crops resilient to the effects of climate change (e.g. extreme weather events such as drought, flooding). Building community resilience to climate change. Use of fertilisers, pesticides Minimising contamination and pollution from fertiliser, pesticide and chemical use, and chemicals while maintaining soil fertility and high crop yield. Water Reducing water use, recycling and reusing water, management of effluents, and preventing water pollution. Talent, retention, development Managing current and future talent needs through attraction, retention, training and and training development. Waste Managing our waste by reducing, reusing and recycling waste generated, as well as the safe handling and disposal of hazardous waste. Key (actual or potential impact): Significant impact Moderate impact Little to no impact Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd 25  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   Stakeholder Engagement [102-21, 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44] The issues facing palm oil production Our stakeholder engagement focuses on We believe that enhanced mutual the economic and social needs of our are complex and multi-faceted. This trying to better understand stakeholders’ understanding will support the stakeholders. is why a key element of our approach needs and concerns. At the same time, we development of more effective solutions to responsible palm oil relies on want to build our stakeholders’ understanding and partnerships, which can better For more details on our stakeholder engagement and close collaboration of our business and the realities of the palm balance environmental protection with engagement, including how we engage with stakeholders. oil industry on the ground. them, see our website. OUR KEY STAKEHOLDERS Financial community Some key outcomes of our Customers (investors, banks, Governments and Industry bodies and stakeholder engagement: and consumers Employees financial analysts) regulatory bodies trade associations • Participatory Conservation Planning with the community and Alternative Livelihood programmes (see p 51-52) • Long-term fire prevention programme with the Local Civil Society Certification bodies: community (see p 54) communities Media Organisations (CSOs) Suppliers RSPO, ISPO, ISCC • Supply chain transformation (see p 28-31) • Smallholder support programmes (see p 31-32) • Active participation in the RSPO (see p 34) 26 Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   Transforming our Supply Chain In order to meet our sustainability and 46 GAR-owned mills in Indonesia. commitments, we recognise we must Fresh fruit bunches (FFB), the feedstock source our raw materials from suppliers for the mills, are in turn supplied by who agree to follow the same high our own nucleus estates, third-party standards of responsible production. estates, thousands of individual farmers We continue to make substantial (plasma and independent), as well investments in time and resources to as brokers and agents who buy from help our supply chain transform and farmers. Procurement of CPO and PK, change for the better. and procurement of FFB, accounts for around 72 and 10 percent respectively OUR PALM SUPPLY CHAIN of our Indonesian subsidiaries’ [102-9] procurement spend. Based on the The bulk of our procurement comprises high purchasing volume, and the crude palm oil (CPO) and palm kernel potential environmental and social risks (PK) for our downstream business in associated with the purchase of CPO, Indonesia. In 2019, these raw materials PK and FFB, these are considered were sourced from 424 third-party mills GAR’s critical suppliers. SHARE OF PROCUREMENT SPEND ON CRITICAL RAW MATERIALS CPO and PK FFB 72% 10 % Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd 27  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   PALM SUPPLY CHAIN GAR Estates FFB GAR Mill 100% TTP for GAR-owned mills Cooking Oil GAR Plasma Crude Palm Oil (CPO) Smallholders Palm Kernel 78% palm supply chain fully traceable Pharmaceutical Agents Kernel Crushing Plant Palm Kernel Oil (PKO) Biodiesel GAR Refinery Logistics Customers Independent 100% TTP for 90 3rd-party suppliers in 2019 Smallholders FFB 3rd-Party Mill Specialty Fats Estates Crude Palm Oil (CPO) 100% TTP in 2020 for all 3rd-party suppliers Palm Processed Product Kernel Agents Kernel Crushing Plant Oleochemicals Palm Kernel Oil (PKO) Smallholders 28 Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   Transforming our Supply Chain OTHER SUPPLIERS TRACEABILITY TO THE PLANTATION [102-9, 204-1] [103-2, 103-3] [FB-AG-430a.3] We also procure other products and services to run our business. Of our non-palm procurement, our most significant spend for our upstream Full Traceability to the Mill: 78% 424 third palm oil supply chain operations is on fertilisers sourced -party supplier mills fully traceable (GAR-owned mills and Target from 35 Indonesian companies which accounted for 32 percent of procurement spend. We also procure 46 GAR-owned mills; third-party mills) at end 2019 100% TTP non-palm materials, spare parts and for third-party mills by 2020 services; fuel and tires; food; and tools and consumables. Food such as rice, noodles and milk are procured for our employees and form part of their Supporting supplier commitments to conserve non-monetary benefits. In 2019, we spent about IDR 126 billion to buy over 13 kilo tonnes of food. 65,000ha of forests (HCS/HCV) Around 46 percent of products and services are purchased from local vendors close to our operational sites. We also support many small businesses with more than 80 percent of our Since 2015, we have engaged in a Aside from being able to tell our through sharing the importance of procurement sourced from small and massive traceability exercise and we are customers where and from whom we complying with our no-deforestation medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). aiming to have a fully traceable palm oil source our raw materials, traceability commitments as well as guiding our supply chain by end 2020. We continued provides us with a ready-made and suppliers in adopting best practices and to make significant progress towards invaluable platform for relationshiphelping them formalise their own nofull Traceability to the Plantation (TTP) in building with our suppliers. Through this, deforestation policies. Since we began 2019, achieving nearly 80 percent TTP we work with them to transform our supply our deep engagement with suppliers, for GAR-owned and third-party mills. chain and by extension, the industry. 10 of them have carried out HCV and We believe we are on track to hit our HCS assessments, which involves a target of 100 percent TTP by end 2020, One of the tangible results of our efforts is high degree of commitment, time and (subject to possible delays due to the progress in extending forest conservation monetary resources. COVID-19 pandemic). in our supply chain. We are doing this Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd 29  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   SUPPLIER ENGAGEMENT, Aside from commercial considerations, Based on our findings, we can determine the suppliers. We then work with the mills ASSESSMENT AND TRAINING all new suppliers are screened using a risk ranking for each supplier. High-risk to develop and implement time-bound [308-1, 308-2, 414-1, 412-2] [FB-AG-430a.2] environmental and social criteria, in line suppliers are prioritised for site visits and action plans for us to monitor progress We engage intensively and extensively with our commitments in the GSEP. deep engagement. Every year, we aim to against. To date, we have completed site with our critical suppliers through visit at least 20 critical, high-risk suppliers. visits and assessed both Tier 1 and Tier 2 multiple avenues, gaining their trust and For our existing suppliers, all GAR-owned suppliers at all our downstream processing confidence. and third-party mills are assessed for GSEP GAR details the findings from the site visits, locations. Reports can be viewed on compliance on an annual basis through including recommendations and actions for our website. desk research and spatial analysis.1 improvement, in reports that are shared with New Supplier in 2019: Existing Supplier Assessment in 2019: 470 supplying Suppliers engaged through Action Progress 44 new suppliers screened 13 mills (including GAR mills) (100%) assessed deep engagement (site visits & targeted Suppliers on time-bound action plan showing for GSEP compliance training) improvement using commercial, qualified as environmental and social criteria suppliers 167 65 (39%) High risk: 74 (16%) Medium risk: 287 (61%) Low risk: 109 (23%) Types of risk Engaged suppliers with Potential deforestation, waste management, time-bound action plans2 GHG emissions, labour practices, OHS and FPIC implementation 165 (99%) 1 Spatial analysis refers to analysing the mill location relative to areas of sensitive eco-systems such as peat areas, key biodiversity habitats and forest areas. Desk research involves looking for any publicly reported information on environmental and social issues linked to the potential supplier. 2 Examples of action plans for improvement include achieving TTP, strengthening of SOPs, formalisation of sustainability commitments etc. 30 Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   Transforming our Supply Chain GAR is also using the No-deforestation, help them with training through SMART Spotlight on Ksatria Sawit – helping more suppliers achieve traceability No-peat and No-exploitation SPOT and SMART SEED workshops in Implementation Reporting Framework traceability; responsible labour practices; (NDPE IRF) to track progress in and implementation of FPIC and human delivering NDPE commitments across rights. We are guiding them to design our supply chain. The tables below needs-based CSR programmes using show the percentage of CPO volume of Social Impact Assessments. As of 2019, supply classified by NDPE criteria.3 we have shared and emphasised the importance of the GSEP with all (100 No-deforestation progress at percent) of our suppliers. production level4 We are proactively helping suppliers Allocation Criteria: Percentage review their policies, including No-deforestation (CPO) providing recommendations on how to Awareness 17 What is Ksatria Sawit and what are independent smallholders. These two groups strengthen SOPs in various areas such as its goals? of people – independent smallholders and Commitments 10 environmental management and labour “Ksatria Sawit” is a Bahasa Indonesia term agents – are an important part of our supply Progressing 2 relations. meaning ‘palm oil warrior’ in English. The chain, and we needed to make an effort to Delivery 71 name is also a Bahasa abbreviation which understand the problems they face and work Ksatria Sawit means transforming the supply chain through with them to improve their practices. programme independent smallholders and agents, that’s No-peat progress at mill level to accelerate why we chose the name. This programme We initiated Ksatria Sawit where we work Allocation Criteria: Percentage TTP reflects one of the pillars of our GAR Social together with palm oil mills, agents and and Environmental Policy (GSEP) which is independent smallholders, to achieve full No-peat (CPO) to build a traceable and transparent supply traceability.” Awareness 18 To help accelerate the TTP process chain that extends to farmers, and is a Commitments 15 amongst our suppliers, we launched continuation of our efforts since 2015. Progressing 7 the Ksatria Sawit programme. The At the end of 2018, we were 62 percent programme reaches out to areas where Delivery 60 traceable to the plantation. From our many of our supplier mills are buying research, we found the majority of our supply from smallholders, and traces their chain that had not yet been traced were mills Justinus Kriswantoro, Based on assessments of our suppliers’ agents and farmers. Since its launch in who bought a lot of raw materials from agents Head of Traceability most pressing needs, we continued to April 2019, we have covered provinces in GAR’s Responsible who collect Fresh Fruit Bunches (FFB) from Sourcing Team 3 Note that the set of allocation criteria for “no-exploitation” is still under development. Read more about Ksatria Sawit on our website. 4 Based on estimate of proportion of FFB from directly managed estates. Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd 31  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   such as Aceh, North/South Sumatra, Riau, We operate a transparent and accountable We have been supporting and helping for new agricultural land. It gives farmers Jambi, Lampung, and Bangka Belitung. system where stakeholders can inform us all our plasma smallholders achieve access to financing, helping them sustain We estimate that the programme will of issues within our supply chain using our responsible farming for almost three their livelihoods during the four years it help us trace almost 60,000 smallholders. grievance process. As part of this process, decades. In 2019, around 70,300 plasma takes for the new seedlings to mature. Through this programme we also hope we conduct ad-hoc site visits where an smallholders supplied FFB to GAR, about Since 2014, GAR has helped independent to develop new mechanisms to help issue has been raised by an external 21 percent of our total intake of FFB. farmers secure loans of nearly IDR 400 smallholders and agents adopt sustainable stakeholder or discovered through our billion from state-owned banks. practices. own monitoring. Our engagement is While GAR does not own the plasma reported in our Grievance List. In 2019, plantations, they are closely integrated We continue to run other finance and 32 new grievances were raised involving into our management system and we support programmes for independent our third-party suppliers. We have take the lead in promoting their success smallholders. Through the Smallholders resolved 11 of the new cases and two while adhering to the GSEP. In 2019, our Development Programme, GAR has older cases (see p 18). Case studies which smallholders achieved a CPO yield of around provided technical assistance and long highlight action plans or our suppliers are 4.8 tonnes per hectare, which is among tenure interest-free credit to independent published on our website. the highest in the industry in Indonesia. farmers in East Kalimantan since 2013. Farmers have access to high-yielding SUPPORTING SMALLHOLDERS Through our partnership, we provide seeds, fertiliser and herbicides, and [103-2, 103-3] plasma smallholders access to highheavy equipment rental, at below market yielding seeds and good quality fertilisers. rates. To date, we have disbursed more We also ensure knowledge transfer and than IDR30 billion in interest-free loans Support for capacity building through regular training and other aid. 70,300 plasma smallholders on Good Agricultural Practices. Our R&D division, SMARTRI runs regular GAR also extends support to a few training programmes for smallholders. Each thousand independent smallholders year, they train several hundred farmers in Suppliers who participate in our through the Independent Farmers agronomic practices focusing especially engagement and assessment processes Replanting Programme and other on integrated pest management and are generally receptive to proposals for technical and financial schemes. fertiliser management. Beneficial plants improvement. However, suppliers deemed are given to the farmers at the end of the non-compliant will no longer form part Smallholders are a critical part of the palm The Independent Farmers Replanting training session, to be planted in their of our supply chain. In 2019, we stopped supply chain in Indonesia with about two Programme was set up to encourage field to contribute to the biological control procuring from about 0.5 percent of our million farmers controlling around 44 independent smallholders to replant with of herbivories. In addition, SMARTRI suppliers for non-compliance with our percent of palm oil estates in the country. better quality, higher-yielding seeds which staff also visit smallholder farms when GSEP commitments, and from over seven Improving their livelihoods and responsible will help boost productivity and incomes, requested, to help solve pest outbreak percent since 2015. practices is key to improving the industry. while potentially reducing the demand issues or nutrient deficiency cases. 32 Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   Transforming our Supply Chain PARTNERSHIPS TO HELP RESPECTING HUMAN RIGHTS IN SMALLHOLDERS OUR SUPPLY CHAIN [408-1, 409-1, 407-1, 412-1] GAR is partnering with customers and other stakeholders on projects As we continue to progress with our aimed at helping to transform the palm supply chain mapping and palm oil industry. These projects develop deeper support for our key include support for smallholders to suppliers, we are taking steps to boost their sustainable practices and address salient labour and human improve their livelihoods. rights issues within our supply chain. A full list of our partnerships and While we have not detected actual projects can be found on our website. forced or child labour cases amongst our suppliers, we have noted that there Partnership with customer: Smallholder Mapping Project GAR signed an MOU with one of its major customers, Neste, to help boost are risks amongst some of our suppliers action plans for improvement and we independent smallholder sustainability. The whether through lack of formal policies monitor their progress. project is based in Indonesia and will focus or through certain actions which can be on a group of farmers in the Siak District perceived as indications of irresponsible In 2019, we organised three workshops in the Riau province. The two parties are labour practices. on the topic of child labour prevention collaborating to enable Smallholder Group in East Kalimantan, Langkat and Central Certification for the supply of certified We are therefore proactively helping our Kalimantan. We also developed a video palm oil. The project will help independent suppliers review their labour policies. This to help educate suppliers on child labour farmers adopt sustainable practices and includes providing recommendations risks. gain wider market access, in line with the to strengthen SOPs and recruitment objectives of the companies’ sustainability mechanisms. We are training and Aside from child labour issues, we are policies. supporting suppliers to formally carrying out a workload study to help implement no child labour practices and design guidelines for suppliers on setting Learn more here protect children within their operations. workload incentives that are achievable We have helped several suppliers create by individual workers. Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd 33  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   Caring for our Customers and Consumers OUR CUSTOMERS traders, distributors, wholesalers, the production of secondary goods. household cleaners – view the wide range [102-2] retailers as well as other businesses in Palm oil is an extremely versatile raw of products on our website. The bulk of our palm oil is distributed the food and manufacturing industries material used to make many daily through our customers, which include that use our oil as a raw material in products ranging from cooking oil to 34 Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   Caring for our Customers and Consumers REVENUE BASED ON We sell our products across the world, ROUNDTABLE ON SUSTAINABLE will hold this position until 2021. He GEOGRAPHICAL LOCATION OF deriving the bulk of our revenue from PALM OIL (RSPO) CERTIFICATION is also Co-Chair of the Assurance CUSTOMERS markets in Asia. To date, over 268,000 hectares of Standard Committee of RSPO plantations including smallholder and our SVP for Group Corporate 2019 (US$’000) In recent years we have been extending plantations of over 51,000 hectares, Communications, Ms Anita Neville is Consolidated revenue 6,431,799 our product range into high-value areas 31 mills, nine kernel crushing plants, six Co-Chair of the Market Development China such as low 3-MCPD products, biodiesel, refineries, seven bulking stations and Standing Committee. 810,750 and palm-based oleochemicals, which are one oleo-chemicals plant have received Others Indonesia used to manufacture soaps, detergents RSPO certification. We also participate in the RSPO 493,837 1,092,550 and other personal care products. working groups on deforestation; GAR plays an active role in the RSPO. peatland; biodiversity; human rights; Europe GAR is also proactively responding to the In 2019, Mr Agus Purnomo, GAR’s jurisdictional working group; and 922,840 growing market demand for traceable Managing Director of Sustainability outreach and engagement. We are also and certified sustainable palm oil. and Strategic Stakeholder Engagement involved in the RSPO task forces on was re-elected to the RSPO Board of HCV; FPIC; independent smallholders; PROVIDING CERTIFIED SUSTAINABLE Governors representing the Indonesian compensation; Supply Chain Rest of Asia PALM OIL Growers Caucus (IGC) within RSPO. He Certification (SCC); trademark; as 1,585,289 India [102-13] [FB-AG-430a.1] 1,526,533 Our Indonesian operations were early adopters of certification of sustainably 2018 (US$’000) produced palm oil SMART became Consolidated revenue 7,167,428 a member of the Roundtable on China Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) member in 853,214 2005 shortly after RSPO was founded. Others Indonesia We also play an active role in RSPO 569,885 1,081,681 participating in the Board of Governors and various working groups. Europe 1,015,425 Industry certification is part of GAR’s on-going commitment to adopt best practices and standards in responsible production while allowing us to meet Rest of Asia growing demand for certified sustainable 2,055,937 India palm oil. Our latest certification data is 1,591,286 on our website. Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd 35  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   well as Indonesia National Interpretation of Agriculture to improve the and review for the Principles and Criteria competitiveness of Indonesian palm (P&C); and the Resolution Task Force. oil in world markets and to meet Indonesia’s commitment to reduce INTERNATIONAL SUSTAINABILITY greenhouse gases and focus on AND CARBON CERTIFICATION (ISCC) environmental issues. GAR maintains ISCC certification, a global certification which aims to To date, over 217,000 hectares of ensure sustainable production and plantations and 34 mills have received use of all kinds of biomass in global ISPO certification. supply chains. ISCC is based on the implementation of the highest DEVELOPING A BIOFUEL MARKET sustainability requirements in ecological FOR PALM OIL sustainability, social sustainability, We have a biodiesel plant near Jakarta compliance with laws and international and another in South Kalimantan. treaties, monitoring of GHG emissions Biodiesel in Indonesia is a growing and good management practices. market with the government’s commitment to implement a To date, over 288,000 hectares of progressively larger biodiesel mixture plantations including smallholder mandate. Accordingly, we have plantations of over 54,000 hectares, received 41 percent larger allocation 30 mills, five refineries, 14 bulking from the government for 2020 delivery stations and two biodiesel plants have as the B30 programme is implemented received ISCC certification. starting January 2020. We plan to expand biodiesel capacity in South All biomass intended for biofuels in Kalimantan by 450,000 tonnes annually destinations like Europe are ISCC which is estimated to be completed certified, ensuring that our products in 2021. meet the highest responsible palm oil standards in the international market. OUR CONSUMERS Aside from distributing palm oil to INDONESIAN SUSTAINABLE PALM industrial customers, we also sell OIL (ISPO) edible oil and food products directly to GAR also supports the ISPO Scheme the end consumer in large markets like developed by the Indonesian Ministry Indonesia, China and India. 36 Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   Caring for our Customers and Consumers For a full list of our products and brands, All six palm oil refineries in Indonesia also have CPPOB certification (Good achieved this for 98 percent of all please see our website. Please refer to are accredited with ISO 9001 and three Manufacturing Practices for Processed margarine, shortening and specialty the GAR Annual Report 2019 for more plants have ISO 22000 certification, Food). products. While we aimed to be fully information on our consumer markets which recognises that they adhere trans-fat-free by 2019, we have a and future business strategy. to strict international food safety We are also committed to rolling out small number of customers wishing standards. Three plants also have FSSC the Hazards Analysis and Critical Control to keep their existing formulas. This ENSURING CONSUMER SAFETY, 22000 food safety certification. The six Point or HACCP food safety system represents less than two percent of our WELL-BEING AND PRODUCT QUALITY facilities also have OHSAS 18001, ISO across our operations. total products and is mainly for local [103-2, 103-3, 416-1] 14001, Halal and Kosher certification. Indonesian consumption. Nevertheless, Our consumers rely on GAR brands for In addition, the refineries in Lampung, We are aware of consumer concerns we continue to work towards the WHO safe and high quality products that they Belawan, Marunda, Tarjun and Lubuk about the health and safety aspects target to eliminate industrial trans fatty can trust. We use international standards Gaung have FDA accreditation and we of our end products. Our Downstream acids by 2023. to ensure the quality of our products, bar have GMP+B2 certification for lauric Research and Development department codes for traceability, and we systematically products at the Belawan, Lampung, is actively addressing this area. GAR The Indonesian government mandates record expiry dates and batch data. Lubuk Gaung. Five of our plants continues to focus on minimising fortification of Vitamin A in cooking oil. occurrence of 3-monochloropropane We comply with this and are making diol (3-MCPD) precursors following the sure we provide healthy fortified cooking European Food Standards Authority oil. In addition to Vitamin A, our Filma revision of 3-MCPD and glycidyl fatty margarine is also fortified with vitamins acid esters (GE) levels. Our business B1, B2 and B3. is successfully tackling the 3MCPD/ GE issue holistically, for example by Following interest from several global minimising Free Fatty Acids (FFA) in customers, we have started exploring CPO and optimising refining techniques. the development of a non-GMO high We are also continuing to optimise oleic palm oil (all our palm oil raw identification methods for 3-MCPD and materials are non-GMO). High oleic oil GE esters. In 2019, GAR participated in is high in monounsaturated fats and has the FAPAS UK 3-MCPDE, 2-MCPDE and a better nutritional profile. In 2019, a GE proficiency tests with satisfactory joint research project between upstream results. These tests are conducted yearly. and downstream R&D began to explore Read more about our efforts here. developing new hybrid high oleic palm oil. Several hybrids have been selected We have put considerable effort into and tested at pilot scale. removing trans fatty acids from all our products and as of end 2019, we Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd 37  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   Our People We created over 171,100 jobs in Indonesia including 70,300 plasma smallholders 38 Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   Our People The palm oil industry supports water, electricity and free education for economic growth, especially in rural their children from kindergarten to junior areas, helping to lift incomes and living high. GAR also provides its full-time standards of local communities. We workers with basic necessities such as rice. provide employment for over 171,100 people in Indonesia including 70,300 Our part-time workers receive free medical plasma scheme smallholders. As a services at our polyclinics and their major employer, GAR is committed children have access to education at our to providing fair employment estate schools. opportunities by respecting labour and human rights. We aim to foster a safe RECOGNISING, RESPECTING AND working environment, provide learning STRENGTHENING WORKERS’ RIGHTS and development opportunities, [103-2, 103-3, 409-1] empower women and promote a We believe in the fair, equal and respectful culture of diversity. treatment for all our employees. Through the GSEP, we have reinforced our PAYING FAIR WAGES AND commitment to ensuring that the rights EMPLOYEE BENEFITS of all people working in our operations [103-2, 103-3, 401-2, 403-6] are respected. The company also fully We are committed to ensuring that complies with local, national and ratified all employees of GAR receive a wage international laws. We adhere to all that is equal to or above the minimum Indonesian labour laws covering issues wage set for their respective province, such as freedom of association for our in addition to a range of additional employees, decent pay and working benefits. hours, non-discrimination and the complete elimination of child and forced Minimum wages in Indonesia are set by labour. Where legal frameworks are not provincial and district authorities, and yet in place, we defer to the International take into account the local prices of Labour Organisation’s (ILO) Declaration goods and services, and therefore the on Fundamental Principles and Rights at amount required for living. Work. In terms of benefits, full-time workers Our commitment to fair labour is also receive free healthcare for themselves emphasised in our company Code of and their family, company housing, Conduct and employment practices. We Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd 39  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   have an equal opportunities policy on ensure that parents have somewhere safe When a case of harassment is reported our operations representing over 81,000 employment, banning discrimination to send their children while they are at either formally or informally, the relevant employees (79 percent). based on race, national origin, religion, work. committee investigates the situation to disability, gender, sexual orientation, determine whether further sanctions or TRAINING AND DEVELOPING OUR union membership and political DIVERSITY AND GENDER EQUALITY law enforcement actions are needed. PEOPLE’S SKILLS affiliation. Employees enter into [103-2, 103-3, 405-1] During the investigation, the committee [103-2, 103-3, 404-2, 404-3] employment freely as we do not require We believe in promoting gender equality also provides assistance and support to We see training and development as an our employees to deposit identity in the workplace. However, the manual the victim. In 2019, no significant cases of investment that delivers benefits to both papers or money. nature of agricultural work means that harassment or abuse were reported. employees and the employer. certain jobs continue to be more suited to We are also engaging our supply chain male rather than female employees. Male FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND GAR spent nearly USD 4 million in 2019 on our labour standards, including workers perform heavier physical tasks TRADE UNION MEMBERSHIP on training and development in our prohibiting child labour, as part of our such as harvesting FFB (which can weigh [102-41, 407-1] Indonesian operations. efforts to help them comply with the between 2327 kg) and carrying them to GSEP and adopt responsible practices. trucks for transport to the mills. Women To develop talent, we have launched For more information on how we work on human rights in our supply chain, generally work on weeding and collecting loose fruits that have fallen on the ground. 121 labour unions representing several key initiatives linked to GAR’s Competency Model, such as Managing see the section on Transforming our for Results, Interaction Management, >81,000 Supply Chain. Many women in rural areas also prefer to Situational Leadership and Myers-Briggs take on part-time jobs, as it gives them Type Indicator (MBTI). Compulsory PROHIBITING CHILD LABOUR the flexibility for other responsibilities such employees training that focuses on preparation of [408-1] as tending to the household; childcare; the individual’s career progression is In accordance with regulations, the family gardens and other income-earning Freedom of association is mandated by ongoing through the Basic Management minimum age for employment in GAR businesses. Indonesian Law and Regulation No. 21/2000 Development Programme, Supervisory in any capacity is 18 years. We aim to on Trade/Labour Unions and is in line Management Development Programme, prevent all forms of child labour, and We have zero tolerance for sexual with International Labour Organization Middle Management Development we rigorously enforce these principles harassment. We conduct extensive Convention No. 98 on the freedom of Programme, General Management at all our plantations, mills and other training and socialisation for all estate and organisation and collective bargaining. Development Programme and Executive places of work. Our recruitment officers mill workers to ensure this is understood. Development Programme. check identification cards against the Gender committees with representatives Each of our units has union prospective employee’s schooling from labour unions and management representatives, elected by members. We have also introduced the Objective records, such as their school diploma, to have been set up to promote female They meet with local management & Key Results (OKR) approach to achieve ensure that we do not employ children. participation and advancement in the representatives regularly in bipartite business results. Through OKR, every We also provide schools and day care workplace. These committees also forums, to discuss and resolve issues. In individual will work towards concrete, centres for our workers’ children to handle sexual harassment complaints. 2019, there were 121 labour unions across action-oriented and results-driven 40 Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   Our People targets. Regular performance feedback National requirements include Indonesian On average, the committees for our is one of the important aspects to national OHS standards (regulation no. 50 plantations and mills have 40 members, ensure the effectiveness of OKR. (2012)). We also base our OHS system on with 60 percent worker representation. This can now be carried out through various certifications including ISO 14001, The committee meets monthly to Workday, a HR digital platform. Using OHSAS 18001 and ISO 45001. Sustainable review OHS data and performance. Workday, all GAR employees will palm oil certification OHS requirements Monthly safety briefings are given to undergo a career development and are also taken into consideration including employees. Key Performance Indicator (KPI) review the Principles and Criteria of RSPO, ISCC at least once a year. and ISPO. We also assess work-related hazards through Hazard Identification and Risk For more details on employee training Additionally, our Indonesian operations Analysis, and by conducting OHS Cross see the GAR Annual Report 2019. under SMART are certified under the Inspection to record unsafe actions and SMK3 (Sistem Manajemen Keselamatan conditions. Examples include no or CREATING A SAFE AND HEALTHY dan Kesehatan Kerja) OHS management inadequate covers on rotating objects, WORKPLACE system, in recognition of good OHS lack of employee awareness and [103-2, 103-3, 403-1, 403-2, 403-3, 403-4, 403management and implementation. knowledge. The OHS Committee will 5, 403-7, 403-9] Fifteen mills and one estate have been consider these hazards and risks and reviewed and certified under SMK3. These determine suitable action to address OHS certifications are valid for three years and a fresh audit is carried out prior to renewal. gaps such as additional training; reviewing and strengthening safety SOPs; and ensuring Personal Protective We currently have over 220 OHS experts Equipment (PPE) is adequate and worn within our workforce and conduct periodic by employees. training for all employees in accordance With thousands of employees with national regulations. In 2019, more All our downstream facilities have across our operations, we take our than 480 of our employees received Occupational Health Service Centres. responsibility in providing a safe and OHS training conducted and certified by The centres conduct Health Risk healthy workplace very seriously. Our Ministry of Manpower of the Republic of Assessments (HRA) annually to identify Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) Indonesia. occupational health hazards and management system aims to minimise establish control measures to minimise workplace accidents, fatalities and In compliance with Law No. 1 of 1970 on such risks. other negative health impacts and Occupational Safety, each of our units covers all employees. The OHS systems has an OHS Supervisory Committee, Workplace accidents that we implement are based on which promotes cooperation between We regret to report six fatalities in national and international frameworks. management and employees on OHS. 2019 involving our workers. The fatal Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd 41  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   incidents were related to accidents when for employees such as basketball and undergo a 21-day comprehensive training using tractors; falling FFB; being struck GAR’s COVID-19 response badminton courts are also available. programme by the Bhakti Manunggal by lightning; being caught or struck by GAR has been progressively implementing Karya Centre of Education and Training machinery; and falls. OHS measures in light of the COVID-19 Security guards (BMK). Upon completion, they receive a pandemic in 2020 and in line with [410-1] certificate from the Indonesian National We take the health and safety of government directives in countries where The safety of our workers and their Police. The programme covers human our employees and contractors very we operate. In Indonesia where we families is of utmost importance, rights standards as well as professional seriously and to address this, we have remain operational, we are protecting the particularly in isolated rural areas. We ethics. investigated each accident thoroughly health and wellbeing of our employees employ security guards for our operations and implemented various action plans to while preventing spread of the disease. in Indonesia to ensure that our plantations Our security guards do not carry firearms safeguard against future occurrences such More information on the measures being and surrounding communities are secure. but are equipped with standard defensive implemented in Indonesia can be found as improved or targeted safety training. Our security guards are required to security tools such as batons and handcuffs. here. In Singapore, GAR is complying We will continue to work on instilling a with the government’s Safe Management stronger OHS awareness and practices Measures at the workplace. We have throughout our operations as well as resumed China operations whilst following continuing to aim for a declining trend in government guidelines. Read about our workplace accidents and fatalities. global response to the pandemic here. Healthcare and Well-being [403-6] We are committed to providing our entire workforce access to healthcare, including up programme is part of our effort to in remote rural areas where there is less prevent and treat work-related illnesses incentive for healthcare professionals through early detection. to practice. We have 140 clinics, which cover all our estates, and more than 330 To promote employee wellness, talks on medical personnel providing free medical various health topics are held regularly. services for our workers. Examples include talks on the prevention of HIV and the dangers of drug addiction. The medical care that our facilities Information is also disseminated on provide includes pre-employment ergonomics and work fatigue. We medical check-ups for new recruits, and also provide healthy menus based on special medical check-ups for workers medical advice at staff canteens, in an who are exposed to potential health effort to promote better nutrition for our and safety hazards. The medical checkemployees. Sports and fitness facilities 42 Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   Our People DATA SUMMARY Profile of employees Ratio of basic salary of women to men [102-8, 401-1] [405-2] 2017 2018 2019 Category Ratio (average female salary/average male salary) Male Female Male Female Male Female Staff 1.04 Permanent 44,382 6,600 45,897 16,231 51,996 18,124 Middle management 1.03 Fixed-term 28,196 25,452 23,788 16,387 18,589 12,034 Senior management 1.04 Full-time 64,300 17,167 64,735 25,749 67,285 26,388 Diversity and gender indicators Part-time 8,278 14,885 4,950 6,869 3,300 3,861 Employee gender profile [405-1] New hires 2,646 1,014 1,937 502 1,418 408 Male Female New hire rate 6.0% 15.4% 4.2% 3.1% 2.7% 2.3% Board 100% 0% Turnover 3,387 669 1,821 470 1,425 385 Senior management 81.2% 18.8% Turnover rate 7.6% 10.1% 4.0% 2.9% 2.7% 2.1% Middle management 82.8% 17.2% Junior management 82.2% 17.8% Lowest wage rate and minimum legal wage1 [202-1] Average 82.3% 17.7% Region GAR lowest Provincial Ratio of GAR’s lowest Employee age profile monthly wage minimum wage monthly wage and Age group Board Senior Middle Junior Average (IDR) (IDR) provincial minimum wage management management management Sumatra 2,855,667 2,855,667 1:1 <30 0% 0% 1% 35% 30% Kalimantan 2,780,000 2,780,000 1:1 30 – 50 0% 59% 68% 57% 58% Papua 3,241,000 3,241,000 1:1 >50 100% 41% 31% 8% 12% 1 This refers to the lowest legal minimum wage listed among the provinces where GAR has operations. Indonesia’s 2019 list of legal minimum wages in different provinces can be found at wageindicator.org. Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd 43  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   OHS indicators [403-9] [FB-AG-320a.1] 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 2019 Number of fatalities (US) 6 9 5 Number of recordable work-related injuries 24 6 15 Rate of fatalities (US) (DS contractors) 0.05 0.03 Rate of recordable work-related injuries 51.06 1.36 2.65 Number of fatalities (US contractors) 0 0 (DS contractors) Rate of fatalities (US contractors) 0 0 Lost time Injury Frequency Rate (US) 0.03 0.05 2.88 Number of fatalities (DS) 0 0 1 Lost time Injury Frequency Rate (DS) 0 0 0.12 Rate of fatalities (DS) 0 0 0.09 Number of fatalities (DS contractors) 0 2 0 Training and development Rate of fatalities (DS contractors) Average hours of training 0 0.45 0 [404-1] Number of recordable work-related injuries (US) 1,861 717 781 Employee level 2019 Rate of recordable work-related injuries 9.97 4 4.09 (per 1,000,000 work hours) Staff 6 Number of recordable work-related injuries (DS) 47 25 25 Middle management 7 Rate of recordable work-related injuries 4.81 2.8 2.5 Senior management 6 (per 1,000,000 work hours) (DS) Number of recordable work-related injuries 0 1 Employee gender 2019 (US contractors) Male 8 Rate of recordable work-related injuries 0 0.32 (US contractors) Female 5 44 Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   Engaging and Empowering the Community [413-1] Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd 45  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   100% plantations have Social 100% plantations Providing public infrastructure: roads, bridges, places of worship, community halls and Environmental have social and Impact Assessments community development programmes The palm oil sector has helped to improving infrastructure and reducing FPIC is a central tenet of the GSEP and resources on PM to accelerate the accelerate economic and social progress inequalities. part of our commitment to upholding process throughout our concessions. in tropical countries like Indonesia and human and community rights. We The PM status at 18 of our concessions Malaysia. Millions of farmers have seen At the same time, we recognise that implement FPIC in all our plantations. can be found on our website. See the their livelihoods and living standards the establishment of plantations creates Respecting FPIC means we ensure section on Environmental Management improve in the past few decades, thanks changes for local communities and that decision-making by indigenous or our website for further details. to a boom in demand for palm oil. indigenous people. As stated in the GSEP, peoples and local communities we are committed to respecting human regarding the presence of our We continue to carry out FPIC As one of the largest palm oil companies rights and fulfilling Free, Prior and Informed operations is done without pressure remediation in our concessions in in Indonesia, we have created thousands Consent (FPIC) requirements before any and intimidation (free), performed Central and West Kalimantan following of jobs in rural and remote areas. operations begin.1 GAR is also committed before an activity that has impact feedback that initial FPIC requirements We have also helped provide public to improving its processes and procedures on the surrounding communities is were not fully met. This process is infrastructure such as roads, bridges, with regards to respecting the customary carried out (prior), and with sufficient being conducted with local CSO, community halls and places of worship. rights of local and indigenous communities. knowledge about the activity and LINKS and Ekologika consultants. It Prior to developing an estate, we carry its impact on the surrounding involves fresh consultations with local out Environmental and Social Impact RESPECTING HUMAN RIGHTS AND communities (informed), so they may communities and conducting PM to Assessments (EIA and SIA) at the site of FREE, PRIOR AND INFORMED express agreement or disagreement to ensure that the community’s land our operations. The results are shared CONSENT (FPIC) such activity (consent). Our FPIC SOP rights are fully respected. To date, the with the local communities. All our [103-2, 103-3, 411-1] can be found here. remediation process has been carried plantations also have social community out in over 30 villages. engagement and development plans. Participatory Mapping: Our rollout of Participatory Mapping What we do in the community helps to contribute to the aims of UN SDGs especially in terms of tackling poverty, 93 villages since 2015 (PM), including land tenure studies, seeks to ensure FPIC is implemented properly. In 2019, we focused more In 2019, there were no incidents of FPIC violations or violations of the rights of indigenous peoples. 1 Since 2014, GAR has stopped opening new nucleus estates, choosing instead to focus on yield improvement. 46 Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   Engaging and Empowering the Community RESPONSIBLE CONFLICT RESOLUTION government agencies, local communities, Our policies and practices are designed to minimise the likelihood of any as well as the Eka Tjipta Foundation (a non-profit social organisation founded >280 >40,800 conflicts arising from our operations. However, when these conflicts do arise, by the family of the late Eka Tjipta Widjaja in 2006) and the Tzu Chi FREE schools students bus services for we are committed to working towards a responsible resolution. Foundation in Indonesia (affiliated with the non-denominational global Tzu Chi school children >2,160 teachers organisation established in Taiwan). Our conflict management system maps all conflicts related to our operations and GAR believes education is a powerful Donation of books, learning materials develops action plans to address them. It enabler which helps to break the cycle and facilities to incorporates transparent monitoring and of poverty in rural areas. We strive to reporting, the option for local community and customary groups to access provide quality education to children and young adults living in and around our 14,300 recipients independent legal and technical advice, the ability for complainants to choose individuals or groups to support them or concessions. All children of workers living on our US$2.4 mil for scholarships act as observers, as well as the option of estates receive free education from a third-party mediator. We categorically kindergarten to junior high school and reject the use of violence in any dispute. heavily subsidised higher education. We also offer heavily subsidised education >330 medical personnel treat Our SOP for conflict resolution can be at all levels for children living near and viewed here. around our estates. 36 >380 patients daily INVESTING IN COMMUNITIES [103-2, 103-3] In line with the nine years of compulsory education required by the Indonesian Rumah Pintar (Smart Houses) for community training at 140 clinics GAR aims to help multiply the positive government, we ensure that each estate impacts of the palm oil business through a has educational facilities ranging from range of educational, healthcare, social and kindergarten to sixth grade. Additionally, Child health, vaccination & nutrition economic programmes for communities. we make sure that every region has a On some of these programmes, we work junior high school for the children of our employees and local communities. programmes for 8,600 beneficiaries with a wide range of partners including Currently, GAR supports over 280 schools2 2 We support educational establishments through financial aid, wages for teachers and provision of infrastructure and facilities. Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd 47  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   with over 2,160 teachers for more than FREE medical & Mother & child health education for Planting 120,000 40,800 students across our concessions. 4,000 We also donated books and educational dental services for beneficial, medicinal and fruit trees materials to over 14,300 students. 5,900 patients beneficiaries In 2019, we also provided about USD$2.4 million in scholarships for higher education at Indonesian and international universities and institutes. Safe Water Garden Project: We have constructed 36 Rumah Pintar Sale of 176,300 litres of branded cooking 10 installations to treat or Smart Houses since 2011 to support community training programmes. Each household wastewater & Rumah Pintar has a library and play room oil at below market prices in and is equipped with computers. There is fertilise gardens impoverished areas a particular focus on early childhood and women’s education. We help improve the well-being of local Aid for 4,700 6,200 communities by providing access to 18,200 Visits to healthcare in remote and rural areas. We people in orphanages currently mobilise more than 330 medical victims of natural blood donors and nursing homes personnel at 140 clinics which serves disasters over 380 patients daily. Our other annual programmes include free medical and dental services to over 5,900 patients and other initiatives as illustrated in the 40 communities with Alternative 100% plantations have social Environmental conservation training programmes for infographic. Livelihood programmes: increase income; improve food self-sufficiency & resilience; support conservation goals and community development programmes 2,900 participants 48 Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   Engaging and Empowering the Community Spotlight on Safe Water Garden Project A low-tech solution to treat wastewater in rural communities in Indonesia GAR installing SWGs in Indonesia 100 million safe water gardens for The world’s most cost-efficient sanitation the palm oil and plastic sector in the form of potential to address the rural sanitation villagers around the world system Sinar Mas Agribusiness and Food, Musim Mas issue, and declared it fit for use early 2020, By Dr Marc van Loo A combination of septic tanks and leachand Borouge– to optimise the solution and making the SWG officially the world’s most fields (one set per household) has long been make it even cheaper and easier to build locally. cost-efficient sanitation system. In tropical villages, wastewater is typically recognised as a viable solution. Using these, released untreated into the environment. UNICEF, Red Cross and others developed a After three years of extensive testing, in 2019, The result is a health tragedy. Worldwide, practical and economical solution for Aceh’s we had our result – the Safe Water Garden about 2,000 children die every day as a villagers after the 2004 tsunami. (SWG). It features 4 main components: a Dr Marc van Loo, result, 370 in Indonesia alone. closed tank, a leach field (the garden), a pipe Founder of Loola Resort Inspired by this life-saving work, in 2016, we system connecting the parts, and a separate and alliance for bringing started working with governments, schools, kitchen sink (not pictured). The Indonesian Safe Water Gardens to world-class universities and companies –notably government quickly recognised the SWG’s villagers globally. Read more about GAR’s work in this area here. Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd 49  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   PROMOTING SMALL AND MICRO OUR EMPLOYEES IN THE ENTERPRISES COMMUNITY Supporting the community during the practices and grow crops ranging from Our presence plays an important role We involve and mobilise our staff global pandemic organic vegetables to coffee. Read more as an economic driver and multiplier for various causes. For example, we The COVID-19 pandemic has highlighted about our programmes here. and has helped in the development of urge employees and tenants at our the importance of food security and we various businesses in the remote areas corporate headquarters in Jakarta continue working with local communities We are also addressing the need for of Indonesia. and our operations units in Central around our estates to ensure they have protective equipment for our employees Kalimantan, South Kalimantan, sufficient and varied food sources. We do and local communities during the We actively help promote small and East Kalimantan, Lampung, Riau, this through our Alternative Livelihood pandemic. We are organising the making micro enterprises that contribute to West Kalimantan, Jambi, North programmes. To date, this programme and distribution of 30,000 masks in increased income for the community. Sumatra, South Sumatra, West has helped more than 40 communities collaboration with Tzu Chi Indonesia. Read Our ongoing goat breeding Java and Papua to participate in across Indonesia improve their agricultural more here. programme in 11 villages around regular blood donation drives for PT Ivo Mas Tunggal in Riau is one the Indonesian Red Cross. More example. The company has donated than 4,700 blood donors comprising over 260 goats to the villages. Local employees and members of local communities are able to earn extra community participated in 2019. income through the sale of milk and We also encourage our employees meat. As the villagers breed more to contribute funds regularly to the goats, these will then be given to a Tzu Chi Foundation. Farmers Group in another village to grow and expand the scheme. 50 Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   Our Environmental Management Environmental management is a key tenet and providing important ecosystem Carbon Stock (HCS) forests and High imperative not just to safeguard the health of our sustainability policy. Indonesia, services we all rely on. We are committed Conservation Value (HCV) areas, tackling of our planet and its population, but also where we mostly operate, is home to to protecting this ecosystem by focusing climate change, minimising waste, and the longevity of our business. some of the richest biodiversity on Earth on protecting and conserving High using water responsibly. We believe this is Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd 51  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   Supporting commitments FOREST AND BIODIVERSITY The mapping lays the foundation for to conserve GAR joins & funds CONSERVATION further dialogue on conservation through RADD deforestation 65,000 ha [103-2, 103-3, 304-1, 304-2] our Participatory Conservation Planning radar monitoring We continue to implement our process. Our intensive consultative initiative long-term forest and biodiversity approach takes into account local of forests by our suppliers conservation initiatives. These require community concerns, needs and substantial investment of time and aspirations. These include food security resources to execute. Tangible results requirements, the ability to earn a decent Protection production include the maintenance of 72,000 living and maintain a stable quality of life. partnerships: hectares of conservation area consisting Part of this process involves designing of High Carbon Stock (HCS) forests suitable alternative livelihood projects for >7,700 ha of forests under community DISCLOSURE INSIGHT ACTION and High Conservation Value (HCV) areas. This is roughly equal to the size the local community. of Singapore. We have rolled out PM in 93 villages across conservation planning CDP rating Afor forests our concessions to date. As part of our We take a landscape approach to landscape approach to forest conservation, conservation, beyond the boundaries we will continue to roll out our conservation of our concessions. One approach is planning programmes with local through our community conservation communities.1 To date, we have convinced partnerships. These began in 2015, 13 villages to set aside over 7,700 hectares when we started to formally map their of HCS forests for conservation. villages through Participatory Mapping (PM) – a process for helping villages We are also supporting our suppliers’ map out critical areas such as customary commitments to protect 65,000 hectares boundaries and land necessary for of HCS and HCV areas. We are doing food security. This map is then lodged this through sharing the importance of 72,000 ha conservation area (HCV/HCS); Forest conservation 40 communities with Alternative Livelihood programmes: increase with and formally recognised by the authorities, serving amongst other things to clarify land tenure rights and complying with our no deforestation commitments as well as guiding them in best practices and helping them formalise helps store large amounts of carbon and income; improve food self-sufficiency & enabling villages to gain access to their own no deforestation policies. maintains fresh water resources resilience; support conservation goals government development funds for Since we began our deep engagement the first time. with suppliers, 10 of them have carried 1 In 2019, we temporarily halted our conservation planning with communities in order to focus our resources fully on completing Participatory Mapping with communities. 52 Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   Our Environmental Management out HCV and HCS assessments, which complete, the alerts will be available on Spotlight on GAR’s Alternative Livelihood Programmes involves commitment, time and monetary Global Forest Watch and Global Forest resources. Watch Pro, and the methodology behind One of GAR’s sustainability initiatives is to Coka Coffee (a coffee buyer, processor the alerts will be published. Read more build rural resilience to help ensure food and trader) was brought in to develop the Through our landscape approach and on RADD on our website. security while conserving ecosystems. SESAMA programme where farmers are work with the local community and The Forest Village Conservation project in trained on Sustainable Agricultural Practices suppliers, we currently support, directly For further details on our forest conservation Gunung Mas and Seruyan Districts includes (SAP) for coffee cultivation and taught to and indirectly, the conservation of over efforts as well as risk mitigation please the development and improvement of prepare land without fire. Village heads are 144,000 hectares of forest. see our latest CDP disclosure on Forests. organic farming and coffee cultivation. assisted to develop a conservation plan, Since 2018, the CDP has awarded us a which aims to tap ecosystem services from In 2019, GAR joined a pioneering industry score of A-. To date, four villages (two villages in protected areas. Read more about the initiative to improve surveillance of Gunung Mas District and two villages in project here. deforestation in Indonesia. Together with PEAT ECOSYSTEM REHABILITATION Seruyan District) have received technical nine other major palm oil producers and [304-3] and financial assistance from GAR and our Projects like these have become even buyers, GAR is supporting and funding Peat Ecosystem Rehab in partner, Wageningen University (WUR) to more important in light of the COVID-19 develop more areas for organic farming global pandemic,, which has highlighted the development of a new radar-based West Kalimantan: and coffee. the importance of safeguarding the food 350 ha forest monitoring system known as Radar security and resilience of rural farming Alerts for Detecting Deforestation (RADD). revegetated; communities. Read more here. This partnership between ourselves, water levels maintained Bunge, Cargill, Mondelez International, Musim Mas, Nestlé, Pepsico, Sime Darby Plantation, Unilever and Wilmar will make it much easier for companies and other stakeholders to see deforestation happening in near-real-time and with greater accuracy. With this information, GAR and other companies can speed up follow-up actions on the ground and work to improve the sustainability of supply chains. RADD is unique in that it is the first radar-based monitoring system of this We are using our model of community scale that will make deforestation alerts conservation partnership to carry out the publicly available.2 Once the system is rehabilitation of 2,600 hectares of degraded 2 This will be made progresively public once the pilot phase is completed. Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd 53  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   peatland in the PT Agro Lestari Mandiri RIPARIAN ZONE REHABILITATION University. This project will provide out by licensed HCV assessors, we have (AMNL) concession in West Kalimantan. specific recommendations on the identified the rare and endangered 2,700 ha This project was launched at the end of most appropriate options for restoring species within our concessions and 2015. To date, we have revegetated 350 riparian margins in established oil palm surrounding areas. For our full list of hectares of the area as a buffer zone and riparian zone rehabilitated; plantations, and an evidence base threatened species under Indonesia’s we continue to monitor and maintain to improve sustainability in tropical National Law of Protected Species optimum water levels to keep the peat wet. We aim to revegetate up to 500 hectares of the area. From the beginning of the 96% revegetated agricultural landscapes. Data will be collected on biodiversity, ecosystem functions, and crop yield before, during, (Indonesian Government Regulation No. 7 of 1999) or on the IUCN Red list, please see our website. project, we have also worked on alternative and after riparian restoration. Outputs livelihood projects for the local community will be published in high-impact We continue to work to preserve and in tandem with the physical rehabilitation SMARTRI and Cambridge University peer-reviewed academic and industry protect HCV areas and operate a strict of the area. This helps on two fronts: research riparian zone restoration journals, presented at conferences, and Zero Tolerance Policy towards hunting, improving food security and livelihoods; delivered as policy guidance for the injuring, possessing and killing of rare and forest conservation. We are working Our management of HCV areas involves industry. For more information, see the and endangered wildlife. with partners including the University of the rehabilitation of riparian zones RERTA Project. Tanjungpura (UNTAN), L’Oréal and the that have previously been cleared or We continuously educate our employees, South Pole Group in this area. planted. These riparian buffer zones PROTECTING BIODIVERSITY local communities and related play a crucial role in providing wildlife [103-2, 103-3, 304-4] stakeholders on the importance of GAR is also working with various partners habitats and maintaining water systems. protecting rare and endangered species. and stakeholders on peat ecosystem GAR also continues to work on orangutan management including: Since 2015 GAR has been carrying out conservation as a special focus area. a riparian rehabilitation programme Under a continued partnership with a Mapping the characteristics of peat in our 18 concessions. By 2018, we Orangutan Foundation International (OFI), 8 with the Centre for Agricultural Land completed the rehabilitation of over we supported the release of another Resources in Central Kalimantan 2700 hectares of riparian buffer zone. wild-born orangutans eight orangutans back to the wild. We b. Collaborating with the Peat To date, we have revegetated 96 rehabilitated & released in 2019; aim to release a total of 160 orangutans Restoration Agency or Badan Restorasi percent of these riparian zones with 116 released since 2011 by 2021 back to the Seruyan Forest 160 Gambut to implement best practices in native trees and vegetation. in Central Kalimantan. Since 2011, we Riau and Jambi target to be released have released 124 primates. Our OFI c. Working with RSPO to report peat To further improve our understanding by 2021 partnership agreement also focuses on inventory of riparian zone rehabilitation, we are local community and school education participating in the Riparian Ecosystem Operating in Indonesia places us programmes on orangutan conservation. Read more about our peat management Restoration in Tropical Agriculture in or near areas of rich biodiversity. Read more about our orangutan practices on our website. (RERTA) Project with Cambridge Through HCV assessments carried rehabilitation efforts on our website. 54 Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   Our Environmental Management LONG-TERM PREVENTION OF FIRE Warmer and drier climate conditions in 2019 spot maps; have effective and efficient naturally one of the most significant AND HAZE led to a challenging fire season in Indonesia. fire patrol systems; implement a rating impacts for any agribusiness. Our [103-2, 103-3] Due to our strengthened fire mitigation system for potential for fires;use social conservation of HCS forests, which and fire-fighting procedures we were able media channels to disseminate fire retain large stores of carbon, is one way to keep the fire-affected areas relatively prevention messages we are contributing to avoidance of contained, and as a result, 99.5 percent of • Quick response: deploy fire-fighting team emissions. Another significant source of our production area was unaffected. that is on standby to supress fires quickly. GHG emissions comes from Palm Oil Mill Effluent (POME), the wastewater from 32 villages Our fire prevention measures include This exercise helped us prepare for and processing fresh fruit bunches (FFB) in having more than 10,000 Emergency tackle the 2019 fire season. which emits methane if left untreated. Desa Makmur Peduli Api programme Response Personnel on standby across POME treatment therefore remains one to reduce fires all our plantations. Our estates are also In addition, we collaborated on fire of our main GHG emissions reduction equipped with fire-fighting equipment. prevention with stakeholders and related activities. We also carry out methane For more details on our approach to fire technical agencies including: capture at some of our mills. Zero Burning Policy: management, see our website. • Signing an MoU on fire and haze 99.5% of GAR area prevention with GAPKI and PT BGA in Emission Reduction from Methane NOT affected As monitoring by the non-profit Global Forest Watch showed that the vast the Nanga Tayap District, Ketapang • Development of cluster-based forest Capture and Composting by fires in 2019 majority of the fires in 2019 occurred in fire prevention and control with the Methane capture facilities areas other than palm oil plantations, Coordinating Ministry for Economic we remain committed to our long-term fire prevention community programme Affairs • Holding meetings and workshops to reduce 40-55% GHG emissions or Desa Makmur Peduli Api (DMPA). In prevent and control fires with local 2019, we focused on strengthening our governments and technical agencies in To treat POME, we mix it with shredded fire prevention and mitigation procedures several regions including South Sumatra, empty fruit bunches to produce 10,000 Emergency Response personnel to suppress fires amongst the villages taking part in DMPA. This involved a four-pronged approach: • Prevention: raise fire prevention Jambi, Riau and West Kalimantan REDUCING GHG EMISSIONS compost, which is used as organic fertiliser, in some of our estates. This contributes to a reduction of chemical awareness, increase community [103-2, 103-3] [FB-AG-110a.2] fertiliser consumption, which is the empowerment and improve water We are committed to reducing the second largest source of GHG emissions management system Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions from after GHG emissions of POME. In • Preparedness: have well-trained and our operations. addition, since early 2020 we have well-equipped personnel and improve implemented the use of coated urea Fire monitoring and reporting infrastructure We recognise that emissions resulting fertiliser, which further contributes to continuously improved • Early warning systems: monitor hot from land use change and cultivation is reduction of GHG emissions3. 3 We will provide updates on the impact of the use of coated urea fertiliser on our GHG emissions in future reports. Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd 55  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   We continued to reduce GHG emissions See our CDP disclosure on climate Under our Zero Waste Policy we aim generated from the processing of FFB in our operations through our facilities change for more information on our to reuse, recover and recycle. Since to CPO. We use both types of waste as to capture methane gas at seven mills GHG emissions. 2015, we have achieved 100 percent organic fertiliser and fuel. in Central Kalimantan, Jambi and Riau. recycling of waste from the CPO The facilities capture methane gas which WASTE RECYCLING AND REUSE production process in our upstream Our downstream waste is disposed of is then used as an alternative energy [103-2, 103-3] operations. at municipal landfills or incinerators. source, generating electricity for our Hazardous waste is collected for proper palm oil mills. These facilities can reduce between 40-55 percent of operational 100% organic CPO The waste includes solid and liquid waste. Solid waste consists of empty disposal by authorised third parties. emissions on site. We also reduced production waste reused/ fruit bunches (EFB) of oil palm, fibre GHG emissions through composting. recycled as fuel & fertiliser and shells. Liquid waste or POME is RECYCLING WASTE AT EACH CPO PRODUCTION STAGE Fresh fruit bunches are After extracting the sent to the mills within CPO and PK we are left 24 hours of harvest with 4 by-products Palm fruit Mulch Harvested from oil Old stems & leaves are made into mulch palm trees in the Fibre Shells Empty fruit bunch Palm Oil Mill Effluent (POME) At the time of replanting, old stems & leaves (Solid Waste) (Solid Waste) (Solid Waste) (Liquid Waste) form of fresh fruit are chopped or pruned & placed in the soil bunches to become organic fertiliser. They also help to maintain soil moisture. Fuel POME can also Fibre & shells are used be processed as boiler fuel in the mills with a methane capture Biogas technique Fertiliser produced from composted POME is treated at our waste water treatment pond to reduce acidity, Biological Oxygen where the end empty fruit bunches and the treated Demand (BOD) & Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) levels so that it becomes safe for use result is biogas Organic POME is used for the oil palm trees as an organic land fertiliser. A specific application permit is obtained for each location, with which can be in our plantations. close monitoring of environmental impact as required by the authorities. used as energy. Fertiliser 56 Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   Our Environmental Management MANAGING OUR WATER FOOTPRINT We have noted the increasing occurrence [103-2, 103-3] [FB-AG-140a.2] of extreme weather phenomena like El Water is a vital resource for our operations Niño which can lead to severe draught. and the communities where we operate. We are now exploring ways to optimise We recognise that water availability is an water use in our plantations through the increasingly important issue in the face use of advanced technology including AI. of climate change and we are looking at ways to minimise our water footprint. For more information on our water footprint please see our CDP disclosure on water. We strive to meet all our water needs through surface water that is processed INTEGRATED PEST MANAGEMENT to meet the quality standards required for [103-2, 103-3] production. We use ground water only in very limited quantities in locations where no surface water is available. We continue Integrated to improve our water efficiency by Pest Management recycling and reusing where appropriate. We have adopted an Integrated Pest Palm oil trees require adequate amounts Management (IPM) approach which of water in order to grow. As such we combines cultural, mechanical, biological have not developed plantations in waterand chemical means to control pests while stressed areas. Our plantations are rainminimising economic, public health and fed and not irrigated. environmental risks. We also follow strict land management Natural solutions and biological controls practices that are designed to reduce the risk are our preferred method for controlling of surface and ground water pollution. These pests across all our plantations, including include not applying herbicides or chemicals beneficial plants that attract parasitoids near and around riparian areas; restricting the to control pests, pathogens or bacteria, application of treated liquid waste (POME) and natural predators. We supplement which is used as fertiliser to 50 metres from this approach using handpicking and riparian areas; and planting vetiver grass mechanical traps. to minimise soil erosion at riparian areas. We submit water sample analyses to the Examples of this include breeding barn environmental agencies at least twice yearly. owls to control the rat population; Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd 57  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   encouraging leopard cats which also damaging new molecules, or through We have SOPs which specify that the use of 2, capable of producing over 10 tonnes/ prey on rodents; controlling leaf-eating innovative products. fertilisers should be tailored to the texture of hectare/year of CPO in 2017 (the average caterpillars through diversity of flora; the soil and its capacity for retaining nutrients; national yield in Indonesia is around and encouraging beneficial plants and Overall, the quantity of chemical that fertilisers should not be applied during 3.6 tonnes/hectare/year). SMARTRI and pheromones to control rhinoceros beetles. pesticides used in GAR plantations has periods of heavy rain; and that there should SMART Biotechnology Centre are now declined in the last few years. always be an appropriate interval between working on creating sufficient clonal seed Monitoring and minimising the use of applications. We also recycle palm fronds and stock to be planted in the estates in the pesticides In 2016, GAR stopped using paraquat. other organic products to increase the fixing next few years. To date, around 2.5 million NO In addition, pesticides that are categorised as World Health Organization Class 1A capacity of soils. clones have been produced for replanting. paraquat or 1B, or that are listed by the Stockholm YIELD IMPROVEMENT Our biotech division has also succeeded or Rotterdam Conventions are not used, [103-2, 103-3] in finding and developing genes related IPM and selective weed control are the except in specific situations identified in to resistance to the Ganoderma4 disease. basis of the utilisation of pesticides in national best practice guidelines, such as Super high-yielding These can be used as molecular markers GAR plantations: during an extreme pest infestation. non-GMO clonals to select seeds and clones that are Eka 1 and Eka 2 can resistant to the disease. • Insecticides and rodenticides are In parallel to minimising the use of potentially produce used only as a final resort, when the chemical pesticides, GAR is promoting In light of climate change, SMARTRI is population of herbivories and rats are above an acceptable level and are no the use of biopesticides, to enhance the health condition of the soils and the palm >10 tonnes/ also continuing to work on developing more climate-resilient seed stock such as longer controllable through natural or trees. ha/year CPO seeds which are more drought-resistant biological solutions. as well as looking at strains which can • The utilisation of herbicides is mainly MAINTAINING SOIL FERTILITY We focus on improving yields of oil palm better adapt to high CO2 content in the to maintain an appropriate access to GAR implements best agricultural as part of our long-term strategy for atmosphere. The biotech division is also the palms, for their maintenance and management practices to maintain responsible and sustainable agriculture. looking into developing genetic molecular for harvesting. A selective strategy and enhance soil fertility through The ability to obtain higher yields from markers for selecting seeds and clones is implemented in order to minimise a comprehensive mineral nutrition existing agricultural land through better that are drought-resistant. the use of herbicides. management plan. We aim to minimise seed stock means higher revenue while • In addition, SMARTRI is continuously the quantity of fertiliser applied whilst potentially reducing the need for more MONITORING ENVIRONMENTAL looking for alternative solutions in maximising yields. This reduces the agricultural land. IMPACT order to reduce the utilisation of pressure to open more land and minimises [103-3, 307-1] herbicides, through the use of more the risk of soil degradation from oil palm Following years of R&D, GAR launched We manage and regularly monitor efficient and less environmental cultivation. super high-yielding seeds Eka 1 and Eka every aspect of our operations in 4 Ganoderma boninense is a major pathogen that affects the oil palm tree and eventually kills it. 58 Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   Our Environmental Management order to minimise adverse impact GAR did not otherwise incur any PROPER RATING SYSTEM on the natural environment. The fines or penalties for violations of Gold For businesses/activities that have successfully displayed monitoring is in accordance with environmental regulations. environmental management effort and achieved excellent results. the Environment Management Plan (Rencana Pengelolaan Lingkungan) PROPER ACHIEVEMENT Green For businesses/activities that have displayed environmental and the Environment Monitoring Plan Since 2007, GAR has participated management effort and achieved results better than those required (Rencana Pemantauan Lingkungan), as in the Indonesian Ministry of by regulation. set out in the Environmental Impact Environment’s national public Blue For businesses/activities that have displayed environmental Assessment (Analisa Mengenai Dampak environmental reporting initiative management effort, and have achieved the minimum standard Lingkungan) documents submitted to known as the Programme for Pollution required by regulation. the Government of Indonesia. Control, Evaluation and Rating (PROPER). The programme uses a Red For businesses/activities that have displayed environmental Assessment of the environmental colour-coded rating to assess water management effort, but have achieved only part of the minimum parameters is conducted by SMARTRI, and air pollution control, hazardous standard required by regulation. our ISO 9001:2008 and ISO 17025 waste management and environmental Black For businesses/activities that do not display significant accredited internal laboratory, as well impact. PROPER also considers other environmental management effort. as external laboratories referred by the indicators, including the impact of a Indonesian authorities. company’s community development programmes; progress of biodiversity Our regular internal monitoring and conservation efforts; efficiency of assessments are guided by the ISO water management; and innovations 14001:2004 Environment Management in emissions reduction, waste Systems and ISO 9001:2008 Quality management and energy efficiency. Management Systems. In 2019, 31 GAR mills passed the In 2019, GAR’s operations received two PROPER assessment with Blue rating. administrative sanctions from Indonesian Four of our downstream facilities have authorities. The sanctions involved our also achieved Blue rating. downstream operations at Tarjun and Lampung, and were related to various To ensure that we are aligned with matters including environmental quality PROPER requirements, internal audits tests and waste disposal. Corrective and training are carried out in the actions were implemented, with reports company’s mills. submitted to the relevant authority and the cases were subsequently resolved. Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd 59  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT DATA Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Emission reduction through methane capture 2019 [305-1] [FB-AG-110a.1] [305-5] Scope 1 GHG emissions (tCO2e) 2018 4 2019 5 Biogas plant Emission reduction (tCO2e) Gross direct emissions (tCO2e) 2,046,551 2,094,250 Semilar 68,706 Biogenic emissions (tCO2e)6 2,552,614 2,465,726 Pelakar 33,522 Emissions intensity (tCO2e/tonne 0.84 0.91 Hanau 24,558 CPO produced) Libo 38,753 Note: Scope 1 GHG emissions calculated following the ISO 14064-1:2006 standard, using an operational Ramarama 53,880 control approach. Direct scope 1 emission sources include emission from stationary combustion, mobile combustion, synthetic fertiliser application, and POME treatment. Calculation includes: CO2, CH4, N2O. Sungai Rungau 115,716 Perdana 96,025 Belian 4,620 Total 435,780 Methodology: CDM AMS-III.H. version 19 GHG measured: CH4 Note: All mills have low emission intensity and with the exception of Belian, are ISCC-certified. Emission reduction through composting 2019 [305-5] Composting plant Emission reduction (tCO2e) Jelatang 25,410 Sako 59,712 Kuayan 67,231 Total 152,353 Methodology: CDM AMS-III.F. version 12 4 2018 data covers 129 oil palm estates (nucleus only) and 46 mills in Indonesia. 2018 data is restated in this GHG measured: CO2, CH4, N2O. report to correct an error. Data is pending third party verification by PT Lloyd’s Register Indonesia 5 2019 data covers 128 oil palm estates (nucleus only) and mills in Indonesia. Data is pending third party verification by PT Lloyd’s Register Indonesia. 6 Biogenic emissions come from burning of biomass and biodiesel and biogas consumption. 60 Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   Our Environmental Management Water consumed and recycled (m3) Pesticides used (kg or litre/ha) [303-5] [FB-AG-140a.1] 2019 2017 2018 2019 Acaricides* 0.000 Freshwater consumption7 (flowmeters) 12,933,990 13,584,151 15,926,850 Fungicides* 0.006 Seawater consumption 906,631 2,495,496 2,956,312 Herbicides** 0.506 Third party (for eg. municipal) water 477,544 1,035,000 1,283,532 Insecticides 0.037 consumption Rodenticides 0.004 Produced water consumption 16,349 9,566 11,481 Total 0.553 Downstream groundwater consumption 1,652,315 302,341 335,548 * Used only in nurseries ** Zero paraquat since January 2016 Water consumption per metric tonne of CPO 8 3.39 3.46 4.279 Water recycled10 182,426 284,800 236,866 Biopesticides used (kg) 2019 Hazardous waste (tonnes) [306-2] Bacillus thuringiensis 0 2017 2018 2019 Cordyceps 24 Upstream hazardous waste 11 – – 558 Mycorhyza 64,146 Downstream hazardous waste11 80,684 107,340 104,413 Trichoderma 64,335 Virus 0 Upstream non-hazardous waste (100% reused) Total 128,505 Type of Waste Total Quantity Total Quantity Reused as Produced (tonnes) Reused (tonnes) Fibre 1,475,243 1,475,243 Fuel Shell 678,611 678,611 Fuel 7 Source of freshwater for CPO processing and supporting activities (office buildings, employee housing, EFB 2,478,408 2,478,408 Organic fertiliser laboratory, canteen): river and surface water. 8 Based on water used solely for production process. POME12 6,491,069 6,491,069 Organic fertiliser 9 Less CPO was produced in 2019 compared to previous years, due to drier climate conditions which resulted in less yield in fruit. 10 Figure does not include POME which is a mix of solids and wastewater and which is 100% recycled. Downstream non-hazardous waste (tonnes) 11 100% disposed by authorised third parties. 12 POME: 100% is applied in the field after traditional anaerobic and aerobic treatment to render the chemical and 2017 2018 2019 physical characteristics compliant with national regulations. A specific application permit has been obtained for each location, with close monitoring of environmental impact as requested by the authorities. Domestic waste13 2,329 3,757 2,821 13 100% disposed through municipal collection. Staying the course Golden Agri-Resources Ltd 61  Chairman’s Statement  Targets and Progress  Our Approach  Our Supply Chain  Consumers  Our People  Community Relations  Environmental Management   United Nations Global Compact COP UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally p 5, 32, 34, 38, (UNGC) proclaimed human rights; and 39, 41, 45 [102-12] Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is a call to companies everywhere Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective p 4, 18, 32, 38-39 to align their operations and strategies recognition of the right to collective bargaining; with ten universally accepted principles Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; in the areas of human rights, labour, Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and environment and anti-corruption, and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. to take action in support of UN goals and issues embodied in the Sustainable Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental p 4, 8, 16, 28-30, Development Goals. GAR, through its challenges; 50-60 subsidiary SMART has subscribed to the Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and UNGC principles since 2006. In 2018, Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly GAR became a signatory of the UNGC technologies. signifying our continuing commitment. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including p 6, 18 extortion and bribery. Progressively, we take appropriate actions in line with the principles as fundamental guidelines for the sustainable development of our business. We continue to support UNGC by incorporating the ten principles in the way we do business, which helps make us a Our sustainability efforts also support better corporate citizen. these specific UN SDGs: As an active participant of the UNGC, this report also serves as our Communication on Progress Report (COP) to the UNGC. In our opinion, we meet the requirements for the Global Compact Active reporting level. Please refer to the UNGC reference table for our implementation of the ten principles of UNGC. Glossary 3-MCPD – 3-monochloropropane diol ISPO – Indonesian Sustainable Palm Oil AR – GAR Annual Report PCP – Participatory Conservation Planning CFA – Carbon Footprint Assessment PK – Palm Kernel CPO – Crude Palm Oil PM – Participatory Mapping CSO – Civil Society Organisation POME – Palm Oil Mill Effluent CSR – Corporate Social Responsibility PT – Perseroan Terbatas (Limited Liability Company) EFB – Empty Fruit Bunch PT AMNL – PT Agrolestari Mandiri FFB – Fresh Fruit Bunch PT BAP – PT Binasawit Abadipratama FPIC – Free, Prior and Informed Consent RSPO – Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil GAR – Golden Agri-Resources Ltd SASB – Sustainability Accounting Standards Board GHG – Greenhouse Gas SDGs – Sustainable Development Goals GRI – Global Reporting Initiative SMART – PT SMART Tbk GSEP – GAR Social and Environmental Policy SMART SEED – Social and Environmental Excellence Development HCS – High Carbon Stock SMART SPOT – Sustainable Palm Oil Training HCV – High Conservation Value SMARTRI – SMART Research Institute HGU – Hak Guna Usaha (Right to Cultivate) SOP – Standard Operating Procedure IPM – Integrated Pest Management TTP – Traceability to the Plantation ISCC – International Sustainability and UNGC – United Nations Global Compact Carbon Certification Feedback and Contact [102-53] We see our Sustainability Report as part of our continuous engagement with our stakeholders and would welcome your feedback. Please contact our Head of Sustainability Reporting and Disclosure, Lim Shu Ling, at shuling.lim@goldenagri.com.sg If you prefer, our mailing address is: GOLDEN AGRI-RESOURCES LTD c/o 108 Pasir Panjang Road, #06-00 Golden Agri Plaza, Singapore 118535 golden-agri-resources-ltd @GAR_Sinarmas @sinarmas_agri Sinar Mas Agribusiness and Food Golden Agri-Resources Ltd c/o 108 Pasir Panjang Road #06-00 Golden Agri Plaza Singapore 118535 Tel: (65) 6590 0800 Fax: (65) 6590 0887 Email: shuling.lim@goldenagri.com.sg www.goldenagri.com.sg golden-agri-resources-ltd @GAR_Sinarmas @sinarmas_agri Sinar Mas Agribusiness and Food
