2019 ANNUAL STEWARDSHIP REPORT OUR PEOPLE Investing in our people to help them build their careers and achieve their goals OUR CLIENTS OUR Serving as a trusted advisor to help clients achieve their goals COMMUNITIES over the long term Reducing our environmental impact and making positive contributions to our communities BASIS FOR REPORT Report Scope & Boundaries This is a firmwide report, including the operations and activities of each The Executive Sustainability Council reviewed and approved each section, BBH business line in every operating region. For each topic, we note any with additional review and approval from the Managing Partner. significant differences in approach between the U.S., Europe, and Asia. Feedback from our stakeholders in response to this inaugural report will Otherwise, readers can assume the information applies to the whole firm. help the Sustainability Council—and BBH leaders—adjust and improve Most sections of this report address the impact of the firm’s direct future reports to answer their questions. activities. In the sections on Supplier Code of Conduct (page 80) and ESG/ sustainable investing (page 34), we also explore the firm’s progress in Reporting Period & Cycle examining the indirect impact of our business partners and investments. This inaugural report covers calendar year 2019. Going forward, BBH will report annually. As this is our inaugural report, there are no material Reporting Process & Use of Standards changes or restatements from previous reporting periods. BBH referenced multiple, leading standards and guidelines to determine the topics and disclosures that would be of material concern to our firm Contact Information and stakeholders. BBH did not prepare this report in accordance with any Anyone with questions or suggestions about this report should contact our single reporting standard but relied heavily on the following in compiling Sustainable BBH co-chairs at contactus@bbh.com. its contents. • Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Report Standards • The Sustainable Accounting Standards Board (SASB): Financial Sectors (asset management & custody activities; investment banking & brokerage) • Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) • UN Global Compact CONTENTS 2 Letter From Our Managing Partner SUSTAINABLE BBH 8 Letter From The Executive Sustainability Council 2019 10 Sustainable BBH Commitment 12 Goals 14 2019 Highlights 16 Honors And Partnerships OUR FIRM 20 Firm Overview & Scale 21 Governance 23 Committee Structure 24 Business Ethics & Professional Integrity 26 Risk Excellence & Compliance OUR CLIENTS 30 ESG Integration 34 Sustainable Investing 40 Cybersecurity 45 Business Continuity OUR PEOPLE 52 Diversity & Inclusion 58 Leadership & Technical Skills 63 Employee Well-Being OUR COMMUNITIES 70 Environmentally Responsible Facilities 76 Community Engagement 80 Supplier Sourcing 2019 Annual Stewardship Report 1 LETTER FROM OUR MANAGING PARTNER play in helping to ensure the long-term well-being of our clients, our employees, and our communities?” While that elemental question remains the same, our answers have changed as a result of this trying time. The widereaching effects of the COVID-19 pandemic have tested our leadership, our resiliency, and our commitment to service. Thus far, we have performed admirably, but we know that we will face many more challenges ahead. We believe this cannot be a time for short-term thinking. This must be a time to lean into our values, do the right thing, and to put our stakeholders first. Our responsibilities during this crisis are threefold: 1. We must be a reliable and trustworthy service provider to our clients. After years of planning and investing in contingency infrastructure for unforeseeable events, I’m proud that we were able to transition to a business continuity plan (BCP) environment in the early weeks of the global threat with no business or service interruption to our WILLIAM TYREE, Managing Partner clients. As I write this, 96% of BBH employees are working from home and we are protecting those who When BBH planned to publish this inaugural sustaincontinue to work from our offices. For those critical, ability report in April 2020, little did I know the context on-site roles, we are employing rigorous safety measures from which I’d write this letter. As I write this, as a and distancing, including no inter-office travel and no result of BBH’s response to the COVID-19 pandemic, in-person meetings. I am in my home, where I am physically distancing 2. We are a stable employer for more than 5,500 myself from the 96% of the firm’s employees who are BBHers. also working from home and the 4% who continue to come into the office each day. In the five weeks since the We depend on them for our firm’s excellence, and they pandemic threat upended our world, I’ve been reflectin turn depend on us. Our employees are navigating ing continuously on its impact on all our stakeholders, many stressors, including the uncertainty and strain and how the fundamental question of sustainability has of their families’ childcare, finances, and health. We become magnified at this time. have acknowledged that no one is operating “business as usual” and provided additional resources and flexBefore COVID-19, the firm approached social impact ibility to support their physical, financial, and personal and sustainability by asking, “What role should BBH well-being and to mitigate the strain. In addition, we 2 Letter from our Managing Partner have been open and transparent with our employees that The rising enthusiasm for these topics from BBHers, layoffs as a result of the pandemic are not in the BBH clients, and our external partners is not surprising—we playbook. Just as during the 2008 financial crisis, we tend to surround ourselves with people who share a intend to keep teams together, so we are in a strong posilong-term outlook and a desire to do the right thing. As tion to act on opportunities when the crisis abates. We this momentum to expand our impact grew, we chanalso increased communication and resources within our nelled our energy into forming our new Sustainable BBH Thrive employee wellness program, including employee program led by a senior governing body and chaired by assistance counseling and flex hours. me. We call it the BBH Executive Sustainability Council. 3. We are an important contributor to the comWith the creation of Sustainable BBH, the firm united munities that sustain us. many existing social and environmental programs and Our community partners—non-profits focused on basic launched several new ones to form a comprehensive needs and education—are under unprecedented demand bank-wide program. Sustainable BBH has allowed us to for services at a time when funding and resources take stock of where we are, focus our passion and desire are scarce. We want to help, and so the firm and our to make a difference, address stakeholders’ concerns, Partners committed an additional $1.25 million in articulate our goals, assess our performance and, ultidonations to our Employee Relief Fund and our global mately, to direct more attention and resources to these charitable partners in 2020. issues. As we continue to navigate these uncertain times, it’s Among our first formal initiatives, the Executive never been clearer to me the important role that a comSustainability Council recommended that the firm mitment to sustainability plays in positioning the firm to become a signatory to the UN Global Compact. Our weather, learn from, and grow stronger from adversity. Investment Management business is currently reviewing the requirements associated with adopting the SUSTAINABLE BBH UN-supported Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) with a final recommendation and decision due Even in the years before this pandemic, I can’t rememearly in the second quarter of 2020. In addition to these ber a conversation I had with a client, an industry peer, and other partnerships in the inclusion space, we also or a business partner that did not, in some way, touch became a signatory to the CEO Action for Diversity and on our intertwined concerns of economic stability, enviInclusion Initiative. These partnerships are significant ronmental impact, social responsibility, and corporate indications of our commitment and desire to join other governance. The questions that we, along with so many organizations to advance these causes which are more others, are asking are not easily answered: How do we likely to succeed if we work together. effectively account for and manage the risks and tradeoffs between financial value and social/environmental As the capstone of our Executive Sustainability impact? How do we determine where we can and Council’s first year, I am pleased to offer this inaugural should make a material impact, directly or indirectly, Stewardship Report. By detailing the firm’s relevant on issues that matter most to us, to our clients, and to governance structures and our ten sustainability focus our communities? areas, this report highlights our most significant goals 2019 Annual Stewardship Report 3 Letter from our Managing Partner and opportunities to make a difference, and provides Our efforts across the industry are collective. transparency on our progress in 2019. We have been inspired by clients and industry partners While we have been working in many of these areas who have been working on environmental, social, and for decades, we’ve learned a lot in our first year of governance (ESG) issues and publicly reporting their Sustainable BBH, and I’d like to share a few lessons that progress for years. With the launch of our formal, stand out to me. comprehensive program, we now find ourselves in our own leadership position where we can learn from those What gets measured gets results. who are advanced and in turn share best practice with It’s a business truism I’m reminded of time and again. our clients and business partners who are closer to the Because it’s impossible or at least impractical to measure beginning of their journeys. It’s inspiring to think of everything, we must make decisions about what matters the collective effect we will have by joining forces on most to advance our sustainability agenda. This report common areas of interest and concern. plays an important role in that process, not simply by openly sharing our progress toward achieving our goals, Evolving Sustainable BBH but also as a feedback tool to dynamically refine what Of all of the areas of impact discussed in this report, the our areas of greatest opportunity are. Furthermore, by following three are the ones where we made the most assigning individual responsibility to improving our progress in 2019. These three areas demonstrate the BBH measurement results against targets, we find that success Sustainability Council’s willingness to address material follows. issues head on. Sustainable BBH doesn’t work as a top-down or The evolution of sustainable investing and ESG. inside-only effort. Sustainable investing and the consideration of ESG issues When we first launched the Executive Sustainability in executing our investment strategies have become a Council, I was encouraged by just how much employeemajor topic for investment and wealth managers. We led work the firm was already doing in this space. The have increasingly been discussing these issues with clients network effect of strong employee engagement and as they examine how they would like their investments to hands-on, enthusiastic leadership makes our BBHcares reflect their personal values, or the values of the orgaphilanthropic program, our diversity and inclusion initianizations they serve. We believe that inclusion of ESG tives, our affinity networks, and our Thrive well-being criteria in our investment process enhances our ability to and environmental champions so much more powerful manage risk and helps our client’s achieve their longand effective. Our employees want to work for a firm term objectives. with a clearly defined mission and strong values, where the impact we make goes beyond financial performance, The Codes of Conduct for BBH suppliers and and they have the opportunity to help shape and drive sub-managers. that impact forward. We recognize that the products and services which BBH provides to our clients are often the aggregation of BBH services plus component services provided by third 4 Letter from our Managing Partner parties. As a result, for BBH to incorporate ESG criteria Sustainable BBH has opened our eyes to how much what into the construction of our products, it becomes necesBBH does in this domain matters to our employees, sary for us to more thoroughly understand our business clients, and business partners. This question of how partners’ values and processes. To this end, we launched we make a material impact, directly and indirectly, on the BBH Supplier Code of Conduct process in 2019. The issues that matter most to our employees, clients, and Code describes BBH’s expectations for how our suppliers the broader community is a challenge that we intend to conduct their businesses ethically and responsibly. We address together. This report is just another step forward have asked all our suppliers who meet our materiality which is designed to further focus our stakeholders, threshold to adhere to the principles of the code, and in attention on the positive impacts we can make if we this way, we will address 90% of BBH service providers work intentionally and effectively. Our goals in forming within one year. Sustainable BBH were to accelerate our progress on our ESG goals, to learn and adopt best practice from one The ongoing opportunity for stronger diversity another, and to become a leader in delivering for our and inclusion. stakeholders on issues they are concerned about. We are For several years, we have been working on embedlistening. Please be in touch. ding our commitment to diversity and inclusion in the workplace into all of our policies and practices. We We look forward to reporting again in 2021 to share believe strong D&I is good for business. It all starts with progress against our goals, as well as any minor course making it safe to talk about the challenging issue of corrections we’ll make as a result of your input and underrepresentation on the basis of race, gender, sexual feedback. orientation, religion, disability, and age in our work place. To accelerate our progress, we appointed a new Head of Diversity, Inclusion, and Employee Engagement in 2019, bringing closer together aspects of our human resources, communications, and community outreach. Under this new structure, we increased D&I resources, William B. Tyree, Managing Partner shared more stories to drive awareness and education, and engaged ten new external partners to broaden access to industry resources. This year, most Partners, Managing Directors, and BBH Affinity Network leaders also attended an inclusive leadership workshop designed to generate open and honest dialogue. At the heart of our efforts is a commitment to breaking down perceived barriers that impede trust, fostering a culture of inclusion, and improving the diversity of our workforce. We take great pride in our legacy of community service, philanthropy, and giving back, built over 200 years. And yet the process of formalizing our commitment through 2019 Annual Stewardship Report 5 SUSTAINABLE Celebrating 200 years of commitment to our communities: (left) The Boys Club of New York, circa 1960 (right) Habitat for Humanity We believe this cannot be a time for short-term thinking. This must be a time to lean into our values, do the right thing, and to put our stakeholders first.” –B  ill Tyree, Managing Partner LETTER FROM THE EXECUTIVE SUSTAINABILITY COUNCIL Two years ago, when BBH decided to launch our Sustainable • Launched an employee engagement portal and educational BBH program, we knew that by focusing on and coordinating outreach program the firm’s many existing and potential social and environmental • Launched the Environmental Champions network programs, we could both clarify and increase BBH’s positive impact. The challenge, of course, was to define the boundaries • Launched the Supplier Code of Conduct and policy of such a program. Which of the intertwined concerns of • Released our ESG Position Statement and formed the ESG economic stability, environmental impact, social responsibility, Oversight Committee for Investment Management and corporate governance matter most to us, to our clients, and • Collated the information and data for this inaugural report to our communities? We are excited to share this first report, not as an end-product To help the firm answer this question, our Managing Partner but as the first step in an ongoing discussion and continuous called for senior leaders to serve as a governing council. The improvement loop. The Council will continue to facilitate: response was strong; many BBHers care deeply about specific ESG topics, work with clients for whom ESG is of primary • Monitoring and adjusting the material topics and goals concern, or instinctively think broadly and holistically about • Strengthening our oversight data and working toward SASB the firm’s influence and impact. The Executive Sustainability Council is now a group of 16 committed Managing Directors and GRI measurements and Senior Vice Presidents from each of our three business • Supporting feedback loops between clients, employees, lines, each region where we have offices, and multiple firmwide suppliers, and BBH leadership, channelling their enthusiasm functions. and highlighting opportunities True to BBH’s commitment to excellence without exception, • Adding to BBH leadership’s and firmwide collective we wanted to do this right, so we embarked on a broad and knowledge of economic, environmental, and social topics, careful study. We analyzed materiality firmwide, leaning on including studying clients and suppliers who are further the frameworks offered by leading standards and signatory along in the sustainability program journey bodies. We studied the programs of other firms—both in • Advancing these topics across the industry by joining the and outside our industry. We spoke extensively with BBH’s UN Global Compact, and we expect to become signatories Partners, employees, clients, and counterparties, as well as ESG to the Principles of Responsible Investment consultants and organizations. There were many perspectives, both internal and external to the firm, on what we should and • Publishing the Stewardship Report annually to account for should not be doing. The heavy lift of year one has been to these efforts find the strong, common themes from those perspectives and On behalf of our colleagues on the Executive Sustainability create a realistic, constructive program that answers to our Council, we look forward to continuing the conversation with stakeholders’ priorities, questions, and concerns. you. Year One Sustainable BBH Milestones Beth Maury (Co-Sponsor) Marla Barr (Co-Sponsor) • Drafted Sustainable BBH’s Commitment (page 10) and Framework (page 12) • Defined ten strategic priorities and material topics for the short and medium-term 8 Sustainable BBH: About Our Program EXECUTIVE SUSTAINABILITY COUNCIL MEMBERS Beth Maury (Co-Sponsor) Marla Barr (Co-Sponsor) Bill Tyree (Chair) Managing Director, Senior Vice President, Managing Partner Firmwide Marketing Human Resources Chris Brunet Michael Dow Orla Foley Managing Director, Senior Vice President, Managing Director, Human Resources Enterprise Services Investor Services Daniel Greifenkamp Sarah Holmes Karen Jackson Managing Director, Managing Director, Senior Vice President, Investment Management Systems Investor Services Mitsy Kimura Marta Kraszewska Michael McDonald Senior Vice President, Senior Vice President, Partner, Investor Services Investor Services Investor Services Masayuki Okayama Adrienne Penta Ryan Sullivan Senior Vice President, Managing Director, Senior Vice President, Investor Services Private Banking Investor Services Eef Verachtert Adrian Whelan Emily Mahlman (Program Manager) Senior Vice President, Senior Vice President, Vice President Investor Services Investor Services Firmwide Marketing 2019 Annual Stewardship Report 9 SUSTAINABLE BBH COMMITMENT OUR CLIENTS. OUR PEOPLE. OUR COMMUNITIES. BBH has been in business for more than 200 years. Sustainability—a steadfast commitment to long-term value and well-being—is core to who we are. We will steward that commitment well into the future—for our clients, our people, and our communities. Global operations come with global complexities. Building long-term value demands resiliency and the disciplined management of evolving risks. We continue to ensure that our governance contributes to the strength and stability of our industry. And we commit not only to ensuring the positive impact of our own business, but also to examining and exerting our broader influence over our suppliers and investments. OUR CLIENTS trust us every day with their investments, their operations, and their financial goals. To sustain their success in the long term, we must provide thoughtful and anticipatory solutions that align with their best interests and values. We must also do our part to ensure our clients can depend on the continuity, security, and stability of our operations— and the financial industry more broadly—over the long term. 10 Sustainable BBH: About Our Program OUR PEOPLE, the talented BBH team, must meet our clients’ needs, striving for the highest standards of teamwork, integrity, and excellence. We, in turn, must cultivate innovation and performance by recruiting and supporting a diverse set of skills and perspectives, providing all BBHers with an inclusive environment that empowers them to contribute and succeed in their professional and personal lives. OUR COMMUNITIES extend far beyond our office walls. We must do our share to minimize threats to a healthy planet, and make a positive contribution to the communities in which we do business. Ultimately, sustainability comes from running our firm responsibly and ethically, while contributing positively to our clients, our people, and our communities for generations to come. 2019 Annual Stewardship Report 11 GOALS OUR PEOPLE Investing in our people to help them build their careers and achieve their goals OUR CLIENTS OUR Serving as a trusted advisor to help clients achieve their goals COMMUNITIES over the long term Reducing our environmental impact and making positive contributions to our communities 12 Sustainable BBH: About Our Program ESG Sustainable Business Integration Investing Cybersecurity Continuity Engage and educate the Support our Private Continue to adapt Strengthen security, market, our clients, and Banking clients in cybersecurity practices continuity, and the firm on how we articulating and realizing in the face of the connectivity through incorporate ESG factors their vision and values evolving threat landscape, enterprise-wide in our proprietary investrelated to sustainable enlisting every BBH incident response ment strategies investing and philanthropy employee in the effort Diversity & Leadership & Employee Inclusion Technical Skills Well-Being Advance diversity at BBH, Invest in the leadership Deliver a robust supported by a strong and technical skills our educational program culture of inclusion, people need to be and resources that help accountability, and successful in an evolving our employees improve employee engagement global marketplace their financial, physical, and personal well-being Environmentally Responsible Community Supplier Facilities Engagement Sourcing Build and manage Increase the reach of our Conduct comprehensive our facilities in an community engagement screening on ESG factors environmentally program, BBHcares and Supplier Code of responsible manner Conduct on material supplier contracts and renewals 2019 Annual Stewardship Report 13 UN GLOBAL COMPACT 2019 HIGHLIGHTS BBH completes due diligence and joins in 2020 NEW GOVERNANCE CORPORATE EQUALITY INDEX JOINED ESG OVERSIGHT CEO ACTION “BEST COMMITTEE FOR DIVERSITY PLACE AND INCLUSION TO WORK” BBH Investment Management formalizes BBH’s Managing Partner pledges “to act on BBH earns a 100% rating in the Human Rights ESG oversight and accountability supporting a more inclusive workplace” Campaign Foundation’s annual index INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT ESG EVALUATION PRI 100 % IMPROVED CAREGIVER & FAMILY BENEFITS PRINCIPLES FOR RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT BBH completes due diligence and of BBH Investment Management BBH expands coverage for caregiver expects to become a signatory in 2020 investments evaluated with ESG criteria leave, adoption, and surrogacy 6500 INVESTMENT MANAGERS WITH SUSTAINABILITY EVENTS NEW FUNCTION 82 ESG POLICY STATEMENTS % ATTENDEES ENTERPRISE across multiple events by BBH INCIDENT MANAGEMENT of BBH Private Banking AUM Private Banking on topics such as women consolidates business continuity and cyber managed by investment managers in finance, values-based financial planning, incident management to improve business with an ESG policy statement and sustainable investing. risk reconnaissance and response 14 Sustainable BBH: About Our Program 63 18.5 NEW GOVERNANCE RENEWABLE ENERGY PAPER CONSUMPTION REDUCTION SUPPLIER CODE OF % % CONDUCT established Code and compliance process to ensure ESG-related values of total global kWh consumption alignment with suppliers sourced from renewable energy or offsets based on total sheets of paper consumed 8,500 MANAGER ASSESSMENT COMMUNITY GIVING 4,600 00 VOLUNTEER $4.076M PARTICIPANTS HOURS BBH pilots a new performance assessment, offering managers through employee giving campaigns, Employee structured input from their direct reports Relief Fund grants, and firm contributions 200 EMPLOYEE OPINION SURVEY WELL-BEING PLATFORM 83 56 PARTICIPATION PARTICIPATION % % VOLUNTEER & CHARITABLE PARTNERS of employees submitted their of employees use the online input through the survey strategies, tools, and resources 2019 Annual Stewardship Report 15 HONORS AND PARTNERSHIPS SUSTAINABILITY PARTNERS DIVERSITY & INCLUSION PARTNERS 30% Club Ascend CEO Action for Diversity & Inclusion City Parents BBH will apply to become a signatory in 2020 Diversity Best Practices Diversity Hub LGBT Great Massachusetts LGBT Chamber of Commerce New England Center & Home for Veterans Open Finance Out Leadership Prospanica Rock the Street Veterans on Wall Street Women in Finance Asia (WiFA) Work Without Limits 16 Sustainable BBH: About Our Program CHARITABLE STRATEGIC PARTNERS Abioneas House Generating Genius Rock the Street American Women’s Club, Luxembourg Habitat for Humanity Greater Boston Rosie’s Place Banque Alimentaire Habitat for Humanity Hong Kong Saoirse House Basis.Point Habitat for Humanity Metro Denver Slachtna Packza Big Brother Big Sister of Greater Boston Habitat for Humanity Newark Stemm vun der Strooss Boston Partners in Education Harlem Food Bank St. James Settlement Box of Hope Hoboken Shelter Table to Table Boys Club of New York Jersey City Fire Department The Bowery Mission Bronx Food Pantry Jersey City Youth Works The Childhood Trust Brookview House Lawrence Park Clean Up Trinity Services Business in the Community, Ireland Marian College Two By Two Capuchin Centre Mile High United Way United Way Greater Philadelphia & Southern New Jersey Career Sparkle Ministry of Caring United Way of Hudson County Catholic Charities National Coalition Against Domestic Violence United Way New York City Charlotte Rescue Mission New Alternatives United Way of Central Carolinas Children’s University New England Center and Home United Way of Massachusetts Bay Coalition for the Homeless for Veterans United Way of Metro Chicago Community Food Bank of New Jersey New Eyes for the Needy Urban Outreach Center Cradles to Crayons Philadelphia New York Common Pantry Westside Campaign Against Hunger Denver Rescue Mission Playworks Whitechapel Dzieło Pomocy Dzieciom (Children’s Aid) Project Connect Wonderfund Envision Project Linus Zupa na Plantach Food Bank of the Rockies Read Ahead Futures and Options 2019 Annual Stewardship Report 17 OUR FIRM The sense of personal accountability inherent in our firm is a distinctive feature of how we do business here at BBH. It informs how we manage our clients’ assets, how we collaborate to solve business challenges, and, above all, how we act with integrity and trust.” –S  eán Páircéir, Partner Head of Investor Services FIRM OVERVIEW & SCALE Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. (BBH) is the oldest and largest continuously operating privately owned bank in the United States. Headquartered in New York City, the firm is organized as a New York limited partnership. Headquarters 140 Broadway, New York, NY 10005 As of December 31, 2019, the firm employed 5,625 full-time professionals and an additional 400 consultants in 18 locations throughout North America, Europe, and Asia. There were no material changes to our organization or structure in calendar year 2019. North America Asia Europe Philadelphia (established in 1818) Tokyo (1984) Zürich (1968) New York (1825) Hong Kong (1989) London (1974) Boston (1844) Beijing (2009) Luxembourg (1989) Chicago (1929) Dublin (1995) Grand Cayman (1985) Kraków (2012) New Jersey (1994) Charlotte (1995) Wilmington (2009) Denver (2010) Nashville (2015) Services BBH concentrates our capabilities and offerings into three business lines, all of which operate under the parent brand, Brown Brothers Harriman. Within those business lines, the firm owns a limited list of product, technology, and content brands and trademarks. BBH Investor Services serves global asset managers by providing custody, depositary and trustee services, fund accounting, fund administration, transfer agency and related services such as technology services, global tax and fund solutions, middle office, foreign exchange, currency administration, and securities lending solutions. Scale of the organization: approximately $4.5 trillion assets under custody and administration BBH Private Banking helps clients achieve their vision of success for their families, wealth, businesses, and institutions, offering a full suite of family office services, including investment advisory, philanthropic advisory, next generation education and fiduciary services, as well as endowment and foundation management, corporate advisory and banking and private equity solutions, while leveraging our intellectual, relationship, and financial capital. Scale of the organization: approximately $39 billion assets under management BBH Investment Management manages equity and fixed income investments for a diversified set of clients, including institutional investors, financial intermediaries, sovereign wealth funds, and high net-worth investors around the globe. Scale of the organization: approximately $60 billion assets under management This section addresses the firm’s direct efforts on governance, business ethics and professional integrity, and risk management. For more information about how BBH addresses similar topics in our supply chain or investments, please read Supplier Code of Conduct (page 80) or Community Engagement (page 76). 20 Our Firm: Governance GOVERNANCE What our stakeholders want to know: How does BBH ensure that the firm makes responsible, ethical, long-term decisions in the common interest of its stakeholders? A well-governed partnership like BBH’s is flat, collabGovernance Committee Framework orative, and transparent—an organizational structure The BBH Partnership delegates supervisory oversight, where the best ideas and collective concerns rise business management responsibility, and decisionquickly to the top. making authority to the BBH Executive Committee, Because our Partners are personally liable for the our senior-most committee (our Board of Directors firm’s obligations, we make careful, thoughtful longequivalent), as well as a framework of BBH Senior term decisions in an unusually aligned spirit of collabCommittees with well-defined roles and responsibilioration and trust to manage the relationships and risks ties. BBH Senior Committees are generally global in inherent in everything we do. BBH Partners remain scope and include: well informed of the firm’s activities and involved in • Firmwide Governance and Oversight Committees our daily management and decision-making. • Line of Business Oversight Committees As a private partnership, our firm is not beholden to external shareholders, debt or equity analysts, • BBH Subsidiary-Level Boards of Directors and corporate activists, or potential acquirers. This private Governance Committees status relieves us from the distractions of short-term As a partnership, our overall operating and decisionor public market expectations and empowers us to making model is based on peer review, and our commake investments in the relationships, technologies, mittee structure supports this approach. This is why, products, and people which we believe are in the best in determining committee membership, we purposelong-term interests of our clients and of the firm. fully bring together individuals with a wide range of Furthermore, being relatively small allows us to stay viewpoints and experience across different business close to our clients and to one another. This, in turn and functional areas. Our committees have represenhelps us understand where we have common interests tation from BBH Partners and senior executives across and values, including economic, social, and environbusiness lines, as well as individuals from our control mental issues. and oversight functions, which allows for a sharing of perspectives by individuals with an expansive underOwnership & Officers standing of BBH’s businesses, activities, best practices, and control infrastructure globally. The BBH Partnership manages the firm, under the direction of Managing Partner William (Bill) B. Tyree. General Partners 31 Limited Partners 20 Managing Directors 71 As of December 31, 2019 2019 Annual Stewardship Report 21 Our Firm: Governance Where Responsibility for Economic, (Read more about the Council’s role, and the formalizaEnvironmental, and Social Topics tion of the Sustainable BBH program in the introducFits in the BBH Governance Framework tory letters from Bill Tyree (page 2) and our Sustainable The tone and priorities for our firm are set by our BBH Co-Chairs (page 8). Managing Partner, Bill Tyree. Recognizing the imporBBH commits executive attention to key sustainability tance of ESG topics to our stakeholders and the role issues: these factors play in assessing long-term value and sustainability, Bill created the Executive Sustainability • Each of our ten sustainability goal areas has a Partner Council, which he chairs. The Executive Sustainability charged with oversight. Council’s mandate is to further integrate business and • Each sustainability goal has at least one executiverevenue growth with positive, non-financial impacts. level officer appointed and accountable for progress. The Council’s work is overseen by the BBH Executive Committee. • Every goal’s accountable officer either directly reports to or is one degree of separation from a Partner and is Given the breath of economic, environmental, and social accountable to one of the firm’s top-level governance topics that are material to BBH and our stakeholdcommittees (shown on the next page). ers, every committee within our governance structure touches at least one, often multiple, sustainability impact This accountability—ensuring attention from the areas. We believe it’s the role of every employee at BBH highest levels of the organization— reflects both our to help achieve the goals you are going to read about in commitment to Sustainable BBH and the nature of our this report. flat organizational structure. HOW IT’S DONE MATTERS The foundation of BBH is the reputation that we have built over the last two centuries based on the trust that our clients and communities have given us. Acting with integrity, accountability, and respect is key to maintaining BBH’s reputation and, ultimately, our success. 22 Our Firm: Committee Structure COMMITTEE STRUCTURE COMMITTEE FUNCTION SUSTAINABLE BBH GOALS Executive Committee As the senior-most committee at BBH, the Executive CommitSustainable BBH Committee and tee acts on behalf of the partnership to make decisions on overall program important firmwide matters and oversee day-to-day management of the firm. Finance Committee The Finance Committee is responsible for financial planning, Sustainable BBH financial compensation, and our annual budget process. commitments By actively monitoring the firm’s financial results and focusCommunity Engagement Goal ing on our expenditures, the committee plays a critical role, (page 76) ensuring we are both responsive to present market conditions and investing to position the firm for long-term success. Employee Well-Being Goal (page 63) Environmentally Responsible Facilities Goal (page 70) Global Inclusion Council The Global Inclusion Council works closely with the Office of Diversity and Inclusion Goal Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) to set the firm’s D&I agenda and (page 52) strategy, monitor success, drive accountability, and integrate initiatives into the lines of business. Talent Council Working with Human Resources, the Talent Council develops Leadership and Technical Skills and drives the execution of our strategic talent and develop(page 58) ment plan, reviews priorities to ensure strategy aligns to business needs, and sets expectations for the role of managers and employees in the talent development process. Executive Sustainability Overseeing the Sustainable BBH Program, the Executive Overall program objectives, Council Sustainability Council reviews progress against sustainability impact and effectiveness goals at the firm and line of business level and approves investment and reporting on sustainability initiatives, partnerships, and BBH’s sustainable investing approach. Governance, Risk & These committees oversee the firm’s compliance and risk Cybersecurity Goal (page 40) Compliance Oversight management programs and processes, as well as our BCP Committees and processes. Business Continuity Goal (page 45) • Cybersecurity Oversight Committee Responsible Supplier Sourcing • Anti-Fraud Committee Goal (page 80) • Business Continuity Program Executive Committee • Vendor Risk Management Steering Committee Line of Business These committees set strategy, monitor activity, and oversee ESG Integration Goal (page 30) Oversight Committees operations within each respective line of business. This includes monitoring and overseeing operations, risk, regulatory, Sustainable Investing Goal compliance, staffing, and control environment issues within (page 34) their line of business. Administration Oversight Committee Investment Management Oversight Committee Investor Services Oversight Committee Private Banking Oversight Committee Systems Oversight Committee 2019 Annual Stewardship Report 23 BUSINESS ETHICS & PROFESSIONAL INTEGRITY What our stakeholders want to know: How does BBH set and uphold a high standard of professional integrity from its team members? CODE OF ETHICS “It is essential for us in all our dealings not only to be fair, but never to have the appearance of unfairness…” Founding Partner Alexander Brown to son and Partner William Brown, 1819 “The foundation of Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. is the reputation that it has built over the last two centuries and the trust that our clients and communities have in the firm and its employees. This foundation has been built upon our values and standards. Acting with integrity, accountability and respect is key to maintaining BBH’s reputation and ultimately its success. While we care about the results we achieve, we care just as much about how we achieve them.” Introduction to BBH’s Code of Ethics For BBH employees, the Code of Ethics and Professional • Information barriers and insider trading policy Conduct (the “Code of Ethics”), together with our BBH • Privacy policy policies such as our Compliance Manual and Employee • Personal trading policy Handbook, sets forth our standards for appropriate • Disclosure requirements workplace conduct and the regulatory requirements to • Client complaints which BBH is subject. The Code of Ethics does not cover • Gifts and entertainment policy every issue that may arise, but it sets out basic principles • Public communications compliance policy to guide all BBHers on how to conduct themselves and • Social media policy avoid even the appearance of unethical or improper • Outside business activity attestation behavior and to ensure that we do the right thing. • Political contributions policy • Records management policy All BBH newly hired employees receive comprehensive • Acceptable use of technology training on our Code of Ethics and our policies and pro• Global vendor management policy cedures. Each year, every full-time employee must attest • Sensitive position absence policy to their compliance with and understanding of the Code of Ethics and each of its underlying policies, including: Our Human Resources department in collaboration with • Conflict of interest policy our Compliance department maintains the Code of Ethics • Whistleblower policy and these underlying policies, reviewing and updating • Anti-fraud policy annually based upon regulatory and industry changes and • Anti-money laundering policy expectations, as well as input from our Governance, Risk, • Global sanctions policy & Compliance Oversight Committees. This section addresses the firm’s direct efforts on governance, business ethics and professional integrity, and risk management. For more information about how BBH addresses similar topics in our supply chain or investments, please read Supplier Code of Conduct (page 80) or Community Engagement (page 76). 24 Our Firm: Business Ethics & Professional Integrity The Code of Ethics’ Statement of Principles not tolerate retaliation in connection with any such BBH personnel are required to comply with all laws escalation. and regulations applicable to BBH’s business activities Anti-Corruption, Public Policy, & Political and are subject to the following Statement of Principles Contributions intended to provide guidance for handling a broad spectrum of matters. BBH designed our anti-corruption policy to establish standards of conduct for compliance with anti-bribery “BBH personnel shall: laws that govern the firm’s activities. These laws include, without limitation, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices • Place the interest of clients first Act (FCPA) and the UK Bribery Act, each of which • Conduct all of their personal securities transactions imposes civil and criminal penalties. It is a crime under in a manner consistent with this Code and associated applicable laws to make a corrupt payment, including policies those which lead to an improper performance to a government official (as the policy clearly defines).* • Avoid inappropriate conflicts of interest or any abuse of a position of trust and responsibility Accordingly, the anti-corruption policy incorporates the following key principles: • Refrain from taking inappropriate advantage of their BBH position • The firm may not, either directly or through an agent, provide anything of value to government officials as a • Ensure that client information is kept confidential, quid-pro-quo for any favorable government action or including the identity of clients’ security holdings and treatment financial circumstances • BBH personnel must treat all interactions with • Ensure that they maintain independence in the government officials with heightened scrutiny and investment decision-making process should err on the side of caution when a course of action is not clear • Act professionally while on BBH premises or conducting BBH business” • Expenditures including business entertainment involving government officials require pre-approval Whistleblower Protections and the Mechanisms and must comply with BBH’s Gifts and Entertainment for Advice & Concerns Policy, as well as local law The Code of Ethics offers BBHers practical guidelines to help assess whether a violation of the Code of Ethics The Political Contributions Policy, in turn, provides may have occurred and escalate issues when they arise. It for proper vetting of political contributions and events specifically directs employees to report immediately any by BBH personnel in light of applicable pay-to-play questionable or improper business practices or fraud, laws and firm policy. Prior to making contributions to offering four different channels through which to log a state/local political candidates, parties, committees, or concern, including a confidential, independent reportgovernment officials, BBH personnel must submit such ing system reachable online or by hotline. Any reported contributions to Compliance for review. Similarly, prior concern must be reported ultimately to the firm’s Chief to sponsoring events on behalf of all political candiCompliance Officer. dates, parties, committees, or government officials, BBH personnel must submit such events to BBH’s Managing The firm also maintains a Whistleblower Policy to Partner and Compliance for review. encourage BBH personnel, agents, and vendors to report *An improper performance is a breach of an expectation that a person and escalate possible violations of law, the Code of will act in good faith, impartially, or in accordance with a position of Ethics, and compliance policies and procedures. BBH is trust. committed to responding to any such claims and does 2019 Annual Stewardship Report 25 RISK EXCELLENCE & COMPLIANCE What our stakeholders want to know: How does BBH define, evaluate, and mitigate risk to the firm’s long-term impact and its stakeholders’ success? How are ESG factors influencing the firm’s approach to risk management? BBH’s partnership structure is a significant driver in regulations applicable to their businesses our risk management culture and infrastructure. The Partners are committed to preserving the long-term value • Providing risk insights and supporting the lines of of the firm, have active involvement in daily management business in identifying, anticipating, measuring, and activities, and continuously communicate a conservative managing risks to the firm risk tolerance, appetite, and approach. In addition, the • Driving a culture of risk awareness, transparency, Partners are personally liable for all business activiand escalation ties. This leads to a balanced, informed, and efficient decision-making structure. • Conducting periodic assessments to ensure the firm’s compliance program continues to remain We expect all BBH personnel to act in a principled effective manner in alignment with our Risk Appetite Statement and our Core Values (teamwork, integrity, Training and awareness are key components of our and excellence). Our Risk Appetite Statement and compliance and risk management programs. Our Core Values reflect our unique culture and are reasontraining and awareness program is designed to educate ably designed to protect BBH and our clients from BBH personnel about compliance and risk managelegal, financial, operational, and reputational risks. ment obligations and expectations. Our program includes training on: cybersecurity, fraud, information We work diligently to cultivate an environment that security and physical security, BCP, privacy and data instils in all employees their responsibility for proprotection, compliance and ethics, workplace harassactively identifying, assessing, and mitigating operament, anti-bribery, and political contributions and lobtional, cyber, regulatory, and other business risks. bying. Employees also receive specialized risk-related Our culture and infrastructure emphasize compliance training to reflect changes in law, best practices, and the escalation and mitigation of issues. Risk, lessons learned, as well as industry and market trends. control, and compliance are key elements in the employee’s performance evaluation process. In fact, BBH’s comprehensive compliance and risk managewe consider each employee to be a “risk manager,” ment frameworks support the business’ on-going and our employees work together to make sure that identification, escalation, assessment, and mitigation our activities and processes are executed in accordance of risks, as well as management’s understanding of the with best practices and regulatory expectations and interrelationship among various risks and the overall that they are continuously monitored, evaluated, control environment. and enhanced. How ESG Risks Are Changing the Industry & Although the responsibility for compliance and risk BBH Approach to Risk Management management rests directly with the lines of business, Our view is that risk management is not only about we have dedicated Compliance and Enterprise Risk the identification, measurement, and reporting on risk Management functions, which operate independently metrics and trends, but about doing the right thing, from the lines of business to strengthen and protect speaking up when something does not feel right, the firm and its clients by: and taking into consideration the social and ethical ramifications of our decision making. • Advising and educating BBH personnel on laws and 26 Our Firm: Risk Excellence & Compliance As part of BBH’s risk management program, we con• Operational Risk – Risk from inadequate or failed tinuously evaluate the most significant risks that BBH internal processes, people, systems, or adverse and our stakeholders face. We take into consideration external events evolving environmental, social and governance factors, evolving regulatory expectations, emerging technologies, • Strategic and Competitive – Risk that our products and internal and external threats including geopolitical or services do not stay apace with market and and market considerations. Key risks we are focused on competitive conditions today include: • Technology & Data Management Privacy Risk – Risk • Business Interruption Risk – Risk resulting from an associated with our technical infrastructure or the use unanticipated disruption of normal operations or of technology within BBH, including the inability of systems, including any physical disruption of business technology to meet business needs, unreliable data, or system outage or slowdown, which could lead to or storing, using, transmitting, managing, destroying, missed client deadlines, severe client dissatisfaction, and securing firm, customer, and third-party data or possible client loss • Workforce & Conduct Risk – Workforce issues that • Cyber Risk – Risk resulting from a breach of, or pose risk to the delivery of business outcomes and attack on, our information systems (internal and outputs, including potential unethical employee external) behavior • Fraud Risk – Risk resulting from an intentional act, omission, or statement designed to deceive BBH (internal and external) • Legal/Regulatory/Fiduciary/Investment Risk – Risk arising under law or contract, including the risk of not satisfying a fiduciary responsibility or other standard of care 2019 Annual Stewardship Report 27 OUR CLIENTS Our commitment to delivering unparalleled service – and always putting our clients’ best interests first – provides our clients and their families with a stable, trustworthy partner for generations as they strive to achieve their personal, family, and financial objectives.” –K  athryn George, Partner ESG INTEGRATION Engage and educate the market, our clients, and the firm on how we GOAL incorporate ESG factors in our proprietary investment strategies. What our stakeholders want to know: How do BBH’s investment strategies integrate ESG factors? Do portfolio managers and research analysts consider ESG issues when making investment decisions? How do you report on ESG to your clients? Environmental, social, and governance (ESG) issues have become a major topic for investment managers. The industry has seen a significant increase in the number of investment strategies that purport to invest with a careful lens on ESG-related issues. These investment strategies intend to appeal to clients’ growing interest in investment portfolios that reflect certain ESG attributes, their personal values, or the values of the organizations they serve. The increased attention that investment managers are placing on ESG issues has required companies and issuers to have better answers to ESG-related questions and to provide more public disclosures about how they engage with their employees, boards of directors, shareholders, customers, vendors, and the environment. The discussions about ESG should help improve the investment process by allowing investors to better evaluate both risks and opportunities associated with these issues. And in turn, investment management firms can provide better reporting to their clients on ESG issues. BBH Investment Management’s mission is to be the best at protecting and growing our clients’ capital over long periods of time. For more than 80 years, we have performed our own investment research focusing on long-term capital preservation and the prudent management of risk relative to return. The core of our investment process has always been an understanding that the path to generating superior long-term investment returns is, first and foremost, loss avoidance. We believe that ESG criteria are important factors in our investment process, regardless of asset class. GOAL: Promote sustained, inclusive, and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment, and decent work for all 30 Our Clients: ESG Integration CORE PROGRAMS, POLICIES, & PRACTICES BBH Investment Management provides investment manterm sustainability. Our view is that well-managed agement services to institutional and individual investors businesses, where management teams act like owners, around the world—embedding ESG criteria in our are more likely to manage resources efficiently, create investment process. We offer the capability to customize value for shareholders over the long-term, protect investment solutions aligned to client-specific ESG goals the rights of creditors and to maintain access to the or screening preferences. credit markets. These are essential characteristics of businesses that we choose to own for our clients. Our approach to investing explicitly includes the consideration of ESG criteria and is guided by a set of core ESG Integration principles the firm applies to every investment portfolio. Together these criteria represent a time-tested approach ESG integration is embedded within our bottom-up that has built lasting client relationships and set us apart approach: from our peers. • Our team of approximately 50 equity and fixed Investment Core Principles income investment professionals are responsible for incorporating key ESG criteria into our investment BBH applies this set of core principles across the full analysis and decision-making process. breadth of our investment portfolios. • Each of our investment teams employ a tailored • Focus on capital preservation approach that is best suited to their specific strategy • Conduct deep, bottom-up, fundamental research while remaining consistent with our overall • Invest with a long-term perspective investment philosophy and process. • Be disciplined and patient • Employ a value-based approach • We commit ourselves to the careful study of factors that could cause impairment of capital. As with any potential risk, if those associated with ESG are not ESG Factors adequately addressed and mitigated, it may inform The evaluation of ESG factors as part of our investment our decision on a course of action with respect to that research process helps us effectively assess the long-term security. sustainability and durability of our companies and • Through our bottom-up research on companies and credits. industries, strong engagement with management and • Environmental – Entities that are judicious in their issuers, as well as our continual efforts to monitor use of resources, are aware of climate risks, and are the regulatory and governmental environment, we appropriately mindful in their environmental impact continuously refine our insights into how well ESG may gain efficiencies that drive profitability. They are factors are being managed. also less likely to create unforeseen liabilities that can erode enterprise value. Thought Leadership & Industry Engagement • Social – Maintaining high standards for internal and To keep abreast of the ongoing advances in the ESG external conduct can help entities to build strong industry, the investment management team regularly cultures, drive better long-term outcomes for all attends ESG conferences and liaises with specialist stakeholders, and limit adverse regulatory action. research firms, thought leaders, and our international network of investors. The team also routinely publishes • Governance – Analyzing the quality of management content and conducts firmwide educational sessions so teams, ownership structures, and the framework that every BBHer understands—and is equipped to help of rules, practices, and incentives under which clients understand—the firm’s distinct approach. organizations operate are cornerstone elements of long2019 Annual Stewardship Report 31 Our Clients: ESG Integration 2019 FOCUS & HIGHLIGHTS Formalizing ESG Oversight and Accountability Clarity for Clients in a Rapidly Changing Market In 2019, we received 33% more ESG-related RFP In many ways, 2019 marked a turning point for BBH’s inquires—and observed that the questions were markedly ESG integration initiatives. While each of our investmore nuanced and detailed for every stage of the investment teams has autonomy in its decision-making and is ment process. This increasing ESG demand and maturity empowered to create its own investment process, during across the industry has been met with a surge in varied the year we formalized the oversight and accountability ESG definitions, approaches, and rapidly changing terassociated with ESG-related issues. minology. To ensure our clients get the clarity they need, ESG Oversight Committee we made a concerted effort to engage with them about BBH created Investment Management’s ESG Oversight how BBH incorporates ESG criteria into our investment Committee, chaired by the Head of Investment process and how that might compare to other terms and Management, and with representation from our porttrends they hear in the market. folio management teams, business development and Firmwide Alignment & Education relationship management team, funds management Throughout the year, Investment Management conteam, operations team, and risk and governance team. ducted educational sessions on ESG integration and best ESG Position Statement practices. We also continued to collaborate with both The firm established and published Investment the Private Banking line of business and the Executive Management’s formal ESG Position Statement; many of Sustainability Council on the ESG landscape and what it our provisions are outlined in this section. means to BBH and our clients and stakeholders. Principles of Responsible Investment In 2019, BBH researched numerous ESG-related industry organizations—and identified the UN-supported Principles of Responsible Investment (PRI) as the leader for investment managers, asset owners, and their service providers. After careful evaluation of what PRI membership means both for BBH and the industry, the firm expects to become a PRI signatory in 2020. 32 Our Clients: ESG Integration KEY INDICATORS The most important gauge of success for our ESG investing initiatives is the level of dialogue that now occurs around the table when portfolio managers and research analysts evaluate an investment opportunity. Every new investment must meet our rigorous fundamental criteria, which includes passing our tests on ESG-related issues. This, in turn, allows us to arm our business development and relationship management team with the information they need to provide clear, comprehensive reporting to our clients. 2019 Result Responsiveness to Client Needs 33% % increase in ESG-related RFP responses (vs. 2018) Certifications & Affiliations Concluded extensive due diligence Become a PRI signatory and set goal to join in 2020 Investment Process 100% % of new investments evaluated with ESG criteria included in investment process 100% % of new investment summaries that include discussion of ESG factors Thought Leadership & Education 2 fixed income white papers “ESGPublications integration in Municipal Bond” and “Structured Fixed Income Strategies” 2019 Annual Stewardship Report 33 SUSTAINABLE INVESTING Support our Private Banking clients in articulating and realizing their GOAL vision and values related to sustainable investing and philanthropy. What our stakeholders want to know: How does BBH help Private Banking clients to navigate the complex decisions necessary to deploy their resources responsibly and in accordance with their values? As an advisor to private business owners, individuals, families, and endowments and foundations, BBH focuses on helping our Private Banking clients achieve sustainable outcomes, as they deploy their resources to influence the issues important to them. Of course, no business owner, family, or endowment thinks about impact and sustainability in the same way. As we write and publish this report, we recognize that our clients’ definitions of “sustainability” may be changing based on world events and the needs they observe in their communities and around the globe. Now, more than ever, our values and our understanding of what is sustainable are highly personal. What is critical for one family or investor may be an acceptable tradeoff for another. Sustainable investing is not a product, but an approach. There is no one-size-fits-all solution. Those who choose to pursue a sustainable investment approach must be committed to the decision-making process and the dynamic, evolving conversation around values that it entails. To help clients navigate these complex decisions, BBH Private Banking starts each relationship with a robust conversation about our clients’ values and objectives. We then use those values as our guiding principles, advising our clients in their pursuit of thriving families, sustainable portfolios, and impactful philanthropy—according to their definition of success. GOAL: Promote sustained, inclusive, and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment, and decent work for all 34 Our Clients: Sustainable Investing CORE PROGRAMS, POLICIES, & PRACTICES Sustainable Investing portfolio optimization process. For example, if a Private Banking client wishes to invest in a tobacco-free portfoESG Investing lio, BBH will identify all direct and indirect investments BBH’s investment philosophy naturally aligns with the (i.e., underlying holdings in a fund) that derive any core tenets of ESG. BBH employs active, bottom-up, revenue from tobacco, divest from these strategies, and fundamental research to identify what we believe to be restrict any new investments. If our clients are interested businesses with superior corporate governance, a strong in engaging with the businesses in which they invest, we relationship with all stakeholders, policies that lead to a can offer customized proxy voting strategies for individjudicious use of resources, and management teams with ual stock portfolios. Clients can join other like-minded the highest integrity and ethical standards. In our own investors and vote in accordance with established investing, BBH is committed to the evaluation of ESG public guidelines or they can cast their own ballot. factors as part of our investment research process in Importantly, clients can choose to implement some, order to help us effectively assess the long-term sustainall, or none of these sustainable portfolio optimization ability and durability of our companies. strategies and they can make changes at any time. With respect to how we advise Private Banking clients Private Banking Client Engagement and Thought on investing, asset allocation and portfolio construcLeadership tion, and how we select managers outside of BBH who Conversations about what sustainability means to each oversee client assets, we employ the following principles client and how we might help implement their vision of sustainable investing: are becoming frequent and ongoing. As a result, we • Bottom-up fundamental investing executed properly continue to create educational content and commentary is consistent with ESG investing on how SRI and ESG criteria might be deployed in client • Identifying businesses that have the potential to portfolios—for both internal and external audiences. We compound capital through a market cycle, which have published a number of articles and presentations steers investors toward sustainable firms on sustainable investing, including “What We Believe: BBH’s Eight Principles of Sustainable Investing,” to help • Focusing on key stakeholder relationships helps our clients understand our perspective, and our intent is identify firms with excellent social practices to ensure all client-facing professionals have the knowl• Identifying businesses that make effective manageedge and fluency to engage their clients on these topics. ment decisions leads to companies with strong governance We continue to educate ourselves about these topics, through conference attendance, continuing education, • ESG investing does not mean investors must sacrifice and conversations with industry leaders, so that we returns might provide the best possible advice to our clients. As • Values must drive a client’s socially responsible ESG and SRI continue to evolve and new trends emerge, investment plan our goal is to understand how other investors – both among those who manage assets for BBH clients and Socially-Responsible Investing Tools and in the investment community more broadly – are using Methodologies ESG criteria in their analyses and understanding of risk. BBH helps our Private Banking clients realize sociallyresponsible investment (SRI) mandates through portfolio We are also engaging more frequently with privatelycustomization, ongoing analysis, and shareholder owned and family-owned businesses on sustainability, engagement. For families and nonprofits concerned including advice on how to integrate ESG factors, apply about measurable exposure to industries and products it to their markets/industries, and communicate their in conflict with their respective values, BBH’s leverefforts effectively to the marketplace. ages MSCI ESG Research data points in a sustainable 2019 Annual Stewardship Report 35 Our Clients: Sustainable Investing Values-Based Planning Next Generation & Intergenerational Planning Preparing the next generation to steward the family’s Values-Based Planning Framework sustainability mandate with respect to family wealth and Families who thrive over the long term begin their family business is critical to long-term success. Often wealth planning by affirming and articulating their core first-generation wealth creators hesitate to talk with values. Conversations about family, wealth, and values their children about wealth due to fear it will demotivate can be daunting to some. In three steps, our proprietary them. Starting the conversation with values often opens values-based planning framework makes the conversadoors to these important conversations in a constructive tion approachable, helping Private Banking clients and forward-looking manner. The next generation is uncover their values and then use them to make decioften driven to ensure that sustainability is woven into sions about how their wealth is invested, saved, spent, the family’s wealth plans. By working with families to and given away. create customized programs, we demonstrate how their 1. Understand how the family’s history has influenced values—including those around sustainability—can and determined its values. drive decision-making about wealth, including investing, planning, and charitable giving. 2. Assess how they spend their time, influence, and money, and then align their plans and actions to Philanthropic Advisory express what is most important. The Philanthropic Journey 3. Create a communication plan to engage family Philanthropy can be a way to give back, help others, members, especially the next generation. support a community, set an example for family Communication planning is just as important as estate members, and leave a permanent legacy. The philanplanning or financial planning as it is a key element for thropic journey is always different for each client. Our families in establishing an environment of trust that will work to help Private Banking clients become strategic benefit a family over the long term. philanthropists—successfully making the impact they intend—often includes: defining the role of philanthropy Center for Women & Wealth during the client’s life and in the estate plan; setting the The mission of BBH’s Center for Women & Wealth, structure, vehicle, and type to help maximize the impact founded in 2015, is to engage and support women in on family and charitable donees; creating a framework the creation and management of wealth and to create a for governance and administration; and crafting a dynamic and inclusive environment for conversations strategic plan to build an effective team, design grants, about family, wealth, and values. Women have long been and, ultimately, measure impact. underserved by the financial services industry—51% of Innovative Impact Beyond Charitable Giving women say that their financial advisors do not understand them or their objectives. The CW&W originally When donors are ready to move beyond traditional phicreated values-based planning to address this issue—to lanthropy, we help them investigate innovative ways of truly understand our female clients and their objectives structuring charitable activities and investing directly in for their wealth. Today, the CW&W continues to innopositive change, including hybrid vehicles and programvate products that support and attract female clients, to related investments. engage and build our robust network of women through events and other engagements, and to focus on the creation of an inclusive environment for all clients. 36 Our Clients: Sustainable Investing SUSTAINABLE INVESTING AT BBH SEEKING FINANCIAL RETURNS NOT SEEKING FINANCIAL RETURNS SUSTAINABLE INVESTING PHILANTHROPY Investment approaches that Time, talent, ties, and treasure incorporate client values, environmental, (assets) to non-profit organizations social, and governance (ESG) to give back, help communities, criteria and impact goals set an example for one’s family and leave a legacy ESG INVESTING SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE IMPACT INVESTING BBH advises clients on a comprehensive Incorporating ESG criteria into INVESTING Direct investment in a vehicle set of philanthropic topics and helps investment decision-making Investing in alignment with a to impact a specific cause (e.g., clients engage family members in their to manage risk and generate client’s values and personal investment in a microfinance philanthropy. Some of the many ways we sustainable, long-term return investment criteria company in Africa) help our clients are: • Defining the role of philanthropy intheir wealth and estate plan The managers on BBH’s BBH offers this solution Impact investing is platform are active, to clients to allow them typically executed through • Structuring their activities based bottom-up, fundamental to build customized private markets and on their current circumstances investors with a quality portfolios that are can be complex from an and the driving forces behind their bias and are well-aligned aligned with their values. implementation perspective. philanthropy with ESG investing. BBH works with clients to help achieve their impact • Assistance with board creation, objectives through our succession, and philanthropic network of consultants. administration • Strategic philanthropy and execution, e.g., designing grants and measuring impact • Getting directly involved in charitable causes aligned with their mission There is no assurance the investment objectives will be achieved. 2019 Annual Stewardship Report 37 Our Clients: Sustainable Investing 2019 FOCUS & HIGHLIGHTS Values-based planning and philanthropic advisory have Affirming the Firm’s Commitment to been long ingrained into how BBH engages Private Sustainable Investing Banking clients and helps them meet their sustainability objectives. Sustainable investing, including ESG and SRI, Investment Manager Code of Conduct continues to become a more significant component, with BBH affirmed its commitment to ethically and environthe addition of resources and expertise across the firm. mentally sustainable practices by creating the Investment Manager Code of Conduct, to be signed by investment Engaging Private Banking Clients on Valuesmanagers external to BBH. Based Planning and Philanthropy BBH Investment Management ESG Oversight Engaging with Clients on Values-Based Planning and Accountability In 2019, values-based planning and the CW&W In 2019, BBH Investment Management and Private attracted a significant number of new families to BBH Banking completed an extensive review of business Private Banking, indicating that our clients are focused operations and investment processes and expect to on aligning their decisions about wealth with their become a signatory to the UN-supported Principles values. for Responsible Investment in 2020. The firm also established a formal ESG Position Statement for all Next Gen Summit assets managed internally by BBH, and our review of all BBH hosted a four-day summit for guests ages 17 to 28, external managers considers ESG factors. (See page 30 focusing on philanthropy and values-based planning. for more information on BBH Investment Management’s approach to ESG integration). Philanthropy Best Practice through Academic Partnerships Engaging with Clients on Sustainable Investing BBH partnered with Indiana University Lilly School of In 2019, we worked with a number of clients to achieve Philanthropy, supporting the Women’s Philanthropy their sustainable investment objectives, creating portfoInstitute in increasing understanding of philanthropy and lios that incorporated ESG and SRI, tied to their values improving its practice around the world. and objectives. Philanthropy Insider Magazine We published our inaugural issue of Philanthropy Insider, featuring Lin-Manuel Miranda and his philanthropic work with the Hispanic Federation. Values-based Planning for Businesses We expanded our values-based planning framework to assist business owners and executives in navigating transitions and key decisions in the life of their businesses. 38 Our Clients: Sustainable Investing KEY INDICATORS 2019 Result Certifications & Affiliations Concluded extensive due diligence Become a Principles of Responsible Investment (PRI) signatory and set goal to join in 2020 ESG in Investment Manager Selection % of AUM managed by PRI signatories 5%* 82% % of AUM managed by external investment managers with an ESG policy statement 100% % of third-party managers evaluated against ESG criteria in annual reviews Thought Leadership & Education Publications 16 articles related to sustainable investing 2 editions dedicated to sustainable investing of BBH’s digital/ print magazines Philanthropy Insider and Women & Wealth 30 # of sustainability-related events hosted (philanthropy, values-based planning, gender parity) # of attendees to sustainability-related events 650 *Note: BBH Investment Management is in process of becoming a PRI signatory in 2020, which will significantly increase this number. 2019 Annual Stewardship Report 39 CYBERSECURITY Continue to adapt cybersecurity practices in the face of an evolving GOAL threat landscape, enlisting every BBH employee in the effort. What our stakeholders want to know: How does BBH protect the privacy, intellectual property, and data of its clients, employees, and business partners? To BBH, the confidential and personal information shared in our business relationships is as much of an asset as our financial positions. We treat all of these assets with utmost care—both in accordance with specific, local guidelines and regulations, and in rigorous compliance with our own policies and robust risk assessments. Moreover, we recognize that information security has a social impact far beyond our firm’s business relationships and activities. Data, information, and technology form the very infrastructure of capital markets. Along with every fiduciary and financial firm, we must work to keep safe and stable, and, most importantly, out of bad actors’ hands. Financial services firms like BBH experience frequent attempted cyber attacks from a range of actors. In response, the firm manages cyber risk as a business risk, not purely an IT risk, by implementing a single, common cybersecurity program across all lines of business. We focus on governance, prevention, detection, response, and recovery. Our cybersecurity program is one component of a broader asset protection strategy. Staying alert to and ahead of evolving threats requires everyone throughout our enterprise to participate in our protection efforts. Our focus in 2019 and in the coming years will be to continue to educate, enlist, and empower each BBH employee, client, and supplier to take responsibility for the success of our cybersecurity program. As part of that commitment to protection, we purposefully publish limited details about our cyber and other security programs and policies, including within this report. GOAL: Build resilient infrastrucThis section addresses the firm’s direct efforts on cybersecurity. For more information ture, promote inclusive and about how BBH addresses privacy and security concerns in our supply chain, please sustainable industrialization, and read Supplier Code of Conduct (page 80). For more information about broader business foster innovation continuity concerns, please read Business Continuity (page 45). 40 Our Clients: Cybersecurity CORE PROGRAMS, POLICIES, & PRACTICES BBH designed our enterprise-wide information security SWIFT Customer Security Programme and Shared program to proactively address threats and regulaInfrastructure Programme. tory requirements while protecting the firm’s data and information, including our clients’. The Chief Data Protection Officers Information Security Officer, supported by Enterprise BBH Data Protection Officers fulfill the obligations set Risk Management (ERM), Systems Risk, and elements out in Article 39 of the GDPR including, but not limited of the System’s organization, has overall responsibility to, informing and advising on the obligations under the to develop, deliver, and maintain the comprehensive regulation, monitoring BBH’s compliance with the reguprogram. lation, conducting data protection impact assessments as necessary and cooperating with supervisory authorities The program’s components include, but are not limited when necessary. to, third party risk, identity and access management, infrastructure defense, network, perimeter, and insider Policies & Controls threat monitoring, and cyber incident management. These components—combined with a robust training Information Security Policies and communications program builds a more resilient BBH’s systems and policies work in tandem to define organization. fundamental principles for the protection of the firm’s information resources, including the proper controls Compliance & Certification necessary to address the security goals of confidenRegulatory Compliance tiality, integrity, and availability. These policies also document the required measures that must be in place BBH operates in compliance with applicable privacy, to protect from cyber risks, specifying the responsibilibanking, and securities regulations in each of our ties shared between individual employees, the lines of operating jurisdictions, including U.S. federal law, U.S. business, and various firmwide departments, including state laws, international data protection requirements, the Chief Information Security Officer’s department, and international cyber and technology guidance and Infrastructure Defense, Infrastructure, Enterprise regulations. This includes but is not limited to New Incident Management, and other Systems departYork Department of Financial Services (cybersecuments as well as Enterprise Risk Management and rity regulations), Central Bank of Ireland Guidance, Compliance. Management attests to the policies on an Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier (CSSF) annual basis to ensure that they remain complete and Luxembourg, FINRA rules (U.S.), the privacy provisions accurate. of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (U.S.), and the E.U.’s General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). BBH’s Privacy and Confidentiality Policy Compliance and Enterprise Risk Management teams BBH’s Privacy and Confidentiality Policy (PCP) is one of monitor and track evolving regulations and laws to several policies included in every employee’s mandatory identify additional requirements and provide input to the annual compliance training (see page 24 for the complete cybersecurity program to ensure timely compliance. list). It provides a framework for handling sensitive Industry Frameworks & Annual Certifications information, e.g., confidential information, personally identifiable information, and material non-public BBH follows industry best practices and guidance information; articulates clear “need to know” boundarincluding but not limited to ISO 27001/27002 (17799), ies; and explains the legitimate business purposes and the NIST Cybersecurity framework, and the Federal circumstances under which information can (or cannot) Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) be shared—including with external parties. The PCP Cyber Assessment Tool. The firm attests annually also requires employees to promptly report any actual or to New York State’s Cybersecurity Requirements suspected data disclosures to the Privacy Officer. for Financial Services Companies, as well as the 2019 Annual Stewardship Report 41 Our Clients: Cybersecurity In addition to our internal policy, BBH also maintains a Phishing Awareness Program & Policy public privacy policy, available on our website. Knowing that employees are the firm’s first line of defense Infrastructure Security against phishing attacks, our phishing awareness program encourages vigilance against cyber threats posed by social BBH’s Infrastructure Security team supports, tests, engineering. The program proactively reports suspicious implements, deploys, maintains, and administers the email and provides measurable training by performing infrastructure devices, such as firewalls, intrusion detecphishing simulations throughout the year. tion systems, and intrusion prevention systems required to effectively manage the firm’s network, mitigating a Cybersecurity Hotline significant number of cybersecurity threats. BBH operates a 24/7 cybersecurity hotline which empowIdentity & Access Management ers staff to quickly escalate any related concerns; the hotline funnels all alerts to the Cyber Incident Response For firm systems and information, we follow the objective Team for triage and decisions. of least privileged access, granting appropriate access to employees for their roles and responsibilities both Cyber Incident Management inside and outside of BBH locations. Systems implements additional restrictions for privileged access to production BBH maintains and employs a robust Cyber Incident systems in order to further reduce risks to sensitive data Management team that is part of the firm’s overall and operations. Enterprise Incident Management group. This program component is focused on training and awareness of Network, Perimeter, & Insider Monitoring all employees as well as the conducting of scenarios to BBH conducts 24/7 monitoring of security threats. The prepare the organization for actual cyber attacks. firm’s security operations center, supplemented by a managed security service provider, is responsible for Incident Response Plan detecting all internal and external risks to our organizaBBH uses an incident response plan designed to promptly tion, providing for quick escalations with appropriate respond to, and recover from, any cybersecurity event transparency and reporting to the firm’s leadership. materially affecting the confidentiality, integrity, or availability of our Information Systems or the continuing funcThird Party Risk tionality of any aspect of BBH’s business or operations. BBH’s Vendor Technology Assessment program exists to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and availability Response to Data Disclosures of BBH and client data when using a supplier. For more BBH reviews, escalates, and resolves reported data discloinformation about this program, please read Supplier sures according to a defined process based on regulatory Code of Conduct (page 80). and contractual requirements, as well as industry best practices. Employee Vigilance Industry Cooperation & Engagement Cybersecurity Training & Awareness Social engineering remains one of the highest risks Thought Leadership & Industry Engagement posed to any organization. A year-round program, BBH cybersecurity personnel keep abreast of threats and consisting of computer-based training, in-person traincountermeasures through information sharing organizaing, a formal phishing awareness program, and regular tions such as Financial Services Information Sharing firmwide communications about new threats, strives to and Analysis Center (FS-ISAC), Securities Industry and make our employees more aware and educated on cyber Financial Markets Association (SIFMA), United States risks. Senior management receives notices of any nonComputer Emergency Readiness Team (USCERT), and compliance with the mandatory training, which may Society for Worldwide Interbank Telecommunication result in disciplinary action up to and including possible (SWIFT). The team regularly contribute to and attend termination. meetings such as the Gartner CISO Coalition, as well as a range of cybersecurity industry and vendor conferences. 42 Our Clients: Cybersecurity 2019 FOCUS & HIGHLIGHTS Continuing to Enhance Controls Across Maintaining a Strong Pipeline of Cyber the Firm Skills & Talent Enterprise Incident Management Industry & Higher Ed Partnerships In 2019, BBH consolidated our business continuity As part of adapting the cybersecurity team’s size and division and cyber incident response division to improve specialist skills to match evolving best practices and the firm’s reconnaissance of and response to all business threats, in 2019, BBH expanded our engagement with risks. Drexel University for co-op opportunities in cybersecurity and supported employees in joining WiCyS (Women Perimeter Security Prevention & Detection in Cybersecurity) and attending their annual conference. BBH continues to automate and fine-tune our perimeter protection of BBH offices and our remote workforce Continuing to Incorporate Privacy-By-Design platform. In 2019, cybersecurity focused several initiatives on leveraging threat intelligence information to Global Data Inventories address new variants of probes. BBH considers privacy from the start of every project and incorporates it throughout, rather than attempting Measuring Our Phishing Awareness Program to back privacy into existing processes. We continue to regularly review and update a personal data inventory, Phishing Points Employee Scorecard working globally to document our processing of perIn 2019, cybersecurity updated our scorecard assesssonal information. ment of employee response to phishing simulations. At a regular but random cadence, employees received Policy Updates simulated phishing attempts, both to familiarize them In 2019, BBH updated the firm’s public Privacy Policy with various tactics, as well as measure their awareness to inform individuals of how their data is processed and and susceptibility. A point score helped each employee how they can make inquiries to BBH. understand their personal susceptibility, and mandated additional training or appropriate disciplinary action, when necessary. 2019 Annual Stewardship Report 43 Our Clients: Cybersecurity KEY INDICATORS 2019 Result Cybersecurity Strength Attest to compliance with the standards set by the following bodies: New York State Department of Financial Services – Cybersecurity Requirements for Financial Services Companies ✔ SWIFT Customer Security Programme ✔ SWIFT Shared Infrastructure Programme ✔ Employee Vigilance % of compliance with mandatory employee training 100% % participation in phishing points scorecard 100% 44 BUSINESS CONTINUITY Strengthen security, continuity, and connectivity through enterpriseGOAL wide incident response What our stakeholders want to know: How does BBH prevent unexpected events from having a negative impact on its delivery of services? BBH maintains business continuity plans (BCP) which detail procedures relating to an emergency or significant business disruption, including natural disasters, political unrest, power outages, and a pandemic. Plans are defined for technology, office, and business unit recovery, and include robust communication and escalation protocols, travel and visitor restrictions, the movement of client servicing and operational processing among global offices, and extended use of secure remote access by BBH employees. BCP plans are reviewed at least annually, components are tested throughout the year and validated in the context of current events. As with all scenario-based plans, BBH is continuously refining the BCP program based on best practices and experience gained from events as we did in response to 2019’s winter storms, typhoons, transportation disruptions, and civil unrest in Hong Kong. By strengthening our security, continuity, and connectivity through enterprise-wide incident response, we can continue to support our business and ensure the smooth continuity of service to our clients while protecting our people, technology, and assets. As we deliver this report, our BCP is active as a result of the COVID-19 outbreak. Our plan is functioning successfully, with 96% of BBHers working remotely and social distancing is in place for those critical roles that remain onsite. We have been able to deliver all of our services without interruption. Our primary focus has been and will continue to be the health and safety of our workforce. GOAL: Build resilient infrastrucThis section addresses the firm’s direct efforts on business continuity. For more informature, promote inclusive and tion about how BBH addresses similar concerns in its supply chain, please read Supplier sustainable industrialization, and Code of Conduct (page 80). For more information about risk management, please read foster innovation Our Firm: Risk Excellence (page 26). 2019 Annual Stewardship Report 45 Our Clients: Business Continuity CORE PROGRAMS, POLICIES, & PRACTICES The objectives of our BCP are to: Annual Plan Status Reviews & Internal Audit • Provide a safe environment for all employees Each year, the BCP team reviews and rates each business unit’s plan, notifying the plan builders, plan owners, • Decrease risk through identifying and implementing and the business line risk manager. This reporting is also preventative measures shared with various oversight committees for the applicable divisions as well as internal audit and compliance. • Reduce disruption to normal processing and mitigate BBH’s internal audit team conducts a continuous rolling interruption to operations and systems audit of BBH’s BCP plans by conducting quarterly • Ensure orderly recovery from a business interruption reviews and participating in all BCP testing exercises. • Minimize potential economic loss Routine Simulations & Testing • Comply with legal and regulatory requirements Recovery Testing We conduct a minimum of 12 tests annually at three distinct levels—office, systems, and business unit Continuous Planning & Review recovery—with a broad scope of test objectives. We retest until the process meets every objective. Each BBH Business Continuity Planning Methodology process and contingency site is tested once per year at a We execute a three-prong approach to planning: office minimum. Recovery facilities are tested on a platform or recovery, business unit recovery, and systems recovery. unit basis to include cross-system integration wherever The full-time BCP team provides business units with the necessary. Tests include application and systems contools and training to develop a business unit recovery tingency testing, by platform and system. Operational plan. Business units develop and maintain their busicontingency testing includes structured walkthroughs ness unit recovery plans, ensuring that they are updated of plans and the transfer of business processes from one and effective. BBH reviews each plan annually (at a BBH location to another. minimum) and subjects the plans to additional examinaRemote Access Testing tion by the internal audit department, the BCP team, and, when appropriate, an external auditor. Employees with the ability to work remotely are asked to attest to their access and ability to perform their routine Rolling Business Impact Analysis business functions remotely on an annual basis. Knowing that risk management and mitigation are not SIFMA Industry-Wide Event Participation one-time events, BBH conducts business impact analysis assessments on a rolling basis. At the core of our risk BBH also participates annually in the Securities Industry mitigation plans is consideration and understanding of and Financial Markets Association’s (SIFMA) industryclient requirements, establishment of global client service wide business continuity test, a critical exercise that teams, and a secure centralized technology platform. highlights our industry’s ability to operate through a sigBCP is part of the systems development lifecycle which nificant emergency using backup sites, recovery facilities, requires system owners and project managers to consult and backup communications. During the exercise, BBH with the BCP technical support team during multiple submits test orders and transactions from our backup phases of the development lifecycle for the execution of site to other industry utilities to ensure connectivity with all projects and onboarding of new applications. clearing and settlement utilities, market data vendors, and exchanges during an event. 46 Our Clients: Business Continuity Regulatory Frameworks & Review BCP Employee Portal & Hotline Regulators review BBH’s BCP protocols. Our program BCP maintains a page on the firmwide intranet portal. was built considering applicable banking and securities This portal includes important BCP information and regulations, including but not limited to U.S. federal law, access to the BCP tool, a proprietary tool which proU.S. state laws, NYDFS guidelines, international data vides all employees quick, easy, and remote access to protection requirements, as well as industry best pracimportant information about their group’s BCP plan tices, including ISO 22301 and the Federal Financial and specific tasks assigned to them as individuals if their Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC). office is not accessible. BBH also maintains a hotline for employees to ask questions or report a potential issue. Rapid Response & Recovery Crisis Command & Communication Common Business Units & Staffing Versatility When BBH invokes a business continuity event, the BBH leverages common business units across locaBCP team activates the Global Crisis Management tions globally to minimize the recovery timeline and Team to centralize communication and coordination. ensure continuous client and operational support. We If necessary, BBH can manage a BCP event remotely. cross-train BBHers, across service teams, products, The Global Crisis Management Team provides critical and departments to position them to fill in as necesinformation and status updates to clients, following a sary during an event. This cross-pollination allows for controlled and carefully-managed protocol, typically via dynamic resource allocation, allowing employees from e-mail or telephone. In addition, a client’s relationship one department within the bank to serve another on team, including their dedicated Relationship Manager, very short notice in a BCP event. Client Service Manager, and/or a Managing Director of their local servicing office, are the primary contacts Distributed & Remote Work for communicating with that client and addressing Our BCP plans cover the distribution of critical funcquestions. tions across non-impacted offices, third-party recovery sites, and remote work from home, which helps ensure BCP has arranged for critical business and technical continuous client and operational support during an staff to have access to the U.S. Government Emergency event. BBHers use remote access during the normal Telecommunications Services (GETS) program which course of business as well as in contingency mode. BBH allows card holders to have priority telephone service in remote access does not limit processing capacity and the event of a regional or national emergency. there is no maximum number of users that can use the BBH subscribes to an alert aggregation service called functionality for BCP-related purposes. NC4. This service provides us multiple types of alerts Employee Awareness & Mandatory Training that could impact any of our assets globally. The BCP team identifies our locations, the radius for which we Our BCP success depends on our employees’ response want to be alerted for an incident, and the incident cattime when executing their plans. Therefore, BCP trainegories. NC4 then sends any alert meeting that criteria ing and awareness is a key component of the program. to our BCP and global security teams. New employees receive training when hired and existing employees must recertify to this training every year (see Our Firm Risk section for more information on employee training and compliance.) Plan owners, planners, and Crisis Management Team members receive additional BCP tool training and participate in incident response simulations. A steady stream of e-mail notifications, eLearning, and simulations keep our priorities and plans top of mind across the firm. 2019 Annual Stewardship Report 47 Our Clients: Business Continuity 2019 FOCUS & HIGHLIGHTS Continuing to Enhance Controls Across Putting BCP to the Test Through New the Firm Simulations Enterprise Incident Management Internal Tabletop Exercises In 2019, BBH consolidated our Business Continuity diviIn 2019, we conducted simulations across multiple teams sion and Cyber Incident Response division to improve responding to scenarios including impacts to our buildthe firm’s reconnaissance of and response to all business ings, cybersecurity threats, and active shooter scenarios. risks. With the focus on cyber awareness ever-present, in and outside of BBH, merging these two disciplines External Tabletop Exercise created an even more robust platform. The Enterprise In 2019, we conducted a joint cyber resiliency exercise Incident Management team will work with other areas with a third party to examine detection, response, and of the firm to develop consistent policies, procedures, recovery actions specific to that business relationship. communication, and escalation plans in the event of a Simulated Cyber Threat at IBM’s X-Force business interruption due to acts of nature, malicious Command Center attack, or human error. In 2019, we conducted two simulations with particiStrengthening Incident Management across pants from the Cyber Executive Team including senior the Firm leadership from BCP, cybersecurity, CISO, Human Resources, Compliance, Risk, Legal, each line of busiBCP Working Group ness, and Systems Management. These focused simulaIn 2019, we created the BCP Working Group (BCPWG) tions provided BBH participants the opportunity to to provide guidance and recommendations to the BCP practice their roles and responsibilities when handling a Executive Committee for overall planning, policy, and major cyber security event. program changes through the review of testing and event post-mortems. The BCPWG is chaired by the Learning from 2019’s BCP Events & Head of Enterprise Incident Management and includes Simulations membership from business executives across our three In direct response to BCP events and simulations, the lines of business. firm adjusted our incident response and business recovBCP Tool Upgrade ery playbooks to include increased cyber threat vectors, In 2019, BBH evaluated and selected a replacement for and enhanced protocols for civil unrest, typhoons, our enterprise-wide BCP tool. Launching in 2020, the and pandemics. We also provided additional employee tool will provide: education on the importance of operational security. • Application resiliency & dependency evolvement • Mobile app • Enhanced business intelligence and analytics • Enhanced metrics & reporting • Increased automation 48 Our Clients: Business Continuity KEY INDICATORS 2019 Result Planning Compliance 100% # of lines of business with updated plans 251 Business unit planners 127 Business unit recovery coordinators 127 Business unit specific plans Annual Recovery Tests – All Objectives Met Our employees across all business groups worked from their designated BCP recovery site performing production work. Business unit recovery ✔ All test objectives were met in the 2019 Business Recovery test events. Designed to simulate the loss of processing functions at our primary data center, these tests included systems, site, Systems recovery and operational contingency components. ✔ All test objectives met. All employees are asked to login remotely and attest to accessing their applications. Remote access test ✔ All test objectives met. U.S. GETS card holders test their access by making test calls at minimum, annually. Communications test ✔ All test objectives met. Designed to familiarize employees with our internal emergency communication system, BBHnotify, we used a notifications Notifications test test to alert our employees to a situation. ✔ All test objectives met. External Audit & Testing SIFMA industry-wide test with CHIPS, BONY, DTCC ✔ Test completed successfully; all test objectives met. Employee Awareness & Training % Compliance with Mandatory Training 100% OUR PEOPLE Long before our first son was born, my wife and I planned how we would both make parenting and working full time work. I was proud that I could take time off under BBH’s Childcare Leave Policy to ease into this new normal… and dearly looked forward to this once-in-a-lifetime phase of my son’s and my life. The time off was also invaluable in navigating the inevitable issues that arise with parenting and supporting my wife’s transition back to work. It is not clear to me how we would have managed without my time off. BBH’s leave policies made a real, meaningful difference for me and my family.” –N  ick Maglio, Vice President Private Banking Strategy & Finance DIVERSITY & INCLUSION Advance diversity at BBH, supported by a strong culture of inclusion, GOAL accountability, and employee engagement. What our stakeholders want to know: How is BBH providing equal opportunity for its employees from all backgrounds? How is BBH actively fostering an environment of inclusion which combats bias and discrimination? Across our industry, organizations—including BBH—increasingly recognize the positive correlation between diversity and inclusion and commercial success. Fostering diversity of thought is a critical factor for firms like ours that must mitigate risk and drive creativity, innovation, and client outcomes. The norms, power structures, and inequities in society can easily become embedded in any organization. We believe that creating a culture where every individual can contribute their full potential requires investigating the systems and processes within an organization to uncover blind spots and working to ensure an equitable approach. It takes conscious and sustained effort to cultivate a workplace where all employees feel valued, included, and able to deliver their best. Inclusion requires every employee to be self-aware and identify new habits and behaviors that successfully create a working environment that is welcoming for all, and to take immediate action when there’s evidence that this is not the case. At BBH, we strive to understand one another by surpassing simple tolerance to embrace and celebrate the rich dimensions of diversity contained within everyone—whether those differences are driven by gender, age, race, culture, education, disability, socio-economic background, sexual orientation, life experiences, or many other attributes and experiences. We aim to empower every individual to deliver their best in a safe, positive work environment. We want to have a workplace that supports mutual respect, honest conversation, and healthy debate, where real collaboration and equal opportunity is possible. GOAL: Promote sustained, This section addresses the firm’s direct efforts on diversity and inclusion. For more ininclusive, and sustainable formation about how BBH addresses similar concerns in our supply chain, please read economic growth, full and Supplier Code of Conduct (page 80). productive employment, and decent work for all 52 Our People: Diversity & Inclusion CORE PROGRAMS, POLICIES, & PRACTICES By focusing our diversity and inclusion (D&I) program Restart@BBH on three key pillars–workforce, workplace, and marThis ten-week program enables candidates who have ketplace–we’re building our capacity of top talent, been out of the workforce for two years or more to enhancing our inclusive culture, strengthening cultural return to a corporate setting through a paid restart dexterity, and leveraging the power of fresh thinking. assignment. Along with gaining valuable experience The Global Inclusion Council, a group of senior leaders, and refreshing their skill-sets, participants receive serves as a body of advice and consent, working with the training and mentoring to help them transition back to Office of D&I to set the firm’s D&I agenda and strategy, work. BBH restart assignments often lead to full-time monitor success, drive accountability, and integrate opportunities. initiatives into the lines of business. To ensure firmwide “Bring Yourself to BBH” execution of our strategy, inclusion councils in each region and line of business help to advise the Global We host open house events to highlight BBH’s culture Inclusion Council of specific local issues and to integrate and commitment to diversity and inclusion. Participants initiatives throughout the firm. learn about our business and financial industry trends, as well as network with department leaders and BANC members from across the firm. The events include Workforce keynote speakers and interactive discussions on various Bringing the best and brightest people to BBH is key to topics such as career development, technology, innovaour continued success as a firm over the long term. We’re tion, work-life integration, and leadership. committed to creating a workforce comprised of diverse talent by attracting, developing, and retaining individuWorkplace als thorough a variety of programs. We know it takes deliberate actions to create a culture Diverse Candidate Pools where everyone feels like they belong and that starts We strive for a diverse slate of candidates for all our with paying more attention to what we all say and do on positions and seek out applicants from a variety of a daily basis, and ensuring our processes and policies are sources. Through partnerships with our BBH Affinity inclusive. Network Communities (BANC), various schools, Code of Professional Conduct & Other Policies external partners, and online communities, we work to ensure we have the broadest reach of talent available in To ensure that we maintain a work environment the marketplace. where everyone is free to express different opinions, all employees must adhere to the Code of Professional Video & Competency-Based Interview Process Conduct, as well as other policies pertaining to bullyOur ability to broadly use video-based interviews ing, discrimination, harassment, e-communications, enables us to ease the time and cost required for canand workplace violence. We believe it is our collective didates to apply. During our interviews, we leverage responsibility to act fairly, honestly, and respectfully, competency-based questions that focus on assessing a and to report any instances of incivility to which we candidate’s ability or experience through actual events. are party to or witness. BBH’s independent reporting By focusing on job-relevant behaviors, a competencysystem, MySafeWorkPlace, enables all employees to based approach helps us ensure greater objectivity, report incidents anonymously. We prohibit any retaliaaccuracy, and consistency when interviewing multiple tion or threatened retaliatory action for making a good candidates for a position. To further mitigate unconfaith report of an apparent or possible violation of the scious bias, candidates meet with a diverse panel of Employee Handbook, Code, or any other BBH policy. interviewers. 2019 Annual Stewardship Report 53 Our People: Diversity & Inclusion Explicit D&I Performance Management Goals Flex2Work We count on our leaders at all levels to take a visible role BBH provides our employees with the flexibility to in making our workplace more inclusive. Performance complete their job duties while promoting balance reviews of all vice presidents and above include a diverbetween work and personal commitments. Through a sity and inclusion performance goal that clearly indicates variety of flexible work arrangements, including remote, actions and behaviors they should demonstrate to foster flextime, part-time, job sharing, compressed work week, a culture where all employees can succeed. and gradual transition back to work schedules, the firm provides alternative approaches to getting work done Diverse Slates for Promotions & Advancement through non-traditional work hours, locations, and/or Throughout the year, every area of the firm participates job structures. in a talent identification process to ensure we have a diverse slate of candidates for promotional and advanceLearning and Development ment opportunities, as well as identify where we have Training is a fundamental part of creating a workplace gaps in order to access development needs. All promowith the skills and abilities to realize the full benefits of tional slates require a diverse slate and are mindful of our diverse workforce. We host a variety of trainings potential adverse impacts on advancement to greater designed to prevent harassment and discrimination, equitable representation throughout all levels of the firm. understand and recognize unconscious bias, enhance cultural dexterity, and promote inclusive behaviors. Affinity Networks Open to all employees, our BANCs provide a forum to Mentoring Circles develop skills and cultural experiences, network, and Sponsored by our various BANCs, these gatherings support key business initiatives while enhancing our bring groups of 20 BBHers together to talk about a workplace and communities. Employee driven, these variety of topics—ranging from career advice and networks foster leadership opportunities and organic personal branding to intersectionality and unconscious collaboration across business lines and locations to bias. These interactive sessions work to break down barstrengthen the connections between the firm’s internal riers and build strong relationships across the firm. and external communities. Each network’s remit aligns with company values, business practices, and the priori“Inspire Inclusion” Communication Series ties of the Office of D&I. The network groups are as Our leaders share their personal insights and decisionfollows: making frameworks around D&I matters—in their own lives and within the industry—to help employees Asia Link Network navigate challenging conversations and expand their Black Affinity Network perspective. Diverse Abilities Allies Network Culture Wizard Global Employee Network As a dynamic, global organization, it’s important our Latino Cultural Network people understand the nuances of different cultures to Military Veterans Network ensure they are operating efficiently and respectfully. Culture Wizard is an online tool that provides assessParenting Network ments, videos, quizzes, and recorded webinars Pride Network to provide practical, engaging, cultural information Women’s Network and exercises. Young Professionals Network 54 Our People: Diversity & Inclusion New Parents Marketplace The birth or adoption of a child is a milestone that we We identify and pursue initiatives in the marketplace want to support by offering help to our employees who that demonstrate our commitment to D&I and enable us want to grow their families and enable them to celebrate to share best practices across industries to drive broad without work-related distractions. changes. Adoption or Surrogacy External Partnerships BBH provides additional support when having a child through adoption or surrogacy. All full-time and partOur partnerships strengthen relationships with liketime employees are eligible to receive up to $20,000 of minded organizations and individuals to help expand financial support to help cover associated costs for one opportunities for all and increase advocacy through lifetime event. education. Our participation enables us to better understand the unique needs of diverse groups, fund critical Time Away from Work research, share our experience with other companies, In addition to affording parents maternity, non-primary provide philanthropic support to under-served comcaregiver, paternity, and adoption leave, eligible parents munities, and provide employee development. (For the (mothers, fathers, and partners) benefit from shared complete list of D&I partnerships, see Honors and parental leave and shared parental pay. Shared parental Partnerships on page 16.) leave is designed to give parents more flexibility in how to share the care of their child in the first year following Center for Women & Wealth birth or adoption. BBH’s Private Banking CW&W is committed to engaging and supporting women as they create and manage Back-Up Childcare wealth. (For more information about the CW&W, please BBH provides access to back-up childcare centers and read page 35.) in-home care when an employee’s regular childcare arrangements are unavailable. LGBTQ-Focused Wealth Planning Caregiver Leave BBH Private Wealth Management provides our LGBTQ BBH expanded our non-primary caregiver leave in the clients with sophisticated financial and wealth planning U.S. to include six weeks of paid leave, with the flexibilservices tailored to their particular needs. ity to take it all at once or in blocks. 2019 Annual Stewardship Report 55 Our People: Diversity & Inclusion 2019 FOCUS & HIGHLIGHTS CEO Action for Diversity and Inclusion Inaugural BANC Leadership Summit BBH signed onto the CEO Action for Diversity and The first BANC Leadership Summit brought leaders Inclusion, a CEO-led initiative of more than 800 orgaacross our ten networks and 64 chapters together alongnizations across industries committed to creating more side industry experts to share best practices and develop inclusive workplaces. As part of the initiative, BBH key leadership skills. committed to encourage challenging racial conversations, expanding unconscious bias training, and sharing Young Professionals Thought Leadership best practices. Our Young Professionals Network issued a paper, “The Future of Work,” which surveyed more than 500 people Human Rights Campaign “Best Place to Work” across the globe and different industries to share insights Distinction on the needs of our diverse workforces and the similariBBH received a 100% rating in the Human Rights ties across our different communities. Campaign’s Corporate Equality Index, which rates U.S. companies on their policies and practices pertaining to Culture Calculator Challenge LGBTQ employees. Employees across the globe participated in the Culture Calculator Challenge to better understand their natural Inclusive Leadership Training approach to several key dimensions of culture, including All Partners, Managing Directors, and BANC leaders hierarchy, group dynamics, relationship-building, comattended a four-hour inclusive leadership workshop munication, time management, control, formality, and designed to generate open and honest dialogue. The motivation. After receiving their results, participants program reinforced how vital inclusiveness is to our attended group discussions to sync their responses to future success, as is our continued progress toward their teams for an anonymous comparison, and then increasing diversity at all levels—especially the most act on what they learned by flexing their style to better senior levels. Real life case studies demonstrated how connect and collaborate with others whose backgrounds by embracing authenticity over conformity, showing are different than their own. empathy and compassion, and being accepting of a range of communication and work styles, we enable all team members to deliver their personal best. The interactive session provided practical guidance on how to create a safe team environment where all employees can voice their opinions, be heard, and have a true sense of belonging. 56 Our People: Diversity & Inclusion KEY INDICATORS Executive-level managers review business level dashboards every quarter—tracking hiring, promotions, internal mobility and retention. 2019 Result Hiring % of new hires: female 47% % of new hires: people of color 37% Employee Composition By Gender % of employees: female (all levels) 46% % of employees: female (entry level) 51% % of employees: female (mid-level) 39% % of employees: female (senior level) 31% By Race % of employees: people of color (all levels) 30% % of employees: people of color (entry level) 34% % of employees: people of color (mid-level) 26% % of employees: people of color (senior level) 13% By Age % of employees: under 30 years old 27% % of employees: 30-50 years old 58% % of employees: over 50 years old 15% Retention Retention rate: male employees 88% Retention rate: female employees 88% Community Building Size of BBH Affinity Network Communities (BANC) 10 Networks; 64 Chapters # of registrations for large scale BANC events 8,200 Training # of senior and BANC leaders participating in inclusive leadership training 150 % of employees who completed sexual harassment training 100% Accolades Human Rights Campaign Foundation’s 2019 Corporate Equality Index Rating 100% – A “Best Place to Work” Distinction 2019 Annual Stewardship Report 57 LEADERSHIP & TECHNICAL SKILLS Invest in the leadership and technical skills our people need to be GOAL successful in an evolving global marketplace. What our stakeholders want to know: How does BBH help its employees build successful careers and critical skills to thrive in their current roles and continually adapt to the demands of an increasingly dynamic workplace? Learning is a critical step to creating innovation, ongoing value, and personal growth. Helping our employees gain mission-critical skills aligned to our clients’ needs and their individual passions is an ongoing firm-employee partnership and core to our business strategy. We recognize the need to build a healthy pipeline of highly qualified talent and see first hand how valuable, tailored learning opportunities inspire our employees to reach their fullest potential. A Focus on the Future The challenges presented by an evolving global marketplace, ever-changing technology, and shifting client expectations require that we help our employees demonstrate a combination of capabilities and emerging expertise, while fostering a safe environment to learn. It’s our responsibility to cultivate our employees’ professional growth and to connect them to on-the-job, in the classroom, and online learning from leading experts, peers, and mentors. To support our employees, we work to deliver the right learning content, at the right time, in the right way—ensuring it is accessible when they need it, relevant, and quickly transferable to their work. Being supported by managers in an environment that rewards lifelong learning enables our employees to excel, adapt, and lead in a complex, global business environment. GOAL: Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all 58 Our People: Leadership & Technical Skills CORE PROGRAMS, POLICIES, & PRACTICES The combination of our programs—designed for the BBH Academy arc of a BBHer’s career—aims to help our employees Our online learning center provides 24/7 access to grow personally, professionally, and be rewarded for the instructor-led and virtual learning sessions, e-learning results they deliver. courses, and business and technical articles on topics ranging from mandatory compliance and discrete skills Performance Enablement specific to financial services to cultural awareness and Employees learn from the advice and role modeling of effective management. their leadership and are encouraged to develop their BBH Scholars personal network, building a cadre of people from We encourage employees to enhance their skills and whom they can learn. knowledge for a current or future role through profesEmployee Development & Performance sional certifications or formal education, including Each year, an employee and their manager co-create an undergraduate and post-graduate degrees. Approved individualized roadmap that incorporates specific busiapplicants receive up to $10,000 (USD) per calendar ness deliverables and outlines which strengths and skills year. they can apply and competencies the employee should Leadership Development Roadmap develop to help achieve their goals. Open dialogue The Leadership Development Roadmap provides guidhelps employees stay on track and adjust as needed, ance for each stage of leadership—leads self, leads while mid-year and year-end reviews provide for formal others, and leads the firm. A collection of resources feedback and recognition. support each stage, which helps managers and employMentoring & Sponsorship ees identify on-the-job, collaborative, and formal Formal and informal mentoring and sponsorship models learning opportunities to build greater self-awareness, are interwoven in our lines of business, departments, communication, agility, and influence. and firmwide programs. Each relationship is uniquely LEAD (Leadership Education and Development) determined by its purpose; to learn a new skill, solicit Program feedback on ideas, build a broader internal network, or BBH periodically invites a select cohort of employees support career progression. These mentorship programs from across the globe to join the LEAD Program, which are available to employees of all levels and often sponstrengthens participants’ business acumen, financial sored by our Partners. acumen, and leadership effectiveness. The program Talent Cards begins with a 10-week bootcamp, followed by two years The online Talent Card tool serves as an employee’s of on-the-job development, positioning these leaders to internal résumé, capturing their skills, career interests, contribute in new and meaningful ways. and achievements all in one place. The firm encourCodefest ages all employees to share more about what makes This annual firmwide innovation challenge focuses on them unique, showcasing their talent to their manager, three tracks (business case, prototype, and coding chalHuman Resources, and other senior leaders and helping lenge) and aims to develop and test new ideas for BBH. connect them to more growth opportunities at BBH. Open to all employees, Codefest provides the opportunity to collaborate with creative minds across the firm to Learning & Development bring an idea to life. Designed to suit learners of all types, we provide a mix of collaborative learning, on-the-job experiences, and formal training through multiple channels. 2019 Annual Stewardship Report 59 Our People: Leadership & Technical Skills Toastmasters cross-product, and/or cross-functional opportunities. Employee-led and firm-sponsored, this program Managers recognize accomplishments day-to-day and provides employees an opportunity to practice public employees can earn leadership designations when they speaking and receive feedback from their peers. have demonstrated characteristics aligned to our culture. Global Mobility Career Transitions When our business and clients’ needs create the opporBBH provides additional support to employees at those tunity, the Global Mobility Program provides employees critical career moments that prompt new questions and shortand long-term assignments throughout our global require different approaches to working. offices, creating a chance to work in diverse markets and develop multi-cultural fluency and global leadership BBH Managerial Habits skills. Managers are the cornerstone of our talent management strategy, playing a critical role in engagement, Internal Mobility retention, development acceleration, and career planBecause we already know the high caliber of our ning. Managing people effectively is already one of the employees, BBH first advertises open roles internally. toughest jobs; getting results from others is increasingly The recruitment process gives priority to internal canchallenging with different work styles, ever-changing didates to make exploratory, lateral, or vertical moves technology, and the push to accomplish more with possible within the firm. fewer resources. To contribute to the continued success Career Progressions of the firm, the BBH managerial habits framework cultivates 16 behaviors that help managers set standards, Employees earn recognition throughout the year for coordinate resources, drive projects, and– perhaps most demonstrating growth in their current job, assuming importantly–support, engage, and develop their team responsibilities beyond the scope of their current role members. aligned to business need. Training the Next Generation of Effective Officer Promotions Managers One measure of continued growth comes from roles Our first time manager program provides learners with with greater complexity and accountability. As these the insight, skills, and self-awareness to effectively responsibilities grow, so too do the honorary titles. manage others. Using guided roleplays, exercises, and Demonstrating key behaviors, mindsets, and accompractice sessions, attendees examine what it takes to plishments creates the opportunity for employees to be leverage their personal and team strengths to maximize recognized with an officer title. impact within the business. Quarter Century Club Growth Opportunities & Recognition More than 75 years ago, BBH formed the Quarter Century Club (QCC), which celebrates those who Our employees routinely take on new challenges and have been with the firm for 25 years or more. To comreinvent themselves professionally. Career paths at BBH memorate induction, the firm organizes a formal lunch are increasingly non-linear, with employees focusing less with the Partners, which includes presentations of fond on advancing straight up in one discipline and instead memories and gifts to commemorate the occasion. Each crossing the organization, gaining valuable perspective, year, the firm hosts a QCC dinner for all past members, leadership experiences, and a portfolio of transferactive and retired. able skills. Individuals work together with managers to identify stretch assignments and cross-regional, 60 Our People: Leadership & Technical Skills 2019 FOCUS & HIGHLIGHTS Continuing to Learn from Employee Feedback 2019’s LEAD Program Cohort We received industry leading participation in our Employees from eight countries convened in New York 2019 Employee Opinion Survey—83% of employees. City for this year’s bootcamp. Participants brought their Employees expressed pride in our uncompromising best to a combination of real-world projects, classroom integrity and inclusive environment and asked us to development, and networking events while exploring the enhance work processes and create additional transparCity’s backdrop. ency on career paths. Plans are underway to address this feedback in 2020. 2019 Codefest Competition Forty-two global teams comprising 150 individuals Onboarding Overhaul participated over 12 days, generating ideas for ways to 2019 marked the first full year of BBH’s redesigned do things differently through creativity, collaboration, onboarding process—offering new hires a comprehenand problem-solving skills. A number of these innovasive, customized email series to learn about the firm, the tions are currently being evaluated for feasibility and opportunity to join firm leaders for a small, in-person development. introduction to BBH’s history and culture, and an invitation to share feedback on their experience. Manager Assessment—Pilot Program BBH piloted a new manager assessment as part of the annual performance enablement process. 73% of managers received structured input from their direct reports, which they then shared with their own managers. The process fostered especially constructive conversations, including topics that might otherwise be difficult to raise or conduct. 2019 Annual Stewardship Report 61 Our People: Leadership & Technical Skills KEY INDICATORS 2019 Result Performance Enablement 4,600 # of employees participated – manager assessment 91% % of employees – performance review (with narrative) Learning & Development % of BBH Scholars applications fully funded 100% % of employees – voluntary online and classroom learning 46% Growth Opportunities 20% % of employees – achieving career advancement i.e., a new role, career progression, or officer title Average BBH tenure of senior leaders (senior vice president and up) 19.6 years % of roles filled internally 21% Career Transitions 107 # of attendees – first-time manager program Employee Input & Engagement % of employees – YourBBH Employee Opinion Survey responses 83% 62 EMPLOYEE WELL-BEING Deliver a robust educational program and resources that help our GOAL employees improve their financial, physical, and personal well-being. What our stakeholders want to know: Does BBH offer every team member a safe, healthy, and beneficial place to work? How does the firm ensure that what employees receive from working for BBH is commensurate with the time, effort, and value they contribute to it? BBH employs nearly 6,000 employees, creating jobs and growth opportunities for professionals in multiple cities around the world. The industry in which we work is fast-paced, demanding, and complex, and it requires dedication and a passion for delivering exceptional service—at every level of the firm. In return, we provide fair, competitive compensation, and a safe and healthy workplace, but in addition, aim to provide the support, education, resources, and day-to-day work environment that can help our employees build and lead their best life. Investing in Holistic Support for Our People We believe the best companies know that the well-being of their businesses cannot be separated from the well-being of their employees. BBH offers its employees a competitive compensation and benefits package as well as a comprehensive health and wellness support system, BBH Thrive. While well-being means something different to everyone, our Thrive program is designed to support and inspire our employees to make positive lifestyle choices and better long-term decisions—physically, financially, and personally. Our program encourages our employees and their families to foster good health, financial security, and peace of mind through education and rewards focused on optimal outcomes. Thrive offers a steady cadence of wellness events hosted in each of our offices annually, supported by communication and education on various wellness topics. GOAL: Ensure healthy lives and This section addresses the firm’s direct efforts on employee wellness. For more promote well-being for all at all information about how BBH addresses similar concerns in our supply chain, please ages read Supplier Code of Conduct (page 80). 2019 Annual Stewardship Report 63 Our People: Employee Well-Being CORE PROGRAMS, POLICIES, & PRACTICES Thrive Financially The Undergraduate Fund BBH’s Undergraduate Fund was launched more than Compensation Philosophy and Practice 50 years ago through a gift made by our Partners to BBH structures our compensation programs to be help offset the cost of attending a four-year college for market competitive through a total compensation employees’ children. Based on academic performance and philosophy—salary (base pay or fixed pay) and discrefinancial need, scholarships are determined by an indetionary bonus (variable incentives). The firm distributes pendent consultant and are awarded annually. rewards to employees based on their line of business, and/or product, and individual performance—linking BBH Scholars Program an employee’s pay to the combination of these factors. In BBH supports employees in pursuing degree or certificate addition to fair pay and performance bonuses, our comprograms while working, which enables them to apply petitive compensation framework includes profit-sharing what they learn directly on-the-job in real-time. Tuition awards and retirement plans, as well as subsidized life reimbursement requests for new and existing Graduate and disability insurance coverage. Degree Program Scholars are reviewed once a year, and We believe in the principle of equal pay for comparable all other undergraduate or certificate requests are evaluwork, not only because it’s the law, but also because ated on an ongoing basis during the year. it is a core value of our firm and a key principle of our The BBH Employee Relief Fund compensation philosophy. Through rigorous governance, A 501(c)(3) non-profit organization funded by contriwe strive to execute our compensation programs fairly butions from BBH Partners and employees, the BBH and consistently across the firm. Each year, we assess pay Employee Relief Fund helps eligible employees and their competitiveness relative to the market through various immediate family members to defray some of the costs external sources. BBH regularly trains managers on the and basic living expenses associated with a catastrophic firm’s compensation philosophy to ensure they are well event or unforeseen emergency. informed about how to set pay, reward for performance, and pay fairly for comparable work. Financial Coaching Throughout the year, we offer financial coaching services to assist employees in managing their financial resources prudently. Financial coaching focuses on debt management, credit monitoring, educational expense planning, and general budgeting skills, among other topics. BBH Benefits Inventory Thrive Financially Thrive Personally Thrive Physically • Competitive Compensation • Employee Assistance Program (BBH Assist) • Medical, Dental, and Vision • Profit Sharing • Social Activities & Clubs Coverage • Tuition Reimbursement • Relaxation & Stress Management Workshops • Flu Shots • Emergency Fund Assistance • Flexible Work Arrangements • Health Screenings • Retirement Savings Programs • Adoption/Surrogacy Support • Nutrition Counseling • Life Insurance • Ergonomics Program • Lactation/Family Rooms • Disability Insurance • Healthy Dining Options • Back-Up Child Care • Fitness Center Discounts • Firmwide Fitness Challenges • Yoga Classes • Financial Coaching 64 Our People: Employee Well-Being Thrive Personally Thrive Physically Employee Assistance Program Our most important asset is our people and their physiMental health is essential to well-being. BBH supports cal health contributes to their ability to succeed. BBH employees in developing and maintaining the healthy offers discounted rates at local health clubs, robust habits needed to manage stress, anxiety, depression, and healthcare coverage, as well as education about exercise, other conditions. Based on local markets, BBH offers an nutrition, preventative care, and healthy lifestyle habits. Employee Assistance Program, up to 16 coaching and Online Well-Being Platform counseling sessions, as well as in-office events such as yoga and relaxation workshops. The Virgin Pulse online platform provides strategies and tools to create a data-driven, personalized experience Flex2Work suggesting activities to improve nutrition, sleep, stress BBH provides our employees with the flexibility to comlevels, focus, cognition, financial health, and personal plete their job duties while promoting balance between relationships. work and personal commitments. (For more information 1818 Social Club about BBH’s support for alternative approaches to getting work done, please read Diversity & Inclusion on page 52.) Throughout our offices, the firm offers activities that are both social and competitive in nature, bringing together Adoption and Surrogacy Assistance colleagues from all over the firm in an informal, fun BBH sponsors adoption and surrogacy assistance which atmosphere that promotes being active. From walking provides financial support to help make adopting a child and running groups, to basketball and tennis leagues, or having a child through surrogacy a reality for all. (For these employee-led clubs, funded both by BBH and indimore information about BBH’s support for new parents vidual participants, allow employees to explore a range and families, please read Diversity & Inclusion on page 52.) of physical fitness activities. STEPPING FORWARD TO BETTER HEALTH In May 2019, more than 1,100 BBHers accepted the challenge to “Step It Up” in a collective journey around the world — virtually visiting BBH offices and learning fun facts about each location along the way. The 246 teams who participated logged a total of 165,542 miles. The ultimate goal of the challenge, aside from some healthy competition, was to inspire BBHers to stay active and prove first-hand the impact physical activity can have on our overall wellbeing. “I feel better and am more productive at work,” shared Tressa Catalina, Private Banking, Wilmington. “When you feel good about yourself, those positive feelings carry through in everything that you do. The friendly competition really made our team feel like we were all working together. Even though we weren’t high in the ranks on the leader board, we’re happy with our progress toward a healthier lifestyle.” Gabriela Kelly, AML, Dublin, had a similar experience. “Although at first I was really hard on myself about not immediately reaching the maximum daily limit, after speaking with a colleague it dawned on me that the main idea of the challenge is to learn to incorporate healthy routines into my day and have some fun,” she said. “My headache is gone after a thirty-minute walk at lunch, my evening jog helps me to clear my head after a long day, and I sleep like a baby!” 2019 Annual Stewardship Report 65 Our People: Employee Well-Being 2019 FOCUS & HIGHLIGHTS Expanding Support for Families Assessing the Program by Employee Opinion & External Benchmark Caregiver Leave BBH expanded our non-primary caregiver leave in the Employee Survey Redesign US to include six weeks of paid leave, with the flexibility 2019 marked the redesign of our Employee Opinion to take it all at once or in blocks. Survey, including key changes and additional questions about compensation and benefits. This new feedback Adoption & Surrogacy Support will help BBH leaders better understand and tailor our BBH increased the reimbursement amount for adoption programs. and surrogacy expenses to a maximum of $20,000 for one event per lifetime, per family. The HERO Scorecard Engaging Employees through Theme Weeks To continually strengthen and monitor our program, BBH uses the HERO Scorecard—a national non-profit Thrive Week index dedicated to identifying and sharing best practices At numerous locations around the world, BBH hosted in workplace health and well-being. Developed in conwellness-themed weeks. For one such week in July, our sultation with Mercer and other leading authorities, the Krakow location featured a week of wellness activities scorecard helps organizations benchmark their program to reinforce prioritizing personal, physical, and financial and measure progress over time. wellness and encourage employee engagement. More In 2019, our U.S. score outpaced averages in all five than 250 employees participated in activities from yoga categories. classes and art therapy to body mass testing and educational sessions. National BBH Average (US) Total Score 140 90 Strategic Planning Thoughtfulness of plan based on knowledge of inherent health risks of population and specific goals/outcomes to achieve those 13 10 desired objectives Organizational & Cultural Support Degree of commitment to health and well-being of employees 37 23 (including formal and informal programs, policies, and procedures) Programs Successful programs offered that provide resources and education to employees and spouses who are at all different levels of 31 21 risk and readiness to change Program Integration The process of identifying individual’s health needs and connecting them with all the appropriate programs and services to provide 10 5 a seamless end-user experience Participation Strategies Successful engagement of employees in the program, communicating continually through a variety of formats, receiving and 33 22 responding to employee input and providing incentives to attract participation Measurement & Evaluation Validate if the program is meeting the stated objectives: both hard and soft metrics should be captured to provide a true picture of 16 9 the effectiveness of the program. 66 Our People: Employee Well-Being KEY INDICATORS 2019 Result Wellness Engagement 90 # wellness events – global total 56% % employee participation in online well-being platform Flexible Work Documented flexible working arrangements 600 Remote access >1,000 employees per day Employee Support The Undergraduate Fund – year of report 20 undergraduate scholarships ($70,800) Employee Relief Fund – year of report 11 grants ($150,925) Employee Relief Fund – since inception (2012) 79 grants ($523,600) 2019 Annual Stewardship Report 67 OUR COMMU BBH PARTNERS WITH ROCK THE STREET, WALL STREET While there are plenty of alarming statistics about tion between BANC and BBHcares in support of how few girls choose to pursue careers in finance, this program,” shared Marla Barr, Head of DiverRock the Street, Wall Street (RTSWS) — a new sity, Inclusion, and Employee Engagement. “The BBH charitable partner in New York — has a more school enrolls a diverse population of some of the encouraging statistic to share: RTSWS graduates are brightest high school students in the city.” four times more likely to pursue degrees in finance, BBH volunteers partner with RTSWS on three proeconomics, accounting, or related fields than the grams: financial literacy instruction, the Wall Street U.S. national average for undergraduate females. experience BBH site visit, and mentorship pairings. RTSWS is a financial literacy program that provides After launching the partnership, the students expefinancial and investment education to high-school rienced an 81% increase in financial literacy, with girls to spark their interest in finance. As many girls 91% stating that they were likely to pursue a major opt out of math due to a lack of real-world role or minor in finance or economics in college, and models, RTSWS elects to have female professionals 100% of the students stating their BBH mentors teach financial and investment education—helping were “awesome” instructors. girls to see themselves in financial roles. Participants learn about positive money management habits and the capital markets, while simultaneously experiencing the real-world application of the math content they learn in the classroom. “We are extremely excited about our sponsorship of Millennium High School, located just down the NITIES block from our New York office, and the collaboraENVIRONMENTALLY RESPONSIBLE FACILITIES GOAL Build and manage our facilities in an environmentally responsible manner. What our stakeholders want to know: How does BBH minimize its footprint on the environment? BBH’s greatest direct impact on the environment comes from the way the firm operates its 1.4 million square feet of office space: how we build and outfit the offices, how those offices collectively consume resources—particularly electricity—and how our employees’ day-to-day behaviors add up to significant change. Starting as early as our New York office’s fit-out in 2002, BBH’s definition of the “modern BBH office” considered not just space and aesthetics—but also the systems and controls to create a safe, comfortable environment that is cost effective in the long run. Our definition of that “long run” is a planning horizon and tenancy of five to seven years in our smaller offices and fifteen to twenty years in our large offices. Fortunately, as new building technologies continue to come online and improve, minimizing the longterm cost of operation often goes hand in hand with environmentally sound choices. With increasingly efficient facilities and systems as the backdrop, we’ve focused in recent years on individual behaviors—educating our employees on the good practices and habits, small and large, that will have a lasting effect on the planet. GOAL: Ensure sustainable This section addresses the firm’s direct environmental impact. For more information consumption and production about how BBH addresses our secondary impact through our suppliers’ work and our patterns clients’ ESG investing activities, please read Supplier Code of Conduct (page 80), ESG Integration (page 30), and Sustainable Investing (page 34). 70 Our Communities: Environmentally Responsible Facilities CORE PROGRAMS, POLICIES, & PRACTICES Central Facilities Management to our business; we shred all paper containing such By operating as a global department, Enterprise Services information prior to sending it to recycling facilities. maintains a clear line of sight to—and ability to optiSustainable Gift & Giveaways Program mize–our operation’s collective impact. By sharing ideas and improvements across our facilities footprint, all Guidelines help BBHers choose eco-friendly corporate BBH sites adopt newer, efficient practices more quickly. gifts and giveaway, promoting experiences or charitable donations in lieu of physical gifts, products with a chariLong-Term Tenancy table component or sustainability off-set, items sourced BBH builds our offices for long term tenancy, using from local businesses, and gifts made from sustainable practical architectural standards that can flex to everor a minimum of 30%-recycled materials. changing business needs without having to tear down and Environmental Sustainability Champions rebuild. We make upfront investments in high quality or refurbished materials, technology, and equipment that last An employee network provides grassroots support to longer with less impact than typical fit outs. identify and promote environmental improvements— helping their fellow employees make key changes more LEED and BREEAM Certification easily and effectively than a top-down mandate could We follow the U.S. Green Building Council’s Leadership alone. In recent years, their efforts helped set new in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) and cultural norms for communal trashcans, reusable coffee the Building Research Establishment Environmental mugs and water bottles, paperless meetings, and more. Assessment Method (BREEAM)® standards—and Travel Impact Reductions associated consultants, engineers, and designers—as guides to make thoughtful decisions during design and Travel comes second only to facilities management construction. Our facilities managers also maintain an when considering BBH’s direct impact on the environopen dialogue and collaboration with our landlords on ment. Routine budget scrutiny and key investments environmental topics to advocate for greener energy, in meeting technology, including video conferencing, more efficient base systems, environmentally friendly keeps unnecessary travel to a minimum, but in-person cleaning products, and energy saving campaigns. meetings will remain a cornerstone to serving our clients, as well as leading our cross-region teams. The Control Systems firm encourages each employee to plan travel efficiently We fit our largest sites with building management and and seek alternative modes of transportation by reportlighting control systems that allow for seasonal and ing—at the time of booking—the specific carbon sensor-based fine adjustments throughout the days, output related to their travel. weeks, and years, e.g., keeping the lights on or temperaEmployee Education & Awareness tures up only when space is in use. In cooperation with Thrive, BBH’s employee wellness Consumption Reduction Programs program, Enterprise Services regularly conducts engageWe track and set reduction goals centrally for energy, ment programs, such as the quarterly Go Green! theme waste, paper, water, and carbon emissions, hitting those and monthly challenges, to remind employees of their marks by continually upgrading equipment and engagcontribution to our environmental responsibilities. (As ing employees to support the effort. with other Sustainable BBH campaigns, the recently upgraded employee portal puts information about the Recycling & Shredding Program firm’s environmental sustainability within easy reach.) Working with our landlords and local communities, we maintain guidelines for our business units and employees to follow. Protecting our client’s data is paramount 2019 Annual Stewardship Report 71 Our Communities: Environmentally Responsible Facilities 2019 FOCUS & HIGHLIGHTS Continuing to Optimize Systems and Schedules Refocusing on the Realities of Recycling LED retrofit Recycling do’s and don’ts Building on our New York office’s successful LED Enterprise Services rolled out a recycling re-education retrofit in 2018, which reduced the office’s energy campaign across all sites. Recycling rules, regulations, consumption by 50,000 kilowatt hours (kWh), we are myths, and mis-truths can undermine an employee’s best replacing a large portion of Boston’s lighting system with intentions. The education campaign reminded everyone LEDs, anticipating an approximate 10% reduction in of what can and cannot be recycled, and what behaviors annual electricity consumption. prevent our recycling efforts from being as effective as possible. Variable Frequency Drives At our newer sites we installed Variable Frequency Commercial composting Drives (VFD) as part of our heating, ventilation, and air Although composting for commercial buildings remains conditioning (HVAC) system. With VFDs, HVAC can rare, our Boston and New Jersey offices participate in run according to actual demand, rather than constantly local programs. In New York City, where commercial running in anticipation of peak or surge demands. composting proved more difficult, we worked with our buildings and haulers to divert our organic waste to Workshift review and consolidation anerobic digestion. By reviewing work shifts in multiple offices, we consolidated groups with similar overnight or alternate schedReducing single-use corporate consumption ules, reducing the areas needing building infrastructure Most environmental experts agree that the greatest posito support operations. tive impact comes from reducing frivolous consumption altogether. A paper straw might be better than plastic; Expanding Sustainable Energy Use not using a straw unless you need to—even better. In 2019, BBH launched several initiatives to reduce singleRenewable energy offices use item consumption where we can and opt for the Boston and Krakow join New York, Luxembourg, and best possible material (based on current wisdom) where Dublin as BBH sites using renewable energy sources and/ we can’t. For instance, process improvements reduced or renewable energy credits to offset the usage. BBH’s reliance on paper. Our BBH-operated cafes stopped selling beverages packaged in plastic and opted for plant-based utensils. And the purchasing department now advocates for sustainability-friendly corporate gifts, aspiring to eliminate 30,000 items from annual procurement—and, ultimately, landfills. 72 Our Communities: Environmentally Responsible Facilities KEY INDICATORS 2019 Result Firmwide Facilities Management Industry Certifications LEED Boston (Silver 2013) Dublin (Gold 2014) BREEAM Krakow (2014) Resource Consumption kWh use – total across sites with > 100 employees 14,998,397 kWh ( 6%) kWh use – per ft2 10.5 kWh ( 6%) % of total kWh consumption generated by renewable sources or offsets 63% Paper consumption 16,500,000 sheets ( 18.5%) Water consumption As of 12/31/19, data available by site only Waste produced/diverted (see below). BBH is working to develop accurate, reliable firmwide measures for Recycling weight a future report. Travel CO2 attributed to BBH travel – air (total) 5,049 Tonnes ( 22%) CO2 attributed to BBH travel – air (per FTE) .9 Tonnes ( 26%) BBH is working to develop firmwide estimates CO2 attributed to BBH travel – all sources (total) that also include the CO2 impact of hotel stays, rideshare and taxi, and personal mileage. 2019 Annual Stewardship Report 73 Our Communities: Environmentally Responsible Facilities CONSUMPTION INDICATORS – BY SITE Energy Usage/ Trash Produced/ Paper Used/BBHer Recycled Material/ Location BBHer (kWh) BBHer (lbs.) (sheets) BBHer (lbs.) Boston 1,695 244 3,527 31 New York 5,986 125 5,490 142 Jersey City 3,185 n/a* 3,091 n/a* Dublin 1,628 n/a* 3,705 n/a* London 5,235 n/a* 4,583 53 Luxembourg 2,975 345 3,141 35 Krakow 1,753 332 4,610 295 Zurich 2,300 n/a* 3,181 n/a* Hong Kong 1,757 n/a* 2,978 14 Tokyo 3,434 n/a* 4,790 n/a* BBH Average 3,000 2,745 3,900 95 * Not Available (n/a): As of 12/31/19, accurate, reliable data is not available for these sites. BBH is working to develop these measures for a future report. 74 Our Communities: Environmentally Responsible Facilities WHY WE SUPPORT VOLUNTEERISM Every person counts in making a difference! Volunteering Bringing people together provides physical and mental rewards, including: As a volunteer, our employees work side by side with people from various departments, building camaraderie Reducing stress and teamwork. Experts report that when you focus on someone other than yourself, it interrupts usual tension producing Promoting personal growth and self-esteem patterns. Understanding community needs helps foster empathy and self-efficacy. Making people healthier Moods and emotions—like optimism, joy, and control Strengthening community over one’s fate—strengthen the immune system. We are helping to support families, improve schools, support youth, and beautify the community. Saving resources Volunteering provides valuable community services so Ongoing learning more money can be spent on local improvements. Our volunteers learn a lot about themselves, boards and government, and the communities and people we serve. Gaining professional experience It is a great opportunity to enhance professional goals by improving leadership, project management, time management, and communication skills. 2019 Annual Stewardship Report 75 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT GOAL Increase the reach of our community engagement program, BBHcares. What our stakeholders want to know: How does BBH support and serve the communities in which it is based? How does it marshal its strengths and resources to make a difference to local causes and challenges? Our communities depend on us, and we depend on them. Throughout BBH’s 200-year history, BBH’s Partners have regularly called upon the firm to operate with a spirt of citizenship to improve the quality of life in the cities and neighborhoods where we live and work. Beyond providing jobs and paying taxes, we support those in need with time, talent, and financial resources. In 1994, the firm formalized our longstanding tradition of community engagement into a philanthropic program—BBHcares—with a defined mission: support partner non-profits that provide basic needs and education to low-income individuals and families. Our philanthropic focus areas promote financial stability and aim to foster long-term success. Partnering with Organizations Who Share Our Values The firm rigorously evaluates all partnerships with charitable organizations by the following criteria: • The organization’s mission supports providing basic needs and education. • The organization must be a qualified non-profit and in good standing. • The organization cannot practice discrimination against individuals or groups on the basis of any protected characteristic, including (but not limited to) race, color, religion (creed), gender, gender expression, age, national origin (ancestry), disability, marital status, sexual orientation, or military status; or organizations that serve only their own membership – such as fraternal organizations, labor organizations, religious groups, specific health concerns, or political parties. • Financial support must include engagement opportunities for employees. GOAL: Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages 76 Our Communities: Community Engagement PHILANTHROPIC FOCUS AREAS Our philanthropic focus areas promote stability and aim to foster long-term success. Providing basic needs—food, clothing, and shelter—and supporting educational programs enables individuals and families to take control of their finances, gain independence, and achieve economic sustainability. Basic Needs Education BBH believes everyone should have the same chance for Education is the cornerstone of overall success and independence and stability. By helping individuals and a community’s long-term economic prosperity. Our families obtain basic needs and assisting them in taking partner organizations support low-income individuals control of their finances, our partner organizations and families by: support low-income individuals and families by: • Ensuring young children receive essential school • Preventing hunger readiness, basic educational competency, educational enrichment opportunities, and support that can lead • Building homes and supporting long-term housing to improved literacy rates • Providing temporary housing and shelter • Helping older youth on their path to economic • Making productive use of gently used clothes and independence through programs that support household goods successful completion of secondary school levels, job readiness, college preparedness, and financial • Promoting financial independence through workforce literacy training training and improved understanding of local community programs • Providing programs that assist adults in attaining degrees, financial literacy, technical skills, occupational certification, and meaningful employment 2019 Annual Stewardship Report 77 Our Communities: Community Engagement CORE PROGRAMS, POLICIES, & PRACTICES BBHcares marshals our employees’ time and talents to occur each fall, complementing the many volunteer provide practical, visible support to a growing number of projects. charities around the globe and the people they serve. The 1818 Employee Giving Circle BBHcares Champions The 1818 Employee Giving Circle is a centralized place to Employee leaders spearhead many of our volunteer projshare personal charitable interests, beyond the BBHcares ects and giving campaigns, infusing their passion for the program, with other BBHers. Whether employees are cause into each initiative. In addition to the satisfaction looking for donations, volunteers, or other support, the that comes from helping others, BBHcares activities build Giving Circle is the place to communicate their service personal and professional skills like leadership, strategic interests so others can learn how they can support each planning, communication, project management, time other’s community involvement outside of work. management, and networking. Employees often identify new needs at partner agencies, for example website develBoard Service and Grant Reviews opment or new educational curriculum development, and BBHcares partners with United Way to provide U.S.-based galvanize BBH teams to design and execute a solution. employees with the opportunity to gain the skills needed to serve on nonprofit boards and be placed with chariUnlimited Employee Volunteer Hours ties in need of their management and financial expertise. All employees are eligible to receive paid time-off to In Boston, employees loan their talents by reviewing volunteer during work hours, subject to their manager’s grant applications for the United Way of Mass Bay. In discretion. Luxembourg, volunteers help translate grant requests to multiple languages to facilitate review. Loaned Executive Program For more than 20 years, BBH has participated in the Collection Drives United Way’s U.S.-based loaned executive program, Across the globe, offices participate in a variety of matethrough which top companies lend some of their best and rial drives including collections for food, school supplies brightest talent for 15-week engagements. and backpacks, holiday gifts, eyeglasses, clothing, books, and household items. Together, BBHers work to donate, Central Events Calendar & Communications package, and deliver these critical supplies to our chariAll activities are advertised on a central corporate calentable partners. dar, receiving equal billing at town halls and high-profile meetings, as well as emailed office-wide. Volunteer events BBH Charitable and Philanthropic Contributions are scheduled at a variety of times to create the most Policies opportunities for employees to participate and accommoBBH is careful to ensure our charitable contributions date a variety of schedules. The firm celebrates volunteer benefit the community and do not influence the busiimpact monthly, through the internal newsletter and with ness judgement of others, approving and processing all top billing on the home page of the intranet. contributions made on behalf of the firm through a single department. This department ensures all philanthropic BBH Community Giving Campaigns activities comply with industry and local regulations and Employee fundraising happens across our European and best practice. Asia offices at various times throughout the year, with a variety of efforts aimed to provide financial support to our charitable partners. In the U.S., voluntary employee contribution campaigns, powered by the United Way, 78 Our Communities: Community Engagement 2019 FOCUS & HIGHLIGHTS KEY INDICATORS Pro-bono Website Build We meet regularly with our non-profit partners to better understand the impact of our assistance and continue to A team of volunteers in Luxembourg shared their marexplore new ways we can be of service to our community. keting, linguistic, and technology expertise to reimagMany of our employees sit on boards and key committees ine the website of a local shelter and transitional home. within the charities we support, giving direct line of sight The newly executed site draws more attention to the into ways we can enhance our impact. great work of this small but impactful organization and better highlights—in several languages—reasons why individuals should support this investment in their 2019 Result community. 8,500hrs Custom Financial Literacy Curriculum # of total volunteer hours Recognizing the need to increase financial literacy in underserved populations, a team of BBHers in our Leadership Education and Development (LEAD) 2019 community giving Program developed a multi-module financial literacy $4.076m (Firm donations, Employee Giving course designed to teach younger students (ages 10 Campaign, and Employee Relief to 12) through young adults (age 18+). The program Fund Grants) is now used with over a dozen charities in partnership with our Young Professionals and Black Affinity Networks and is also incorporated into training for 133 junior staff within the organizations. Annual charitable partners Housing Renovation In recognition of International Women’s Day, BBH 67 employees in Hong Kong joined together to renovate Annual volunteer partners properties for low-income women and children. 43 Employee-led volunteer teams Employees who serve on charitable boards 225 11 Employee Relief Fund year of report grants ($150,925) 79 Employee Relief Fund since inception (2012) grants ($523,600) 2019 Annual Stewardship Report 79 SUPPLIER SOURCING Conduct comprehensive screening on ESG factors and Supplier Code GOAL of Conduct on material supplier contracts and renewals. What our stakeholders want to know: How does BBH ensure its suppliers share a commitment to sustainable values? BBH acknowledges that our sustainability impact includes not just the work we do directly but also the work that is done on our behalf. Therefore, BBH seeks to enter into relationships with suppliers who share our values, including ethical dealings, environmental stewardship, and human rights and labor practices that support dignity and inclusion. We believe that all companies which provide products and services to BBH should align their guidelines, policies, and practices with ours, which are in turn aligned with those of our clients and employees. BBH maintains a global supplier management process and conducts comprehensive due diligence on each supplier with which we engage. The question of how BBH holds its suppliers accountable for ESG risk and sustainable business practices caused us to enhance our ESG screening and launch a Supplier Code of Conduct. As of January 2020, BBH requires all suppliers who meet a materiality threshold to commit to the code. What kind of suppliers does BBH work with? Brown Brothers Harriman & Co., and its affiliates and subsidiaries use external suppliers to provide various products and services to BBH. These services include: • Analytics & Data Providers • Technology Service Providers • Business Process Outsourcers • Catering • Event Venues & Services • Travel & Hospitality • Childcare & Employee Benefits • Facilities, Construction, A/V, Utilities • Hardware & Equipment • HR: Training, Recruitment • Creative Services • Legal Services • Professional Services GOAL: Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns 80 Our Communities: Supplier Sourcing CORE PROGRAMS, POLICIES, & PRACTICES Vendor Management Policy and Process Supplier Code of Conduct BBH maintains a comprehensive global vendor manageAll BBH suppliers which meet a minimum materialment process that governs the firm’s vendor risk manageity threshold must agree to BBH’s Supplier Code of ment controls and sets forth requirements for managing Conduct, which describes BBH’s expectations for how external supplier relationships, including on-boarding, suppliers conduct their business. In some cases, BBH due diligence, monitoring and off-boarding. This process will accept an equivalent Code of Conduct that meets is subject to the BBH Global Vendor Management Policy, or exceeds the provisions of BBH’s Code. While adherwhich applies to all engagements with external suppliers ence to the Code is not a contractual commitment, BBH and is designed to comply with industry best practices makes existing and potential suppliers aware that the and applicable laws and regulations. The BBH Vendor firm takes their willingness to comply with the Code Management Steering Committee oversees this policy into account as part of our regular supplier review and and process. selection process. Vendor Management Committee Vendor Technology Assessment All BBH supplier engagements, whether with new or BBH’s vendor technology assessment (VTA) program existing suppliers, require the review and pre-approval exists to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and availabilof the Vendor Management Steering Committee (VMC), ity of BBH and client data when using a supplier. The VTA which is responsible for assessing the potential risks of performs a risk analysis to determine if the supplier has the engagement and ensuring that the appropriate level appropriate IT controls in place, ensures that contractual of due diligence is conducted before we agree to a suprequirements are considered, and the supplier and BBH plier engagement. The VMC also assigns risk ratings to monitor those IT controls for the life of the relationship. each engagement to determine the required due diligence Each supplier agreement also contains an obligation for and the nature and frequency of the ongoing monitoring them to maintain a BCP and a recovery time objective in required under this policy. BBH conducts appropriate case of any interruption to their services. due diligence on the supplier, including, where required, a business technology review, including cybersecurity practices, and/or a credit review prior to the engagement with the supplier. The risk review process also includes a screening for material ESG risk factors. 2019 Annual Stewardship Report 81 Our Communities: Supplier Sourcing KEY PROVISIONS OF BBH SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT Ethical Business Conduct Wages and Benefits BBH expects suppliers to conduct their business in Suppliers must comply with all applicable laws accordance with the highest standards of ethical behavior. concerning accurate and timely payment of wages, Legal and Regulatory Compliance including mandated minimum wage, benefits, and overtime compensation. BBH’s suppliers must conduct their business activities in compliance with applicable laws and regulations Environmental Practices including those relating to gifts, business entertainment, BBH suppliers must comply with all environmental laws and all other benefits involving business partners. and regulations applicable to their operations worldwide Health and Safety and should take steps to encourage a reduction in energy use, waste production, carbon emissions, and other Suppliers must integrate health and safety management negative impacts on the global environment across the practices, provide a safe and healthy work environment, lifecycle of their products and services. and fully comply with all applicable safety and health laws and regulations. Confidentiality, Privacy, and Data Protection Inclusive Work Environment BBH suppliers must protect BBH’s confidential information. Suppliers must adopt and maintain BBH suppliers must provide an inclusive and supportive processes to provide reasonable protections for personal, working environment and take appropriate steps to proprietary, and confidential information, including encourage employee diversity across their organization. information that they access, receive, or process on behalf Antidiscrimination & Harassment of BBH. Suppliers must not discriminate against any job Business Continuity applicant or worker based on age, disability, ethnicity, BBH suppliers must maintain a comprehensive BCP that gender, marital status, veteran status, national origin, addresses the potential loss of facilities, technology, and political affiliation, race, color, genetic information, human capital necessary to support BBH. religion, sexual orientation, union membership, or other legally-protected characteristic. BBH suppliers must provide their employees with an environment free from harassment and discrimination. Human Rights and Labor Practices BBH suppliers must share our commitment to human rights and equal opportunity in the workplace. BBH suppliers must treat their workers with dignity and respect, and BBH’s suppliers must conduct their employment practices to the standards described in the UK Modern Slavery Act of 2015. 82 Our Communities: Supplier Sourcing 2019 FOCUS & HIGHLIGHTS KEY INDICATORS Establishing the BBH Supplier and Sub-Manager Codes of Conduct 2019 Result Supplier Code of Conduct 1,800 In 2019, BBH drafted a Supplier Code of Conduct and # of suppliers contracted in 2019 designed a process to manage our suppliers’ compliance with this code. This process launched in January 2020. BBH’s Vendor Review Steering Committee now 232 (2018) integrates oversight of this process with its existing policies, processes, and procedures. 150 (2019) # of suppliers assessed by Sub-Manager Code of Conduct the VTA: 3-year rolling view The firm also drafted a Code of Conduct for our submanagers, a monitoring process which will launch in 2020. 283 (2020 estimated) ESG & Sustainability Screening % of total spend: suppliers who 94% BBH began asking our largest suppliers for details and meet materiality threshold for reporting on their ESG and sustainability programs, ESG screening not only to assess the strength of their oversight and controls, but also as an assessment mechanism for our own Sustainable BBH program. N/A # supplier signatures to BBH Supplier Code of Conduct (or equivalent) * program launch January 2020 # signatures to BBH Sub-Manager Code of Conduct (or equivalent) N/A * program launch January 2020 2019 Annual Stewardship Report 83 Printed on recycled paper NEW YORK BEIJING BOSTON CHARLOTTE CHICAGO DENVER DUBLIN GRAND CAYMAN HONG KONG JERSEY CITY KRAKÓW LONDON LUXEMBOURG NASHVILLE PHILADELPHIA TOKYO WILMINGTON ZÜRICH WWW.BBH.COM Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. (“BBH”) may be used as a generic term to reference the company as a whole and/or its various subsidiaries generally. This material and any products or services may be issued or provided in multiple jurisdictions by duly authorized and regulated subsidiaries. This material is for general information and reference purposes only and does not constitute legal, tax or investment advice and is not intended as an offer to sell, or a solicitation to buy securities, services or investment products. Any reference to tax matters is not intended to be used, and may not be used, for purposes of avoiding penalties under the U.S. Internal Revenue Code, or other applicable tax regimes, or for promotion, marketing or recommendation to third parties. All information has been obtained from sources believed to be reliable, but accuracy is not guaranteed, and reliance should not be placed on the information presented. This material may not be reproduced, copied or transmitted, or any of the content disclosed to third parties, without the permission of BBH. Pursuant to information regarding the provision of applicable services or products by BBH, please note the following: Brown Brothers Harriman Fund Administration Services (Ireland) Limited and Brown Brothers Harriman Trustee Services (Ireland) Limited are regulated by the Central Bank of Ireland, Brown Brothers Harriman Investor Services Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority, Brown Brothers Harriman (Luxembourg) S.C.A is regulated by the Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier. All trademarks and service marks included are the property of BBH or their respective owners. © Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. 2020. All rights reserved. FIRM-00279-2020-05-07 Investment Products Are: NOT FDIC INSURED NO BANK GUARANTEE MAY LOSE VALUE
